Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix About this report Reporting standards GRI 4.0 Further koreanair.com Contact Korean Air Environment Team information information SELAFE@koreanair.com Reporting period 2016.1~2016.12 twitter.com/KoreanAir 02) 2656-5512 Reporting boundary  Korean Air’s business premises at home facebook.com/KoreanAir and abroad, including the headquarters blog.koreanair.com in Seoul Reporting cycle Every year Third-party assurance Korea Productivity Center Significant changes • Reporting activities conducted from the previous year  in line with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals • Issuing the report in an interactive PDF format replacing a printed version Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix 19 ISSUE 1. Strengthening aviation safety and security contents 23 ISSUE 2. Responding to new climate regimes 31 ISSUE 3. Providing customer-oriented service 67 Corporate Governance 35 ISSUE 4. Creating shared value 69 Ethics Management with society 71 Risk Management 43 04 18 72  ustaining S Excellence Introduction 05 Letter from the CEO 06 Company Overview KAL’s Issue Report 44 C reating Economic Value 49 Talent Recognition 56 Customer 66 Governance Appendix 73 Key Sustainability Indicators Satisfaction 80 Third-Party Assurance Statement 08 Vision & Management Philosophy Management 82 GRI G4 Index 10 Sustainable Value Chain 60 Win-Win Management 87 UN Global Compact 11 U N’s Sustainable Development 61 Environmental Management 88 Major Awards and Memberships Goals (SDGs) 12 Materiality Assessment Process 13 Stakeholder Engagement 3 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix BOARDING PASS Introduction 05 Letter from the CEO Austria 06 Company Overview 08 Vision & Management Philosophy Austria is a landlocked country located at the 10 Sustainable Value Chain center of continental Europe. Its total land area is smaller than that of South Korea, and two-thirds UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 11 is a mountainous region spanning the eastern (SDGs) Alps. With a population of 8.45 million and a per 12 Materiality Assessment Process capita GDP of 37,000 euros, it is one of the richest countries in the world. Obertraun is a quiet Alpine 13 Stakeholder Engagement lake town with a stunning natural landscape. 2017 Korean Air sustainability report Photo by Jung Hyun-jin in Obertraun, Austria – Among selections during the 23rd Annual Korean Air Travel Photo Contest 4 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Letter from the CEO Distinguished stakeholders, Shareholder value will be further promoted. In 2016, Korean Air achieved an operating profit of KRW 1.079 trillion thanks in part This year, concerns remain surrounding US interest rate hikes, fluctuations in the Koto an improved business environment reflecting the downward stabilization of interrean won exchange rate against major currencies, and rising oil prices. To actively national oil prices and expansion of air travel demand, but also to the hard work and respond to such challenges, next-generation aircraft will be utilized for operational dedication of Koran Air employees and the unwavering support from stakeholders. efficiency, and productivity will be increased through improved business processes. Despite management challenges posed by global economic uncertainties such as The Boeing B787-9, introduced to Korea earlier this year, is a next-generation aircraft US interest rate hikes and the UK's Brexit vote, our stakeholders’ ongoing support and boasting significantly higher fuel efficiency and an improved cabin environment. It interest helped us to achieve this considerable surplus, for which I am deeply grateful is an eco-friendly airplane with a greatly reduced carbon footprint. The B787-9 is exto all of you. pected to be used for exploring routes with a high growth potential and to increase sales, thereby contributing to shareholder value and raising Korea’s national competKorean Air has strived to provide safe air travel and high-quality service to our cusitiveness. tomers. Our unceasing efforts at improvement and innovation have helped to us grow into a leading global airline. Sustainability management is every company's responsibility and a commitment we make to society and our customers. In 2017, Korean Air is aiming to achieve KRW 12 trillion in sales under a management Our efforts to achieve 'Excellence in Flight' will continue based on the establishment policy of establishing a sustainable business structure that generates profits even in a of a stable profitable base by adhering strictly to the fundamentals of safety and serrapidly shifting business environment. We will continue our pursuit of safety, customvice and by responding to challenges with agility. er satisfaction, and shareholder value. At the same time, we will focus on communicating with our stakeholders so that Firstly, safety is our top priority, and this is irreplaceable. social value can be created and shared. Korean Air will remain a trusted friend who We promise to safeguard our customers during flight by focusing all of our capabrings happiness and joy, and we look forward to your advice and support. Thank you. bilities. Our internal safety guidelines have been updated to provide a basis for our utmost efforts to prevent in-flight disturbances and sternly respond to other acts that could hamper flight safety. August 2017 Customer happiness is the loftiest value that Korean Air pursues. Cho Yang-ho We will continue our efforts to provide customers with the highest level of satisfaction Chairman & CEO Korean Air by offering segmented and differentiated services tailored to evolving customer needs. In addition, efforts will also be made through management by communication to create a positive corporate culture that can in turn inspire happiness in our customers. 5 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Company Overview Profile Operating revenue by business (KRW 100 million) Air fleet (aircraft) Established in 1969 and celebrating its 48th anniversary this year, Korean Air has grown into a global carrier with 160 aircraft as of the Aircraft type Passenger Cargo end of 2016. In addition to passenger and cargo transportation serA380-800 10 vices, its business scope has expanded to now range from in-flight Catering Air Transportation 105,056 B747-8I 7 984 meals and duty-free shopping to the aerospace industry, including Aerospace B747-400 6 13 aircraft parts development and maintenance. 8,989 B747-8F 7 (As of Dec. 31, 2016) B777-300ER/300/200 38 Operating Revenue in 2016 Company name Korean Air Lines Co., Ltd. A330-200/300 29 Headquarters 260 Haneul-gil Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea KRW 11,502 B777F 11 Phone number 02-2656-7114 billion B737-800/900/900ER 39 Website http://www.koreanair.com Total : 160 129 31 Passenger & cargo transportation, aerospace, Business areas catering services and in-flight sales Sales KRW 11,502 billion Employees 20,956 * Transportation in 2016 (10,000 passengers / 10,000 tons) Air Fleet 160 aircraft 2014 2015 2016 Routes 132 cities in 46 countries Air Transportation ** 107,929 103,011 105,056 Passengers Cargo Revenue passengers 26.84 million Aerospace 7,965 9,135 8,989 carried in 2016 International routes 1,898 150 Revenue freight Catering 910 938 984 Domestic route 786 7 1.57 million tons carried in 2016 Total 116,804 113,084 115,029 Total 2,684 157 See the disclosures by Korean Air on http:// Subsidiaries dart.fss.or.kr ** The air transportation revenue includes Hotel & Limousine operations, where Korean Air made in-kind contribution through its subsidiary, Aviation Total Services * Executives, expatriates and locally-hired and temporary employees included co., ltd. (Same classification applicable to the Audit Report) 6 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Korean Air Flight Route Map Destinations in Korea Destinations in China 13 cities Destinations Passengers and cargo in Americas 29 cities Cargo-only 19 cities Destinations in Japan 16 cities Oslo Stockholm Saint Petersburg Irkutsk Amsterdam Kobenhavn Moscow London Anchorage Praha Ulaanbaarar Frankfurt Paris Vienna Zurich Basel Milan Vladivostok Zaragoza Rome Tashkent Madrid Istabul Vancouver Navoi Seattle Toronto Tel Aviv Chicago New York San Francisco Cairo Hong Konng Las Vegas Washington D.C. Kathmandu Hanoi Los Angeles Dubai Taipei Dallas Atlanta Riyadh Chiang Mai Yangon Houston Jeddah Da Nang Honolulu Mumbai Siem Reap Phnom Penh Manila Miami Bangkok Nha Trang Guam Phuket Ho Chi Minh Cebu Colombo Penang Kuala Lumpur Destinations in Male Singapore Palau Europe, Middle East Nairobi Jakarta and Africa Denpasar Lima Sao Paulo 27 cities Destinations in Nadi Southeast Asia 24 cities Destinations Brisbane in Oceania Sydney 4 cities Flight Routes Global Network Auckland See SkyTeam CSR Statement As of December 2016, Korean Air is operating passenger SKYTEAM SkyTeam, a global airline alliance formed in June 2000, currently consists of 20 member airlines, including Korean Air, Garuda Indonesia, and cargo routes between 13 cities in Korea and 119 citDELTA, MEA, Vietnam Airlines, SAUDIA, XIAMENAIR, AerolineasArgentinas, AEROMEXICO, AEROFLOT, Alitalia, AirEuropa, AIRFRANCE, China Eastern, China ies in 45 countries worldwide. The infrastructure we have Southern, China Airlines, Czech Airlines, Kenya Airways, KLM, and TAROM. Every day, 17,000 SkyTeam flights take off for 1,062 destinations in 177 countries. established around the globe will provide a basis for synThis global network allows customers multiple flight options on member airlines and wider benefits, such as earning and redeeming mileage and using ergy effects in related businesses, and furthermore will airport lounges and joint services provided by all member airlines. In addition, SkyTeam members clearly recognize the importance of corporate social raise the international profile of Korea. responsibility, and are collaborating to promote sustainable, green corporate policies. 7 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Vision & Management Philosophy Vision Mission To be a Respected Service Excellence Operational Excellence •Strengthening service •Putting safety as the first priority Leader in the World competitiveness by developing in operation Airline Community Korean Air’s original services •Offering high-end and differentiated •Improving profitability through year-round cost reduction efforts services •Modernizing fleet continuously for SERVICE OPERATIONAL •Providing high-end seats such as EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE higher operational efficiency KOSMO Suites and Prestige Sleepers, •Expanding a global network by and upgrading AVOD/IFE tapping into SkyTeam resources •Enhancing corporate image as a EXCELLENCE •Strengthening management global leading service brand IN FLIGHT infrastructure with company-wide •Offering top-tier service on a par IT integration with global standards backed by the •Promoting education/training SkyTeam alliance programs for fostering talent from •Continuing social contribution around the globe activities through Global CSR projects INNOVATIVE EXCELLENCE Innovative Excellence •Establishing a corporate culture that encourages creativity and free thinking •Creating a democratic and collaborative workplace •Fostering talent from around the globe •Removing the silo effect and promoting change and innovation •Developing profitable new business models 8 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Vision & Management Philosophy Management Philosophy Adhering to standards and principles Creating an innovative and change-embracing corporate culture •Establishing globally-recognized standards and principles •Encouraging to have a progressive and aspiring mind •Pursuing standard and principle-based flexibility in business •Creating an organizational culture that embraces change •Eliminating shortcuts and inefficiency in business operations •Pursuing future-oriented business reform by focusing on core competences Principle-based Change-embracing Management Management System-based Customer-oriented Talent Management Management Recognition Operational management Enhancing customer loyalty Developing future growth engines based on expertise and autonomy with highest possible customer satisfaction with competent human resources •Promoting a mutual respect of expertise •Taking a comprehensive and systematic •Attracting the best and brightest from around the globe in different fields approach toward customers •Continuing a bold investment in nurturing talent •Making a system-based decision •Responding promptly to changing customer needs •Creating a corporate culture that pairs individual •Building a harmonious atmosphere •Maximizing the customer value through Management by competency-building with organizational growth for creative solutions Wandering About (MBWA) practices 9 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Sustainable Value Chain Service development Planning & Scheduling Flight operation Post-flight operation Major •New routes (aviation agreements, •Flight route planning •Aircraft scheduling •Pricing policy/strategy •Maintenance •Refueling •Operational control •Baggage check-in service •Lost/delayed/damaged Activislot, market research, demand •Maintenance planning •Scheduled maintenance •IT service offering •In-flight meals loading Air traffic control •Transfer service baggage service ties forecast, and profitability analysis) •Material planning •Flight Planning •Load factor management •Cargo loading Aviation weather •In-flight cleaning/disinfection •Addressing service complaints •Customer service •Flight operation planning •Crew scheduling •Cargo sales •Baggage loading Aviation communication •Special cargo service •Crew planning •Advertisement •Marketing •Passenger check-in •In-flight service •In-flight meals •Branding strategy •Airport lounge service In-flight meals •Aerospace R&D •Travel agency programs •Dangerous goods handling In-flight entertainment In-flight duty-free shop Sustain•Better accessibility and •Procurement of next generation •Employee safety and human •Compliance with fair trade •Internet mobile service system •Strengthened product •Infectious disease control •Customer rights protection ability connectivity for people/logistics aircraft and engines rights protection •Cause-related marketing implementation responsibility and safety •Customer service improvement Activi•Promotion of exchanges between •Balance between work and life •Customer-engaged programs •Service for passengers with special •In-flight disturbance management •Corporate social responsibility ties countries and of the regional •Employee training needs and Family Care Service •In-flight first aid activities economy, and job creation •Fair performance evaluation •Airfare discount for patriots and •Response to climate change issues •Product design considering veterans •Environmental impact reduction environmental impacts (ex. Sharklet) •Customer’s personal data protection •Global promotion of Korean •Biodiversity protection in-flight meals •Contracts with local farms for fresh food supply Input •R&D expenses: KRW 110,324 million •Aircraft investment: •Training hours per employee: 89 •Ethics management training: •Jet fuel consumption 4,174,377 ton •Employee volunteer hours: 1.9 (0.96% of sales) KRW 1,366.9 billion •Employees who received scholarships 72,996 employees •Energy consumption 2,054,635 GJ •Social contribution expenses: •Average fleet age: 9.2 years for graduate schools: 140 KRW 9,227 million R&D Planning Scheduling Marketing & Sales Pre-departure In-flight Arrival After-sales service & analysis Output • Monthly operating hours per •Operation ratio •Sales •Personal information leakage: •Greenhouse gas (GHG) •Global afforestation aircraft: 346 hours/month 80.7% KRW 11,502 billion Zero case emissions Baganuur, Mongolia 44ha •Operating profit •A ban on transportation of 13,394,508 tCO2 110,000 trees KRW 1,079 billion shark fins •Amount of reduced GHG Kubuqi, China 461ha •Benefits distributed to emissions 1,360,000 trees stakeholders 413,613 tCO2 KRW 6,797.2 billion 10 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) As the United Nations announced Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) following Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) that the global community should achieve, Korean Airline has developed and implemented solutions to achieve SDGs* thereby discovering new opportunities for a sustainable growth. * SDGs are global agenda spearheaded by the UN from this year to 2030, consisting of 17 goals, such as climate action, economic growth, job creation, gender equality and women's empowerment, and 169 targets. Korean Air’s efforts for SDGs Goal 3. E  nsure healthy lives and promote Goal 4. Ensure inclusive and quality Goal 5. A  chieve gender equality and Goal 7. E  nsure access to affordable, reliable, Goal 8. P  romote inclusive and sustainable wellbeing for all at all ages education for all and promote lifelong empower all women and girls sustainable, and modern energy for economic growth, employment and learning all decent work for all •Supporting speedy cargo •Training air logistics specialists in •Promoting gender equality in •Responding to ‘CORSIA (Carbon •Implementing activities to encourage transportation such as vaccines and Jungseok College, Korea’s first tech employment and promotion Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for sustainable tourism by promoting local medicines: transportation for organ school run by a private company •Operating a maternity protection International Aviation)’ for carbonculture and products transplants •Working on the ‘愛心 (Caring Mind)’ system neutral growth after 2020 •Contributing to economic growth •Making efforts to prevent the spread project in China to build and donate •Launching a pink ribbon campaign to •Reviewing the introduction of and value creation through tourism, of infectious disease libraries to underdeveloped provinces fight against breast cancer sustainable alternative fuels (biofuel) employment, and cargo transportation Goal 11. M  ake cities inclusive, safe, resilient Goal 12. E  nsure sustainable consumption Goal 13. T  ake urgent action to combat Goal 15. S ustainably manage forests, combat and sustainable and production pattern climate change and its impacts desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss •Conducting Habitat activities •Recycling resources related to in-flight •Adopting advanced eco-friendly •Implementing standards to prevent •Implementing activities to protect the service aircraft and making aircraft lightweight illegal transportation of wildlife world’s cultural and natural heritage •Applying eco-design to in-flight •Conducting activities to respond •Banning the transportation of shark fins •Conducting activities to reduce air service items to climate change through fuel •Afforestation in Baganuur, Mongolia pollution, waste and noise nearby the management and in Kubuqi, China airport •Offsetting GHG emissions by •Transporting relief items to areas hit by purchasing permits natural disasters •Designing and manufacturing •Improving traffic safety for passengers aircraft structures with improved fuel with special needs (women, children, efficiency such as Sharklets people with disabilities, and the elderly) 11 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Materiality Assessment Process Reporting issue selection process STEP 1. A pool of selected issues STEP 2. Materiality assessment STEP 3. Assessment validation * GRI and ISO 26000 applied •Review of internal data including company vision •Value chain activities •Level of impact •Validation of selected and strategy •Impact on stakeholders Step 2 •Potential impact material issues Step 1 •Media research and analysis and sustainability Level of •Level of stakeholder Level of •Identifying industrial issues •Impact on business impor interest interest -tance •Benchmarking of best practices on sustainable management Stakeholder interviews Survey of stakeholders (Mar.22 Apr. 5, 2017; 307 participants) Third-party assurance 2017 Material issues 2 Enhancing safety checks 1 Ensuring Level of stakeholder interest and security operational 2016 issues 4 Developing and offering customer-oriented service safety 2017 issues 6 Conducting social contribution activities 3 Enhancing brand reflecting industry characteristics reputation and corporate image Management 5 Managing energy use and GHG emissions Employees 8 Further involvement of employees and stakeholders Customers and Safety in social contribution activities 7 Creating a flexible and family-friendly Environment corporate culture Local communities 10 Protecting customers’ personal data and tightening information security 9 Adopting eco-friendly aircraft and equipment Level of impact on business 12 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Groups erationally respons or op ible ially for i n anc K ore y, f an all Ai L eg r Stakeholder Communication Channel Websites, blogs, Twitter Subsidiaries SNS channels such as twitter, VOC, Customers a 24-hour chat service, 1588-2001, and Family Care Service Communication Plaza, Labor-Management Council, Grievances Resolution Channels, Mentoring Program, Labor unions Employees Suppliers Intranet ‘Hanway’, and Occupational Safety and Central government Health Committee Local governments Grievances handling and suggestions Employees Suppliers (Supplier management system), Shareholders training, meetings, complaints and feedbacks The disadvantaged Local Affecting t Research institutes Sponsorship, and social contribution activities Non-profit organizations communities (business-related) Local communities Central Public hearings, association activities, and meetings ore an Media Customers Temporary employees an A government with related agencies rm ir erfo and Interns he p fK ion General shareholder’s meeting, IR sessions, and o Shareholders ce ra public announcement of Ko t e rea op ss nA ir usi ne Labor unions Labor-Management Council b y t he Affected b 13 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Interviews “By setting operational safety As someone in charge of aviation safety and security at Korean Air, I believe it is very important to establish a system for safety management and spread a culture of preventive safety. Korean Air’s Safety Management System (SMS), as our first priority, we will which I am confident is worthy of worldwide recognition, enables us to proactively identify and control risk factors in enhance both aviation safety a systematic and organized manner rather than responding to incidents simply as they occur. and passenger convenience” In recent years, the importance of aviation security has become more emphasized as incidents, such as in-flight disturbance and terror threats, are increasing. Korean Air not only has cooperated closely with the MOLIT and related Korean Air, Corporate Safety, Security organizations to respond proactively against any security threats, but has also and Compliance, Senior Vice President strengthen cabin security training and introduced/loaded new Michel Gaudreau cabin security equipment on board. Moreover, Korean Air has been operating the Accident Free Campaign since 1995 to promote safety awareness and establish preventative safety culture. Job Hazard Analysis has also been implemented to further involve employees in the assessment of potential risks on the job. Going forward, Korean Air will continue to work hard to heighten safety and security awareness and ensure the highest level of operational safety. 14 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Stakeholder Engagement “As a leading global airline Environmental issues such as climate change are today considered to be major issues that need to in the aviation industry, be addressed not just at the national level but internationally. They also serve as benchmarks for the sustainability efforts of companies. In this regard, as the largest airline in Korea, Korean Air needs to I hope Korean Air will take consider the following. the initiative in minimizing its environmental impact and Firstly, going beyond implementing eco-friendly business practices on its own, the company pursuing eco-friendly business should cooperate with its business partners, including suppliers to create synergy in environmental management. If Korean Air and its partners work together to conserve energy in the aviation sector, practices.” they can come up with a variety of measures to deal with climate change issues. Kim Dae-geun, Secondly, considering the growing importance of sustainability, Korean Air should be more Lead Auditor at DNV GL proactive in sustainable procurement. As the company at the top of the aviation industry supply, its purchasing practices significantly influence others down the chain. Eco-friendliness should be considered in purchasing so as to gradually increase the ratio of green products in procurement. Lastly, I hope Korean Air will take the lead as friendly green company by actively participating in initiatives for GHG emissions reduction and energy conservation, which will greatly contribute to realizing the company vision of creating upgraded lifestyles through the achievement of a healthy dynamic between aviation and the environment. 15 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Stakeholder Engagement “Habitat for Humanity Korea Habitat for Humanity Korea is a non-profit housing organization that has helped low-income families looks forward to Korean Air’s in need of housing through home construction, rehabilitation and repair. As a donor to Habitat since 2001, Korean Air has been supplying support to house-building projects every year. Due to the continued support for our support, fifteen families have been provided with a home. In addition to offering financial support, efforts for low-income families Korean Air employees have volunteered for construction work, giving families (Home Partners) hope as to gain hope as well as housing, well as houses and contributing to the local community. What Korean Air has done for those families is helping them stand on their right line with its goal of continuing social contribution activities through Global CSR projects under its mission of Service Excellence. feet as healthy members of the local community.” Having a decent place to live positively affects the lives of all family members. Children become heathier, show improved personal adjustment, and do better at school. Conditions for family income Kim Hee-yoon, and safety are enhanced. Habitat is working in many countries around the world to improve the Team leader of Habitat housing environment along with providing training on hygiene, drinking water and awareness for Humanity Korea raising. If Korean Air seeks ways to involve its customers as well as employees in Habitat activities, it will help even more families to live in a better environment. We look forward to Korean Air’s continued support for laying a foundation to help low-income families to break the vicious circle of poverty and stand on their feet. 16 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Stakeholder Engagement “I expect Korean Air to continue The reason I use Korean Air is that it offers various routes and great schedule that make to provide excellent service while transfer faster and more convenient, and it provides tickets with a wide range of price options. In addition, its high-end and customized services that meet customer's needs and maintaining a high level of safety.” help passengers to relieve the fatigue and tension from frequent business trips and other Nam Jeong-min, types of travel. In particular, the introduction of Prestige Suites that allow passengers Korean Air customer to fly in complete privacy, and the wide variety of services and resting space to enhance convenience and allow passengers to have special in-flight experiences. At a time when aviation safety and in-flight security have become social issues, the news on Korean Air's efforts to ensure safety have really impressed me. According to the news, its cabin safety instructors have completed the same safety training provided to the Presidential Security Office, the first private company to do this. I believe training in cabin safety expertise is the most fundamental activity to protect the safety of passengers as well as of the cabin crew themselves. Customer service and in-flight safety are the key to the success of air transportation business. I look forward to Korean Air’s continued efforts to provide high-end services while keeping their priority on safety. 17 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix BOARDING PASS KAL’s 19 ISSUE 01. Strengthening aviation safety and security Italy Issue 23 ISSUE 02. Responding to new climate regimes Report 31 ISSUE 03. Providing customer-oriented service 35 ISSUE 04. Creating shared value Italy is among the countries with the world's richest with society cultural heritage, as represented by influential Renaissance figures such as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo. Val d'Orcia, a region of Tuscany with a medieval agricultural landscape, was added to the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites in 2004. 2017 Korean Air sustainability report Photo by No Ui-za in Val d'Orcia, Italy – Among selections during the 23rd Annual Korean Air Travel Photo Contest 18 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Issue 01 Strengthening Changes in the Business Environment and Korean Air at Present In recent years, aviation safety has become increasingly important as incidents such as aircraft enaviation safety gine fires and in-flight disturbance have emerged as social issues in Korea. Accidents and terrorist WHERE and security WE STAND threats that have been taking place in many countries have lead the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) to approve recommendations for strengthening aircraft safety regulations. Meanwhile, the Korean government has been conducting comprehensive safety audits for airlines What is Korean Air's commitment to as part of efforts to ensure operational safety and security in the aviation industry. flight safety and information security? Stakeholder Views Enhancing safety check-ups and security Stakeholder Views Category Relevance to GRI According to the stakeholder materiality assessment in 2017, operational safety has been identified Social and product Customer health and HOW WE as the single most important issue for sustainability. For Korean Air, safety is without hesitation the responsibility safety LISTEN top priority. Therefore, we are continuing to upgrade our safety management, building upon our Reporting Issues accomplishment of no fatal accidents over the last 18 years. •Ensuring operational safety •Reinforcing safety check-ups and security Where the impact Where the issue comes from impacts Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goals Internal External Cost Profit Risk Improving company-wide safety Achieved Achieved Achieved Ongoing management with the extended WHAT 15-year 16-year 17-year efforts to scope of the Safety Management WE DO fatalfatalfatalensure System covering both headquarters accidentaccidentaccidentoperational and regional offices, and free flight free flight free flight safety strengthening operational safety operations operations operations through on-site training 19 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Ensuring Operational Safety Maintenance & Engineering Issue 01 Extending the scope of Safety Management System (SMS) Flight Operations Strengthening aviation Korean Air’s safety management system takes on a three-phase approach including ex-post Operations Control safety and security response, ex-ante prevention and prediction. The ex-post response involves an investigation Issue 02 of events that have already occurred and an analysis of the causes; the ex-ante prevention foCorporate Safety, Security Responding to cuses on minimizing the impact of risks by identifying safety risks through safety reports and & Compliance new climate regimes safety examinations; and prediction is based on an analysis of flight data and regular flight (Company-wide Cabin SMS) Cargo Issue 03 monitoring data to keep a close watch on safety. This multi-layered safety management sysProviding customertem is a critical component of our effort in safety management. oriented service The Corporate Safety, Security & Compliance is under the direct control of the president. Passenger Aerospace Issue 04 Creating shared value The director in charge of safety and security keeps a direct hotline to the president so as to with society ensure that the reporting channel remains independent from the organization and that the The scope of SMS has extended top management can be fully informed of all safety and security issues. In May of 2015, a SMS to add regional offices at home and abroad Group dedicated to safety management was newly set up within the Corporate Safety, Security & Compliance in order to reinforce the practice of SMS programs. The SMS Group evaluMaintenance & ates safety risk factors and monitors the performance results of risk countermeasures, keeps Engineering Flight Operations abreast of the safety report trends, analyzes safety data and upgrades the SMS IT Systems. It Operations Control also arranges and organizes company-wide online SMS training programs and workshops for SMS executives, teams and staff in support of employee safety management practices at Corporate their respective duty levels according to their roles and responsibilities. Safety, Security Domestic regional & Compliance Cargo offices (Company-wide In 2017, the scope of the Safety Management System (SMS), which previously covered CorSMS) porate Safety, Security & Compliance, and seven other business divisions, was expanded extended to include regional offices at home and abroad. By strengthening on-site safety manOverseas regional Passenger agement and establishing a reporting channel between headquarters and regional offices, offices it is expected that safety issues can be properly managed at the company level and safety Cabin management at Korean Air will be further enhanced. 20 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Enhancing Safety Checks and Security Issue 01 Safety committees and councils IOSA-Certified Airliner Strengthening aviation Korean Air was the nation’s first airliner to be certified by the IATA safety and security Operational Safety Audit (IOSA) in January of 2005, qualifying more Issue 02 than 900 safety criteria of the international safety audit program Responding to developed by the IATA. Since then, Korean Air has been re-auditnew climate regimes ed and certified every other year. In the sixth audit for certificaIssue 03 CSC : Central tion conducted in October 2016, all of the safety criteria were met Top Providing customerSafety Committee without any issues. The current certification will be effective until Management oriented service (Held annually) •Review and approval of January 21, 2019. Issue 04 comprehensive safety plans View IOSA Certification Creating shared value with society Heads of EAC : Executive Action Council Related ISAGO Program Divisions (Held •Revision and approval of safety semi-annually) regulations/procedures Korean Air monitors its ground operation partners under the IATA • Review and approval of safety-related projects Safety Audit for Ground Operations (ISAGO) as a member of the program since April of 2009. In addition, as a member of the ISAGO Pool Advisory Group, we share information and collaborate with MSSM : Monthly Safety & Security Meeting peers and related organizations to standardize international safeHeads of Related Teams ty practices and to promote the safety and operational quality of •Irregular flight data analysis and recurrence prevention (Held monthly) ground handlers around the world. According to the IATA’s annual •Close cooperation between related teams on pending safety issues Audit schedule, Korean Air is scheduled to conduct seven audits in 2017. Safety & Flight Maintenance & Operations Regional Cabin Passenger Cargo Security Operations Engineering Control Headquarters 21 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 DOD safety certification Response to in-flight disturbances Strengthening aviation Since 2001, Korean Air’s operational safety has been recognized by Korean Air has carefully devise a range of countermeasures to safety and security the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD), also the head of the Airin-flight disturbances that allow flight crews to promptly and Issue 02 lift Transportation Program. This safety initiative uses evaluation effectively respond to unruly or violent passengers, minimize inResponding to results, which are acquired every six months, to assess the safety convenience to other passengers, and maximize safety on flights. new climate regimes of private air carriers in order to determine whether they are safe As aviation security laws and airline operational guidelines for seIssue 03 enough for its employees to fly on business trips along with oncurity personnel in airplanes have recently been strengthened, a Providing customersite inspections conducted every two years. Korean Air has met all zero-tolerance policy will be applied to any acts that might jeoparoriented service the safety standards under the Airlift Transportation Program and dize safety on airplanes, and stricter punishments will be imposed. earned its latest certification following the 2017 on-site inspection. Korean Air has been providing cabin crews with security training Issue 04 Creating shared value and education, including special training in partnership with the with society Company-wide Safety & Presidential Security Office, and has introduced new security Security Training Course for Managers equipment education that will allow them to promptly manage In order to ensure operational safety, the Company-wide Safety in-flight disturbances. & Security Training Course for Managers program was conducted In the second half of 2017, greater focus is placed on practical from September 2016 to April 2017 for with 543 executives and matters during annual cabin safety training. We will do our utmost business division managers at home and abroad. The four-day through training and education for the crew to keep all our pascourse consists of two-day training on regulations, principles and sengers safe. procedures, and case studies, and two-day on-the-job training in passenger, cargo, maintenance, and operations control. The course aims to heighten awareness of the responsibility of safety and security thereby further strengthening competitiveness in terms of safety. 22 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Issue 02 Changes in the Business Environment and Korean Air at Present Responding to Governments, industries, and the private sector as a whole are all striving to address global environmental issues. The Paris Agreement within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate new climate Change (UNFCCC) was adopted in December 2015 and represents a major step forward the efforts regimes WHERE WE STAND by the global community to overcome these challenges. Higher income level and a more globalized world have led to a rapid increase in air travel and cargo transportation. For the past years, the ICAO has devising approaches to climate change issues that relate to international aviation. As a What efforts is Korean Air making to result, CORSIA (Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation), the first global address climate change? framework covering an entire industrial sector, was adopted by the ICAO Assembly. Video of CORSIA Stakeholder Views Managing energy use and GHG emissions , Adopting eco-friendly aircraft and equipment Stakeholder Views Category Relevance to GRI Our stakeholders believe GHG emissions by the international aviation sector, which stand at 2% of Environment Energy, emissions the worldwide total, are expected to sharply increase, and it is important for airlines to use energy Reporting Issues HOW WE efficiently and be held responsible for managing GHG emissions. Korean Air will report on strategies •Introducing cutting-edge aircrafts with improved LISTEN fuel efficiency and activities for reducing GHG emissions as material issues and will continue to manage them •Reducing GHG emissions through lightweight appropriately aircraft and eco-friendly flight operations •Manufacturing eco-friendly aircraft structures and reviewing the feasibility on jet bio fuel Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goals Where the impact Where the issue comes from impacts Fuel efficiency for international routes 35.41 34.4 35.24 34.65 Internal External Cost Profit Risk WHAT (ℓ/100RTK)* WE DO GHG emission reduction in the 431,874 445,790 413,613 406,223 aviation sector (tCO2) * Fuel efficiency = Fuel consumption (liter) / Transportation (100RTK) * RTK(Revenue Ton Kilometer) means a single ton of passengers/cargo for one kilometer. It is used as a unit for sales of an airliner. 23 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 Fuel efficiency in Fuel Efficiency Note Strengthening aviation 2016 recorded 1.6%p Base Years 36.49 (ℓ/100RTK) Base years: 2011-2013 safety and security below the target Issue 02 Target 35.76 (ℓ/100RTK) 2.0% improvement from the average fuel efficiency in the base years Responding to new climate regimes Actual 35.24 (ℓ/100RTK) 3.6% improvement compared to the average fuel efficiency in the base years Issue 03 Fuel Providing customerefficiency oriented service 37.00 Issue 04 36.75 Creating shared value Base-year Average 36.49ℓ/100RTK 36.50 with society 36.34 Target improvement 36.40 rate 36.00 Target 35.76ℓ/100RTK Actual 35.41 improvement 35.50 rate 35.00 Target Actual 35.24 34.50 2.0%↑ 3.6%↑ 34.40 34.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year 24 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Introducing Cutting-edge Aircrafts with Greater Fuel Efficiency Issue 01 By contracting for 100 new aircraft, B737MAX-8 Strengthening aviation and A321NEO models will be introduced from 2019 2017 Aircraft adopted safety and security through 2025. •Three B747-8i (Jan., May, and June) Korean Air is continuing its fleet modernization by adopting •Two B777-300ER (May and June) Issue 02 Responding to next-generation aircraft such as Boeing B747-8i and B787-9 models •One B747-8F (Dec.) new climate regimes to improve flight operation, safety and fuel efficiency. In particular, •Six B777F (June, Aug., Sept., Oct., and Dec.) Issue 03 the B787-9, introduced in February and April 2017, provides a new level of comfort. Since pressure and humidity in the B787-9 can be Aircrafts retired Providing customeroriented service set higher than in existing aircrafts, passengers can feel more com•Five B747-400 sold (Apr., June July, and Dec.) fortable during flight. The B787-9, also known as the Boeing 787-9 •One B777-200 leased to JINAIR (July) Issue 04 Dreamliner is equipped with the state-of-the-art GEnx-1B engine •Four B777-200 sold (Aug., Oct., Nov., and Dec.) Creating shared value * Two B737-800 leased to JINAIR right after being introduced (Mar. and June) with society and is made from 50% carbon composite materials and 20% of aluminum alloy, making it more lightweight and durable. As a result, its fuel efficiency is 20% higher and carbon emissions are 20% lowAircraft Investment (KRW 100 million) er than comparable models. 2014 13,340 Korean Air’s fleet Information 2015 32,428 2016 13,669 Average Age of Aircraft (years) 2014 2015 2016 Passenger 9.7 9.5 9.7 Cargo 8.7 9.1 7.4 Average Age 9.6 9.4 9.2 25 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix |SPECIAL PAGE | Dream Flight with Korean Air B787-9 Material Issue Report Dream flights offering comfort and pleasant experience Issue 01 Strengthening aviation safety and security Issue 02 Responding to Dream View, Window Dream Space, Seat Dream Light Dream Cabin new climate regimes larger passenger windows, Wider passenger space, LED lighting to produce Improved cabin pressure, window with adjustable Comfortable seating various atmosphere Comfortable cabin humidity Issue 03 transparency Providing customeroriented service Issue 04 Creating shared value with society Dream Cabin Ozone reduction Improved cabin pressure, Comfortable cabin humidity Outside air The B787-9 has a separate compressor (Cabin Air Compressor) Pleasant cabin that converts the outside air to high temperature / high environment pressure, then cools it and supplies it to the cabin. In Dizziness, headache, and dryness of the eyes addition, the humidification system installed in the upper Cabin air are reduced. part of the cabin increases the humidity of the air supplied inside the cabin (about 1.5 times compared with other HEPA filter Gas filter Bacteria, viruses and Odors, polluted gas airplane) to create a more comfortable cabin environment. mold are removed. substances, etc. are removed. 26 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix |SPECIAL PAGE | Dream Flight with Korean Air B787-9 Material Issue Report Dream technology of benefiting the environment and people Issue 01 1. Dream Material Carbon Fiber Fuselage 4. Dream Wing Advanced Wing Strengthening aviation Unlike conventional airplanes, which are made by assembling various pieces, The efficiency of the aircraft was improved by applying the optimized wing safety and security the single-piece, composite barrel technology that makes a carbon fiber shape to the flight environment. As a result of this increase in aircraft efficiency, fuselage from an oven called an <autoclave> enables a comfortable cabin fuel consumption has been reduced to enable eco-friendly flights, and Korean Issue 02 pressure to be maintained, while also allowing for larger windows. This can Air has participated directly in the production of Raked Wing Tip at the wing end. Responding to lead to innovative improvements in the aircraft's structural performance. new climate regimes Droopable spoilers Raked Wing Tip 2. Dream Technology State-of-the-art Digital Flight Deck Issue 03 Aircraft efficiency is Improves aircraft The use of state-of-the-art high-speed digital wireless communication Providing customerincreased through efficiency by technology improves the safety of navigation by allowing all aircraft operations oriented service improved airflow on reducing the vortex to be monitored from the ground during flight. As well, it incorporates the the wing during from wing tip. Issue 04 latest digital technology that enables pilots to check all of the manuals for flight takeoff and landing. Creating shared value operations and maintenance on the computer screen inside the cockpit. with society 3. Dream Engine Eco-friendly Engine The B787-9 engine is an eco-friendly engine that has significantly reduced emissions of harmful gases such as carbon dioxide compared to other engines. Ailerons In addition, it reduces the noise of the engine entering the cabin by 30%, Variable Camber Multifunctional Ailerons allowing passengers to enjoy a more comfortable flight. Improves aircraft efficiency optimize wing efficiency by adjusting posture to during takeoff, landing optimize the center of and cruising. gravity during cruising. Flap Fairing Eco-friendly flight Smaller Flap Fairing reduces drag. through reduced Increases customer fuel consumption. convenience by reducing the 5. Dream Flight Smoother Ride Technology Minimizes carbon footprint amount of engine In comparison to the B777, the B787-9 is equipped with two additional system by reducing the emission of noise that enters sensors under the cockpit, which allows the aircraft to be adjusted up and harmful gases. the cabin. down, enables detection when turbulence is encountered, and improves flight stablity by controlling elevators and its rudder. 27 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Reducing GHG emissions through Lightweight Aircraft and Eco-friendly Flight Operations Issue 01 Fuel Management Process Strengthening aviation Korean Air’s fuel management process is based on ten years of ded•Loading adequate amount •Refraining from unnecessary reverse safety and security icated infrastructure that includes the management of fuel and enof potable water thrust when landing •Reducing pay load variance •One engine-powered Taxi In/Out Issue 02 hancement of operational flight efficiency through eco-flight pro•Using lightweight containers •Operating a flight at optimal speeds Responding to cedures and upgrades to fuel-loading policy. The process is being •Balancing out aircraft center of considering fuel/operation costs new climate regimes implemented through cooperation among business divisions in gravity •Ensuring the optimal use of flaps flight operations, maintenance, flight planning and transportation. during takeoff/landing Issue 03 Providing customeroriented service GHG emissions reduction performance results (tCO2) Weight Issue 04 2014 2015 2016 Creating shared value Operations Eco-flight 141,168 143,019 149,606 with society Performance improvement 97,793 93,346 56,628 Flight planning 168,039 181,159 179,332 Fuel Weight management 24,873 28,266 28,047 Management Total 431,873 445,790 413,613 Performance Maintenance and fuel management tasks Ground handling Maintenance process improvement Flight plan •Using designated equipment •Improving static leak test •Carrying optimal amount of procedures for engines potable water •Changing a fan blade trim •Managing over-fueling method •Using economical •Developing the nearest alternate ground equipment while parking airports and shortcut routes Aircraft/Engine performance Weight management •Engine Water washing •Amending fuel loading regulations enhancement •Enhancing performance with •Loading fuel based on a statistical •Engine Water Washing •Removing or adjusting FAK maintenance on engine fan blades analysis of fuel consumption patterns •Installing winglets on B737s (fly-away-kits) •Raising fuel efficiency by installing •Loading fuel considering oil prices at •Running a maintenance program •Removing unused parts and winglets on B737s departure and destination airports on aircraft drag reduction maintenance manual 28 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 Engine water washing Maintenance program on aircraft drag reduction Strengthening aviation Engine water washing is continuously conducted for Korean Air We have implemented various programs to improve fuel efficiency by eliminating factors safety and security aircraft. The method is effective at improving fuel efficiency and aggravating aerodynamics, and reducing the drag that opposes an aircraft's forward motion. Issue 02 reducing GHG emissions as it increases the performance of the Responding to compressor and improves air flow. Fan blades (engine fan blades) new climate regimes are cleaned as well using custom nozzles. In 2016, engine water Issue 03 washing was conducted a total of 429 times, saving 13.05 million Providing customerpounds of fuel (5,918 tons) annually, and 640 are planned for 2017. Two dents A gap on the Repair of fuselage oriented service on a door control surface surface area Issue 04 Engine water washing and engine performance Drag due to dents Drag created by a gap A flush repair is recommended on the fuselage surface on the control surface that smoothes the surface to Creating shared value EGT Margin minimize drag with society 1000 Cycle-Wash Deterioration Curve Un-Washed Deterioration Curve 500 Cycle-Wash Deterioraion Curve Contaminated Crushed Seals Rough painting 500 Cycle-Wash fuselage surface Deformation of Seals Drag occurring on a Cumulative-Benefit Drag caused by pollutants attached to the fuselage roughly painted surface 1000 Cycle-Wash Cumulative Benefit on the fuselage surface led to drag Engine Cycles 88-inch pallet ULD locking devices removed on Korean Air Cargo Boeing 777s For cargo aircraft, ULDs (unit load device) are used to bundle large quantities of cargo in to a single unit for loading. They come in 96-inch and 88-inch versions, but 96-inch pallet ULDs are mainly used in Korean Air for their greater capacity. Installed locking devices for 88-inch pallet ULDs were removed since they were not frequently used. As a result, 350,000 pounds (154.2 tons) of fuel was saved in 2016. 29 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Eco-friendly Aircraft Structures and Jet Bio-Fuel Issue 01 Designing and manufacturing eco-friendly aircraft structures Strengthening aviation A330 Sharklets Korean Air leverages its original technology to perform the designing, manufacturing and •Winglets measuring 2m in width and 4m in length safety and security certification of Sharklets, elements of the wing structure used on A330NEO (New Engine •Made of lightweight, high-tech composite materials Issue 02 Option) for the Airbus, in addition to its supply of Sharklets for the A320. Made of high-tech •Sharklets help to reduce wingtip vortices that occur Responding to composite materials, a Sharklet is a winglet measuring 2m in width and 4m in length that when air on the upper wing surface has lower pressure new climate regimes is installed on the tip of the main wings of an aircraft while aiding in air resistance at the tip relative to the bottom. •4% improvement in fuel efficiency. Issue 03 of the wings, giving way to a rise in fuel efficiency by 4% and the simultaneous reduction of Providing customerCO2 emissions. Korean Air is expected to deliver more than 600 A330 NEO Sharklet wingtips Conventional Sharklets oriented service and will continue to do its best to design, manufacture, and deliver eco-friendly fuselage wingtips diminish wingtip and main components to promote aircraft fuel efficiency worldwide. generate wingtip vortices Issue 04 vortices with reduced air Creating shared value with high air resistance. with society Reviewing the feasibility on jet bio-fuel resistance Recently, the development of jet bio-fuel as sustainable energy has been promoted throughout the aviation industry. The technical feasibility of jet bio-fuel has been proven by several air carriers through test flights, and numerous studies on its economic feasibility and sustainability are being conducted. Multiple airlines, including KLM and Lufthansa, are currently operating regular flights using bio-fuels on select routes. Since Korean researchers succeeded in developing a prototype jet bio-fuel for the aviation sector in 2013, R&D and Manufactured eco-friendly aircraft structures production efforts have continued in Korea. The government is also reviewing the feasibility Model Structure Property of introducing jet bio-fuels in domestic aviation sector and considering test flights. In order to achieve the CNG 2020 (carbon-neutral growth after 2020) set by the ICAO, alternative B737MAX Winglets 1.5% improved fuel efficiency fuels, including bio jet-fuel need to be utilized. However, as the cost of this fuel is approxiSignificantly enhanced aerodynamic Raked performance compared to conventional mately three time higher than that of conventional alternatives, it is not yet feasible for the B747-8 Wing Tip wingtips (Improving fuel efficiency by 6% market. Keenly aware of the needs for introducing bio jet-fuel over the long term, Korean Air by increasing wing area) is seeking cooperation with the government and research institutes to proactively address A320 sustainable energy issues. Sharklet 4% improved fuel efficiency A330NEO 30 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Issue 03 Changes in the Business Environment and Korean Air Today Providing Airline services are rapidly evolving to meet the needs of customers by offering a wide range of amenities, such as in-flight meal menus created by master chefs, more comfortable seats and hotel-like intericustomer-oriented ors, and links to video Spanish lessons for passengers traveling to Mexico. The level of customer experiservice WHERE ence is rising higher than ever due to cultural awareness, economic growth and technological advances. People have also come to expect the convenience of ‘one-stop’ service on a seamless digital platform. WE STAND In addition, with the spread of new devices and media, has come a demand for better web accessibility How does Korean Air provide services to the visually impaired and the elderly. Also, improved flight services for those who with special travel to promote its customers’ wellbeing? needs are increasingly required. In response, Korean Air is working hard to pinpoint what customers want, communicate clearly with them, and ensure they receive services tailored precisely to their needs. Stakeholder Views Developing and offering customer-oriented service, Promoting responsible advertising and Stakeholder Views marketing, Protecting customers’ personal data The stakeholder materiality assessment indicates that travelers with special needs, including the visualand tightening information security lyand hearing-impaired, the elderly, pregnant women, and children still experience difficulties accessCategory Relevance to GRI ing flight services and stakeholders clearly recognize the importance of improving flight services for Social and Product and service labelling, HOW WE those who with unique travel requirements. In addition, there is a need to quickly respond to customer product Marketing communications, LISTEN needs by using big data and diverse communication channels and to enhance interoperability with responsibility Customer data protection mobile devices to raise customer convenience and satisfaction. Developing and offering customer-oriReporting Issues ented service was selected as one of the material issues for 2017 and will be thoroughly reflected in •Developing and offering customer-oriented service our business activities. We will continue to improve in this regard. •Protecting customers’ personal data and tightening information security Where the impact Where the issue comes from impacts Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goals Internal External Cost Profit Risk Customer data leakage (cases) 0 0 0 0 WHAT Information security training (persons) 15,941 30,764 30,465 WE DO Voice of Customer (cases) 56,126 36,789 41,719 Global Customer Satisfaction Index (GCSI) 1st rank 1st rank 1st rank 1st rank 31 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Developing and Offering Customer-Oriented Service Issue 01 Hover here to Strengthening aviation see details. Chat Service safety and security Special meals Issue 02 Advance seat selection Responding to Pre-ordering duty-free items new climate regimes Travel tips portal Issue 03 Providing customerV isuallyand oriented service hearing-impaired passengers Issue 04 Pre-departure T hose who with special travel needs Special in-flight meals by class services Creating shared value Family Care Service with society Unaccompanied Minor Service Airport service In-flight services Accessible aircraft lavatories In-flight medical emergency service Amenity kit for pregnant passengers In-flight special meals Flying Mom Service 32 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 Service improved by VOCs Transportation for organ transplants increasing on domestic flights Previously, only Strengthening aviation One of our key management policies is reflecting customer feedone human organ could be transported per domestic flight. However, after reviewing cussafety and security backs in customer services. ‘Voice of the Customer (VOC)’ serves as tomer feedback about difficulties faced with receiving needed organs at local airports with Issue 02 an important tool to monitor the ‘moments of truth’. only a small number of flights, such as Sacheon airport, related regulations were revised. Responding to As of November 29, 2016, the allowed number of human organs transported per domestic new climate regimes VOC Management (cases) flight has been increased to two. Issue 03 2014 2015 2016 Information on bibimbap for foreign passengers Menu descriptions of bibimbap have Providing customeroriented service Compliments 7,359 8,132 11,489 been improved, and an explanation on how to eat it is provided passengers who might be unfamiliar with Korean cuisine. Issue 04 Complaints 4,158 4,098 4,785 Creating shared value Suggestions 568 477 522 Day of week specified on E-ticket Based on a customer suggestion to add the day of with society Inquiries 44,041 24,082 24,921 the week to the departure and arrival information on the Itinerary Ticket Receipt (ITR), the Total 56,126 36,789 41,717 day has been specified on ITRs issued by Korean Air and by travel agencies using TOPAS as of June 28, 2016. * A category of Others in the previous year's report is excluded as it is considered insignificant. CBBG(Cabin Baggage) CBBG refers to bulky of fragile items that must occupies a separate seat in the aircraft. Unpaid baggage was not accepted as CBBG under IATA regulations, but after reviewing customer suggestions we have been accepting unpaid baggage as of Service forum September 19, 2016. Company-wide awareness raising on customer compliments and complaints Service forum •Understanding front-end customer services (intranet bulletin and sharing information Posting complaints board) •Feedback and service Improvements and compliments VOC system Policy and system improvements Customer (automatically sorting out customer Korean Air complaints and generating responses) Feedback Customer needs analysis Reply 33 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Protecting Customers’ Personal Data and Tightening Information Security Issue 01 Integrated information security management Information Security Management System (ISMS) Strengthening aviation With growing social and policy requirements to ensure data securiKorean Air, as a member company of the Korea Online Privacy Association, a leading private safety and security ty and privacy protection, Korean Air has established a department organization dedicated to personal information protection, is actively conducting activities Issue 02 responsible for information security and has conducted prevenon personal data protection. Korean Air became the first company in the aviation industry Responding to tion-focused activities to combat cyber terrorism and leakage of certified for the Information Security Management System (ISMS) by the Korea Internet & new climate regimes personal information. After being reorganized as an independent Security Agency (KISA) in 2005, and has been accredited since then. entity to strengthen information and security competency in OctoIssue 03 Providing customerber 2014, the department has come under the direct control of the Information security training oriented service president. The department is currently monitoring employees’ comAll domestic and overseas employees handling customer information are required to unpliance with information security and privacy protection procedures. dergo training on information security and personal data protection twice per year with Issue 04 Once issues are identified, immediate corrective action is taken to some programs available year-round. Information security training covers the full process Creating shared value with society protect the intellectual and physical property of the company. At the from the collection of customer data to its secure destruction, as well as security precausame time, a lot of efforts are being made to prevent security incitions to be taken when using PCs, thereby heightening employee awareness of security. dents by proactively managing and responding to related issues. Information security training (Information security training) Customer data protection Year 2014 2015 2016 To protect customers’ personal information, penetration tests are reg•First half : Our company’s •First half: Understanding of personal data ularly conducted and customer data collected from SKYPASS memTraining information security and how to protect PCs •Second half: Personal data protection •Second half: Our company’s data protection bership, the Korean Air website, customers call centers, and offices at First Domestic 7,402 17,116 17,176 airports and in cities are being securely managed in accordance with half First half 656 3,002 2,962 related laws, including the Personal Data Protection Act and the Act Second Domestic 7,284 7,727 7,470 on the Promotion of Information and Communications Network Utilihalf First half 599 2,919 2,857 zation and Information Protection. Furthermore, technical, administrative, and physical safeguards are firmly in place to ensure the highest Officially confirmed leakage of customers’ personal data (cases) possible level of security. 2014 2015 2016 Leakage of customer information 0 0 0 34 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Issue 04 Creating Changes in the Business Environment and Korean Air Today No company can survive in isolation from society. In order to ensure competitiveness and to grow shared value together with society, clusters of enterprises, local communities, and infrastructure should be WHERE with society WE STAND formed as a means to provide shared value. Instead of cookie-cutter, one-off events, social contribution activities are being transformed toward a strategic paradigm in which long-term corporate vision and strategic goals are interconnected with economic, social and environmental issues to What efforts is Korean Air making to provide organizational vitality, an improved corporate image, and better economic performance. create shared value? Stakeholder Views Promoting major social contribution activities, Shareholder Views Measuring the effectiveness of social contribution According to the materiality assessment, promoting major social contribution activities conducting activities and ongoing performance management social contribution activities that reflect industry characteristics, and measuring the effectiveness Category HOW WE of social contribution activities, and ongoing performance management are all considered Relevance to GRI Society Local community LISTEN important issues. Korean Air will continue its related efforts in reflection of the characteristics of the Reporting Issues aviation industry, create shared value with stakeholders, and grow together with society toward a •Conducting social contribution activities sustainable future. reflecting industry characteristics •Further involvement of employees and stakeholders in social contribution activities Where the impact Where the issue Indicator 2014 2015 2016 2017 Goals comes from impacts Volunteer hours per 1.9 1.7 1.9 Internal External Cost Profit Risk WHAT employee (hours/employee) WE DO Social contribution expenses 9,679 12,562 9,227 (KRW 1 million) Afforestation* (trees) 80,000 90,000 90,000 90,000 * Total number of trees planted in Baganuur Mongolia and Kubuqi Desert in China 35 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Social Contribution Activities Reflecting Industry Characteristics Issue 01 Going beyond financial support and employee volunteer efforts, Strengthening aviation Korean Air strives to fulfil its corporate social responsibility by utiliz1998 Transportation of disaster relief goods to flooded areas in Hubei Province, China safety and security Aug. 1999 Disaster relief goods and aids to flooded areas in North Gyeonggi Province, Korea ing our logistics and transportation resources. We have been pro(Multi-purpose helicopters and trucks deployed) Issue 02 viding support for the transportation of needed relief supplies to Aug. 1999 Transportation of disaster relief goods to earthquake areas in Turkey Responding to earthquakes and tsunami disaster areas and to refugees, and have (with B747-400F) new climate regimes Oct. 1999 Transportation of disaster relief goods to earthquake areas in Taiwan (with A300F) offered free flight service to Korean expatriates in difficulty. Oct. 2000 Donation of disaster relief goods to the earthquake victims in Nigata, Japan Issue 03 (A330 freighter deployed) Providing customerRelief aid for Fiji cyclone and Japanese earthquake victims Sept. 2002 T ransportation of disaster relief goods to victims of typhoon Rusa oriented service in Gangneung, Korea (with A300-600) Utilizing its logistics and transportation resources, Korean Air has April 2004 Transportation of disaster relief goods to the North Korean refugees of the been offering no-cost transportation of relief supplies in the event Issue 04 Ryongchon Station explosion (with two B747-400) Creating shared value of disasters. In 2007, a dedicated disaster relief team was created to Jan. 2005 Transportation of disaster relief goods to tsunami victims in Southwest Asian countries with society increase the efficiency of rescue activities, aircraft and helicopter Aug. 2005 Transportation of disaster relief goods to the refugees of hurricane Katrina in the U.S. deployment, and relief goods support. In March 2016, Korean Air June 2007 Transportation of victims’ coffins in the Cambodian plane crash May 2008 Transportation of disaster relief goods to victims of cyclone Nargis in Myanmar provided emergency support, including dry biscuits and bottled May 2008 Transportation of disaster relief goods to earthquake victims in Sichuan Province, China water, to the victims of the deadly Cyclone Winston that ravaged Mar. 2011 Donation of bottled water to earthquake victims in Christ Church, New Zealand Fiji, and dispatched clothes collected by the Fiji Embassy. EmergenMar. 2011 Donation of bottled water and blankets to earthquake victims in the northeastern cy relief supplies were also delivered to victims of Kumamoto earthprovince in Japan quakes in Japan in April 2016. Oct. 2011 Donation of bottled water and disaster relief goods to flooded areas in Thailand Jan. 2012 Monetary donations to victims of typhoon Washi in the Philippines Nov. 2013 Donation of bottled water and disaster relief goods to victims of typhoon Haiyan in Free flights to Korea for Korean adoptees the Philippines Korean Air has been offering free tickets to Korea to international Korean Apr. 2014 Donation of bottled water and blankets to victims and volunteers of the Saewol Ferry disaster in Korea adoptees attending events in Korea arranged by the International KoreMay 2015 Transportation of disaster relief goods and employee donations to earthquake areas an Adoptee Service (InKAS). Since 2010, a total of 40 adoptees aged 18 in Nepal or older have been given the opportunity to visit and experience their Sept. 2015 Donation of bottled water and disaster relief goods to flooded areas in Myanmar country of birth. The program helps them to understand the history and Mar. 2016 Donation of bottled water and disaster relief goods to victims of cyclone Winston in Fiji Apr. 2016 Donation of bottled water to victims of Kumamoto earthquakes in Japan culture of Korea while serving as a bridge connecting the nation where Apr. 2017 Donation of bottled water to floods victims in Peru they were born with the one where they grew up and call home. 36 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 The program helps them to understand the history and culture of As part of its efforts to protect local ecosystem, Korean Air transports only live animals with Strengthening aviation Korea while serving as a bridge connecting the nation where they valid permits in accordance with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Spesafety and security were born with the one where they grew up and call home. cies of Wild Fauna and Flora and IATA’s Live Animal Regulations. It has banned the transportaIssue 02 tion of shark fins and monkeys destined for laboratory use. Responding to Transportation of a Korean expatriate in a coma new climate regimes In September 2016, Korean Air helped a Korean expat in Brazil Caring Mind, the Dream Library project for children in China who had been in a coma for a year after being shot in the street, Starting in 2010 as part of Korean Air’s social contribution project in China, eh-shim, roughly Issue 03 but whose family could not afford the flight to Korea to for meditranslated as “caring mind,” the Dream Library project builds and donates libraries to underProviding customercal treatment. Since the patient needs to remain prone during the developed provinces in China. To date, Korean Air has donated libraries in six cities, including oriented service flight, a stretcher taking up six seats must be used. The airfare for Xian, Huangshan, Kunming and Shenyang. In 2016, the beneficiary was the Jingfu Elementary Issue 04 such a stretcher is six times higher than the average cost. Despite School in Huachuan County of the Hei Long Jiang Province, where we donated 2,000 books, Creating shared value fund-raising efforts of the association of Korean expatriates in Brazil, bookshelves, and sports equipment. with society the family of this patient still suffered from serious financial difficulties. Korean Air covered all the transportation expenses while ensurBooks and library donation ing his safe travel from departure in Sao Paulo to arrival in Incheon. Oct. 2008 Book donation to Hongshan Elementary School in Beijing Transportation of pandas with a special Aircraft 2009 Book donation to an elementary school in Wuhan Since it provides a suitable environment through the temperature June 2010 Dream Library at an elementary school in Xian control and ventilation systems and requires less time compared to July 2013 Korean Air Dream Library at an elementary school in Liaoning Province through other methods, air transportation is one of the safest transportation piggy bank relay fund-raising on the A380 as part of the Caring Mind Project in methods for live animals. In March 2016, Korean Air securely transChina ported a pair of pandas from Qingdao, China to Incheon using a speOct. 2014 Donation of 2,000 books, bookshelves, computers and other educational and cial cargo aircraft. Pandas are endangered animals with only 2,000 sports equipment to an elementary school in the Hunan Province or so remaining in the wild. Based on our years of experience and June 2015 Donation of 2,000 books, bookshelves, computers and other educational and know-how in live animal transportation, the temperature in the carsports equipment to Phudong Elementary School in Liping County of the Qiandongnan Prefecture within Guizhou Province go compartment was set at 18℃ and a veterinarian and zookeeper July 2016 Donation of 2,000 books, bookshelves and sports equipment to Jingfu were in attendance to oversee their health conditions. A non-vibratElementary School in Huachuan County of the Hei Long Jiang Province ing vehicle was used to minimize stress. 37 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Further Involving Employees and Stakeholders in Social Contribution Activities Issue 01 Employees volunteer activities Employee volunteer groups Strengthening aviation Guided by the belief of founding chairsafety and security man Cho Joong-hoon, ‘Profits made by a Volunteer group Registration date Members (persons) Major activities Issue 02 company must be returned to the society Alliance of Christian 2003.12.01 Christian gatherings •New year’s concert, and overseas volunteer gatherings activities Responding to that made it possible,’ Korean Air takes Crew Christian new climate regimes part in social contribution activities in a gathering 2003.12.01 Cockpit and cabin crew (80) •Counseling for teenage runaways Issue 03 variety of areas. Since December 2003, Didimdol Gimpo maintenance •Facilities for the mentally-/physically-impaired 2003.12.01 all employees of Korean Air have volunvolunteer group Christian gathering (30) •Local child centers Providing customerYesarang General sales Christian •Nursing home for the elderly suffering from oriented service tarily donated up to KRW 1,000 from their 2003.12.01 volunteer group gathering (30) dementia monthly salary (up to KRW 10,000 for exIssue 04 Sanasa (People 2003.12.01 Bucheon motor plant (41) •Bathing support, and helping child breadwinners Creating shared value ecutives), and the company matches its sharing love) •Picnic with those with disabilities with society employees’ charitable contributions. •Supporting child breadwinners Silver wing Cockpit crew and 2003.12.01 •Volunteering at social welfare centers There are 27 volunteer groups consisting supporters trainees (1,202) •Improving residential environment of employees working in various fields Korean Air Stewardess •Helping child breadwinners 2003.12.01 Stewardess alumni (600) and locations, and regularly conducting a Alumni (KASA) •Scholarship programs •Visiting centers for children with disabilities wide range of activities. Part of the funds Dasom Nanumhoe 2003.12.01 Cabin crew (150) •Visiting orphanages collected through employee donation Busan civil aircraft •Bathing support for those with disabilities Sarang Naumhoe 2004.01.14 is used to support the activities of these manufacturing plant (60) •Cleaning dormitories and cafeterias groups. Customer service branch •Running English classes Sky Love 2004.09.10 at Incheon int’l airport (100) •Visiting senior care centers •Supporting the elderly living alone, Busan aerospace underprivileged children and multi-cultural Geumgwanhoe 2005.03.03 business division (100) families •Environment cleaning event •Food distribution support at senior welfare centers Gonihoe 2005.04.28 Female cabin crew •Sponsoring the elderly living alone and children from low-income families Customer service branch Dasom Maru 2006.03.10 •Sponsoring those with disabilities at Jeju airport (65) Seoungwoohoe 2006.05.09 Male cabin crew •Sponsoring those with disabilities 38 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Volunteer group Registration date Members (Persons) Major volunteer activities •Improving the living environment for those with disabilities Fountain of Love 2006.06.09 Maintenance training team (200) •Donating daily necessities Issue 01 Strengthening aviation Little Dream Tree 2007.04.09 Busan aerospace business division (13) •Teaching volunteer work at elementary schools safety and security Hanbat Saranghoe 2007.10.02 R&D center (10) •Visiting orphanages and donating supplies •Helping underprivileged children and youth Issue 02 •Supporting low-income families Do Dream 2008.04.21 Operations control division (280) Responding to •Supporting the elderly living alone new climate regimes Medical volunteer group 2008.09.05 Korean Air Aeromedical Center (67) •Providing medical service to people in need in local communities •Bathing support for those with disabilities Issue 03 Catholic volunteer group 2009.12.22 Cockpit crew department (20) •Improving residential environment Providing customerGosari 2011.02.11 Busan civil aircraft manufacturing plant (7) •Helping the mentally-impaired oriented service •Conducting volunteer activities with those with disabilities Association of cabin crew volunteer Issue 04 Sky Angels 2011.03.02 groups(Seungwoohoe, Gonihoe, •Sky Love Bazaar •Kimchi-making events for the underprivileged and those with disabilities Creating shared value Christian gathering, and Dasom Nanumhoe) in Ganseo-gu, Seoul with society Labor-management •Conducting volunteer activities with those with disabilities Dubit Narae 2011.03.08 cooperation office (26) •Helping neighbors in need Love Sharing 2014.02.05 Catering business division (36) •Sharing activities through talent donation (such as cooking) Jeongseok University 2014.02.05 Jeongseok University student council (15) •Mentoring for students in orphanages KALMAN Singers 2014.03.07 In-house choir (65) •Donating daily necessities to neighbors in need in Ganseo-gu, Seoul •Helping neighbors in need in Ganseo-gu, Seoul Buddhist gathering 2014.06.02 Flight operations division (15) •Promoting a lotus lantern hanging event praying for safe flight operations Social contribution expenses (KRW 1 million) Employee volunteer hours 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Company donation 10,201 9,419 12,390 9,067 Employee (persons) 4,129 4,102 3,851 4,370 Voluntary donation* 203 260 172 160 Average volunteer hours 2.0 1.9 1.7 1.9 Total 10,404 9,679 12,562 9,227 per employee (hours) * Humble monthly donation from employees 39 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 Social contribution activities with stakeholders Since 2004, the Korean Air Forest project has been underway in Baganuur, Mongolia with Strengthening aviation Korean language audio guide service at the world’s three Korean Air employees and locals planting trees every year. In the first year of tree planting, safety and security most famous museums and other locations With its various the extreme daily temperature rage, dry weather, and a lack of understanding of local forIssue 02 cultural sponsoring activities including underwriting Korean lanestry knowledge made it difficult for the trees to survive. However, Korean Air trained local Responding to guage service at the Louvre, British Museum, and Hermitage Museresidents in caring for the trees in an organized manner, and hired local experts to improve new climate regimes um, as well as Le Musée d'Orsay, Korean Air is striving to fulfill corirrigation and fertilizer. As a result, the survival rate of the trees has surpassed 80%. In 2016, Issue 03 porate social responsibility. Going forward, Korean Air will continue more than 10,000 trees were planted, including poplar, golden trees and sea buckthorn. Providing customerto support the world’s leading museums by serving as a conduit to In particular, the profits from sea buckthorn fruit sold to make vitamin drinks is benefitting oriented service promote the beauties of Korean culture worldwide and raises the local communities. A former desert wasteland has been converted into a forest of 110,000 international profile of the Korean language. trees spanning an area of 44 hectares. Meanwhile, Korean Air has been donating educationIssue 04 Creating shared value al computers every year to Bolovsrol and Gun Galutai national schools, which take part in with society Global tree planting project The ‘Korean Air Green Ecological the project. Park’ in the middle of the Kubuqi Desert in China is a restoration project in partnership with the Future of Forest of Korea and the Korean Culture Promotion agreement with the National Museum of Korea Korean All-China Youth Federation that has been conducted for 10 years Air has been sponsoring the Nat’l Museum of Korea for the promotion of Korean cultural since 2007. In 2016, 70 Korean Air employees and 50 college stuheritage and history since first signing an agreement in 2012. In July 2016, both parties dents from China planted trees, totaling 1.36 million trees growing held a ceremony extending the agreement. Under the renewed understanding, Korean Air on an area size of 4.61 million square meters. will sponsor eight exhibitions in museums at home and abroad over the next two years. It will also provide transportation of artifacts, discounted flight tickets for exhibition staff, and Korean Air Green Ecological Park’ in the Kubuqi Desert in exhibition promotions. China (10,000 trees) 4.61million m2 Korean Air pop-up cafe for sharing Since 2011, Korean Air has been holding a bi-month1.67million m2 2.84million m 2 4.01million m2 120 136 ly event called ‘Pop-up Café for Sharing’ with its SNS subscribers. As part of its global sharing 89 56 activities, this event aims to help the children in need around the world. The proceeds from this event are donated to the ‘United Help for International Children Organization’. 2007 2010 2014 2016 40 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Issue 01 Strengthening aviation Sharing Dream Maker Environmental Protector safety and security Community Volunteering •Talent fostering (Jeongseok/Inha •‘Korean Air Forest’ in Baganuur Mongolia Academic Institutions) •Kubuqi Desert in China Issue 02 •Humble monthly donations •“Dream Library” Project in China Responding to •Sky Angels’ volunteering activities •Sapling distribution event new climate regimes (such as bazaars and kimchi-sharing •Korean Air Future Artist Olympiad on Arbor Day events) •“Make Your Dream Come True in Jeju” Issue 03 Providing customer•Habitat for Humanity •Haneul Sarang (Sky Love) oriented service •Sisterhood ties with rural villages English Class •Community volunteering around •Fascinating Travels Issue 04 with Korean Air Creating shared value the globe with society Disaster Relief Cultural Sponsorship Sport Sponsorship •Transportation of disaster relief goods •Sponsorship to Korean language •Official sponsorships for international sports •Disaster relief aids audio guide service at the world’s •Excellence Program three most famous museums and (Sports player patronage program) other locations •Women’s table tennis team Global Community Volunteering •Ilwoo Space (gallery) & Ilwoo •Korean Air Jumbos volleyball team •Global Community Volunteering Photography Awards in the Philippine and Malaysia •Korean Air Chairman, Cho Yang-ho, serving as the official chairman of the Korea Table Tennis Association •Korean Air President, Cho Won-tae, serving as the commissioner of Korean Volleyball Federation 41 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Material Issue Report Major social contribution activities Issue 01 Strengthening aviation Activities 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 safety and security Humble monthly donation from employees Issue 02 Afforestation in Mongolia Responding to Rice donation new climate regimes Sisterhood ties with rural villages Issue 03 Sky Love Bazaar Providing customeroriented service Sponsorship of Korean language audio guide service at international museums Issue 04 Love & Care Plans Creating shared value Medical volunteering of the Korean Air with society Aeromedical Center Inviting underprivileged children to Jeju Island Free flight tickets to Korea for internationally adopted ethnic Koreans Sisterhood ties with military units Global Community Volunteering Global tree planting activities Love & Care Plans in China (Baganuur, Mongolia) Korean language audio guide service at the world’s three most famous museums (the Louvre, British Museum, and Hermitage Museum) Global volunteer activities Global project to provide medical (Bicol in the Philippines / treatment to children patients Penang and Gopeng in Malaysia) (Iraq) 42 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix BOARDING PASS Sustaining 44 Creating Economic Value Excellence 49 Talent Recognition India Customer Satisfaction 56 Management 60 Win-Win Management India is the cradle of civilization in South Asia and the 61 Environmental Management birthplace of Buddhism. The name of the country is derived from the Indus river. It is the seventhlargest city in the world in terms of area, and with a population of 1.3 billion, the second-most populous. Udaipur, also known as the City of Lakes or India’s Europe, is located in Rajasthan State. It is a popular 2017 Korean Air sustainability report honeymoon destination among Indians. Photo by Kim Jeong-nam in Udaipur, India – Among selections during the 22nd Annual Korean Air Travel Photo Contest 43 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Creating Economic Value Major Performance Flight hours Fleet Passenger transportation Cargo transportation (1,000 hours) 625 (aircraft) (10,000 persons) 2,684 (10,000 tons) 582 180 160 2,207 2,274 157 128 128 385 112 1,226 202 72 51 105 37 360 20 11 70 0 14 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 Operating profit (KRW 100 million) 115,029 Capital stock (KRW 100 million) 3,698 Total assets (KRW 100 million) 227,060 112,788 3,668 3,378 178,885 107,480 55,590 1,740 29,033 16,791 7,374 5,587 284 57 36 15 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 1969 1980 1990 2000 2010 2016 44 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Creating Economic Value Investment Performance Results Aircraft (KRW 100 million) General (KRW 100 million) Total (KRW 100 million) 34,786 Economic value distribution to stakeholders (KRW 100 million) 32,428 Stakeholders 2016 Labor expenses 15,216 Employees Welfare benefits 2,893 Shareholders Dividends Creditors Interest expenses 4,002 18,618 Corporate tax Tax service 14 16,442 expenses 13,340 13,669 Local Communities Donations 101 Rental 2,880 Fuel expenses 21,901 4,919 Suppliers Manufacturing 8,768 expenses 3,102 2,358 Airport expenses 12,199 Total 67,974 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 45 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Creating Economic Value Business Goals and Strategies 2017 Business strategies and key tasks According to statistics from the Ministry of Justice, the number of outbound Korean air travelers increased by 16.3% and the number Establishing a sustainable business structure that generate profits even of inbound foreign passengers rose by 33.0% year on year, while in a rapidly changing business environment the total number of inbound and outbound international passengers went up by a record 23.0%.With the total international passenger traffic growth forecast by International Air Transport Association (IATA) to be 5.9% for 2016 and 5.1% for 2017, a robust growth similar to that of 2016 is expected for 2017. Continued growth is also expected in cargo traffic, with predicted gains of 3.4% in 2016 Ensuring stable profits through and 3.3% in 2017. Improving unit cost anticipating changes in the Ongoing efforts to ensure with better resource business environment and operational safety productivity taking proactive In 2017, Korean Air aims to achieve measures KRW 12,220 billion in sales •Comply with all safety •Optimize route and fleet •Devise emergency measures and KRW 840 billion in operating regulations and processes operations and increase the to minimize the impact of •Avoid attempts at operation rate sudden changes in oil prices or profit under a management policy excessive savings on •Enhance productivity per the exchange safety-related costs employee •Forecast shifts in market trends of establishing a sustainable •Maintain cost per supply by efficiently utilizing our business structure that under increased profit per supply management system •Proactively respond to issues generate profits even through the speedy and flexible decision-making in a rapidly changing business process •Respond to changes in the environment. industry by diversifying the revenue base 46 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Creating Economic Value Passenger Business Strategies In 2017, it is expected that the domestic aviation market will continue to grow with a rise in the number of Korean passengers following that of 2016 and with demand for international air travel | M I NI C A S E | New and future routes in 2016 and 2017 remaining strong. However, potential risk factors for increasing cost still exist, such as a decrease in travel demand caused by inIn a bid to secure a new growth momentum, Korean Air is actively expanding its network and exploring new markets. In 2016, we added new routes including Busan-Taipei in January, and Incheon-Okinawa and Incheon-Guiyang in May. In December, ternational political events and instability in oil prices and the Koflight service was launched between Incheon and Delhi, a center of trade and commerce in northern India. Going forward, rean won exchange rates due to concerns over protectionist US we will continue developing new routes with growth potential. trade policy. In order to meet these challenges head-on, Korean Air has put in place four operational strategies to achieve sustainable New routes added (2016) growth in this sector. The Northeast Asian network was expanded and new long-distance routes added Increasing high-class ticket sales with new high-tech Increasing aircraft models featuring cutting-edge firstand Flight high-class business-class seats while pursuing the premium and Operating frequency Service ticket sales economy-class markets through efforts in alliance Route carrier per week launch marketing Busan-Taipei B737 7 2016.01 Developing new markets with high growth potential, Incheon-Okinawa B777 7 2016.05 such as operating non-scheduled flights in cities Expanding Incheon-Guiyang B737 7 2016.05 where there are no scheduled services, thereby new markets expanding the joint operations network and securing additional revenue sources Incheon-Delhi A330 7 2016.12 Expanding flight schedules in cooperation with N ew routes planned (2017) Strengthening Expanding the network by adding high-demand routes SkyTeam members such as through code-sharing and cooperation revenue management (with Delta airline), thereby between airlines enhancing customer convenience Flight Operating frequency Service Route carrier per week launch Promoting Improving flight reservation features on the website Incheon-Barcelona B777 3 2017.04 customer and through mobile devices, as well as refining the relations reservation/ticketing process marketing 47 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Creating Economic Value Cargo Business Strategies Aerospace Business Strategies Korean Air’s cargo business boasts of outstanding transportation As Korea’s leading systems integration company for unmanned aeservices, global network and a broad range of products and serrial vehicles (UAV), Korean Air is actively developing its UAV lineup vices. These advantages propel the cargo business into impleand channeling its R&D resources toward entering domestic and menting the following strategies to further accelerate growth overseas markets. After acquiring Korea’s first UAV certification, the following the steady recovery of the global economy and our inmidrange surveillance UAV known as KUS-DUAS, is currently in procreased presence in new markets duction. Meanwhile, the development for a large, strategic-grade unmanned reconnaissance aerial vehicle system is scheduled to •Increasing sales capabilities and profitability be completed in 2017. Increasing sales by focusing on selective highly profitable of high-profit service items, such as mailing and fresh products cargo transportation •Developing a UAV lineup and channeling its Achieving quality R&D resources toward entering domestic and growth focused on overseas markets •Maximizing profitability in growth markets internal strengths •Completing the development for a large, by increasing supply in Mexico, Canada and and stability strategic-grade unmanned reconnaissance Vietnam while accelerating entry into South aerial vehicle system in 2017 America in pursuit of a new revenue source and increasing a third-party transportation Continuing service in overseas markets including aggressive market Southeast Asian/China and Europe/Middle development East markets via Uzbekistan and Navoy. Other Business Strategies •Improving profits through structure optimization to expand revenue from cargo Korean Air operates other businesses ancillary to its core businessservice of passenger flights while taking es of air transportation and aerospace, including catering and infull advantage of new aircraft models with flight sales. flexible operation of cargo flight schedules •Developing various new menu items to better Catering serve customer needs •Maximizing profitability putting the Enhancing available supply to full use while enhancing efficiency in the quality of service through enhanced •Increasing sales efficiency and maintaining supply operation In-flight sales transportation business management higher quality of products 48 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management Major Performance Human Rights and Employee Communication Communication Plaza Driven by the chairman Cho Yang-ho’s Labor-management cooperation Korean Air ensures its emIn 2016, a total of commitment to improving the corporate culture and structure ployees the right to freedom of association or collective bargaining through interactive communication and consensus, Korean Air 228 suggestions and inquiries as stipulated by the ILO. In addition to annual labor-management opened the Communication Plaza as a virtual venue for commufrom employees were addressed council meetings (four times), annual wage negotiations (one), and nication in March 2015. It serves as an online channel for sharing biennial collective bargaining (one), additional collective bargainideas and ventilating grievances among employees. The anonymthrough the Communication Plaza. ing or labor-management councils are held as necessary. When ity policy guarantees the free exchange of ideas and comments Offline programs designed to help there is a need for a new system or for changes to existing ones, on issues among individuals and teams. Plus, suggestions and relieve the psychological stress a labor-management project team is established to cooperate on questions are addressed by relevant departments with replies and the related issues. corrections, which further promote interactive, real-time commuof those working in front-end nication within the organization. customer services were provided Labor unions (persons) Communication Plaza statistics in 2016 (cases) to 627 employees. Scholarships Non Union -unionized Membership were delivered to members employees Total rate Inquiries Compliments 14 140 employees who General 10,577 4,104 14,681 72.0% 57 began work on a master’s degree Pilots’ union 1,094 47.9% Flight in aviation or logistics. operations Pilots’ 558 2,282 Others new 630 27.6% The industrial accident rate union 26 has remained Total 228 Suggestions Grievances resolution channels Korean Air has a Grievances at a low level 131 Resolution Committee and HR Counseling Office to more effecof 0.06%. tively deal with employees’ grievances and suggestions in order to raise morale. In 2016, all of 15 grievances received through the channels were appropriately dealt with and concluded. 49 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management Happiness campaign Following the 2016 campaign, the theme program gaining a chance to experience state-of-the-art aviation also given the freedom to take leave for fertility treatment at any for 2017 is ‘happiness’ and various programs are being operated equipment and logistics facilities, it provides as an opportunity for given time. As a result, the retention rate after their returning to under the slogan of ‘HAPPY TOGETHER’. The campaign is designed the children of employees to satisfy their curiosity about aviation work is rising every year, and the percentage of male employees to help employees to find small moments of happiness in their evand logistics and better understand their parents’ workplaces. Curtaking parental leave is also gradually increasing. eryday working environment, inspiring a positive corporate culture rent employees are encouraged to develop a sense of proud in that in turn uplifts our customers and local communities. their company. Localization of employment Keenly aware that localization is imperative to successful global expansion, Korean Air actively emHappy Hour At 3 p.m. on the last Wednesday of every month, all ploys and develops high-caliber local residents from global maremployees take an hour off to relax with colleagues over some reImproved recruitment procedures Starting in 2014, Korean Air kets. Job applicants are not discriminated against on the basis of freshments for ‘Happy Hour'. It is valued as a time for employees to discontinued its own job adaptability test (KALSAT) for a new systheir nationality, cultural background, religion or other factors. Our bond with one another. Employees leave comments on this event tem of recruitment, placing primary weight on the statement of human resource development (HRD) policy is grounded in both and the team of the best comment receive refreshment supplies purpose (SOP) and interviews. We also operate recruitment promerit and performance, while multiple programs exist that are deas a prize. cedures considering the characteristics of each job. For example, signed to enhance the competency of local employees with the applicants for cabin crew positions are put up against on-the-job objective of managerial promotion. Happiness Sharing Event Since 2015, Korean Air has held a ‘Hapsituations to assess their resourcefulness and job adaptability. Locally-hired employees at managerial level piness Sharing Event’ where employees find small happiness in their everyday working environment, boosting the organization as Female employees As of the end of December 2016, Korean Air’s a whole. At each event, we select local delicacies and bring them total workforce is 20,844 and female employees accounted for Percentage of Percentage of Overseas to different work sites as a surprise, and have received a positive 44 percent, or 9,189. Korean Air has increased the ratio of female locally-hired locally-hired employees employees managers response from employees. employees while setting the industrial standard to promote the welfare of female employees at work through customized benefits 2,449 persons 90.8% 13.7% Hanjin Expedition Team We have been hosting a quarterly plans. In addition to the legally required benefit programs, female program called the Hanjin Expedition Team focusing on employflight attendants are allowed to take maternity leave on the day ees the Hanjin Group and their families. With participants in the they become aware of their pregnancy. All female employees are ※ As of Dec. 31, 2016. Expatriates are included in ‘overseas employees’ (executives not included). 50 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management Employee Competency Building Korean Air is developing and operating various programs to foster Business management (new employee/manager training) programs Specialized programs by job global talent based on its management philosophy that the foundation of corporate management is people, and positive changes KEDP in people start from education . Executives Orientation for new executives Training programs To nurture talent with global competitiveMainteness, Korean Air’s specialized education system consists of a broad Flight Gennance & AeroKTDP Sales & Transportation operaCabin eral Engineerspace range of multi-level courses on business administration, specific tions maning Overseas agers job skills, and services targeting all employees in all positions and manager Overseas Airline training (local) job duties. The business management course helps all employees, Management KLDP employPasCargo Sales Aircraft Training Regular Civil/ DepSchool M Mansenger transition military ees dismanmanfor line/ training from new employees to executives, develop job skills required for uty (AMS) B agemanageagetraining team by aircraft aircraft patched ment genA agefor capR&D their respective positions, while job skill courses and service courseral to the ment ment managers model Service ment tains advanced manheadmanagement es offer different levels from beginner to advanced job skills. agers Internal quarters Leadership instrucSchool tor training ManJob PromoCivil/ Expert Expert agers competency Pastional military Service Cargo Sales training training improvement Expert senger training aircraft programs Overseas clinic expert expert for upper by aircraft expert for R&D OJT class model captains expert (mandatory program Overseas online proProgram Service Assisemploypractice grams by job for new tant position) Harmony ees with manWorkshop careerexcellent agers employperforAircraft ees Basic mance Pasinitial/ Cargo Sales training Aircraft RankPracsenger transition Aircraft pracpracfor new mechanic andtice practraining basics Service Basic tice tice employtraining file tice for first ees emofficers ployOrientation for new employees and basic course on air transportation ees 51 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management New and upgraded programs In 2016, various courses were Global talent development Korean Air also devotes itself to Scholarships for graduate to school employees (persons) newly added and/or improved. The Korean Air Leadership School, training talented, locally-hired international employees. A variety a new course for newly-promoted deputy general managers and captains, offered various programs to raise awareness of their new of experience programs are in operation to help international employees better understand Korean culture and traditions as well as 481 roles, enhance their leadership capacity, improve teamwork, and providing job skills and management competency-building cours341 help them train subordinate staff. The Harmony Workshop for emes. The Human Resources Development Center plays a pivotal role ployees recently promoted to assistant managers has significantin developing and providing training courses to serve the specific 189 ly adjusted its curriculum and added a program on cultivating a needs of international employees, while the close collaboration mindset to promote a culture of communication and harmony, as between the HRD Center and overseas regional headquarters fawell as of achieving mutual growth. cilitate developing special training courses customized to specific needs of local markets overseas. At the same time, we foster and Awareness-raising for strengthening aviation safety and support job and service lecturers for each regional market and have 2014 2015 2016 security A training course for managers was designed in order to reinforced the English-based education portal, providing 260 eduraise awareness of safety and security and enhance risk managecational content in English for the convenience of overseas learners. ment competencies throughout the year. Executives of Korean Air and affiliates of Hanjin Group, as well as managers at home and Lifelong learning support Korean Air established Jungseok Online training on human rights Korean Air is conducting a abroad joined the course consisting of safety management sysCollege, Korea’s first tech school run by a private company, for its range of training programs to encourage a healthy and positive tem, safety by division, on-the-job training in aviation security and employees in 2000 in order to support the lifelong learning. All working life for employees. Based on our belief that sound bodies ground handling, and on-site experiences. employees attending the university get full-tuition scholarships and minds among employees leads to the best customer service with national certificated degrees upon their graduation and can and work performance, we provide over 50 online programs relattransfer to other universities or graduate schools. A total of 1,292 ed to human rights and health. At the same time, a curriculum to students received a degree, including 861 bachelor’s degrees and promote self-esteem as an employee of a global airline and raise 431 associate’s degrees, over the 16 years from its foundation up awareness of the importance of self-management is provided on through 2017. The company has also prepared a scholarship proa regular basis. gram to support its employees who wish to attend the graduate schools of Korea Aerospace University, Inha University and other schools to pick up more specialized skills and knowledge in aviation and logistics transportation industries. 52 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management Employee Health Occupational health management In order to prevent industrial accidents and to maintain a health working environment, the Korean Air Employee mental health management Employees’ mental Aeromedical Center* carries out the following activities. health affects the quality of life of individuals as well as work efficiency and productivity within the company. Korean Air is providCategory Activities ing mental health care programs for employees, including those working in service fields. •Conducting health checkups and medical examinations according to the Aviation Safety Act and Occupational Safety and Health Act Occupational •Tracking employee health status after screening Online education programs are being operated to help all employhealth •Planning and operating various health promotion projects for disease prevention ees to take an interest in mental health care, and intensive offline Providing psychological counseling as well as advice on nutrition, exercise, and diabetes from experts training is provided to employees working in front-end customer Publishing a newsletter on mind health as well as health information sheets on infectious and chronic disease prevention service. In the “Take a Rest” Psychological Counseling Center, full•Conducting online heath training four times per year to provide various health information time professional counselors help employees thorough one-on•Operating collective training programs tailored to job characteristics one counseling on job stress, emotional issues and family conIndustrial health Cockpit crew: aviation physiology, and health management training Cabin crew: CPR and first-aid treatment, and prevention of muscular skeletal disease as well as of industrial accidents cerns, as well as offering psychological tests to help illuminate General and maintenance employees: basic knowledge of health at work, and CPR personality traits, emotions and interpersonal relations. All employees: mental health and stress management •Assessing the level of harmful factors exposed to employees (such as noise and dust) to protect their health, and creating a We ensure that strict confidentiality is always maintained so emWorking environment healthy working environment through improvement activities ployees can access the center in a more comfortable and trusted management •Monthly rounds of worksite visits by a group of doctors, nurses and industrial hygiene management engineers in order to environment. In addition, an anonymous online bulletin board is provide health training and counseling and to check the working environment available for employees who find it difficult to visit in person. If a •Investigating harmful factors for musculoskeletal system, including heavy cargo handling and VDT** syndrome, and case requires in-depth examination or treatment, it is transferred to Muscular skeletal conducting ergonomic improvement activities a consulting psychiatrist at a partner university hospital. disease prevention •Measuring basic physical fitness regularly and providing counseling for customized exercise programs to help cabin crew improve their physical strength thereby preventing musculoskeletal diseases * In Korean Air Aeromedical Center is equipped with examination facilities, equipment, and medical computer systems certified by the US Federal Aviation Administration. Forty specialists from a range of medical fields, such as aviation medical examiners, nurses, professional counselors, and hygiene management engineers, are in charge of the health management of all Korean Air employees including cockpit and cabin crew. ** VDT(Visual Display Terminal Syndrome) It refers to symptoms such as headache and vision problems caused by electromagnetic waves from computer screens. 53 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management Efforts to promote the emotional and mental health of emOffline mental health education Our accident-free campaign has motivated employees to stay fully ployees Emotional labor refers to jobs that requires workers to aware of risk factors on the job since 1995. A merit-based reward 2014 2015 2016 manage their emotions when responding to customers. As greater system also encourages furthered safety awareness and on-theawareness of emotional labor has developed in recent years, relatjob prevention. Additionally, the targets are revised to reflect actued bills have been submitted to the National Assembly in Korea. In al safety performance grounded in the past five-year track record. this area, Korean Air is providing intensive mental health care supWisely coping Sleeping and How to overcome The latest revision was made in 2014. port, such as customized mental health education and periodic with an illness of health job stress stress evaluation, to call center employees and cabin crew whose the mind jobs include emotional labor. In recognition of these efforts, Korean Air was selected as one of leading companies at an emotional labor workplace inspection by the Ministry of Labor in 2016. Employee Safety Moreover, from 2017, we are including a mental health checkup Korean Air has been striving to secure employees' safety and as part of regular health examinations for employees. Employees health and to create a healthier workplace without any industriIndustrial accident rates per 100 employees (%) fill out a checklist on which customized mental health information al accidents. Job Hazards Analysis, introduced in 2008, to focuses National 1.00 Average is provided, and psychological counseling is offered to employees on job tasks as a way to identify hazards beforehand. It has since Korean Air classified as falling into the high-risk group. allowed us to reinforce risk prevention, while getting employees 0.80 involved in the assessment of potential risks on the job. By scru0.77 0.77 0.71 Offline mental health education (persons) tinizing risk factors, we take systematic steps to deal with safety 0.65 0.60 issues. The measures taken are not limited to management aspect 0.53 Curriculum Lecture Audience 2014 2015 2016 0.49 such as training and compliance with regulatory procedures, but 0.49 Employees Stress on engineering measures such as introducing equipment and im0.40 in passenger Service management to 85 502 291 and cargo practice promote mental (7th) (22nd) (17th) proving facilities until the required safety level is met. In addition, transportation health fields periodic check-ups are implemented to ensure effective safety 0.20 0.16 Under Health New call center 0.11 0.06 -standing management: employees from 266 366 237 management. In 2016, the Job Hazards Analysis was conducted for 0.08 0.08 (13th) (19th) (14th) of our partners Stress service suppliers both Korean Air and its suppliers, and in 2017 we will continue to 0.00 Cockpit crew to 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 Captain Understanding 71 64 99 provide training and on-site support to help suppliers to promote be promoted to * Accident (injury) Rate = Number of injured workers x 100/Annual average number leadership of mental health (4th) (3rd) (4th) captains their occupational safety. of workers 54 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Talent Management Balance between Work and Life Welfare benefit programs Korean Air’s welfare benefit programs are available so that employees can choose benefits from several options. This ensures a more Category Description practical application of employee support for the sake of their bal•Health Insurance Program ance of work and personal life. Employees and their families can fly •Self-insurance subsidies on any of the routes operated by Korean Air at discounted fares, Medical and health (Allowances for the sickness/accidents/death of employees and/or their spouses) which is intended to promote travelling while gaining a global subsidies •Subsidies for flu shots perspective. Other benefit programs include housing, financial •Medical bill subsidies for overseas flight attendants and any employee on business trips ranging between USD 200 and 30,000 support for the child educational expenses, medical bills, leisure programs and financial security for retirement. •25 to 35 free flight tickets annually •252 condominiums located domestically 2016 Major Financial Support Leisure life •Discount for prestigious hotel chains in Korea and overseas •Sponsoring 28 club activities Health insurance premium subsidies KRW 44 billion •Corporate housing (2,237 households) •Housing loans Allowances for the sickness/accident/ •Scholarships for employees’ children going to high school and college death of employees and Everyday life •Tuition subsidies for employees’ children going to prestigious international universities •Scholarships and language course tuition subsidies for children of expatriates /or their spouses KRW 1.73 billion •Scholarships to employees going to college and/or graduate schools to study job-related subjects Pension funds and contributions (KRW 100 million) •Subscription to the National Pension Plan Financial stability of •KRW 50,000 subsidies to all employees’ personal pension plans 2014 2015 2016 retirement •Korea’s largest size of corporate credit union, and subsidization of contribution to Korea’s National pension 349.1 358.5 374.9 largest corporate credit union upon retirement Personal pension 101.4 101.1 101.0 Contribution to credit union 111.5 114.0 117.3 •Merit-based incentives Incentives •Safety incentives Total 562.0 573.6 593.2 55 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Communication Customer-Engaged Marketing Communication on SNS SNS is one of the most efficient interacGuest House, France (January 8 to June 30, 2016) <Guest Guided to India (November 28, 2016 to March 26, 2017) An tive communication channels through which companies can beHouse, France> is Korean Air’s advertising campaign promoting advertising campaign celebrating the launch of a new Incheon-Delcome more familiar with their customers. Korean Air makes full use the value of ‘slow travel’ to contemporary people who are used to hi route created a new perception of India as a travel destination. In of SNS to deliver up-to-date flight information in several languages. staying busy and doing everything quickly. The campaign shows the Guiding Service series, different messages about healing were It is also an effective channel for marketing, promotion and events the charms of different destinations around France, from Paris, delivered through 15 video postcards featuring scenic tourist desalong with travel tips. When major issues arise, it serves as a platone of the most popular tourist destinations in the world, to Avitinations in India. and an event sharing the campaign to SNS was form to directly and efficiently express the company’s situation to gnon, known for its Festival d'Avignon, Moustiers-Sainte-Marie with also held drawing a good response. communicate and build trust with customers. Sainte Croix lake and Verdon Canyon, Châteaux in the Loire Valley, Chamonix-Mont-Blanc, the fairytale village of Colmar, and Hôtel On the website, an India travelogue competition was held to find du Palais in Biarritz. It promoted an event recruiting residents for experts on India. To Introduce three types of trips with different SNS channel subscribers (persons) guesthouses in each area. Over 16,000 applications were received, themes for enjoying India, various events were held for each theme each with a 1 in 2,400 chance of winning. The selected residents on the website. In the 'Questioning Trip’ section, a daily question were announced through TV commercials and provided with flight about life was posted for visitors leave their thoughts. The ‘800-rutickets and accommodation to stay in the respective guesthouspee Trip’ theme offered information on how to travel India on 800 Facebook Instagram Twitter es. Their travel stories were posted online in real time, drawing a rupees per day. The ‘Local Trip’ included a Q&A section where the 366,283 39,805 194,305 good response. Meanwhile, an All That France app offering useful experts selected through the travelogue competition offered tips and in-depth information encompassing art, culture, and gourmet about traveling India. dishes in France received a high number of downloads. News Twitter Google+ 5,065 38,636 (As of Dec. 31, 2016) 56 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Customer Satisfaction Management Culture Marketing Korean Air Future Artist Olympiad Korean Air Future Artist Customer satisfaction management awards Korean Air Travel Photo Contest Korean Air holds an annual Olympiad is a contest geared toward talented elementary stu2014 2015 2016 Korean Air Travel Photo Contest that is open to anyone who likes dents who are interested in art and paintings. Since 2009, the traveling and photography. As the nation’s biggest travel photo event has been operated as part of our effort to contribute to contest for amateur photographers, high quality photographs capthe development of art education for future generations and to turing beautiful scenes and natural landscapes as well as the moawaken others to the joy of their creation. The contest has evolved Ranked 1st in NCSI * Ranked 1st Ranked 1st ments of our daily lives around the globe are submitted every year. into a global event, where both Korean elementary students and in GCSI in GCSI The growing number of international entries is proof of increasing international elementary students from Korea and around the Ranked 1st in GCSI** awareness regarding our contest as an international event. The world participate. The grand prize winner is then printed on the 23rd contest in 2016 awarded main and special prizes among apexterior of Korean Air’s airplanes as the planes go about their daily ** NCSI National Customer Satisfaction index * GCSI GCSI refers to Global Customer Satisfaction Competency Index developed proximately 22,000 entries. routine around the world. by Global Management Association (GMA). College student design contest Korean Air has been hosting Bibimbap cooking demonstration Korean Air has been introRated ‘Excellent’ in a MLIT air transportation service evalannual design contests targeting university students based on the ducing Korean food at international travel expos in France, Spain, uation According to an air transportation service evaluation by theme of “Airplanes in Art” since 2013. Applicants can enter their the USA, New Zealand, China and Hong Kong. On March 8-9, the Korean Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport (MLIT) work under one of the following four categories: Visual, Product, 2017 at the ITB Berlin 2017, visitor to world’s leading travel trade announced in 2016, Korean Air was rated as Excellent (A) in the Space and Apparel. The event offers aspiring designers the opporshow were presented with a history of bibimbap and a recipe. full-service carrier category. The evaluation was based on two years tunities to submit their artwork to the contest, helping promote Large numbers of visitors were left with a positive opinion of the of air transportation service from 2014 to 2015. In terms of evaluthe Korean art industry. healthy flavors of bibimbap and took a great interest in Korean ation items, liability for damage and user satisfaction were rated food. relatively lower compared to safety and on-time operation. Air transportation service evaluation: Full-service carrier category On-time Liability for User Airline Total operation Safety damage satisfaction Korean Excellent Excellent Excellent Very good Very good Air (A) (A) (A) (B) (B) * The evaluation results are classified into six ratings: Excellent (A), Very good (B), Good (C), Fair (D), Poor (E), and Very bad (F). 57 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Customer Satisfaction Management Efforts to Promote Customer Health Air cleaning system in Korean Air aircrafts In-flight air quality management Stakeholders’ interest in indoor air quality has grown higher than ever due to yellow dust, particulate matter, and infectious diseases. Considering that aircraft are operated in a closed environment, in-flight air quality management is crucial. Korean Air aircrafts equipped with the state-of-the 3 art air circulation systems completely sterilize the cabin and filter HEPA our fine particles, providing a clean atmosphere at all times. filters Air from outside is sterilized at 200℃ by passing through the engine compressor before entering the interior. The heated com4 pressed air then passes through an ozone purification system that Cabin converts ozone into oxygen, is adjusted at a comfortable temperature, and then supplied to the cabin. Every two to three minutes, the air enters an inlet at the top of the cabin to pass through HEPA filters capturing dust, smoke, bacteria and even microscopic viruses down to 1.01-100 micrometers. It is returned through an outlet 5 5 at the bottom of the cabin. As fresh air moves from top to bottom like air curtain, dusts, odors, and carbon dioxide from passengers 2 Air-conditioning & heating system are also removed vertically, maintaining a pleasant cabin environment. 6 All Korean Air aircraft are disinfected once a month. The operation Air flowing in HEPA filters Air flowing out of disassembling and cleaning aircraft parts or intensive cleaning is 1 carried out in a 15-day to two-month cycle. 58 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Customer Satisfaction Management Response to infectious diseases Various efforts are being made Measures taken to respond to MERS in 2015 Measures taken to respond to Zika virus in 2016 to prevent the spread of infectious diseases in response to global epidemics and expanding overseas travel. In order to quickly reMeasures Details Measures Details spond to outbreaks of infectious diseases, Korean Air has estab•Loading preventive equipment in aircraft •Quarantine activities for airplanes Strengthening lished a network with the Korea Centers for Disease Control and A set of protective gear departed or arrived from affected airplane quarantine Prevention, and Incheon National Quarantine Station, set up a deOperating (N95 mask and protective clothing) cities equipment Hand sanitizer and masks tailed response plan synched with the nation’s epidemic alert*, and to prevent •Emphasizing hygiene management •Loading preventive equipment in devised measures for before, during and after flights. We are also infection including disinfection Operating equipment aircraft monitoring global health trends through the World Health OrganiStrengthened quarantine guidelines for to prevent infection A set of protective gear (N95 mask zation, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Eufacilities, including airplanes and protective clothing) ropean Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in order to proEstablishing •Conducting screening procedure prior to •Providing information on the virus Preventing and actively address concerns in the international health environment. guidelines on boarding to check for fever and precautionary measures for protecting employees * Epidemic alert stages: Caution – Attention – Alert – Serious suspected cases •Implementing a process of managing employees, in particular, the crew and from infection of infection suspected cases of infection during flight employees working in affected areas •Operated guidelines for action on preventing the spread of MERS Precautions, how to respond to suspected cases, and employee management, such Preventing as the quarantine and return to work of and protecting employees subject to observation employees from •Providing information on MERS and training infection on its prevention Online training, and on-site inspection and training •Frequent checks of the health status of all employees to prevent the spread of disease 59 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Win-Win Management Major Performance Shared Growth Policy through shared growth. In addition to the technology training 'Local production of advanced Korean Air strives to promote win-win management that enhancprograms to enhance our partners’ technological competitiveness es cooperation and competitiveness and allows mutual benefit by and self-reliance, we also subsidize our partner employee vaccinaaircraft wing parts (A320 Shacklet)' seeking shared growth with its business partners. We are operattions and work to secure the most stable of working conditions. in partnership with Samwoo Metal ing programs for shared growth based on mutual trust, such as full Regular meetings with the CEOs of our partners and Quality Symcash payments to suppliers, condensing the payment cycle, disposiums serve as effective communicative channels with partner Industries was selected as the patching experts to suppliers. In particular, our aviation and logisto promote shared growth. In accordance with fair business prac2016 Best Practices in Fair Trade tics know-hows is being utilized to help SMEs improve their export tices and compliance with the Fair Transaction and Shared Growth competitiveness while seeking cooperation with related industries. Agreement as recommended by the Fair Trade Commission (FTC) Agreements We will continue to develop programs for achieving shared growth in 2013, agreements with aircraft manufacturing partners are in by the Korea Fair Trade based on cooperation with partner SMEs and relate industries. effect accompanied by implementation of the four primary FTC Commission. Standard Subcontract Agreement forms and operation of a ReMajor programs and performance porting Center for Transaction Irregularities. As of 2016, Korean Air made all payments to all its 634 suppliers All payments to all in cash in a bid to help improve their liquidity. Korean Air’s Sale Major shared growth programs its 634 suppliers (as of 2016) & Leaseback program helps ease manufacturing partners’ financial Cash  Paying partners in cash instead of issuing notes pressure and management issues as the company purchases exsettlements to improve liquidity were made in cash to help pensive manufacturing equipment and leases them back to the them to improve liquidity. partners. We also share the gains on cost-savings from joint tech & Sale Leaseback L easing expensive equipment in Korean Air’s possession to manufacturing partners nological development with partners on a quarterly basis under the Cooperation Benefit Sharing program. Cooperation  S haring the profits from joint technological Benefit Sharing development and resultant cost savings In particular, 'local production of advanced aircraft wing parts OJT Support •An OJT on-site training course for lesser-skilled (A320 Shacklet)' in partnership with Samwoo Metal Industries was employees of partner companies •Technological and educational support of selected as the 2016 Best Practices in Fair Trade Agreements by business partners the Korean Fair Trade Commission, which served as an opportunity •Meetings with CEOs of partners and Quality Symposiums to further strengthen competitiveness of Korean Air and its supplier 60 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Environmental Management Vision ‘Creating value to promote Certification of Environment quality of life in harmony Management System Environment Management Strategies & Goals with the environment’ Proactively responding to regulations and strengthening green management Green Management Policy We, at Korean Air, are concerned about the sustainable future of the earth and respect the universal values as a member of the global society, and we declare the following Green Management Principles to fulfill our social responsibilities as a leading global airline. We will Enhancing Preparing for Promoting environmental new regulations communication 1. Improve flight procedures and introduce new aircraft in order to reduce noise management and greenhouse gases. 2. Abide by national and international environment laws and all relevant regulations, and apply stricter internal standards. 3. Minimize environmental load through proactive measures and improvement in our performance. 4. Seek to make constant improvement in our performance in order to conserve •Certification standard: ISO14001 certificate 2017 Key Tasks resources and energy, and manage them efficiently. •Date of acquisition: Dec. 13, 1996 5. Carry out training and provide education so that our staff and employees clearly •Date of last issue: Nov. 13, 2014 acknowledge environmental goals and actively join the environment protection •Certification body: BSI To respond to climate change issues (British Standards Institution) effort. •Scope: All divisions (overseas offices excluded) 6. Promote mutual cooperation with partner firms to execute green management through communication on environmental issues. To have ISO14001 certification conversion evaluation 1) General (flight operations, passenger/cargo 7. Openly share all of our green management efforts and the results to the public. transportation, cabin service, and administrative 8. Endeavor to protect the natural environment and contribute to the development headquarters of local community through international cooperation. 2) Maintenance & Engineering To conduct preventive checks of environmental facilities (Gimpo, Incheon, and Bucheon bases) 3) Catering (Gimpo and Incheon catering centers) 4) Aircraft manufacturing To prepare for chemical substance regulations See our Green Management Policy (Aerospace business division) 61 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Environmental Management Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions Fuel consumption by air transportation (Tons) GHG emissions (Tons) Jet fuel for aircraft operations accounts for 99% of energy consumed by Korean Air. In 2016, 420,000 tons of jet fuel Total 12,867,799 13,102,396 13,393,774 were used at a cost of KRW 2.2 trillion, comprising 22.1% of total expenditures. 4,174,377 Facilities 116,939 107,344 110,688 4,083,989 4,006,984 Korean Air burned 4.17 million tons of fuel for aircraft opAir 13,283,086 12,750,860 12,995,052 erations in 2016, and the total amount of GHG emissions, transportation including ground operations, was 13.39 million tons. Energy intensity 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Air transportation (MJ/RTK) 12.26 12.28 12.36 2014 2015 2016 Facilities 179.22 176.8 178.62 (GJ/KRW 1billion) GHG emissions by air transportation (Scope1) (Tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CO2 12,186,003 12,662,272 12,361,107 12,625,927 12,868,556 13,152,944 CH4 18 18 18 17 17 17 N2O 387 403 393 401 409 419 CO2eq 12,306,351 12,780,177 12,483,403 12,750,860 12,995,052 13,283,086 * 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Tier 2 are applied in estimating GHG emissions. * GHG emissions from aircraft engine tests (on the ground) and the use of helicopters for non-business purpose are not included. 62 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Environmental Management Responding to the EU Emissions Trading System With the Trading Scheme (KETS) for GHG emissions from domestic aircraft, Waste In 2016, increased passenger traffic (5.9% based on RTK) 2012 inclusion of the aviation sector in the EU Emissions Trading buildings, and vehicles. Due to its efforts to cut GHG emissions, inled to a 4% rise in waste generated in the cabin, and the recycling System, Korean Air (which serves cities in the EU) became subject cluding the GHG Target Management System prior to the launch of rate dropped by 2.1% as the use of recycled plastic fell due to deto this program. Airlines are being allocated a limited number of the KETS, 79,431 tons of carbon reduction has been recognized as creased cargo. permits to discharge pollutants from 2012 to 2020 based on their an early reduction credit. In 2016, Korean Air consequently received 2010 transportation performance. If they wish to increase emisthe highest number of additional permits in the entire domestic Waste disposal (tons) sions, they must buy permits on the open markets. Korean Air calaviation industry. Nevertheless, aviation is the only transportation Total 26,488 27,478 culates annual emissions using the ETS-OMS system, has the resector to which the KTES is applied, and at a higher-than-indussults verified by a third party, and buys carbon offsets for any excess try-average rate. Since the implementation of the KTES, Korean Air Designated emissions. As B777s with high fuel efficiency are replacing B747s in has produced more GHG emissions than its annual permits allow, 754 811 the EU region, GHG emissions have actually been declining. mainly because domestic routes operating at a loss are being maintained as part of efforts to promote public convenience. Additional Discharged 1,019 875 Responding to the Korea Emission Trading Scheme (KETS) permits were purchased in June 2017 to balance Korean Air’s status, Since 2015, Korean Air has been subject to the Korea Emission and its efforts to responsibly manage carbon emissions will continue. Municipal EU Emissions Trading System Carbon offsets (tons) 10,975 Offsets 5,504 4,001 24,715 25,792 Permits 2015 2016 20,094 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Incineration/Landfill (%) 60.1 62.2 Emissions 31,069 25,598 24,095 Recycling (%) 39.9 37.8 63 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Environmental Management Water and air pollutants Water and air pollutant emissions are Biodiversity protection Acknowledging the role played by air Aircraft noise Korean Air is making every effort to reduce inconstably managed within internal standards, which are applied at a carriers, Korean Air is participating in international efforts to provenience of people residing near airports by minimizing flight level of 50% stricter than the legal requirements. tect biodiversity. The air transport of protected animals and plants, operation noise. Although such noise inevitably occurs, Korean rare animals, primates, and endangered species is banned under Air has been seriously implementing countermeasures by aircraft Pollutant emission level* company policy. In 2010, the International Year of Biodiversity, vidmanufacturers and the International Civil Aviation Organization eos under the theme of Many Species, One Planet” were run in (ICAO). Water the cabin to urge global citizens to take part in biodiversity presEmission ervation efforts. Legal limit 100 intensity (%) Basic continuous In 2013, we banned the shipment of shark fins, which had been descent approach profile partially conducted, in an effort to protect these at-risk creatures. 50 Average In the past, Korean Air transported them only with valid permits 10 Maximum Minimum and exclusively in accordance with the Convention on Interna50 1 tional Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. How0 ever, as the movement to curb their distribution and transportaEstablish on the Conventional Instrument Landing tion caught our attention, the decision was made to ban all such approach profile System(ILS) Air transportation. Korean Air submitted its regulation on this ban to Emission the International Air Transport Association (IATA) and continues to Legal limit 100 intensity (%) participate in various programs to protect the global ecosystem. Runway Area of noise benefit Average 50 15 Maximum 70 Minimum 1 0 * Emission intensity ÷ Legal limit × 100 64 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Environmental Management Korean Air’s aircraft operation regulations and Aircraft Model All Korean Air aircrafts meet the criteria of the ICAO Chapter 4 and Korean Air pays a noise surcharge for every flight according to the Guidebooks stipulate noise-reducing flight procedures. All flight the 6th level criteria, the lowest noise level under Korea’s airport regulations set by individual airports. The noise surcharge paid by operations at Korean Air follow these procedures to alleviate noise noise-related laws. The new models, such as the A380, B787, A321 airlines is used to reduce aircraft noise and to support noise-affectfrom takeoff and landing. The compliance with internationally imNEO and CS300, that Korean Air plans to introduce, generate less ed areas in accordance with the designated agenda of the speciposed airport noise-reduction procedures is accompanied by the pollution and noise, essentially making for a more environmentalfied airport. Noise Abatement Departure Procedure (NADP) and the Continly-friendly model than the current aircrafts in service. This will help uous Descent Approach (CDA) of the ICAO adapted to different create a more pleasant environment for the community inhabineeds. tants within the vicinity of an airport. Noise level of Korean Air aircraft Payments of surcharge by domestic airports in 2016 NADP1  0 (KRW 100 million) It is intended to provide noise reduction for noise-sensitive areas in close proximity to the departure end of the runway-in-use. Chapter 3 -5 Yeosu airport Ulsan airport 0.2 0.3 NADP2 -10 It provides noise reduction to areas more distant from the runway end. A330-200 737-900ER Busan airport A330-300 737-900 Gimpo airport 747-400ERF 6.9 CDA -15 777-200 737-800W 777-300ER 13.8 CS300 747-400p (Winglet) 777F •Aircraft maintains a fixed descending speed until it reaches the A321 neo 777-300 747-400F 합계 final altitude upon approaching a runway -20 •This approach produces positive effects on flight safety in the approach phase. 747-8F 28.4 -25 787 •It is designed to reduce fuel consumption and noise compared A380-861 to other conventional descents such as approaching an airport Chapter 4 in a stair-step fashion. -30 Jeju airport 7.2 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 65 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix BOARDING PASS Governance 67 Corporate Governance Yellow fields at harvest 69 Ethics Management time, gold-painted temple roofs and monks Myanmar 71 Risk Management in saffron robes.... In Myanmar, a golden country located on the border between Southeast Asia and the Indian subcontinent, about 90% of the people are Buddhists. The spirit of the Buddhist traditions can be felt in a mysterious cave temple in Hpa An 2017 Korean Air sustainability report in southern Myanmar. Photo by Zaw Zaw Tun in Hpa-An of Myanmar – Among selections during the 23rd Annual Korean Air Travel Photo Contest 66 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Corporate Governance Board of Directors Members of the board (As of Mar. 24, 2017) Korean Air’s board of directors consists of four standing directors, Date of Term including the CEO, and six non-standing directors with proficiency Type Name Position/Career background appointment (years) Note in different fields of academia, law, government and finance. OutChairman Cho Yang-ho Chairman & CEO 2016.03.18 3 of the board side directors are appointed by the general shareholders’ meeting Standing Cho Won-tae President & COO 2015.03.27 3 from the candidates nominated by the Non-Standing Director directors Woo Kee-hong Executive Vice President 2017.03.24 3 Nomination Committee, the majority of which are composed of Lee Soo-keun Executive Vice President 2017.03.24 3 non-standing directors. Some qualifying shareholders can recomKim Seung-yu Former CEO of Hana Financial Group 2015.03.27 3 mend a candidate for a non-standing director position provided Chief of the Audit Lee Yun-woo Chairman of Geoje Big Island Asset Management 2015.03.27 3 Committee that he/she follows procedure. Information on the non-standing Nonstanding Kim Jae-il Professor of Seoul National University Business School 2016.03.18 3 directors and candidates are disclosed on the DART website in the directors Bahn Jang-shick Dean, Graduate School of Management of Technology, Sogang University 2015.03.27 3 run-up to the general shareholders’ meeting. Ahn Yong-seok Lawyer (Lee & Ko Law Firm) 2017.03.24 3 Jeong Jin-su Lawyer (Yoon & Yang Law Firm) 2017.03.24 3 Committees in the BOD Committee Information (As of Mar. 24, 2017) In order to ensure efficient operation of the Board of Directors and Name Members Name Purpose and Role to comply with related laws and regulations, Korean Air has esNon-standing Standing directors 2 Cho Yang-ho, Woo Kee-hong tablished and operated four committees, namely the Audit ComDirector Nominating non-standing director candidates according to governing laws, Non-standing Kim Seung-yu, Kim Jae-il, including the company’s Articles of Association and the Board of Directors mittee, Non-standing Director Nomination Committee, Affiliate Nomination directors 4 Bahn Jang-shick, Jeong Jin-su Regulations Committee Transactions Committee, and Management Committee. Since all Auditing the account books and business operations while dealing with matters Audit Non-standing Lee Yun-woo, Bahn Jang-shick, members of the Audit Committee are non-standing directors, they Committee directors 3 Jeong Jin-su commissioned by the Board of Directors according to governing laws, including the Articles of Association and the Board of Directors Regulations can independently monitor the performance of the directors' duStanding directors 3 Cho Yang-ho, Cho Won-tae, Woo Kee-hong Making decisions pertaining to the agenda as commissioned by the Board of ties and the company operations with senior executives in the fiManagement Directors and significant issues other than those subject to the resolution by the Committee Non-standing Kim Seung-yu, Ahn Yong-seok, general shareholders’ meeting as stipulated in the relevant laws and the Articles of nancial and auditing divisions attending to assist members as they directors 3 Jeong Jin-su Association deliberate the agenda. Affiliate Standing directors 1 Lee Soo-keun Performing previews of major inside transactions involving affiliated persons under Transactions Non-standing the Fair Trade Act, and making suggestions for corrections to any transactional Committee Lee Yun-woo, Jeong Jin-su activity pointing out possible legal violations directors 2 67 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Corporate Governance BOD performance results 2016 BOD Activities Decision-making hierarchy and socially responsible Korean Air’s board of directors convened seven regular and six exmanagement Attendance of traordinary meetings to discuss and vote on 39 different agenda in non-standing The CEO and chairman of Korean Air concurrently holds the poDate Agenda directors 2016. The BOD holds regular meetings at least once every quarter sition of chairman of the board so as to deal with major business Five agenda including the FY2015 2016.2.2 5/5 to ensure the informed discussion and review of major agenda and Account Settlement issues more efficiently and is entrusted with the management of convene extraordinary meetings whenever necessary. The annual Three agenda including the 54th Annual all business matters, including economic, environmental and so2016.2.24 5/5 General Shareholders’ Meeting BOD meeting schedule is published in advance to ensure a higher cietal, to ensure the timeliness of decision-making. The high-level Ten agenda including appointment 2016.3.18 6/6 rate of attendance each year. In 2016, the average rate of atten(proposal) of CEO council, a standing body composed of executives, who are heads dance stood at 92 percent (97 percent being non-standing direcAgenda on applying for voluntary agreement of key divisions or higher in position, makes decisions on strategic 2016.4.22 5/6 of Hanjin Shipping tors), i.e. the meetings were attended by 9.2 directors on average. business and sustainability management. This council functions as Seven agenda including the first quarter 2016.5.12 6/6 Senior-level executives from each business divisions including Pasof FY2016 Account Settlement an effective decision-making body by actively responding to the senger and Cargo Flights and Finance and Technology, may attend Four agenda including the first half of FY2016 expectations and demands of stakeholders on economic, environ2016.7.21 6/6 Account Settlement the BOD meetings whenever deemed necessary in order to assist mental, and social trends, and by reviewing and reaching a con2016.9.8 Agenda on loan to Hanjin Shipping 6/6 the directors in informed decision-making. Executives in charge of ~ 9.10* sensus on issues from a company-wide perspective. The council individual business areas also present relevant issues to the board 2016.9.18 Two agenda including loan (proposal) meets regularly to monitor and evaluate the resolution progress of 6/6 / 9.21** to Hanjin Shipping and answer questions pertaining to the agenda. issues discussed at meetings. Two agenda including the third 2016.11.3 6/6 quarter of FY2016 Account Settlement Five agenda including 2017 business plan BOD performance results 2016.12.13 5/6 (proposal) Stakeholder communication channels * A  fter the meeting was adjourned on Sept. 8-9, it was conditionally approved 2014 2015 2016 on Sept. 10 (on condition of securing collateral first). Korean Air makes use of various channels such as annual reports, ** A  fter the meeting was adjourned on Sept. 18, A resolution was made by BOD Frequency of BOD meetings (times) 9 9 13 on Sept. 21 (replacing the resolution on Sept. 10). semi-annual and quarterly reports, postings of IR information on Number of approved agenda (items) 51 43 39 the website, general shareholders’ meetings, IR sessions, and the BOD participation rate (total) (%) 80 87 92 Preventing conflict of interests within BOD DART(https://dart.fss.or.kr) to swiftly establish communication on Korean Air’s articles of association and BOD regulations stipulate major business issues of pertinence to stakeholders and shareBOD participation rate 89 90 97 “directors with vested interests in any particular agenda are disqualholders, and to receive stakeholder feedback. In particular, the (non-standing directors) (%) ified from the voting rights on the item in question and are theresustainability report is the major channel of communication with fore unable to partake in the quorum at the meeting”. Members stakeholders and is published with the approval of the president, of the board are notified of this rule prior to making a resolution. vice president and heads of divisions. 68 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Ethics Management Charter of Ethics and ethics management organization Korean Air proclaimed its commitment to business ethics by announcing the incorporation of its Charter of Ethics in January 2001, as the guiding principles in all business activities. Additionally, all Korean Air’s Charter of Ethics employees at Korean Air pledged to follow the underlying principles and values in their daily business activities. In addition to the Korean Air regards transparency and responsibility as core management values. We respect free market principles and abide in-house ethics secretariat, the heads of each business division and by relevant rules and regulations in our business practices. With these principles, we strive to promote prosperity for the company executive officers in charge are serving as chief ethics officers who and society as a whole. As a result, Korean Air institutes a Charter of Ethics, which we vow to observe at all times. encourage and assist ranks-and-files with making rightful decision-making and behavior. Based on the Charter of Ethics, we have •We regard customer satisfaction and safety as our highest priority. developed business ethics programs for all employees to abide by, •We increase investment value for our investors. including guidelines on the implementation of the code of ethics, •We respect all employees and their right to an enhanced quality of life. on dealing with ethics issues and the whistle blowing program. •We promote joint development with our business partners based on mutual trust. •We respect the principles of free competition and maintain front-runner status in the development of the airline transport industry. •We contribute strongly to the development of society and to the preservation of the environment. •We acknowledge the corporate principles set forth by the company and uphold all obligations and responsibilities. Guidelines on Code of Ethics’ Guidelines on dealing Risk management implementation with ethics issues system •Setting forth principles on •Providing specific guidelines •Whistle blowing system how to make the right value and clear standards on how to •Compliance Officer judgments and demonstrate respond to problems •Voluntary reporting on family members or relatives who work proper behavior for companies associated with or related to Korean Air 69 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Ethics Management Fair transactions and legal compliance Ethics management training performance (persons) Korean Air has been running the Compliance Program and signed up to the ‘Fair Trade and Shared Growth Agreement” with business Course 2014 2015 2016 partners in the aircraft manufacturing industry as recommended by Compliance with anti-trust laws 2,778 928 1,110 the Fair Trade Commission. Committed to establishing fair transaction practices within the organization, we have also adopted the Sexual harassment-free workplace 18,339 18,286 19,234 Fair Trade Commission’s Four-Action Plan while operating the Unfair Ethics management in Korean Air 19,202 928 17,558 Transactions Report Center in the promoting of self-compliance. Compliance Officer program 1,027 18,084 17,038 Raising ethical awareness Understanding of Improper Solicitation and Graft Act 18,056 We provide detailed guidelines on business ethics on our intranet through the exclusive bulletin board. All our executives and employ1. Training performance is the sum of those have completed the course. 2. ‘Ethics management in Korean Air’ is provided biennially (domestic/overseas). ees are mandated to complete business ethics training on a regu3. ‘Understanding of Improper Solicitation and Graft Act’ was launched in Aug. 2016. lar basis via the internal learning network and submit a pledge of ethics upon completion of each course. This helps keep everyone well-versed in the importance of ethical management practice as a strategy for sustainable growth and remind them the importance of having an ethics code to begin with. Whistle blowing procedure The whistleblowing procedure has been in place to eradicate personal and business favors requested and/or provided by employees, illegal acts, corruption and other irregularities that often arise in deals involving suppliers. Anyone can report any of the above via e-mail at jebo@koreanair. com. All received reports go through fact-finding investigations for appropriate measures to determine appropriate punishments or corrective action. Reporters are strictly protected according to the internal rules and procedures, and are kept up to date with the progress of the investigation. 70 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Risk Management Crisis Management Non-financial Risks Financial Risks Korean Air has identified risk factors that affect the company and Strategic/Operational risk We have in place the Communication Exchange rate risk Korean Air conducts transactions in foreign established internal rules and guidelines for the organization, its Plaza to promote active communication and suggestions about currencies and is exposed to risks arising from exchange rate volmission and the emergency measures required to cope with crihow to avoid risks originating from inadequate decision-making atility. To manage these risks, we strive to maintain a balance beses, based upon which all employees can respond in a systematic and changes in the business environment. Regular internal audits tween revenue and expenses per currency while making use of manner that minimizes economic loss, damages on the corporate also evaluate the potential for risk per department while also auditcurrency swaps within the limits set by policy. image and disturbances within the company. ing the efficiency the deployment of corporate resources. Interest rate risk Korean Air borrows funds at fixed and variable Regulatory risk A regular monitoring system is in place to ensure interest rates, which exposes the company to interest rate risks. In compliance with laws and regulations, and a considerable portion this regard, we maintain an optimal ratio between fixed-rate borof our resources, including the legal department and in-house lerowing and floating-rate borrowing and enter into interest rate Monitoring changes Continuous in the business gal experts, are allocated to proactively manage regulatory risks. swaps. Risk aversion activities are regularly assessed to adjust inmonitoring environment We also have the Compliance Program as a means to prevent the terest rate trends and define the risk profile appropriately, ensuring risk of unlawful transaction. that an optimal hedging strategy is applied. Event risk The Corporate Safety, Security & Compliance was set up Oil price risk Market prices for petroleum products such as jet under the direct control of the president to ensure integrated and fuel change with various factors influencing supply and demand Responding to effective management of all safety and security matters in preventof the global oil market. These factors also impact the sales perforIdentifying risks risks by function/ ing aircraft accidents, hijacking and other accidents while minimizing mance and cash flow of the air transportation business, our largest team losses. Regulations, guidelines and manuals pertaining to accident rebusiness segment. To respond to oil price risks, oil option contracts sponse are available. The emergency response system is additionally are utilized in accordance with internal policies. evaluated periodically along with company-wide drills and training. Producing adequate countermeasures Environmental risk In a bid to counter climate change and environmental accident risks, we have devised bylaws on company-wide environmental risk prevention and environmental accident response while developing short-cut routes and adopting high fuel-efficiency aircrafts to minimize negative impact on the environment. 71 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix BOARDING PASS Appendix 73 Key Sustainability Indicators 80 Third-Party Assurance Statement Mongolia 82 GRI G4 Index 87 UN Global Compact Mongolia is the birthplace of Chinggis Khan, who 88 Major Awards and Memberships built the Mongolian Empire into the largest in history in the early 13th century. This landlocked Central Asia country is known for its pristine nature, including vast green steppes, a starry night sky, and crystal-clear lakes. Lake Khubsgul, also called the Mother Sea, can 2017 Korean Air sustainability report appear more like a sea than a lake due to its vastness. Photo by Lee Gwang-jin in the Lake Khubsgul of Mogolia – Among selections during the 21st Annual Korean Air Travel Photo Contest 72 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Economic Performance (million won) 2014 2015 2016 Sales Sales 11,680,398 11,308,423 11,502,877 Cost of sales 10,171,068 9,286,479 9,218,012 Gross profit 1,509,330 2,021,944 2,284,865 Selling and administrative expenses 1,136,822 1,162,726 1,205,861 Operating profit (loss) 372,508 859,218 1,079,004 Non-operating operating profit and loss -914,597 -1,358,198 -1,821,094 Net profit (loss) before tax -542,089 -498,980 -742,090 Tax expense (profit) -181,513 -91,298 -150,729 Net profit (loss) -360,576 -407,682 -591,361 Assets Current assets 2,392,892 2,873,563 2,875,642 Non-current assets 19,027,555 20,175,377 19,830,397 Total assets 21,420,447 23,048,940 22,706,038 Current Liabilities 6,350,693 8,428,114 8,269,323 Non-current liabilities 13,090,042 12,324,532 12,783,569 Total liabilities 19,440,735 20,752,646 21,052,892 Capital stock 298,931 369,753 369,753 Other paid-in capital 11,248 776,179 1,153,265 Other capital components 206,894 332,917 327,977 Retained Earnings 1,462,639 817,445 -197,849 Total capital 1,979,712 2,296,294 1,653,146 Total liabilities and equity 21,420,447 23,048,940 22,706,038 73 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Social Performance Unit 2014 2015 2016 Employees Total employees persons 20,428 20,815 20,844 Gender Male persons 11,719 11,737 11,655 Female persons 8,709 9,078 9,189 Age Below 30 persons 4,865 5,071 4,761 30~39 persons 6,475 6,539 6,617 40~49 persons 6,243 6,183 6,141 50 and above persons 2,845 3,022 3,325 Region Domestic persons 18,232 18,481 18,620 Overseas persons 2,196 2,334 2,224 Permanent Male persons 10,961 10,990 10,956 Female persons 7,367 7,517 7,620 Non-permanent Male persons 758 747 699 Female persons 1,342 1,561 1,569 Administrative Male persons 2,750 2,722 2,798 positions Female persons 975 1,104 1,294 General positions Male persons 8,211 8,268 8,158 Female persons 6,392 6,413 6,326 Domestic employees Male persons 10,784 10,790 10,731 Female persons 7,448 7,691 7,889 Overseas employees Male persons 935 947 924 Female persons 1,261 1,387 1,300 74 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Social Performance Unit 2014 2015 2016 New Employment and Turnover New employment Male persons 573 504 438 Female persons 848 1,012 690 Below 30 persons 1,146 1,264 900 30~39 persons 241 194 205 40~49 persons 24 41 16 50 and above persons 10 17 7 Domestic persons 975 1,037 813 Overseas persons 446 479 315 Turnover Male persons 551 550 503 Female persons 555 574 674 Below 30 persons 411 366 411 30~39 persons 325 336 386 40~49 persons 99 143 201 50 and above persons 271 249 179 Domestic persons 743 789 767 Overseas persons 363 335 410 Recruitment from Local Communities Local employment No. of overseas employees persons 2,459 2,599 2,449 Ratio of locals % 89.3 89.8 90.8 Ratio of locals in manager positions % 13.9 13.0 13.7 Female persons 1,261 1,387 1,300 75 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Social Performance Unit 2014 2015 2016 Maternity Protection Use of the maternity Maternity leave before and after child birth case 702 856 682 protection Rate of return to work after the maternity leave % 100 100 100 system Pregnancy leave persons 403 463 446 Childcare leave persons 670 735 670 Rate of retention for one year after returning to % 78.6 81.5 84 work from childcare leave Ratio of male employees % 2.1 3.3 4.3 Employee Education Training performance No. of employees who took education programs persons 20,428 20,815 20,844 No. of hours per person hour 114 103 89 Lifelong learning support Scholarships for graduate school to employees persons 189 152 140 Social Contribution Social Contribution Volunteering hours per person hour 1.9 1.7 1.9 Social contribution expenses million won 9,679 12,562 9,227 Information Security Corporation information Domestic persons 14,686 24,843 24,646 security education Overseas persons 1,255 5,921 5,819 Customers’ personal data Personal data leak case 0 0 0 76 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Environment Performance Unit 2014 2015 2016 Fuels and Energy Fuel consumption for air Jet oil tons 4,006,984 4,083,989 4,174,377 transportation Ground operations B-C oil GJ 174,124 -* Direct energy B-B oil GJ consumption Gas/Diesel oil GJ 245,097 122,781** 114,988 Boiler kerosene GJ By product fuel No. 1 GJ 9,675 8,464 14,939 By product fuel No. 2 GJ 82,427 256,037*** 276,276 Gasoline GJ 10,509 11,072 11,114 Jet oil GJ 33,157 29,715 22,471 LNG GJ 241,459 246,072 260,097 LPG GJ 3,786 5,676 6,246 Ground operations Electricity GJ 1,267,959 1,295,423 1,320,069 Indirect energy Medium-temperature water (steam) GJ 25,152 24,077 28,435 consumption Energy Intensity Air transportation MJ/RTK 12.26 12.28 12.36 Ground operations GJ/sales amount: 179.22 176.8 178.62 1 billion won GHG emissions GHG emissions from air Scope1 tCO2eq 12,750,860 12,995,052 13,283,086 transportation GHG emissions from Scope1 tCO2eq 54,201 43,650 45,309 ground operations Scope2 tCO2eq 62,738 63,694 65,379 * No consumption starting from 2015 ** Consumption drastically dropped after the transfer of GHG emissions intensity Air transportation kg_CO2e/100RTK 85.56 91.29 91.85 the Limousine operation. *** Consumption amount increased as the Tech Center Ground operations ton_CO2e/ 10.01 9.52 9.68 fuel changed from B-C to C-9 1 billion won 77 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Environment Performance Unit 2014 2015 2016 GHG emissions reduction Greenhouse Economic flight tCO2 141,168 143,019 149,606 gas reduction Performance enhancement tCO2 97,793 93,346 56,628 Flight planning tCO2 168,039 181,159 179,332 Weight management tCO2 24,873 28,266* 28,047 Water Resources Water use Total water intake tons 1,300,020 1,407,453 1,475,831 Recycled amount tons 19,390 22,450 25,117 Recycling rate % 1.49 1.6 1.7 Water discharge BOD tons 42.293 52.832 47.157 COD tons 25.643 27.725 14.929 SS tons 34.691 40.95 16.768 T-N tons 4.05 4.025 2.213 T-P tons 1.041 0.933 0.616 Air Air emissions Dust tons 27 23 16 THC tons 29 30 32 NOx tons 67,190 68,543 70,155 SOx tons 11.2 4.6 6.7 SO2 tons 3,987 4,063 4,152 * Data errors are corrected after re-validation. 78 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Key Sustainability Indicators Environment Performance Unit 2014 2015 2016 Waste Waste generation Municipal tons 23,825 24,253 25,792 Discharge tons 1,032 995 875 Designated tons 602 771 811 Waste disposal Incineration tons 14,357 15,128 16,600 Landfill tons 621 474 326 Recycling tons 10,481 10,417 10,552 Environmental education Environmental Basic training man-hour 3,398 3,652 3,032 education Job skill training man-hour 890 1,434 1,256 Practical training man-hour 2,954 2,610 3,296 79 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Third-Party Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of Korean Air Methodology The Korea Productivity Center (hereinafter ‘the Assurer’) was requested The independent assurance of the Report was conducted following the methods below: by Korean Air to perform a third-party assurance of 2017 Korean air Sus1. Verified whether the Report fulfilled the requirements of GRI G4 Guidelines’ Core Option’. tainability Report (hereinafter ‘the Report’), and provides the following 2. Verified whether the Report was in compliance with the principles dictating the reporting contents and quality based on GRI G4 Guidelines. assurance statement. 3. Verified objectivity and appropriateness of all selected key issues and content in the Report by reviewing various analysis. 4. Verified the suitability of the reporting contents and errors in expression through the comparative analysis with other sources. Responsibility and Independence 5. Verified the evidence of key data and information along with the internal process and system through the on-site inspection at the headquarters in Korean Air is entirely responsible for all information and opinions preSeoul. sented in the Report. The Assurer is solely responsible for providing a third party verification of the contents of the Report. As an independent Findings assurance agency, the Assurer neither was involved in the process of deThe Assurer verified that the Report fairly and accurately displayed Korean Air’s sustainability management activities and performances. Furthermore, it veloping the Report with Korean Air, nor is in any conflict of interest that is verified that the Report fulfilled requirements of GRI G4 Guideline’s Core Option. In addition, the Assurer verified the Core Option requirements for the may undermine our independence. GRI G4 Guidelines General Standard Disclosures, and reviewed all specific standard disclosures of material issues against the disclosure on management approach(DMA) and indicators as identified from the process of determining report content as follows: Assurance Standards The assurance was performed in accordance with the Assurance Type 1 and Moderate Level based on the AA1000AS (2008). The Assurer also veriContents Material Aspect DMA & Indicators fied the compatibility of the Report to the Principles of Inclusivity, MateriStrengthening aviation safety Occupational Health and Safety DMA, LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8 ality, and Responsiveness according to the AA1000APS (2008) and to the and security Customer Health and Safety DMA, PR1, PR2 GRI G4 Guideline. Moreover, the Assurer checked whether Korean Air comResponding to Energy DMA, EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7 plied with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4 Guideline and ISO26000. new climate regimes Emissions DMA, EN15, EN16, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21 Limitations Providing Customer Health and Safety DMA, PR1, PR2 The assurer conducted an assurance of Korean Air’s performance in 2016 customer-oriented service Product and Service Labeling DMA, PR5 in accordance with the standards above, and does not include the verifiCustomer Privacy DMA, RR8 cation of the reliability of the financial performance, GHG emissions and Creating shared value Indirect Economic Impacts DMA, EC7, EC8 information on ERP system and so on. Moreover, the on-site inspection with society was limited to the headquarters in Seoul, and any further assurance proLocal Communities DMA, EC8, SO1 cedure may change the result accordingly. 80 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Third-Party Assurance Statement Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement Responsiveness: Organization's Responsiveness to Issues The Principle of Inclusivity refers to the principle that an organization The Principle of Responsiveness means that an organization must respond to the issues that may have effect on the performance of its stakeholders. is ought to involve stakeholders in the process of developing and acThe Assurer verified that Korean Air identified major expectations that are influential to stakeholders’ performance, took corresponding measures, and complishing responsible, strategic response measures to sustainability. properly presented them in the Report. Especially, Korean Air’s efforts toward enhancing safety by operating SMS (Safety Management System) and IOSA The Assurer confirmed that Korean Air put various efforts to comply with (IATA Operational Safety Audit) etc. in order to ensure safety on flight is recognized as an outstanding practice. and improve the Principle of Inclusivity. Korean Air categorizes its major stakeholders into 7 groups: customers, employees, partner companies, Recommendations local communities, government, shareholders and labor unions. Korean Upon highly valuing Korean Air’s various actions and performance to enhance its sustainability, the Assurer proposes below for continuous growth in Air maintains organic relations with its stakeholders and actively operfuture report publications and sustainability standard. ates communication channels for each group. 1. Korean Air operates a communication channel to the characteristics of its stakeholders and actively promotes its response activities. In order to more systematically manage the major discussions and issues raised by stakeholders, we recommend that Korean Air established a stakeholder engagement Materiality: Identification and Reporting of Material Issues policy that can manage key issues and strengthen the management reporting system. The Principle of Materiality refers to the principle that an organization 2. In order to improve the quality of management and to ensure continuous management, Korean Air has to report on key activities, data trends and should identify material issues that are related to relevant stakeholders future goals from a long-term perspective. In addition, we recommend that you continually review performance and goals (KPIs) through a manageof the organization. The Assurer could verify that Korean Air selected isment system. sues that are significant and important to its stakeholders. Korean Air attempted to identify key issues in its sustainability aspect through diAug 2017 verse methods including global initiatives, media analysis, stakeholder Korea Productivity Center CEO Hong, Sun-Jik communication, business principles, and benchmarks. It also showed 000-81 its efforts for continuously managing and improving the key issues by offering exclusive departments in charge, performance in 2016, future Director Kim, Dong-Soo Team manager Lee, Yang-Ho Researcher Jeong, Ae-Jin plans and goals specifically. Furthermore, the Assurer could confirm that the key issues are evenly reflected and reported throughout the Report. The Sustainable Management Center of Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency certified by AccountAbility, an institution that establishes global international standards AA1000 for stakeholder participation and verifications, thereby qualified to conduct assurance on an independent basis. Moreover, our Assurance Committee is consisted of competent experts, who have ample experiences in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed relevant professional training. * A  A1000AS(2008): AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating the organization management on performances, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information * AA1000APS(2008): AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility that provides principles of AA1000 standards. 81 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Page(s) Material issue Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) regarding the 5 relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Description of major impacts, risks and opportunities 19,23,31,35 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of organization 6 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 6 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 6 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries where the organization has major operations 7 or which are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries 7 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6,44,45 Total number of employees 6,44,45 Total number of operations 6,44,45 Net sales (private company) or net profit (public company) 6,44,45 Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (private company) 6,44,45 Quantity of products or services provided 6,44,45 G4-10 a. Total number of employees by employment contract and gender 74,75 b. Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender 74,75 c. Total workforce consisting of employees and supervised workers by gender 74,75 d. Total workforce by region and gender 74,75 e. Clarification of the substantial portion of the organization’s work being performed by workers legally recognized as self-employed 74,75 or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Any significant variation in employment numbers 74,75 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 76 82 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Page(s) Material issue Organizational Profile G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 60 G4-13 Any significant change during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain No significant changes G4-14 Clarification of precautionary approach or principle being addressed by the organization 71 G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 11,86 the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List of memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 88 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 a. List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 2 b. Clarification of inclusion of any entity in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents not covered in the report 2 G4-18 a. Process of defining the report content and aspect boundaries 12 b. Explanation on how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content 12 G4-19 List of all material aspects identified in the process of defining the report content 12 G4-20 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundaries within the organization are as follows 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 * Clarification of the relevancy of the Aspect material within the organization 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 * If Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 approaches and report one of them: G4-17 List of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which Aspect is not material 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 G4-17 List of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which Aspects are material 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 * Any specific limitation regarding Aspect Boundary outside the organization 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 G4-21 For each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the organization is as follows 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 * Clarification of relevancy of the Aspect material outside of the organization 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 * If Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify entities, groups of entities, or elements for which Aspect is material 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 and describe the geographical location where Aspect is material for the entities identified * Any specific limitation regarding Aspect Boundary outside the organization 12, 19, 23, 31, 35 G4-22 Effect of any reiteration of information provided in previous reports and reasons for such reiteration Specified on the corresponding page 83 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix GRI G4 Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Page(s) Material issue Economic G4-22 Effect of any reiteration of information provided in previous reports and reasons for such reiteration Specified on the corresponding page G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries No significant changes G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 13 G4-25 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders to engage 13 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 13 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement as well as the organization’s response; 13 report stakeholder groups raising each key topic and concern Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for the information provided 1 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 G4-31 Provide a contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 G4-32 a. “In accordance” option chosen by the organization 80 b. Report GRI Content Index for the chosen option 80 c. Report reference to the External Assurance Report (if the report has been externally assured) 80 G4-33 a. The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 80 b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance 80 c. Relationship between the organization and assurance providers 80 d. Clarification of involvement of the highest governance body or senior executives in seeking assurance for the organization’s 80 sustainability report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body Identify committees responsible 67 for decision making regarding the economic, environmental, and social impacts Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s code of conduct and code of ethics 69 84 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix GRI G4 Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Page(s) Material issue Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Economic Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 45 Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 23,62,63 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 55 Market Position G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at major locations of operation 75 Market Position G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 35~42 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including extent of impacts 45 Environmental Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 77 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 77 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 77 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 28~30 G4-EN7 Reductions in the energy requirements of products and services 28~30 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (SCOPE 1) 77 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (SCOPE 2) 77 G4-EN18 Unit of greenhouse gas emissions 77 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emission 78 G4-EN20 Ozon depleting substances (ODS) emissions 78 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 78 Social Labor Practices and Labor Rights Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 75 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees not provided to temporary or part-time 54,55,76 employees according to the major locations of operation 85 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix GRI G4 Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOUSURES Page(s) Material issue Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Social Labor Practices and Labor Rights Employment G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates according to maternal or paternal leave 76 LaborG4-LA4 Minimum notification period for significant changes to business (including 50 days for layoff, and Management clarification of inclusion in the collective bargaining agreement) 30 days for dismissal Relations When changes in business operations occur. Occupational G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and 21 Health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism; 19 total number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 53,54 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 53,54 Social Local G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement,impact assessments, 33~42 Communities and development programs Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 70 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No cases of legal violations or fines Product Responsibility Customer G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and 21 Health & safety impacts are assessed for improvement Safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and No cases of legal safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle by type of outcomes (treatment of violations) violations or fines Product and G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 57 Service Labeling Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breach of customer privacy 34,76 and loss of customer data 86 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is an international agreement initiated by the United Nations that calls on companies to align strategies and operations with ten principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption efforts. Korean Air joined the program in support of these principles in July 2007, and will continue to work on their implementation. Area Principles Page(s) Human Rights 1. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 69~70 2. We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuse Lobor 3. We uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 49~55 5. We uphold the effective abolition of child labor 6. We uphold the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation Environment 7. We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 23~30, 8. We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 61~65 9. We encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies Anti-Corruption 10. We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 69~70 87 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Major Awards and Memberships 2016 Awards Organization Date TOP 10 Airlines National Geographic Traveler 2016.01.21 Best International Airlines for Business Travel Travel & Leisure 2016.01.21 Safety Achievement Award Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency 2016.03.15 Readers’ Choice Best Airlines Conde Nast Traveler 2016.04.01 Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Gold Medal in the 2016 Buryatia Tourism Expo 2016.04.23 Buryatia Ranked 1st in the air passenger transport service category of the Global Global Management Association 2016.06.23 Customer Satisfaction Index (GCSI) Grand prize in the 2016 Travel Agent Friendly Airline Award Korea Association of Travel Agents (KATA) 2016.06.28 2016 Social Contribution Corporate Awards (environment and disaster relief category) The Korea Economic Daily 2016.07.12 Most Popular Airlines 21st Century Business Herald 2016.09.02 Russian Business Travel & MICE Award -Best Airline for Business Travelers 1 Business Travel 2016.09.29 2016 Best Transfer Service TRAVEL+ 2016.10.26 Grand prize in the integrated media category and silver prize in the radio category Korea Federation of Advertising Associations 2016.11.23 in the 2016 Korea Advertising Awards (KFAA) Silver prize in the 2016 AEO Best Practice Competition Korea Customs Service 2016.11.29 USD 700 million Export Tower Award Korea International Trade Association (KITA) 2016.12.05 Top 4 Foreign Airlines selected by Chinese GLOBAL TIMES 2016.12.13 CSR Creative and Innovative Company Award Embassy of the Republic of Korea in China 2016.12.16 SVO Awards Sheremeteyvo Airport 2016.12.19 2016 Excellent Foreign Ground Handlers of Xiamen Airlines Xiamen Airlines 2016.12.21 88 Introduction KAL’s Issue Report Sustaining Excellence Governance Appendix Major Awards and Memberships Category Associations and Organizations Aviation IATA(International Air Transport Association) AAPA(Association of Asia Pacific Airlines) Sky Team, Korea Civil Aviation Development Association (KADA) Federation of Korea Aeronautics, Korea Aeronautical Engineers Association, Korean Society for Aeronautical & Space Sciences, Korean Association of Air and Space Law, Aviation Management Society of Korea Economy Federation of Korean Industries, Korea Economic Research Institute, Korea Employers Federation, Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Federation of Economic Organizations, Korea-Japan Economic Association, Korea Listed Companies Association, Korea Exchange, Korea Customs Logistics Association, International Management Institute of the Federation of Korean Industries, Korea International Trade Association, Korea-US Economic Council Environment Green Companies Council, Business Council for Green Growth, Gangseo Business Group for Environmental Practices, Voluntary Agreement of the Aviation Industry on GHG Reductions Society Nanum Korea, Korean Council on the Protection of Personal Information, Korea Forum for Progress, Asia Society Korea Center, Korea-Mongolia Forum, US Tourism Promotion Council, Seoul International Forum, Korea Mecenat Association, Korea Management Association, Takamadonomiya Memorial Foundation, Korea Support Committee for the International Vaccine Institute 89 260 Haneul-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, Korea / Postal code: 07505 Tel +82-2-2656-7114 www.koreanair.com
