UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Communication on Progress DanSign is a supplier of architectural and flexible wayfinding systems and sign solutions of high quality and unique design. This CSR policy is based on that we at DanSign are aware that we have a social responsibility and a responsibility for a wide range of stakeholders. We want to run the business in a proper and decent way where we show concern for people and the environment and thereby engage in the society we are part of. CSR policy summarizes DanSigns attitudes and provides examples of actions within two focus areas: health and environment / climate. We have selected these areas because they individually and collectively play an important role for DanSign. There are many opportunities to work on several initiatives that will benefit our customers, employees and other stakeholders. 2017 Our CSR policy is based on our fundamental values ​and is rooted in our strategic foundation for the company. Our values ​influence the way we work, our relationships with each other, our customers and suppliers. The values ​guide our behavior. We look forward to continue our support and comply with the UN Global Compact principles. Alice Sønderbæk CEO 2 Communication on Progress Human Rights Principle 1-2 DanSign supports and complies with human rights. The fundamental rights and freedoms for all people. The right to life, liberty and nationality, freedom of thought, expression and religion, the right to work and education, and to participation in the country's management as well as many other rights. No human rights violations were reported in the various available reporting channels 2016. All our partners are Danish and comply with Danish health and safety rules and values. It has formulated a policy in DanSign that all our products are produced in Denmark. 2017 DanSign uses many different partners and suppliers with whom we have built long term relationships with. We have regular contact on quality , work procedures and working conditions and a good dialogue about this. We are only dealing with dealers who comply with the UN's human rights. Which means that we once annually audits our suppliers to UN principles are adhered to. Over the years we have done this , all our suppliers adhered to UN principles. 3 Communication on Progress Labour Principle 3-6 DanSign takes its role in the community seriously, it´s important to grow so that we can create jobs. The company consists of a broad workforce and in 2015 was boosted by an additional 3 new employees. DanSign educates currently 3 trainees. DanSign recognizes that employees are the most important resource for the company. We have a distinctly flat structure. It is therefore a natural part of everyday life that employees can communicate freely and speak their minds , this means that we have a very open and natural respect for each other. We are each responsible for our tasks and perform them with high priority. A healthy work environment is part of the way we operate at DanSign, which can be seen in the low sickness absence and zero workplace accidents. Other benefits for employees are: organic fruits, senior scheme where the elderly can reduce their 2017 working hours, work clothes for technicians, Christmas gift for each employee, stop smoking courses and flu vaccination. The mental and physical work environment is constantly being reconsidered. We regularly visit the Safety Inspection, which has awarded us a happy smiley . Once a year there is appraisals , which is being talked about personal goals and development. We greatly appreciate doing things right the first time, both in production and administration, so that unnecessary errors do not occur. In 2015 became DanSign ISO 9001 certified. A core part of our everyday lives is sure how the material is handled in production and work through safety procedures. 4 Communication on Progress Environment Principle 7-9 We at DanSign believe in sustainability and to provide a green Denmark for future generations . Accountability and the environment is a key part of our everyday lives . Our philosophy is that we need to be a sustainable business , where we put the environment high so that our CO2 footprint is reduced each year. A key element include to make sure that we recycle and recycle aluminum. Aluminum is a sustainable material that is extracted from bauxite. 8% of the earth's crust is of aluminum compounds. Aluminum is a very strong material which has a low weight. In addition, aluminum can achieve a very high strength by alloying with other metals. Recycling advantage of aluminum is very high. Recycled aluminum has the same qualities and characteristics as pure aluminum . It is important to 2017 emphasize that aluminum consumption by recycling only account for 5% of the energy used in the production of pure aluminum . 100% of our aluminum residues which can´t be used in production will be picked up and recycled. Since 2012 minimized DanSign our CO2 emissions by approx. 20%. Here our focus was to save energy. The initiative was initiated, including to ensure that our port in the warehouse, quickly closed when a truck or other vehicle drove into or out of the hall. In addition, turn off all computers and monitors after work , lights turned off in rooms that are not used . These actions helped to minimize our energy level. 5 Communication on Progress Environment Principle 7-9 DanSign started in November 2014 to buy REC certified wind energy from Danish sea wind turbines, which we intend to continue with and have in 2016 increased. As a result of our approach to prioritize sustainability in our production, we were in 2012 , awarded Cradle to Cradle approval for our PlanSign system. A Cradle to Cradle Environmental Certification form the basis of a careful analysis and evaluation of all ingredients in the product , which is made ​by Vugge til Vugge Denmark, EPEA and Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. Parameters : 2017 Material Health Material Reutilization Renewable Energy and Carbon Management Water Stewardship Social Fairness 6 Communication on Progress Environment Principle 7-9 Cradle to Cradle thinking is the quest for the good product, consisting of healthy materials. It must be disassembled and reused in nature or into new products. We strive to make our signage solutions as sustainable as possible: • By using non-pvc vinyl • By using solar powered lighting in exterior sign pylons • By installing solar and tinted window films to save energy for air conditioning • By using Cradle to Cradle certified signs • By offering a circular economy solution for our sign projects The philosophy behind Cradle to Cradle is that all materials used for production are suitable for recycling again and again. 2017 The infinite reuse of products reduces raw material consumption, the amount of waste and the environmental impact. DanSign look forward to making danish and international buildings more sustainable in the future. 7 Communication on Progress Environment Principle 7-9 Illuminated sign pylons powered by solar cells Consider the environment and eliminate expenses for power supply and cabling. 2017 The pylon consists of a steel frame and strong 10 mm hardened glass fronts. The solar cells are integrated into the glass which generates energy to the built-in LED light source. The built-in twilight switch turns on the light by nightfall. It´s possible to install a motion sensor connected to a dimmer. When activated by movements near the sensor full light intensity will be activated. The light intensity is reduced to 10% when no movements are registered. Thus the lightning period is prolonged and unduly use of energy is prevented. 8 Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Principle 10 DanSign is a global supplier and the staff are in contact with public organisations, ordinary citizens, commercial companies and other counterparts all over the world. DanSign are determined to maintain the highest standards of integrity and work ethics among our staff and across all areas of activity. We therefore have zero tolerance towards corruption in all its forms. 2017 9 Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes and Strategy for DanSign In connection with the implementation of our new ISO 9001 certification, we have been measuring customer satisfaction and the quality of the products that we deliver. Over the year our ISO system has proven to work well which has created a higher level of customer satisfaction, product quality and thereby an even better job satisfaction for the DanSign staff. DanSign has in 2015-2016 experienced an increase in staff based on growing demand. Upcoming activities and measure of the year: 2017 • At our Cradle to Cradle recertification in december 2016, we improved from bronze to silver level, to show new goals, strategies and that we are ready to do more for environmentally friendly signage and we are going to continue • In the office we will use recycled paper and energy saving bulbs, which will improve the environment 10 Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes and Strategy for DanSign Already achieved goals for the employees and the company and results: • All employees have a health insurance • All employees have a personal pension plan paid by DanSign • All employees are paid full salary during absence caused by illness • All employees are offered ergonomic work stations such as for example height adjustable desks and chairs • Employees take an active part of all projects, which gives the employee an increased motivation and job satisfaction. • Most staff take part in developing new products which creates increased motivation and job satisfaction 2017 • DanSign has created a job rotation strategy for staff in the production area which creates increased motivation and job satisfaction • DanSign invites all staff to at least two social events every year • Employees in DanSign get free organic fruit • Free tickets to the zoo • Senior scheme reduced working hours • Home offices for some employees • Stop smoking courses • Flu vaccination 11 Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes and Strategy for DanSign We will continue the sponsorship to the following: • The Danish Cancer Society, because we want to support research • Zoo Humboldt penguins threatened by fishing nets and climate change. New this year: DanSign has in december 2016 supported the “Dansk Folkehjælp” (Danish popular aid). The contribution is given to help poor and single mothers with children. CSR Denmark: DanSign has enrolled in CSR Denmark. It is an interest for companies that take 2017 social responsibility. The company are a network of companies, organizations and public institutions that want increased focus on social responsibility, business ethics and environmental work. Their mission is to ensure socially responsible business practices in business, by making CSR a natural part of both the political agenda and the individual consumer's everyday life and consciousness. Together with the members they work to handle a wide range of issues and challenges that are crucial for creating change with a view to a sustainable future. 12
