Global Transport and Logistics 2016 CSR Report Contents Performance highlights for 2016 3 DSV at a glance 4 The environment is the single most important CSR issue for the transport sector 6 Managing impacts of our business operations 8 Environment and climate 12 Business ethics and anti-corruption 19 Tax payments in an increasingly complex tax world 23 Employees and working environment 24 Subcontractors 29 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 34 Non-financial highlights of the DSV Group 37 THIS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) REPORT IS A COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) OF THE DSV GROUP under the United Nations Global Compact, which DSV signed in 2009. The CSR Report gives information and data on the CSR activities of the Parent and of subsidiaries of the DSV Group in which the Parent has an ownership interest of more than 50%. The CSR Report covers the twelve-month period ending 31 December 2016. The CSR Report also covers the statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility and the gender composition of senior management as prescribed by sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. This CSR report has not been externally audited. With this progress report, we would like to express its continued support to the United Nations Global Compact initiative and its ten fundamental principles as well as its efforts to achieve the Sustainability Development Goals. We also encourage all our business partners to support the Global Compact initiative. 2 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Con ten ts Performance highlights for 2016 22% 1,141 EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT reports were provided on carbon reduction in occupational footprint data to customers, accidents since 2014 corresponding to 4.9% of DSV's total carbon emissions CHARITY ENVIRONMENT DSV is donating In 2016, we developed warehouse services 400,000m2 energy for Danish Red Cross efficient warehouse base camp equipment and office space used at disaster sites around the world ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES In Sweden, we are We doubled in transitioning to both number of renewable bio-diesel employees and for all domestic locations in 2016 groupage transports DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Per f orm ance highlights f or 2 0 1 6 3 DSV – at a glance WE SUPPORT OUR CUSTOMERS’ ENTIRE SUPPLY CHAIN DSV – Global transport and logistics DSV Air & Sea DSV was founded in Denmark by 10 independent hauliTransportation of all types of cargo by air and sea. We ers in 1976. Since then, DSV has evolved to become offer standard and industry-specific logistics solutions the world’s 5th largest freight forwarder with more than through our global network supplemented by a Project 40,000 employees and offices in more than 80 countries. Department, which handles exceptionally large or complex projects. The acquisition of UTi Worldwide Inc. in January 2016 doubled our number of employees and significantly inDSV Road creased our global footprint. One of Europe’s leading providers of road freight. FurThrough our three divisions, we offer a full range of transthermore, we offer distribution services in North America port and logistics services, supporting our customers’ and South Africa. We offer both groupage, part loads and entire supply chain. full loads as well as more specialised services, including temperature-controlled transportation. DSV is listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen (DSV.CO). DSV Solutions Specialised logistics solutions, including warehousing and distribution, packaging, freight management, customs clearance, e-commerce and e-business support. People IT systems Industry knowhow Standardised global workflows Carrier relations Global network with local presence KEY RESOURCES AND PERFORMANCE DRIVERS FREIGHT FORWARDING SERVICES TRANSPORT LOGISTICS AND DISTRIBUTION (SUBCONTRACTED) Shipment booking Cargo consolidation Warehouse Labelling, configuration, testing Pick-up Purchase order Picking/packing Distribution management From Shipper To Consignee Cross-dock terminal Documentation & Warehouse Cross-dock terminal customs clearance Documentation & Insurance Deconsolidation E-commerce customs clearance fulfillment SUPPLY CHAIN VISIBILITY Alerts Exception management Track and Trace Proof of delivery KPI reporting 4 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – D SV – at a gl a n ce GLOBAL PRESENCE AMERICAS EMEA APAC North, Central and South America Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia, Australia and the Pacific 92 offices 452 offices 108 offices 49 logistics & cross383 logistics & cross59 logistics & crossdock facilities dock facilities dock facilities 7,100 employees 31,900 employees 5,700 employees FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2016 NET REVENUE GROSS PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE SPECIAL ITEMS 67,747 15,838 DKK million DKK million 3,475 DKK million 33.2% 41.4% 13.9% ROIC CONVERSION RATIO OPERATING MARGIN 21.5% 21.9% 5.1% (2015: 26.8%) (2015: 27.2%) (2015: 6.0%) GROUP SEGMENTATION BY DIVISION GROUP SEGMENTATION BY REGION 11% 19% 22% 14% 14% 17% 46% 29% 60% Net revenue 40% Net revenue 69% EBIT before EBIT before special items special items 59% ■ Air & Sea ■ Road ■ Solutions ■ Americas ■ EMEA ■ APAC DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – DSV – at a gl ance 5 The environment is the single most important CSR issue for the transport sector We need help to achieve our common climate goals. From customers who are willing to reduce emissions through smarter planning and implementation of technological innovations to legislators who are willing to enact marketwide rules and regulations that we all must follow. 6 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – The en viro n men t is the single most im portant C SR iss ue At DSV we have a solid CSR foundation. We work sysdistribution now run exclusively on hydro-treated vegetatematically to improve safety for our employees and by ble oil (HVO) biodiesel. educating our managers in business ethics and monitoring activities to ensure that we follow the rules. This work is We need help to achieve our common climate goals. From all part of running an ethical business that interacts with customers who are willing to reduce emissions through employees, partners and society in a fair and decent mansmarter planning and implementation of technological ner. innovations to legislators who are willing to enact marketwide rules and regulations that we all must follow. Such But, the transport sector is one of the major sources of willingness is important to achieve a global and sustaingreenhouse gas and particle emissions. That puts a special able conversion to replace the use of fossil fuels in the responsibility on our shoulders. transport sector. A great change will come if we make a collaborative effort and we are very eager to be part of Our initial approach was to set up goals for the reduction that change. of emissions from our transport brokerage services. And we did in fact measure a great improvement in our energy In this CSR Report you will find descriptions and examefficiency, the consequence being lower carbon emissions ples of how we work with CSR in accordance with the UN from every shipment whether transported by road, air or Global Compact. You can also read about the obstacles sea. and challenges that we meet and how we are trying to overcome them. We are a business, and we work in the However, we also discovered that we have very litcontext defined by our markets, but we have a choice not tle direct influence on the emissions generated by our to use tax shelters, to measure emissions and to be ready transport subcontractors and that we could not really to implement new technologies and ideas together with distinguish whether improvements were attributable to an our customers. optimisation of filling rates or our subcontractors' ability to optimise fuel consumption. Jens Bjørn Andersen CEO That is why we are now focusing on collaboration with DSV A/S customers to bring down emissions. This collaboration can take many forms, from working on alternative transportation routes to implementing new technology like the technology used in Sweden where our trucks for domestic D SV 2016 CSR R E PORT – T he environm ent is the single most im portant C SR iss ue 7 Managing impacts of our business operations At DSV we strive to integrate environmental performance, business ethics and social responsibility with business management and processes. We believe that this is the most effective way to ensure changes when working with corporate social responsibility. Since 2009, we have actively supported the UN Global corporate CSR Department and implemented through local Compact initiative and its focus on advancing key principles initiatives in the individual subsidiaries. of anti-corruption, environment, human rights and labour, and during this period we have made regular reports on our CSR as risk management progress. The initiative continues to provide the framework Risks management is an integral part of our business. for our efforts to change and shape practices towards in­Using a structured risk management approach, we strive creased sustainability and higher ethical business standards. to engage the right amount of resources for risk mitigation while leaving enough capital for business development. Governance structure CSR can also be viewed as a series of risks to the environOur CSR activities follow the directions given by the Board ment and our stakeholders that must be minimised while of Directors. The Board determines the CSR strategy, tarstill allowing us to do business. By using the same structure gets and group policies together with the Executive Board, and tools for the risk management processes, we gain the and our corporate CSR Department follows up on these added benefit of integrating CSR directly into our business initiatives through annual evaluations. The day-to-day CSR processes. activities are managed by the Executive Board and the RISK ASSESSMENT METHOD Risk identification Risk analysis and assessment Risks are identified using Identified risks are analysed to determine DSV’s risk reporting and cause, impact and likelihood of the risk analysis tools. materialising. Moreover, risk owners are allocated to identified key risks. DSV’s Risk management Risk mitigation process Risk recording Risks are monitored and Identified key risks are preventive measures recorded, documented implemented in cooperation and prioritised. with the affected business units. Risk reporting Risks are reported to the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Executive Board and other stakeholders in the organisation. 8 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Ma n agin g impacts of our business oper ations Risk management at DSV is structured as two parallel identified six key risk factors, which may have a signifiprocesses: ongoing reporting and a follow-up on identified cant impact on the Group's earnings, financial position and risks in our day-to-day operations and a more extensive achievement of other strategic objectives. The risks identirisk analysis addressing the overall strategic risk scenario of fied were re-evaluated at the end of 2016, and this rethe Group. evaluation led to minor adjustments to the risk assessment shown in the figure below. Every week, the Executive Board makes a report to the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee about any CSR goals: risk and materiality risks notified by Group entities. At the same time, the In order to find the most important goals for CSR at DSV, Executive Board notifies the Board of Directors of any acwe combine our general risk assessment with a CSR matetions taken to mitigate the identified risks. In addition to the riality assessment. regular reports, the Audit Committee also receives status reports on significant key risks at all Committee meetings. In the context of our CSR work and reporting process, we define materiality as issues having a direct or indirect imEvery two years, an extensive Group-wide risk analysis is pact on the DSV group's ability to create, preserve or affect carried out in which risks are assessed and quantified by economic, environmental and/or social value for the organikey employees from all levels and areas of the organisation. sation, our stakeholders and society in general. Based on this work, a Group key risk analysis is finalised and considered by the Executive Board, the Board of Directors Issues of materiality affecting the corporate social responand the Audit Committee. sibility are not limited to elements of the Group-wide risk analysis, which are defined by having a significant financial Dynamic risk adaption impact on the organisation. They also include environmenAs our business and the world around us continue to tal matters, social matters and business ethics elements, change, our internal risk management procedures are dewhich are identified by internal and external stakeholders as signed to adapt accordingly. This process is spelled out in elements potentially having an impact on our position as a figure at page 8. responsible global organisation. Risk analysis The materiality issues that we consider the most essential The latest Group-wide analysis of internal and external are those that have the greatest impact on our business strategic risks was carried out in Q4 2015. The analysis RISK ANALYSIS High M&A FINANCIAL IMPACT Macro economy IT (unchanged from 2015) Medium Compliance Technology Employees Low 2016 2015 Low Medium High PROBABILITY D SV 2016 C SR REPORT – Managing im pacts of our business oper ations 9 activities and our most important stakeholders both in the short and long run. Ongoing assessment of materiality Materiality is assessed at Group level. The process is an iterative process for collecting, analysing and evaluating input from operational units and external stakeholders, such as selected customers and investors. Another element in the assessment is the insight that we gain from external evaluations performed by various sustainability-rating agencies. As stakeholders' priorities not only change over time but also differ, for example across customers in different industries, the assessment of materiality issues is a constant Major integration project in 2016 process. With this constant process in place, we make On 22 January 2016, DSV closed the acquisiregular adjustments and can include new themes whenever tion of UTi Worldwide Inc., a global asset-light identified. supply chain and logistics service provider headquartered in the USA. The acquisition gave rise Accordingly, the materiality assessment is also an operato a comprehensive integration project. More tional tool supporting both current and future business than 20,000 employees across approximately activities that clarifies our largest operating risks and the 450 offices and logistic centres in 58 countries potential for contributing to a positive development in the are being merged into DSV. communities in which we operate. An acquisition of this size puts a strain on comFinally, the materiality assessment advances our current pany resources while the acquired company is stakeholder engagement and provides an opportunity for integrated into existing frameworks that often Group management to discuss sustainable development also have to adapt to accommodate the larger issues – risks and opportunities – in an objective manner organisation. During this process, some of the focus areas of the CSR Department have been to implement business ethic policies among employees, to maintain the pre-merger service level of carbon emission reporting and to establish procedures for data collection in the new company structure. THE DSV BUSINESS MODEL AND CSR AREAS Safety and security Environment and climate Business ethics Supply Chain management FROM TO SHIPPER CONSIGNEE Sphere of influence FREIGHT FORWARDING TRANSPORTATION (SUBCONTRACTORS) LOGISTICS AND DISTRIBUTION This figure shows the DSV business model and the material impact of the CSR areas on business activities. The figure also shows the steps of the value chain in which DSV has the potential of having the greatest impact. Obviously, the greatest impact can be made in connection with activities carried out by DSV enterprises, while the potential impact on transport subcontractors is lower. 10 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Ma n agin g impacts of our business oper ations that can then be used to create operational goals for CSR but also connections that are more indirect and where initiatives and reporting. government policies may have an impact on our ability to contribute. United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals In 2015, the United Nations launched the Sustainable DeThe Sustainable Development Goals give us a velopment Goals (SDGs), which have now been adopted by shared language 194 countries. The 17 goals with 169 targets are meant to In addition to the concrete work of relating our CSR activigive directions to the participating nations on sustainability ties to the context of the SDGs, we also see the goals and initiatives. targets as a common language that can be used to build bridges to stakeholders. As these goals are targeted primarily at national states, they only indirect involve commercial enterprises like DSV. As is emphasised in this report, we believe that partnerHowever, since they will probably lead to more mandaships and collaboration are paramount to pursue a sustaintory sustainability reporting requirements targeting large able agenda. Using the SDGs we will be able to collaborate enterprises in the various national states as seen recently in a more efficient manner. To this end, we use the SDGs in the European Union, it makes sense for DSV to integrate both as a communication tool and as a framework for colthe SDGs into our CSR work. Going forward, we will use the laboration whenever possible. goals to improve and guide our CSR activities and use our CSR reports to show how we connect our strategic activiBringing it all together ties to each relevant SDG and target. DSV uses a combination of risks and materiality assessments to determine key CSR initiatives. Those initiatives To do this, we have assessed our CSR strategy and our own are put into the context of the SDGs for both reporting and targets against the SDGs. We found that there are several collaborative purposes. The overview below shows our key direct connections between our CSR targets and the SDGs, CSR issues for 2016. MATERIALITY, MAJOR BUSINESS RISK AND KEY CSR AREAS MATERIALITY MAJOR KEY CSR 2016 CSR SUSTAINABLE ISSUE BUSINESS RISK AREAS REPORT DEVELOPMENT GOALS COSTUMER CARBON EMMISION REPORTING Environment Page 12 18 AND CARBON and climate FOOTPRINT COMPLIANCE (COMPETITION X Business ethics Page 19 23 AND ANTIand antiCORRUPTION corruption LEGISLATION) EMPLOYEE Employees Page 24 28 SAFETY X and working environment SUPPLIER Subcontractors Page 29 33 CONDUCT D SV 2016 C SR REPORT – Managing im pacts of our business oper ations 11 Environment and climate 12 The main environmental impact from our activities is the CO2 emissions our transports generate. This is one of the greatest CSR issues we face. CO2 is a substance that is not toxic to humans, but as a is that to most of our customers, transportation represents so-called greenhouse gas it contributes to global warming, a low commercial risk, as transport is only a minor part which has major consequences for the daily lives of all peoof their costs and a relatively small part of their individual ple. Carbon emissions from transportation in particular and environmental impact. The second challenge is that the from the burning of fossil fuels in general have proven very freight market is characterised by highly volatile prices and difficult to regulate sufficiently to avoid the global warming many unstable customer relations. Short-term or pricepotential, while the toxic and hazardous parts of fossil fuel sensitive business relationships are a barrier to an ongoing emissions are better regulated and have been reduced sigdialogue that is needed at this point for a sustainable trannificantly over the past decades. sition from the use of fossil fuels. The simplest way to work with sustainability, in this case Most customers with a large transport budget do perform carbon emissions, is to put one's own house in order. This some sort of due diligence process that also includes a is what we do: We construct energy-efficient buildings, we range of CSR-related issues before inviting DSV to tender. improve our trucks and trailers to reduce fuel consumption, However, transportation costs and quality are usually the and we consolidate the cargo shipped to make the movedecisive factors in being awarded the contract. ment of goods as efficient as possible to reduce the overall environmental impact from our activities. To counter those challenges, we systematically engage in a dialogue about the potential reduction of carbon emissions Due to our asset-light business model, the two first initiafrom our transport activities with some of our large longtives only have a modest effect on the carbon footprint of standing customers. transportation. Changing our own and subcontractors' conduct Consolidation is, on the other hand, our main contribution Downstream, we are challenged by how much we can dito reducing the environmental impact of transport emisrectly change the conduct of our subcontractors. Since the sions. It is in many ways the core of our business model: by same applies to our customers, it is important to consider consolidating cargo, we lower costs and reduce the envihow to include our partners in the environmental agenda ronmental impact because we eliminate 'empty' space on that is outside our direct control. trucks, trains, planes and ships. Influence and education Our own efforts are, however, only a start as they do not Our partners can be influenced to change their conduct in make a sufficient contribution to the overall reduction in a variety of ways, for example through education, dialogue the use of fossil fuels. We must also engage upstream and and campaigns. We can educate our subcontractors to opdownstream with our customers and subcontractors. Howerate their vehicles and vessels more economically or show ever, it poses some challenges when we try to influence our customers their environmental footprint and the bencustomers and subcontractors. efits of shipping in a more environmentally friendly manner. Such 'soft' involvement, which can also be characterised as Structural challenges to the attainment of sus'nudging', can have an effect in the long run and work well tainability in the transport sector with the global dialogue about the environment that we are When working with customers, or upstream, we face two currently experiencing. main structural challenges to the attainment of sustainability in logistics and freight transportation. The first challenge Many of these efforts are described in this report. DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Environm ent and clim ate 13 Supporting customers ready to invest in change Consolidation, travel distance and modes of However, 'soft' intervention does not immediately lead to transport significant improvements. Most large-scale or technologyCO2 reduction by consolidation is part of our core busidriven changes require investment, which in turn leads ness. In simple terms, we are always interested in lowering to increased costs. If a customer wants to use biodieselthe cost of transportation, and one way is to consolidate fuelled trucks or other alternative methods and modes of freight: when vehicles and containers are fully loaded, fewer transport, DSV is always happy to cooperate in reaching transports are needed. This leads to lower overall costs and that goal. reduced fuel consumption and thus to a reduction in carbon emissions. Efficiency through consolidation is crucial to But in a low-margin and commoditised business like transour business and a main element of our contribution to an portation, most of this extra cost must be borne by the overall CO2 reduction. customer. If we were to find and monitor subcontractors having only the newest trucks or to book cargo only with In addition to this business optimisation, we are now acairlines having the most fuel-efficient airplanes on the tively enhancing our cooperation with customers to imshortest routes, we would not be able to offer competiprove the efficiency of their respective supply chains even tive prices, not even a complete global network. This would further. The two most important means of doing that is to in turn lead to less business for us and no benefits to the improve freight consolidation even further and to reduce environment. This narrows the space for the environmental travel distances by re-routing cargo. Both initiatives will efforts we can make unilaterally, and that is why collaboranormally lead to cost savings, but they may also lead to less tion with and support of customers is so important when flexible delivery schedules, for example fewer consolidated they wish to make a substantive change in their respective shipments instead of more frequent, but smaller shipments supply chains. or a route with less frequent departures. When a customer is open to such changes, significant reductions in carbon In support of legislation emissions are feasible. Somewhere between 'soft' intervention and 'hard' investments in environmentally sound transportation lie manEmissions reduced by one third datory changes caused by legislation. When legislation is An example is a joint initiative with Givaudan, the world's adopted, the playing field of the entire market is improved largest manufacturer of flavours, fragrances and active while still remaining level. This is positive for DSV, since we cosmetic ingredients. By re-routing regular container shipare adept at adjusting to new market conditions and have ments from China to Hungary, so that the freight arrives in the infrastructure and capital to invest in new technologies the port of Koper in Slovenia rather than in the major port and procedures. of Rotterdam in the Netherlands, we have reduced both the sea and the road transportation distance. Over a 7-month It seems obvious that we need to deal with the industry's period, Givaudan's carbon emissions were reduced by 36%, dependence on fossil-fuelled modes of transport in order to or 18,254 kg CO2, on this transport route alone. influence the transportation industry's contribution to global warming. Today there is a mixture of alternative energy The example is based purely on the re-routing of freight. sources for heavy transport modes, including electrically Another important supply chain innovation entails a change powered, hybrid-powered and biodiesel-fuelled vehicles. to less polluting modes of transport. However, the trend is that these different solutions are supported only at national level, leaving cross-border and To put it simply, there is a correlation between transportaglobal transport dependent on fossil fuel modes of transtion time and fuel consumption. In other words, transportaport. tion by container ship produces the lowest emissions while air freight produces the highest emissions per transported DSV supports legislation that clearly outlines, at least at volume of cargo. Train and road transportion falls between regional but preferably at global level, the future of a nonthose modes of transport. Through better planning, cargo fossil-fuelled transportation industry. We also support can be re-allocated from fast modes of transport to slower higher emission standards on a multinational level. ones, which will in turn lead to a reduction in costs and carbon emissions. Customer cooperation and CO2 reduction As an asset-light company, DSV is not in a position to make Innovative customer requests large-scale changes to the carbon footprint of the transSome customers are willing to invest in new technology or ports that we organise simply because most of them are more sustainable transport as part of their corporate policy. physically carried out by subcontractors on market terms. The projects are often on a smaller scale than consolidation and other general initiatives, but both the symbolic value As described above, this still leaves us with the potential of and the potential future benefits can be significant. Two facilitating two kinds of significant environmental improvesuch projects from 2016 were especially noteworthy: ments to transports: efficient consolidation and specific initiatives launched in cooperation with customers. Here are a few examples: 14 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – E n viro n men t a n d clim ate Electric trucks for inner-city delivery DSV Group’s carbon footprint results We are currently testing the first electric truck for innerWhile our initiatives to reduce the Group's carbon footprint city delivery for dm drogeriemarkt, a very large drugstore focus mainly on collaboration with customers and subconchain in Germany. If the test is successful, it may lead to tractors, we continue to monitor our total carbon footprint large-scale implementation of electric vehicles for urban and energy efficiency for each mode of transport. Over the delivery in Germany. We will also gain a valuable insight years, we have seen a positive trend where subcontracinto this kind of delivery services that can benefit other tors make investments in new ships, planes and vehicles customers across the world. It may be a significant step toto reduce fuel consumption and DSV improves capacity wards reducing inner-city pollution in future. utilisation to contribute to increased energy efficiency and consequently to lower carbon emissions per transport unit. Nationwide use of alternative diesel In Sweden, a large customer asked us to set up alternativeDue to the business activities acquired in the year under fuel delivery to their supermarket chain, which we did. The review, we see quite an impact on our carbon footprint. initiative made DSV Sweden realise that the use of the This is an expected consequence as there is correlation berenewable biodiesel HVO 100 (hydro-treated vegetable oil) tween revenue and transport activities. DSV gained a large could be feasible on a countrywide basis. amount of air transport activities with the UTi acquisition and also attracted new business. The result was a doubling DSV Sweden's domestic groupage loads are handled in a in carbon emissions from air transport compared to 2015. closed system that already ensures maximum utilisation of cargo capacity and thus reduces the number of vehicles on With increased activity in all transport divisions, the DSV the roads. These transports consume approximately 9 milGroups' total carbon footprint grew by more than 75% lion litres of diesel per year, which is equivalent to 20,000 compared to 2015. tonnes of carbon emissions. It is our estimate that the introduction of HVO 100 fuel will reduce carbon emissions by Energy efficiency affected up to 90%. The substantial increase in transport activities combined with differences in customer segments and many new subThis initiative has been recognised by CNH Industrial, a large contractors have affected our energy efficiency. The main multinational organisation and the parent company of the consequence is slightly lower efficiency, with air transport truck manufacturer Iveco, which named DSV 'Sustainability as a notable exception. Within air transport, we managed Logistics Supplier' of the year as a result. to transfer most of the new cargo consignments to existing DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Environm ent and clim ate 15 core carriers. As our core carriers again managed to reduce tem for customers. Further, we have launched a website their fuel consumption per transported unit during the to help customers get started with reporting transportperiod, the energy efficiency increased by more than 3% related emissions based on these figures. compared with 2015. Since 2010, the energy efficiency of our air transport activities has increased by nearly 22%. Trailers and tyres – an example of practical improvements benefitting the environment In 2016, we saw a decrease in energy efficiency in both sea All large businesses have many different departments that and road transport activities. For sea transport activities, support the core product. In our organisation, DSV Equipenergy efficiency is mainly a measure of weight per conment handles the purchase and maintenance of trailers, tainer. If customers ship lighter goods, our energy efficiency forklifts and other heavy equipment used to move and will fall, and this is what has happened due to the profile of store goods. our new customers. Most of the trailers, some 8,700 units, used for road transRoad transport follows this pattern and traditionally fluctuport are leased and maintained by DSV, while the remaining ates as customers demand change. Road transport is a very ones are owned by subcontractors. Each trailer travels apflexible means of transportation where customers often ask proximately 75,000 km per year by road. for immediate delivery of even minor shipments, which may result in lower capacity utilisation. We continually work to To maintain the fleet, DSV runs a network of European gaimprove the utilisation rate to offset the increasing number rages to which every trailer in the fleet must make a yearly of small shipments. visit for a full check-up. DSV also operates mobile workshops, 'trailer ambulances' that are taken to large road and Improvement in engine standards ferry terminals to repair trailers on site. We also monitor the Euro engine standards of our own and our European subcontractors' fleets of trucks. For several Tyre maintenance and the environment years, the European Union has stipulated maximum limits It is perhaps surprising, but the most important part of for toxic and hazardous emissions from trucks. However, trailer maintenance from an environmental perspective is truck fuel efficiency, and accordingly carbon emissions to make sure that tyres always have the optimal pressure. from road transport, is not governed by those regulations. Tyres loose pressure over time, and if tyres are underinflatAs from 2014, all trucks first registered in an EU Member ed, the rolling resistance increases, which leads to increased State must be Euro 6, the most recent norm. tyre wear and fuel consumption: 25% underinflation means a 25% reduction in tyre life and an increase in fuel conIn 2016, nearly 75% of our own and our subcontractors' sumption by approximately 5%. trucks met the highest European standards. This means that toxic and hazardous emissions from our trucking opTo reduce tyre wear and fuel consumption caused by unerations continue to fall. Emissions of harmful particles derinflated tyres, DSV has started to use Ultra-Seal in all from DSV's road transport activities have been reduced by trailer tyres. Ultra-Seal is a tyre sealant that reduces presalmost 47% since 2010. sure loss considerably and at the same time minimises punctures and breakdowns. DSV also offers the product to The average fuel efficiency of trucks, whether owned by the market – particularly to our subcontractors. DSV or subcontractors, also improved a bit compared with last year. Since 2010, the average fuel consumption of our The decision to use Ultra-Seal was made after conducting a trucks has improved by almost 7%. large-scale test with 1,000 trailers over a one-year period. During the year, 500 trailers with Ultra-Seal and 500 withReporting carbon emissions to customers out were used in our regular traffic. The results were clear: In 2016, DSV prepared more than 1,100 reports on carwith Ultra-Seal tyre deflation was reduced from 10-15% bon footprint data to customers relating to our transport to less than 5%. This alone reduces fuel consumption by 3% services. Total carbon emissions reported to our customers on average. A 1% reduction amounts to 500 litres/year for corresponded to nearly 5% of total carbon emissions from the truck pulling the trailer. our activities in 2016. The fluid also leads heat away from the tyre, which reduces This is a slight decrease in the number of reports, which wear even further. These factors lead to an extension of has mainly two different reasons: The first reason is that a tyre life by approximately 20%. minor portion of our customers did not repeat their request for reports in the year under review and the second that Finally, and this is actually the main selling point of Ultrasome of the customers that we served have a less freSeal, punctures and blowouts are reduced dramatically. A quent reporting cycle, for example they have changed from reduction in the risk of this type of road-side breakdowns monthly to quarterly reporting. means that fewer tyres need to be discarded and, more importantly, results in improved road safety and less traffic It should also be mentioned that we continue to include congestion. links to carbon-reporting figures in our Track & Trace sys16 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – E n viro n men t a n d clim ate The Ultra-Seal liquid is water solvent and has no environFinally, our buildings are developed to enhance working mental impact, so the net environmental gain is significant conditions for employees. High priority is given to natural and an example of the kind of practical initiatives that are light penetration and fresh air ventilation. sometimes overlooked in the big picture. All this is codified in an internal property development Property development manual that specifies all parts of the process from deterIn 2016, DSV developed 400,000m2 warehouse and office mining the location of the site to plumbing specifications. space, and in 2017 we will develop more than 500,000m2. Our Group Property Department handles the entire develThis consolidation and upgrading is done to improve our opment process. business efficiency. Part of this efficiency gain is reached by reducing our energy consumption and minimising the enviReuse of natural resources ronmental impact. It is an essential aspect of our environmental and climate change initiatives to reduce emissions from all our transport Energy efficiency forms an integral part of the entire proactivities. However, the impact that we make on the use of cess. Before deciding on a location, a so-called centre of natural resources like wood and water also affects our aggravity calculation is made to determine which location will gregate environmental impact. give rise to the lowest total transportation costs, which is the same as the lowest carbon emissions. Materials like paper, wooden pallets, plastic and cardboard are indispensable in the logistics industry. These materials Our new locations are built to some of the most demanding make it easier to handle and protect goods, but they are national and international building standards. This improves also a source of waste. Optimisation of the use of those the resale value of the buildings, but also ensures lower resources and efficient recycling help reduce this environmaintenance costs due to low energy consumption. Costs mental impact. are further reduced by our strategy of investing in more expensive materials with longer lifecycles. That is why we aim to increase the proportion of locations having recycling schemes for paper, cardboard and/or plasWhen we develop a new site, there is always a business tic in place. We nearly doubled our number of locations in case process to determine what energy-saving initiatives 2016, but still maintained a satisfactory proportion of locaare appropriate for a given location. This can be solar pantions that have implemented recyclable waste collection els, fresh air ventilation, kitchen waste recycling, automated procedures. In 2015, we had implemented such procedures illumination and low energy light bulbs, low energy winat 85% of our locations. In the year under review, this was dows, water saving fixtures etc. the case at 76% of all locations due to the UTi acquisition. DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Environm ent and clim ate 17 2016 performance environment and climate TARGET RESULT We wish to increase collaboration with inPrepared more than 1,100 CO2 reports terested strategic customers and suppliers to our customers and collaborated in order to find transport solutions focuswith cutomers and subcontractors ing on the reduction of carbon emissions on reducing CO2 emissions from our and general environmental impacts. transports. We will report on climate parameters such Development in carbon emissions as group carbon emissions, energy efreported and numbers explained in this ficiency from transport modes and energy report. and water consumption from buildings. We will establish and overview of waste We have established an overview in recycling (paper, plastic and cardboard) 2016 and will work on establishing an procedures in all DSV locations. This is to annual reduction target. be able to set annual waste reduction targets for DSV buildings. 2017 targets environment and climate TARGET We wish to increase collaboration with interested strategic customers and suppliers in order to find transport solutions focusing on the reduction of carbon emissions and general environmental impacts. CO We will assess our customer CO2 reporting methodology in collaboration with a third party. 2 We will report on climate parameters such as group carbon emissions, energy efficiency from transport modes and energy and water consumption from buildings. We will establish targets for annual waste reduction per square metre in our locations. 18 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – E n viro n men t a n d clim ate Business ethics and anti-corruption 19 Compliance is a fundamental part of our value proposition. Therefore, we naturally comply with both national and international legislation and specific requirements for our industry. Focus on our business ethics and conduct continues to to unethical business practices. Group Compliance also increase. Responsible conduct and a good reputation are oversees compliance with new legislation and ensures that already essential to maintain a strong presence in the global employees receive training in DSV's internal guidelines and transport market and will continue to be so in the future. relevant national and international legislation. Business ethics and risks Further, we encourage our employees to discuss any susTrade thrives in a transparent market with equal opportunipicions of non-compliance with our Code of Conduct with ties for all parties. Historically, the transportation industry their immediate superior. Employees can also report such has witnessed cases of cartel activities encompassing price suspicions through the global Whistleblower Programme. fixing between competitors, thereby harming price mechanisms in the free market. Through some of the companies Roll-out of the Code of Conduct and continued acquired, DSV has become a party to ongoing cartel investraining efforts tigations. This has underpinned the relevance of our GroupIn 2016, our high growth rates outside of the European and wide business ethical standards. North American markets and our latest acquisitions generated a need for training of all employees at managerial In addition to cartelisation, DSV and other global enterprises levels in order maintain a strong compliance culture across also face other challenges. As part of our activities, we have DSV. to tackle ethical issues like corruption and circumvention of rules and regulations. During 2016, the Code of Conduct was made available to all our new employees. However, we decided to postpone In the global business environment in which we trade, we the scheduled training of our managers in the DSV Code of find it essential that all employees share the same busiConduct due to the many other activities generated by the ness ethical conduct regardless of local business cultures. acquisition of UTi Worldwide Inc. and the pressure faced To achieve this goal, we have created our Code of Conduct by the organisation in the period. We believe that it will be that presents both information and guidance to employees more effective to complete the training in a more settled on ethical conduct towards customers, competitors and and less stressed organisation rather than to achieve one subcontractors. of our 2016 CSR targets in an unsatisfactory manner. The training will be completed during the first six months of The Code of Conduct is our foundation, and we are con2017. stantly working to raise the level of awareness of business ethics across the organisation and among suppliers. Global Whistleblower Programme Reports made under our global Whistleblower Programme Internal guidelines are received by an independent service provider. Reports Our internal procedures and IT systems are designed to can be made around the clock in more than 150 different support and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and languages by telephone or online. Of course, there are no our Code of Conduct. Our manuals and employee training reprisals against employees using the service in good faith. also incorporate clear guidelines on how employees should act on particularly risky issues or in particularly risky situaDue to this year's acquisition activities, we found it importions. tant to communicate the existence of the programme to new employees. Local managements have been asked to Our global Compliance Department is responsible for monicontinually inform about the programme in their organisatoring and managing areas of risk, including those related tions, and the programme has been mentioned in articles 20 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Bu sin ess ethics a nd anti-corruption on our global Intranet and in our corporate magazine. The target of running a more comprehensive information campaign has therefore been achieved. 2016 whistleblower reports In 2016, we received 24 reports through the Whistleblower Programme. All reports were examined and subsequently presented to the Audit Committee established by the Board of Directors. Whistleblower reports are divided into three categories according to the severity of the reported issues. None of the reports received fell within the most serious category. The large majority of the reports fell outside the scope of the Whistleblower Programme as they were minor employee issues that had to be clarified with the local managements. All relevant cases have been investigated and appropriate action has been taken to solve the issues. The complex challenge of facilitation payments In recent years, we have seen increasing global focus from authorities and customers on the prohibition of facilitation payments. Facilitation payments are minor additional payments to an external party, often a public official, to expedite a routine matter where all criteria have been met, such as customs clearance or the issuance of visas. Unfortunately, facilitation payments remain common practice in certain areas of the world. In our experience, the practice cannot be fully eliminated from one day to the next Corporate reporting of anti-corruption unless there is a concerted effort by both the public and For some years, Transparency International has private sectors, but a significant reduction is still possible by assessed how the world's largest multinational unilateral efforts. That is why DSV actively opposes the use companies report on issues related to of facilitation payments in all our activities, the final aim betransparency and anti-corruption. The yearly ing to eliminate such payments entirely. study is based on an assessment of publicly available information collected from those Manual of useful methods to alleviate the companies' websites on their anti-corruption problem programmes and ownership of subsidiaries as On a practical level, employees who are met with demands well as country-by-country reporting. for facilitation payments – often in connection with the Since 2014, Transparency International has customs clearance on importation to and exportation from made an annual assessment of DSV against certain countries – face a dilemma. Local officials cash in on other larger listed and unlisted companies the fact that timely customs clearance is often an essential in Denmark. In the 2016 assessment, DSV service to our customers. If an employee refuses to pay, had improved significantly when it comes to there is a considerable risk that the goods will be detained anti-corruption programmes, scoring 92%, and for no obvious reason. The detaining of goods causes demaintained a perfect score in organisational lays, which affects our ability to meet our obligations to transparency. customers. To help our employees cope with such situations, we have made and distributed a best-practice manual. In addition to offering general guidelines, the manual also describes specific methods to eliminate payments to facilitate procedures situations requiring urgent handling as that increases the with public authorities. vulnerability to delays. We also have to be very clear when communicating with officials asking for facilitation payOne of the recommendations is to speak openly with major ments that we will follow up if they do not deliver without customers in particular about the issue and involve them payment. Flawless paperwork is also a protection against in the decision of whether a slightly later time of delivfacilitation payments as errors or omissions are often used ery would be acceptable. It is also recommended to avoid as an excuse for demanding payment. DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Business et hics and anti-corruption 21 2016 performance business ethics and anti-corruption TARGET RESULT A global campaign on the Group's WhistleThe Whistleblower tool has been highblower Programme to raise awareness of lighted on our global intranet and local the programme will be rolled out in 2016. management has informed employees about the programme. We will establish a procedure to ensure Training was postponed due to many that all new employees at management acquisition generated activities. level receive training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2016. All other employees at management level Also this target was postponed due to must have completed training in the DSV many acquisition generated activities. Code of Conduct by the end of 2016. We must explore the possibilities of and As we move along with training activities carry out training programmes on the DSV in 2017 this target will also be in scope. Code of Conduct for employees below management level within selected fields in 2016 and 2017. 2017 targets business ethics and anti-corruption TARGET All employees at management level must have completed training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2017. We will establish a procedure to ensure that all new employees at management level receive training in the DSV Code of Conduct by the end of 2017. We will carry out training programmes on the DSV Code of Conduct for employees below management level within selected fields in 2017. 22 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Bu sin ess ethics a nd anti-corruption Tax payments in an increasingly complex tax world Globally, there is increasing focus on the willingness of large This approach is, however, aggravated by the trend that, on enterprises to pay company taxes. The principle of the DSV the one hand, governments lower corporate taxes to comGroup is that we pay both direct and indirect taxes in the pete for international business while on the other they still countries in which we do business. We believe taxes are need to generate revenue for their countries. This leads to a part of a well-ordered society and appreciate that they more aggressive application of rules and in some cases barfund, among other things, infrastructure for the benefit of tering over tax law interpretation in order to meet tax revboth DSV and trade in general. enue targets, which again leads to an unnecessary complex tax filing process without increasing the final tax revenue. To ensure that we always follow international and national tax legislation, DSV spends considerable resources and Payment of taxes where business is conducted maintains a strict governance structure both at Group level DSV has companies in both the shipping and receiving end and in our subsidiaries. of the transport chain in order to have the strongest possible network and global coverage. The Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility for DSV's compliance with tax legislation. The Chief Financial DSV works with a straightforward tax structure according Officer is responsible, in collaboration with the Group Tax to which tax payments follow the business and offices are Department, for ensuring that tax rules are observed in established based on business opportunities. At DSV we do and across all countries. At national level, the management not move revenue from high to low-tax countries in order in charge of the subsidiaries in a country is responsible for to minimize tax payments. This is both a moral and practiensuring compliance with national rules. This work is precal choice since we believe that complex and aggressive tax pared in accordance with Group policies and procedures at planning is costly, impractical and unfair. all levels. This approach can, however, be challenged when we acThe challenge of multinational taxation quire other companies with a more complex corporate DSV has activities in more than 80 countries, and each structure. In those cases, our approach is to unwind the excountry has its own tax legislation that, to a large extent, isting structures as soon as possible. It is normally possible is different from that of other countries. Tax laws may be to eliminate those structures within a short timeframe, but construed in contradictory ways by different national state the final closing may take years because of the high interadministrations, and there is a constant flow of both new dependency of companies within the structure, and lengthy acts and amendment acts. The various countries may also and persistent efforts are necessary to reach the end goal. interpret international tax law differently. Tax payments for 2016 The result is a very complex situation, which leads to tax DSV had an effective tax rate of 26.8% in 2016 (23.5% disputes from time to time. In such cases, we seek to esin 2015). Compared with an average tax rate of 25.0% tablish a positive dialogue with the tax authorities, while (2015 figures) for Danish non-financial peers in the Nasdaq taking the view that we only want to be taxed once and not OMXC20 index, DSV paid above average. twice because rules are interpreted differently by tax authorities in different countries. In addition to the direct company tax included in the above taxes, the DSV Group contributes at global level by paying indirect taxes in the form of value added tax, levies, stamp duties, withholding tax and property tax. It is the overall policy of the DSV Group to carry out its business activities in a sound manner, which also applies to taxes. The overall tax policy of the DSV Group is to pay tax where profits are earned according to international transfer pricing rules, not to be engaged in tax-avoidance activities, to have a balanced tax risk profile and to be in compliance with local tax legislation. D SV 2016 CSR REPORT – Ta x paym ents in an incre asingly com ple x ta x w orld 23 Employees and working environment 24 Employees are a vital resource to DSV. Our business operations depend on highly qualified management teams and employees with technical and operational qualifications at all organisational levels. That is why we must attract new talents, retain experiSuccessful retention strategy enced key employees and provide them with a safe and atAn integration of businesses of the magnitude experienced tractive place to work. in 2016 will inevitably lead to uncertainties among the employees of the new, combined Group because of the reAn attractive place to work organisations and restructurings taking place. Furthermore, To make DSV an attractive place to work, several individual the organisation has been under significant pressure over initiatives are undertaken locally or by our global HR Dea long period to implement the integration plan within the partment. Focus areas include internal training programmes agreed timeframe. Such factors have the potential risk of targeted at all organisational levels, from trainee proaffecting key employee retention. grammes to executive training. After nearly a year of integration efforts, we are not seeing We also emphasise our corporate culture, which focuses on any significant increase in turnover of key staff, which we employee empowerment and the ability to influence one's believe confirms the success of our retention strategy. own workday and on offering career-advancing opportunities to talented employees. Increased employee turnover However, among employees not comprised by our retenA changed employee landscape tion programme, the employee turnover has increased in The acquisition of UTi Worldwide Inc. not only doubled our all divisions; both among salaried employees, who include number of employees, but also significantly changed our freight forwarders, and among hourly workers, most of presence in many countries and regions. After being primarwhom work at terminals and warehouses. At Group level, ily a European company with a strong presence in the USA the rate increased from 17.6% in 2015 to 25.5% in 2016. and Asia, we now have large operations in all parts of the Part of this increase is attributable to the integration efworld. Today, nearly half of our employees work outside of forts, which include restructuring initiatives. DSV has both Europe compared with only 17% a year ago, and the DSV laid off and hired a significant number of employees in this country with the most employees is South Africa followed process. by the USA and Germany. OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS EMPLOYEE TURNOVER per million working hours 25.5% 7.9 8.1 3.4% 3.2% 3.3% 3.3% 17.9% 17.8% 17.6% 16.6% 5.9 5.9 2.1% 4.4 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Em ploy ees and w orking environm ent 25 Community engagement Up until now, charity work at DSV has largely been done locally and in many different forms. Some examples include donations to orphanages in India and Nigeria, to children's cancer treatment and research in Denmark and to Doctors Without Borders in Germany. We have now decided to add a more global approach to charity at DSV and have selected the Red Cross as our primary humanitarian aid partner. This initiative will not replace local initiatives, but will add to the existing ones. DSV has undertaken to store equipment used by the Danish Red Cross to set up International Red Cross base camps at disaster sites around the world. The equipment and a training and workshop area occupy 2,000 m2 warehouse space near Copenhagen. When base camps need to be established at international Red Cross disaster sites, we will also transport the equipment by road to Billund Airport as part of the agreement. In addition, we have committed an additional sum to projects around the world to be allocated as the need arises. Focus will be on emergency aid and on rebuilding and development projects for children and will involve the use of local DSV transport and logistics expertise. The rate of absence due to illness among employees has Falling age and seniority remained constant at a low level for several years. This year The average age of DSV employees decreased from 2015 we saw quite a decrease in absence rates in all divisions and to 2016. Especially the proportion of employees aged employee groups. An average DSV employee was absent between 25 and 34 increased, and the proportion of em4.9 days in 2016 due to illness. The rate of absence due to ployees older than 45 years decreased. The proportion illness was somewhat lower than those of our competitors. of employees with high seniority (more than 10 years) 26 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – E mployees a n d working environm ent decreased from 31.2% last year to 24.8% in 2016, which Decrease in number of accidents supports the age composition data. The proportion of new In 2016, we had no fatal workplace accidents among our employees increased somewhat, and so did the proportion employees, and the rate of all occupational accidents has of employees having worked for DSV for 1-5 years. declined by more than 20% since 2015. During this period, the number of employees doubled, but the total number of This indicates that the acquisition of UTi Worldwide Inc. occupational accidents only grew by half. contributed to a mixture of slightly younger employees at DSV. DSV still considers the mixture of employees in terms As reporting procedures in some of the companies acquired of age and seniority to be at a satisfactory level. were not of the same standard as our old companies, we will have a closer look at the reporting practices of those Very stable gender distribution companies in 2017. However, we did not identify any nuLast year we concluded that the gender distribution had merical issues in the follow-up process at year-end and we remained stable for some years with about 60% men and welcome the continued positive development. 40% women. This could be expected to change after our acquisition of UTi Worldwide Inc. This has actually not been Management will maintain focus on the potential of reducthe case as apparently this gender distribution is typical ing the number of occupational accidents throughout the within the freight forwarding industry. During the period Group. under review, the gender distribution was 38% women and 62% men as it has been for the past years. Absence due to occupational injury The rate of lost work days also declined considerably Our Board of Directors has two female and four male compared with 2015. The rate of lost work days is an inmembers. The Board of Directors thereby meets the dicator of the seriousness of the occupational accidents. gender-related composition requirement according to the We assume that serious injuries lead to longer periods of Danish Companies Act. absence than less serious injuries. The results indicate the same story as the one outlined above. Activities to improve However, the gender distribution among managerial eminternal reporting of these figures will also be part of the ployees at DSV has changed. The proportion of female aforementioned activities. managers has grown to 31%, up from 26% in 2015. Some of the increase is due to a larger proportion of female manRespecting human rights agers at UTi Worldwide Inc. and some to policies impleIn line with our values and Code of Conduct, DSV wants to mented at national level in certain Group enterprises. Those ensure that we support, respect and protect internationally policies have given rise to various initiatives, including a recognised human rights, including labour rights, in our opsurvey among female managers and a recruitment process erations and through our business relations with third partaking into account the need for sufficient diversity. DSV ties. This commitment to human rights is framed by the UN now has a higher proportion of female managers than our Global Compact and made operational with the UN's Guidpeers. ing Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). The UNGPs are a global standard intended to address the poPrevention of occupational accidents tential negative impact of commercial operations on human Dangerous situations may occur in particular at terminals rights. The UNGPs stipulate that enterprises must observe and warehouses where cargo is handled. Local procedures human rights, and DSV fully supports these principles. are therefore in place to prevent such situations. Incidents or accidents are registered and examined to clarify the Our commitment covers areas such as equal rights and cause of the incidents. In this manner, it is assessed at local discrimination, forced employment and working condilevel whether there is a need for adjusting procedures to tions, child labour and the right to collective bargaining. It is prevent similar situations in future. codified in our Code of Conduct available on our corporate website at www.dsv.com. Since 2010, DSV has focused on preventing and avoiding occupational accidents. Incident reports have been colIn 2017, we intend to map the risks and potential impact lected at Group level from all subsidiaries. Good practices that we may have on human rights as defined by the United are then spread around the Group, focusing particularly on Nations. First, we will determine which human rights are countries with a relatively high frequency of occupational most affected by our business, then we will evaluate how accidents. they are affected, and finally we will plan how we can remediate any impact we might discover. DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Em ploy ees and w orking environm ent 27 2016 performance employees and working environment TARGET RESULT The rate of occupational accidents must The rate decreased by nearly 22% this be reduced every year. year. Lost work days due to occupational injury The rate decreased by more than 40% must be reduced every year. this year. We will complete a project before the end The task is initiated and we continue of 2016 to raise the corporate awareness to work towards fulfilling the target in of any consequences and risks relating to 2017. the activities of DSV to comply with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). The purpose is to observe universal human rights, including national standards on labour rights. 2017 targets employees and working environment TARGET The rate of occupational accidents must be reduced every year. Lost work days due to occupational injury must be reduced every year. We will complete a project before the end of 2017 to raise the corporate awareness of any consequences and risks relating to the activities of DSV to comply with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP). The purpose is to observe universal human rights, including national standards on labour rights. 28 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – E mployees a n d working environm ent Subcontractors 29 DSV offers transport and logistics services based on an asset-light business model. In practise, this implies that in most cases the actual transportation is performed by external hauliers, shipping companies and airlines. The proportion of transport services delivered by subcontractors exceeds 95%. DSV operates a limited amount of its own vehicles in certain markets and owns no aircraft or container ships. This flexible business model enables us to adapt our capacity to the fluctuating market conditions in the transport industry. On the other hand, it makes us highly dependent on our network of transport subcontractors. Our subcontractors represent several different types of enterprises. Air and sea freight providers generally belong to a small group of large, well-established, global organisations with regular departure times and route networks on which DSV has purchased room for a certain quantity of freight. In our road freight operations, subcontractor management poses other challenges. This is a much more fragmented group consisting of thousands of enterprises from many different countries, usually very small enterprises with few vehicles and employees. We collaborate closely with a large On tour for road safety proportion of these subcontractors, while at the same time In 2016, DSV visited schools in Norway and a significant number of the road transport providers are Denmark. At the visits, both young people who more loosely associated with DSV. were new road users and older pupils came very close to the trucks and learned how to navigate Criteria for business conduct safely around them. They also learned about We find it important to mitigate the risk of irresponsible general road traffic safety. business conduct in our supply chain as it affects our ability to conduct business as well as our relations with customers, We brought a truck at our visits to schools, and the communities in which we operate and the public opinchildren in the schoolyard had the chance to visit ion in general. the parked DSV truck and have a talk with one of our skilled drivers about life in a truck and DSV uses clear criteria when selecting the most qualified good driving habits. subcontractors for sea, air and road transport contracts, focusing on quality of service, pricing, performance level and 'We have a lot of trucks on the road every day, legal compliance. In addition to excelling on those criteria, so we try to do what we can to avoid accidents. subcontractors must be willing to accept close collaboration And when possible, we like to participate in eduon the agreed service level and to observe the rules and cational programmes for children,' says Nicklas policies of DSV. Eggert, Managing Director of DSV Road, Norway. Further, in many cases various key performance indicators are agreed with customers and are also implemented with our subcontractors. They can include security, safety and environmental and operational performance. In this way, we offer customers an opportunity to influence our subcontractors' business conduct to a very high degree. 30 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Su b con tr actors To improve our procurement process even further, we want value of more than EUR 25,000 a year received our busito improve the integration of subcontractor assessments ness ethical standards and guidelines in 2016. across the procurement departments of DSV. This will be done by increasing coordination and knowledge sharing of Responsible use of agents and the added complithe vetting and screening processes. ance risk Agents are a special type of subcontractors that take care Sharing responsibility of a variety of tasks typically handled by a DSV office. In public relations and CSR, a company is often held partly responsible for its subcontractors' conduct. This is most DSV makes use of agents in the few countries that do not pronounced for consumer product companies where conhave DSV offices. They are typically small countries with sumers are, to some extent, willing to pay for CSR. This limited trading activity. Agents are also used to handle soleads to pressure on earlier links of the production chain, called project transports in countries in which local DSV which include subcontractors like DSV. Typically, the worst offices do not have the skills or resources to handle the transgressions and effects have been cleaned up first, bytransportation of oversized cargo or cargo with special repassing the logistics chain and focusing on production and quirements such as dangerous goods and defence-related energy use. cargo. Now CSR seems to have matured enough to make it posThe use of agents poses a compliance risk as an agent is a sible to begin focusing on transportation. We are ready for separate entity and not subject to regular control and interand welcome this development. nal audit as performed at DSV entities. We are also held responsible for our subcontractors and Multiple vetting systems in place are expected to put pressure on them to improve their Several systems are in place to counter such compliance CSR. This has been a central part of our CSR work from risks: Before conducting business with a new agent, our the beginning. Our basic framework is our Supplier Code of Group Legal Department examines the agent and relevant Conduct that covers a large set of legal and CSR-related partners such as the agent's financial institutions using lists subjects. We are constantly striving to widen the subjects of denied parties from the USA, the EU, the UN, the World covered and to improve both our communication and the Bank and Dow Jones. All agents are subjected to such exauditing of subcontractor conduct. amination once a year. Subcontractor management In addition, our Projects Department examines all new The DSV Supplier Code of Conduct is based on the strateagents separately according to the relevant ISO standard gic goals and values of DSV and is therefore an integral part because agents working for the Project Department are of our supplier management and of the contracts concludasked to facilitate the transportation of special or hazarded with transportation subcontractors and other service ous cargo and are required to have proper training and perproviders. The Code describes in general terms what DSV mits to do so. considers appropriate business conduct on the part of our suppliers when they perform services on behalf of or supIt is not unusual for agents to be hired at the request of the ply products to DSV. customer involved. This is especially true of large customers who have their own vetting systems in place. In those situThe procurement of transport services is performed both ations, joint vetting is quite common. at central level for our divisions and at decentral level by national enterprises. Centralised divisional procurement Finally, industry knowledge is an important factor in finding processes are used to contract with transportation subconthe best agents. DSV has employees with extensive local tractors that base their services on a global network like knowledge of nearby agents in all regions of the world. This air and sea freight providers and for regional procurement ensures some informal pre-vetting of agents. of haulier services in Europe, South Africa and the USA. In supplement, localised procurement processes are used Short-term and long-term agent relationships to select subcontractors for local business operations and Some agents are used only once, typically for project needs. The Supplier Code of Conduct also applies to such transports in non-industrialised countries. Others, typilocal agreements. cally agents dealing with regular air and sea transport in small countries without any DSV offices, become long-term Implementation of Supplier Code of Conduct partners. We have focused on communicating our Supplier Code of Conduct to the many hauliers in recent years, although To the last group, inter-company knowledge and trust is a we also include our Supplier Code of Conduct in all major valued asset that complements the regular vetting. As can agreements concluded with shipping companies, airlines be seen from a couple of good examples in Colombia and and other major subcontractors. Costa Rica, such agents have later been acquired by DSV and become part of the DSV network in connection with an The many new entities of the DSV Group have adopted this expansion of the Group. practice, and 79% of all suppliers awarded contracts of a DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Subco ntr actors 31 The challenge of collection and validating CSR data in merging companies The collection and validation of data is central to our CSR work. It is challenging, however, to collect data in a large, geographically dispersed organisation like DSV that operates in very different business cultures and statutory frameworks. To this comes the doubling of both staff and locations in 2016 and the many new entities reporting CSR data for the first time, which makes the CSR activities even more challenging. As we already have a well-proven CSR reporting method that is embedded in the corporate reporting systems, we have begun introducing the CSR reporting guideline into the new company structure in 2016. We collect data from all subsidiaries twice a year through the corporate reporting system for non-financial data, so all newly acquired entities have had a chance to 'practice' the processes of collecting and reporting CSR data. This has brought us a long way, but in order to improve the quality and state of the CSR reporting we will make an extra effort to improve the collection and reporting practices in some of the large, new entities of the DSV group. Target for internal control in 2016 We have continued to focus on achieving the greatest possible validity of our data. We continue to collect CSR data as part of the financial controlling process and to use our financial controllers to validate and refine data in connection with their internal inspections. Since financial controlling has very high priority for our business, we can benefit from the careful attention given to financial controlling at all levels and in all geographical areas. We have fixed the target that all business entities must undergo internal control during any three-year period. In 2016, 15% of all operating entities underwent internal control. The proportion of entities subjected to internal control in the period from 2014 totalled a bit more than 48% of all operating entities and was thus well below our target. Since the total number of DSV entities grew more than 50%, we are slightly behind schedule in ensuring compliance with the target. We want to maintain focus on a high validity of CSR data, and visits have been scheduled for a higher proportion of DSV entities in 2017. 32 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Su b con tr actors 2016 performance subcontractors and interdisciplinary areas TARGET RESULT The DSV Supplier Code of Conduct must 79% of our suppliers given contracts SCOC have been communicated to suppliers and of more than EUR 25,000 a year have subcontractors. All suppliers and subconreceived our business ethics standards tractors given contracts for more than and guidelines in 2016. EUR 25,000 a year by DSV must receive the Supplier Code of Conduct. We will improve the subcontractor due diligence process before the end of 2017 The task is initiated and continue towards through centralised and decentralised fulfilling the target in 2017. procedures. A CSR audit must be carried out in all The target is on track as an increased operating subsidiaries of the Group at least number of DSV companies are schedonce every three years. uled to be visited during 2017. 2017 targets subcontractors and interdisciplinary areas TARGET SCOC The DSV Supplier Code of Conduct must have been communicated to suppliers and subcontractors. All suppliers and subcontractors given contracts for more than EUR 25,000 a year by DSV must receive the Supplier Code of Conduct. We will improve the subcontractor due diligence process before the end of 2017 through centralised and decentralised procedures. A CSR audit must be carried out in all operating subsidiaries of the Group at least once every three years. DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – SCOC 33 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index The Global Reporting Initiative is a non-profit organisation that has produced a set of indicators and guidelines for sustainability reporting. The main goal of the GRI is to create a framework for systematic, transparent and comparable sustainability reporting for corporations. To increase the transparency and comprehensibility of the In addition, every profile or performance indicator applied is detailed content table below, we indicate whether our level linked to a specific section of our company website (www. of disclosure covers the GRI requirements fully or partially. dsv.com), the annual report (AR), the CSR report (CSR) or In order to simplify the table we have included only indicaour latest report to the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclotors for which we provide either full or partial data. sure Project). Level of GRI reference Information available in 1) reporting 2) Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from CEO CSR 6-7 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities AR 30-33, CSR 8-11 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of organisation CSR 41 G4-4 Primary services CSR 4-5 G4-5 Location of HQ CSR 41 G4-6 Countries of operation AR 82-87 G4-7 Ownership and legal form AR 40-41 G4-8 Markets served AR 18-29 G4-9 Scale of organization AR 2-5 G4-10 Workforce breakdown AR 18-29, CSR 39-40 G4-12 Supply chain description CSR 29-33 G4-13 Significant changes to organization AR 6-9 G4-15 Externally principles endorsed CSR 2 G4-16 Memberships www.dsv.com/csr Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities and boundraries AR 14-29 G4-18 Report content CSR 8-11 G4-19 Material aspects CSR 8-11 G4-20 Internal boundary CSR 8-11 G4-21 External boundary CSR 8-11 G4-22 Restatements CSR 37-40 G4-23 Changes from previous reporting CSR 37-40 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholders engaged CSR 8-11 G4-25 Identify stakeholders CSR 8-11 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement CSR 8-11 G4-27 Engagement result CSR 12-33 34 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Glob a l R eport in g Initiative (GRI) Inde x Level of GRI reference continued Information available in 1) reporting 2) Report profile G4-28 Reporting period CSR 2 G4-29 Previous report CSR report 2015 published on 10 February 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point CSR 41 G4-32 GRI content index CSR 34-36 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization AR 34-39 G4-35 Delegating authority AR 34-39 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics CSR 8-11 G4-37 Communication with board CSR 8-11 G4-38 Board members AR 38-39 G4-39 Relationship between chair and CEO AR 34-37 G4-40 Governance nomination AR 34-39 G4-41 Conflicts of Interest AR 34-39 G4-42 Governance role CSR 8-11 G4-43 Board's competencies AR 38-39 G4-44 Board evaluation CSR 8-11 G4-45 Board's role in of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks AR 34-37, CSR 8-11 G4-46 Risk management review CSR 8-11 G4-47 Frequency of review CSR 8-11 G4-48 Committee/Position review CSR 8-11 G4-49 Critical concerns communication CSR 8-11 G4-50 Communicated concerns AR 34-37, CSR 8-11 G4-51 Remuneration policy AR 34-37 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. AR 34-37 G4-53 Stakeholders' views AR 30 37, CSR 8 -11 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards CSR 8-33 G4-57 Advice mechanisms CSR 1922 G4-58 Unethical behavior CSR 19 22 Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 3-41 G4-EC2 Financial implications CDP Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Impact of investment CSR 8-33 Environmental Disclosure on management approach CSR 8-11, 12-18 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization CSR 37-38 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization CSR 37-38 G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio for the organization CSR 37-38 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption CSR 12-18, 37-38 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements CSR 12-18, 37-38 DSV 2 0 1 6 C SR REPORT – Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Inde x 35 Level of GRI reference continued Information available in 1) reporting 2) Water G4-EN8 Water withdrawal CSR 37-38 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) CSR 12-18, 37-38 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) CSR 12-18, 37-38 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) CSR 12-18, 37-38 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity CSR 12-18, 37-38 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CSR 12-18, 37-38 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions CSR 12-18, 37-38 Products and services G4-EN27 Mitigate impact from services CSR 12-18, 37-38 Compliance G4-EN29 Significant fines and sanctions None Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Transport impact CSR 12-18, 37-38 Supplier environmental assessment G4-EN33 Supply chain impacts CSR 12-18 Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-EN34 Environmental grievances None Social Disclosure on management approach CSR 8-11, 24-28 Labour practices and decent work G4-LA1 Employee turnover CSR 24-28, 39-40 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Diversity indicators CSR 24-28, 39-40 Supplier assessment for labour practices G4-LA15 Negative impacts (labour) CSR 24-28, 39-40 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Anti-corruption training CSR 19-22 G4-SO5 Corruption response CSR 19-22 1) AR = Annual Report, CSR = CSR Report, CDP = Reporting to CDP 2016 2) = Full reporting, = Partical reporting, 36 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Glob a l R eport in g Initiative (GRI) Inde x Non-financial highlights of the DSV Group Environmental data 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Key figures Emissions ('000 tonnes) CO2e emissions – Group 3,081 3,225 3,433 3,735 6,376 CO2e emissions – Container shipping 539 558 566 516 757 CO2e emissions – Air transport 1,120 1,132 1,278 1,270 2,817 CO2e emissions – Road transport 1,371 1,481 1,544 1,901 2,739 CO2 emissions – Buildings 51 54 45 48 63 Water ('000 m3) Total water consumption – Buildings 288 278 260 332 534 Reports on carbon footprint data to customers Total number of reports on carbon footprint data to customers 1,214 1,243 1,141 Key indicators Energy efficiency (g/tonne-km) CO2e per consignment – Container shipping 10.7 9.5 7.9 6.6 6.9 CO2e per consignment – Air transport 725.8 690.4 666.9 622.0 601.9 CO2e per consignment – Road transport 76.5 69.6 70.9 72.0 73.9 Euro engine standards (%) Proportion of trucks of DSV Road satisfying Euro 2 standard or older (own and subcontractors' trucks) 3.6 3.6 2.5 1.6 1.2 Proportion of trucks of DSV Road satisfying Euro 3 or 4 standards (own and subcontractors' trucks) 39.6 41.2 33.7 29.8 24.1 Proportion of trucks of DSV Road satisfying Euro 5 or 6 standards (own and subcontractors' trucks) 56.8 55.2 63.8 68.6 74.7 Reports on carbon footprint data to customers (%) Proportion of total carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of the Group reported directly to customers 7.2 4.9 Recycling of paper, cardboard and plastic (%) Proportion of locations recycling paper, cardboard and/or plastic from offices, terminals and warehouses 73 80 83 85 76 Screening of buildings for potential energy savings (%) Proportion of entities having screened their locations for potential energy savings 70 77 78 76 53 D SV 20 1 6 C SR REPORT – No n-f inancial highlights of the DSV Group 37 Accounting policies for non-financial highlights – Environmental data GENERAL DETAILS ENERGY EFFICIENCY The figures and charts of the 2016 CSR Report have been prepared in Emissions from consignment relative to freight volume and transporaccordance with the policies applied in 2015. tation distance. EMISSIONS EURO ENGINE STANDARDS Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from transport activities are Proportion of different Euro engine standards of trucks operating for calculated based partly on the average fuel utilisation ratios reported DSV Road. Data collected in Europe among more than 15,000 trucks for trucks owned by DSV and by subcontractors and used for the owned by either DSV or subcontractors. transportation of DSV freight, partly on data from DSV's own traffic RECYCLING OF PAPER, CARDBOARD AND PLASTIC management systems, including data on freight volumes carried to and Number of DSV locations having initiated recycling schemes for paper, from various destinations. Carbon emissions from buildings are calcucardboard and/or plastic relative to the total number of locations of lated based on direct consumption of electricity, gas, oil and water at the Group. A few entities have leased premises without waste maDSV's own locations. nagement schemes operated by DSV. Those locations are not included WATER in the data. Total consumption of water at the Group's own locations. SCREENING OF BUILDINGS FOR POTENTIAL ENERGY SAVINGS REPORTS ON CARBON FOOTPRINT DATA TO CUSTOMERS Number of DSV entities having screened one or more of their buildings Total number of reports on carbon footprint data to customers. to identify potential energy savings relative to the total number of Group entities. 38 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Non -fin a n cia l highlights of the DSV Group Social data 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Key figures Employees (full-time employees) Group 21,932 22,021 22,874 22,784 44,776 Salaried employees 13,570 13,708 14,216 14,541 23,433 Hourly workers 8,362 8,313 8,658 8,243 21,343 Key indicators Employee gender ratio (%) Proportion of female employees 38 38 38 38 38 Proportion of male employees 62 62 62 62 62 Management gender ratio (%) Proportion of female managers 26 31 Proportion of male managers 74 69 Age distribution of employees (%) Employees <25 8.3 7.5 8.0 8.0 7.9 Employees 25-34 30.8 30.5 30.4 28.6 31.8 Employees 35-44 27.8 27.8 28.5 28.0 28.7 Employees 45-54 21.9 22.3 21.8 22.6 20.2 Employees >55 11.2 11.9 11.4 12.8 11.4 Employee seniority (%) Seniority <1 year 15.5 13.6 16.8 19.5 Seniority 1-2 years 16.6 18.6 17.3 21.5 Seniority 3-5 years 17.1 17.8 15.8 16.1 Seniority 6-10 years 21.2 20.1 18.9 18.1 Seniority 11-25 years 23.1 23.6 24.1 19.0 Seniority >25 years 6.5 6.3 7.1 5.8 Employee turnover (%) Group 17.9 17.8 16.6 17.6 25.5 Salaried employees 17.2 18.0 16.6 16.8 26.0 Hourly workers 19.2 17.5 16.7 19.0 24.9 Absence due to illness (%) Group 3.2 3.4 3.3 3.3 2.1 Salaried employees 2.8 2.9 2.8 2.9 2.0 Hourly workers 3.9 4.2 4.1 4.0 2.2 Rate of occupational accidents (per million working hours) Group 7.9 8.1 5.9 5.9 4.6 Salaried employees 1.4 1.7 1.4 1.2 1.3 Hourly workers 18.6 18.6 13.2 14.1 8.9 D SV 20 1 6 C SR REPORT – No n-f inancial highlights of the DSV Group 39 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Key figures continued Rate of lost work days due to occupational injury (per million working hours) Group 148.5 147.3 114.8 112.0 64.1 Salaried employees 33.3 27.3 17.6 26.2 9.7 Hourly workers 339.0 345.0 275.0 263.7 133.5 Quality management standard (%) ISO 14001 31 30 30 31 23 ISO 9001 57 56 55 55 43 OHSAS 18001 16 15 15 15 15 Code of Conduct (%) Proportion of employees having received information about the DSV Code of Conduct 100 100 100 100 98 Distribution of DSV's Supplier Code of Conduct (%) Proportion of companies having distributed DSV's Supplier Code of Conduct to suppliers delivering goods and services for more than EUR 25,000 each year. 80 79 Accounting policies for non-financial highlights – Social data GENERAL DETAILS RATE OF ABSENCE The figures and charts of the 2016 CSR Report have been prepared in Number of days of absence due to illness relative to the number of accordance with the policies applied in 2015. working days during the year adjusted for maternity/paternity leave, agreed holidays and national public holidays. Absence due to illness is EMPLOYEES measured on the basis of wage/salary system records. Average number of full-time employees of the year. RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS EMPLOYEE GENDER RATIO Number of reported occupational accidents resulting in more than one Number of female and male employees relative to total employees at day of absence per million working hours scheduled for the year. year-end. RATE OF LOST WORK DAYS DUE TO OCCUPATIONAL INJURY MANAGEMENT GENDER RATIO Number of reported days of absence from occupational accidents Number of female and male managers relative to total managerial resulting in more than one day of absence per million working hours employees at year-end. scheduled for the year. AGE DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES QUALITY MANAGEMENT STANDARDS Number of employees by age group relative to total employees at Percentage of DSV locations certified according to ISO 14001, ISO year-end. 9001 or OHSAS 18001. Number of locations certified relative to the total number of locations of the Group. EMPLOYEE SENIORITY Number of employees by seniority band relative to total employees at CODE OF CONDUCT year-end. Number of employees of the DSV Group having received information about the DSV Code of Conduct relative to total DSV employees. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Number of employees leaving the Group during the year relative to the DISTRIBUTION OF DSV'S SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT average number of employees calculated on the basis of monthly surNumber of companies having distributed DSV's Supplier Code of Conveys of the actual number of employees at the end of the month. duct to suppliers relative to total number of companies of the Group. 40 D SV 2 0 1 6 CSR R E PO RT – Non -fin a n cia l highlights of the DSV Group DSV A/S Hovedgaden 630 2640 Hedehusene Denmark Tel. +45 43 20 30 40 E-mail: csr@dsv.com www.dsv.com CVR-No 58 23 35 28 Published 10 February 2017 Design and production: MeyerBukdahl
