REFORESTATION PROJECTS www.treedom.net TREES AND ENVIRONMENT Treedom promotes agroforestry To date, Treedom has planted more than 250,000 projects, with the goal of creating trees across Cameroon, Senegal, Malawi, Haiti, Kenya, various environmental benefits. Burkina Faso and Italy. Planting new trees allows to: > increase CO2 offset, in order to fight climate change and the extreme consequences of the greenhouse effect. > fight deforestation and environmental damage. > support the preservation of biodiversity. > contrast soil erosion and desertification. > improve soil fertility. > stabilize the hydro-geological asset of the chosen project areas. The projects provide for the planting of fruit and forest trees as well as endangered species. Every operation is planned to deal with the specific features and necessities of the project area. The tree species that get planted are either indigenous or in line with the local biodiversity, to preserve the natural habitats and the eco-system’s balance. www.treedom.net TREES AND PEOPLE Treedom chose to combine its Projects are created in first person by locals (single environmental and social missions. citizens and small farmer cooperatives) who receive a That is why the reforestation activities financial contribution for the tree planting. take place in rural communities of Southern World countries and in Italy, By engaging the entire local community, the projects where Treedom creates strong socially lead to the achievement of extraordinary results in oriented projects. terms of empowerment of the community itself. This triggers honest behaviors, respect and preservation of natural resources, as well as microbusiness initiatives to support forests, its fruits and the associated agricultural cultivations. All products deriving from trees remain available for farmers and cooperatives who receive training, jobs and income thanks to Treedom. www.treedom.net SENEGAL PROJECT Since 2011, Treedom operates on the delta area of the Project Partner: COSPE/APAD Casamance river, where it helps planting fruit and forest trees to improve the financial and social conditions of the rural Place: Casamance region, Senegal population, by creating income and replenishing depleted Starting Date: October 2011 forest areas. Agroforestry Project: 40.000 trees The operation involves COSPE, an Italian NGO that’s been developing projects in Senegal since 1985, and APAD, an Beneficiaries: 2.000 people agroforestry cooperative that’s been active on the territory for more than 30 years. www.treedom.net CAMEROON PROJECT Treedom and IRAD intervened in Cameroon by developing Project Partner: IRAD cocoa tree planting projects, in order to improve food security for the rural population, increase the local agricultural Place: Regione Centrale, Camerun resources and reduce poverty. Starting Date: 2012 IRAD’s role focused on developing indigenous cultivations, Agroforestry Project: 46,000 trees researching solutions for cultivation diseases, improving agricultural systems and developing valid methods for the Beneficiaries: 1,300 people transformation of agricultural products. www.treedom.net HAITI PROJECT Treedom supports the reforestation of 500 hectares of land Project Partner: Avsi Onlus in the Macay Park. The project’s goal is to have a positive impact on the environment, by reducing soil erosion and Place: Chantal South Department, Haiti environmental damage and encouraging productivity in Starting Date: March 2012 the rural areas to offer an alternative income to illegal deforestation. Agroforestry Project: 100,000 trees Beneficiaries: 3,600 people www.treedom.net KENYA PROJECT Treedom works in Kenya with various NGOs like Sustainable Project Partner: Wirio, SGG, Africa IPM Alliance Global Garden, from England, and MMO, WIRIO and Africa IMP Alliance from Kenya. The main goal of the activity in Place: Central and South-West Kenya Kenya is to promote small scale reforestation among farmers, Starting Date: April 2014 as a strategy to reduce poverty, by using a participative approach. Since 2014, in collaboration with many local Agroforestry Project: 135,000 trees organizations, Treedom has been reforesting rural areas, by involving the local institutions and offering profitable Beneficiaries: 5,000 people alternative farming activities to the population, which most of the times is poor and lacks proper tools and equipment. www.treedom.net MALAWI PROJECT Treedom’s project in the Lilongwe Region plans on Partner di progetto: BERL encouraging small farmers to plant jathropa curcas: from its seeds vegetable oil and bio-fuel can be produced. Località: Malawi The planting is carried out in associated crops, instead of in Inizio Progetto: November 2012 monocultures, and the trees are planted as a hedge to protect Progetto forestale: 10,000 trees the corn and cassava crops from animals. The BERL project provides that the waste is used as fertilizer, respecting the Beneficiari: 5,000 people local natural balances. www.treedom.net SICILY PROJECT (ITALY) Treedom developed a partnership with Libera Terra and with Partner di progetto: Libera Terra the Cooperative Beppe Montana in order to restore seized mafia assets, replenishing six hectares of land with orange, Località: Sicilia, Italia olive and lemon trees, while promoting organic farming. Inizio Progetto: 2014 The result is the creation of a sustainable oil and jam Progetto forestale: 4,000 trees production chain; the trading of the products will help the social and productive rehabilitation of the freed assets, Beneficiari: 300 people which generate high quality products in total respect of the environment and of human dignity. www.treedom.net OVERVIEW 10 reforestation projects across Treedom engages individuals 3 continents 18.939 farmers directly and companies in financing impacted 321.964 the planting of new trees. planted trees How? By having fun and engaging. 126.974 tonnes of CO2 6.451 offsetted Treedom has developed followers on Twitter a unique system which guarantees the highest transparency and visibility for every initiative. 70.676 58.648 users fans on Facebook Every tree is photographed, geo-localized, always 87.970 visible on the web and 334 monthly visitors on treedom.net corporate made shareable on clients 14.500 mentions social networks. on social medias * updated data April 2017 www.treedom.net OUR MISSION There’s an Eskimo on ice, a Bedouin in the desert, and a Polynesian at sea. All three of them are planting a tree. Treedom’s mission is to make this reality and not just an anecdote. CONTACT Europe Germany Treedom Srl Treedom Deutschland GmbH Via della Piazzuola 45 50133 c/o Impact Hub, Firenze, Italia Gotzinger Str. 8, 81371 Tel Fax +39 055 0503228 Munich, (Germany) +49(0)892351 3365 info@treedom.net facebook.com/treedom info@treedom.net www.treedom.net business.treedom.net www.treedom.net
