Sustainability REPORT 2016 QUICK GUIDE OVERVIEW 4 GREAT PRODUCTS 36 Highlights and key achievements 2016 4 Product development and innovation,  Statement from the CEO 6 sustainable design 38 Oriflame in brief 8 Product safety 40 Our markets 9 Social & ethical standards 41 Sustainability strategy 10 Goals & commitments 42 Organising for improvement 12 THRIVING PLANET 44 Valuing our culture 13 Sustainable sourcing 46 Stakeholder engagement and dialogue 14 Carbon footprint and climate change 48 Materiality – understanding our impact 16 Water 50 Opportunity and risk management 18 Waste management 51 Ethics and Code of Conduct 20 Oriflame sites & operations 52 A sustainable SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE 22 Goals & commitments 54 Consultants 24 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS 58 Employees 26 FUTURE Oriflame’s supply chain 60 Human rights 28 Oriflame Foundation 30 ABOUT THIS REPORT 62 World Childhood Foundation 32 Supporting Fair Trade communities in India 33 Goals & commitments 34 We believe in the power of people’s dreams. Because of this belief, our business has grown and we have helped millions of people improve their lives. THREE KEY We know that to continue on this journey we need a STRATEGY business that thrives in harmony with the natural world, and AREAS contributes to a fair society where everyone can prosper – Our sustainability today and in the future. strategy is a five-year plan, consisting of SUCCESSFUL GRE AT THRIVING That is why our plan is to continue being a successful business three key areas: PEOPLE PRODUCTS PL ANET while focusing on contributing to a more sustainable planet. 2 3 HIGHLIGHTS and key achievements 2016 OVERVIEW • 500 million units sourced • Oriflame achieved a score A, Leadership for timber, and a score B, Management for palm oil, in the CDP’s forests program, a • Sales of €1,249 million recognition of Oriflame’s actions to source forest-based products responsibly. • 3 million Oriflame Consultants • Since 2010, we have cut our carbon dioxide emissions by 32%. • Almost €350 million distributed to Consultants as bonuses or In 2016 absolute emissions were stable compared to 2015 while other recognition. relative emissions decreased by 4%. • 88% of employees surveyed 2016 would recommend Oriflame as • In the CDP 2016 climate change evaluation Oriflame was awarded a good place to work. a score B – reflecting our actions to reduce carbon emissions and • Oriflame’s sustainability flagship range Ecobeauty was remitigate the business risks of climate change. launched. This skin care range is approved by leading independent • Our main office in Moscow was granted BREEAM In-Use organisations, Ecocert® as natural or organic certified and the certification in May 2016. The certification helps drive sustainable carton board is sourced from FSCTM certified forests. In addition, improvements through operational efficiency. some of the products contain Fairtrade® certified ingredients. • Since 2014 Oriflame is only using natural origin exfoliants in its • We continued to take steps in supporting the production and new product developments. During 2016 we launched a number usage of sustainable oil palm products. In 2016 over 8% of oil palm of scrub products containing natural origin materials such as castor products used in our finished goods was certified sustainable by wax, olive stone and sugar. Mass Balance (up from 4% in 2015). The remaining usage was covered by GreenPalm Credits. In the WWF palm oil scorecard • Through sales of the fragrance Tenderly Promise, Oriflame 2016 Oriflame scored 9/9, among the industry best. continued to support World Childhood Foundation. The aim is to help children in need by raising €1 million over a three year • Paper and board continues to be a key focus area, in 2016 99% of period. our catalogue paper came from credibly certified sources and 97% of the display packaging cartons and leaflets were sourced from • In 2016, Oriflame Foundation raised more than €1.1 million to FSCTM certified forests. children and young women. 4 5 STATEMENT Every CEO on the planet has to rethink how their company works, moving from a ‘use and dispose’ from the CEO mentality towards a circular approach that restores rather than destroys. OVERVIEW Oriflame gives people the opportunity to grow – both personally and finanI believe Oriflame has a role to play in meeting this wish, and that we can earn cially. Through our business opportunity, we empower thousands of people to people’s trust by doing so in a responsible and sustainable way. Our business improve their lives, primarily women living in developing countries. As I travel operates in a wide range of countries around the world. We bring people toaround the Oriflame world and speak to our consultants, this positive impact gether around a common interest in beauty and business – at conferences and, makes me feel very proud. increasingly, on digital platforms. These connections help people recognise what However, I also recognise that Oriflame can do more to improve its envithey share with others, which is fundamental to building trust and stability beronmental and social impact. Our commitment to a better future is built on a tween religions, cultures and nationalities. strong foundation of 50 years of hard work and progress. Respecting nature, and Alongside this, we must frame Oriflame’s commitment to environmental and treating people fairly and equally is part of our heritage. Looking ahead – to the social sustainability within the wider context. Due to growing populations and next 50 years and beyond – I hope you share my resolve to become a business increasing wealth, our world faces climate change and serious resource scarcity. with an overwhelmingly positive impact. The solution is not straightforward: economic growth is both the problem and 2016 was a good year for sustainability work at Oriflame. During the spring, the answer. For example, economic development leads to higher incomes and we relaunched Ecobeauty, our flagship sustainability range. Every Ecobeauty better health, both of which correlate with a decreased population growth. product is certified natural or organic, and some contain Fairtrade®-certified Oriflame has a clear vision for our part in this: to make our business a truly ingredients. We use this product range to educate our Consultants and Leaders sustainable company that has a positive impact across our value chain, on both about sustainability. To ensure we continue to improve Ecobeauty’s impact, we people and the planet.Today, we are working hard to integrate sustainability into will keep researching and testing new approaches and technologies, and roll-out everything we plan and do. any new sustainability solutions across our business. To conclude, it is increasingly clear that ‘business as usual’ is no longer an opIn 2016, we made progress on our commitment to not contribute to defortion. Every CEO on the planet has to rethink how their company works, moving estation. Our number one selling tool, the catalogue, now contains 99% paper from a ‘use and dispose’ mentality towards a circular approach that restores from credibly certified forests compared to 55% in 2011. Our display packaging rather than destroys. cartons are 97% certified by FSCTM. You can read more about our progress in That future may be far away, and there are countless challenges along the these areas further on in this report. way but – as you may know – I am an optimist. We will get there. Thank you But of course, true sustainability is about more than reducing our environfor your interest in our sustainability work and I hope you share my optimism mental impact. I find myself thinking more and more about the role that trust for the years ahead. plays in the world today. The trust people feel between each other, for their leaders, businesses, institutions and governments. My job involves meeting people all over the world. Across culture, background and language, I hear the same simple wish: to live in peace with the opportunity to create a better life for themselves and their families. Magnus Brännström, CEO & President 6 7 ORIFLAME in brief Founded in 1967, Oriflame is a beauty company selling direct in more than 60 countries. Our wide portfolio of Swedish, nature-inspired, innovative beauty products is marketed through approximately 3 million independent Oriflame Consultants, generating annual sales of around €1.2 billion. The main components of the Oriflame brand are displayed as building blocks of the Oriflame house. OUR VALUES AND SWEDISH HERITAGE Oriflame is proud of its Swedish heritage. It plays a vital role in what makes our company unique and has helped to define how the company conducts its operations. We have chosen to use the four Swedish Attributes of Accessible, Natural, Progressive and Trustworthy to characterise how we view our Swedish heritage. Together with our values of Togetherness, Spirit and Passion, these words encapsulate our general approach to business and help guide us as we develop our beauty and business offerings. OVERVIEW THE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY Oriflame’s business model has proven its resilience and validity for 50 years – in emerging, as well as mature, markets. The key drivers for joining the company, THE VISION such as being your own manager, setting your own goals, the low barriers of entry and exit, the lack of discrimination regardless of one’s gender, ethnicity, age, education, physical condition or financial resources, are all in line with a growing THE BRAND POSITIONING STATEMENT population of entrepreneurs that are less dependent on secure employments. We acknowledge the importance of offering an attractive earnings proposition that is trustworthy, simple and easy to understand. Personal and professional development is another important part of the consultant value proposition LATIN AMERICA and we aim to provide the Consultants with world-class tools, training, conferEUROPE & AFRICA ences and events. CIS ASIA & TURKEY THE BEAUTY OFFERING CORPORATE OFFICES Oriflame believes in promoting total beauty – it is about both looking and PRODUCTION FACILITIES feeling great. Oriflame offers a wide and dynamic assortment of high-quality, THE SWEDISH ATTRIBUTES MAIN SOURCING MARKETS responsibly created products that leverage the best of nature and advanced THE VALUES science, spanning over six different categories: Skin Care, Colour Cosmetics, Fragrance, Personal & Hair Care, Accessories and Wellness. THE MISSION OFFICES OUR SALES MARKETS Corporate office in Switzerland. Group Support Offices THE BRAND POSITIONING STATEMENT Sales in over 60 markets, including markets operated by and Centres of Excellence in four countries. Combined with the company fundamentals, the beauty and business offerings franchisees, organised in four Global Business Areas. OUR MISSION are what makes the Oriflame brand unique. This uniqueness is summarised in the Brand Positioning Statement: Passion for beauty and fulfilling dreams – in a SUPPLY CHAIN Oriflame is a company built on fulfilling dreams. We offer people from around Swedish way. the world an opportunity to change their lives for the better. By offering a risk PRODUCTION Around 500 million units are sourced annually from more than 70 global and free business opportunity we contribute to making a difference in the lives of Six production facilities in four countries. regional suppliers and shipped to Oriflame’s markets worldwide. Oriflame millions of people. For many, these dreams are small; it is just about looking and manufactures around 50% of its cosmetics product volumes in-house. feeling great when they use our products. For others, however, Oriflame gives THE VISION GROUP DISTRIBUTION CENTRES Main sourcing markets include Poland, Russia, India, China, the opportunity to start their own business, partor full-time, and in doing so The roof of the Oriflame house symbolises the company’s vision – the longUK, France, Sweden, Italy and the Netherlands. fulfil much larger dreams in their lives. term strategic direction in which the company is moving and the ultimate goal. Four Group Distribution Centres in four countries. 8 9 SUSTAINABILITY We have a vision to become a sustainable company. To achieve this vision we have a strategy strategy that helps our business succeed while aiming to contribute to a more sustainable planet. OVERVIEW We know we are on a long journey but we are already making good progress. Sustainability is part of our heritage around us – within our own operations and along the length of our value chain. From this foundation we built a sustainability strategy that focused on our most Since the very beginning we have aimed to be “recognised for our commitment” significant impacts and where we have the biggest opportunities to achieve to the environment and have understood our own “responsibility as a good corchange. porate citizen” (Oriflame Values, 1969). Our long-term commitment to become a sustainable company is echoed across our business strategy – it is in our core values, our brand commitment to being trustworthy and our focus on using An exciting journey ingredients from nature. Our medium term ambition is to become known as a champion for sustainability. If we achieve this, we will be able to use our sustainability initiatives to Our business strategy is influenced in a number of ways: build our brand and increase credibility among stakeholders. We recognise the relevance of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and our role on its imple• A  ll our operations should be characterised by trust and respect. This is the mentation and, therefore, we are working on incorporating its principles within foundation of our Values and Operating Principles. It means that we are our strategy. Our five year strategy is detailed in the Oriflame Sustainability Plan open and transparent, we keep our promises and act in a truthful and fair and consists of three key areas, 14 goals and 36 commitments. way, in our relationships and our interactions. • Successful People – we are creating opportunities for people • One of our key Operating Principles is to pursue long-term growth by to improve their lives acting “as a good corporate citizen by showing a strong sense of social responsibility and respect for nature”. • Great Products – we are making products that bring beauty and wellbeing • One of the four key strategic brand pillars for our products is nature: • Thriving Planet – we are driving environmental sustainability “We were one of the first companies to develop products with ingredients throughout our business sourced directly from nature. The inspiration from nature and natural ingreThese areas all have a clear link to our material impact and to our business opdients continue to play an important part in our product portfolio”. portunity. We are already making progress against all of them, and will continue to meet our strategy’s time-bound commitments over the next five years. You Managing sustainability based on impact can follow our progress regarding each key area, goal and comittment in this Sustainability Report. Since 2010 we have adopted an impact based approach to achieving sustainability. We started by identifying and understanding how we impact the world 10 11 ORGANISING for improvement Valuing our To make sure our sustainability strategy is successful, we need to give it the same kind of attention, respect and level of organisation as our other business strategies. That is why our Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors We have taken several steps to make sure this responsibility is felt and acted upon: CULTURE Oriflame’s culture is based on entrepreneurship and respect for and belief in peoOVERVIEW oversee the sustainability strategy. ple’s capabilities. It consists of three core values: Togetherness, Spirit and Passion. A global sustainability team is responsible for developing global targets, sup• We are integrating sustainability goals into performance targets of Senior These values derive from the passionate, team-playing people in our organisation, porting the organisation by identifying responsibilities, helping to set goals and Managers (and lower levels when appropriate). and are characterised by the pursuit of new solutions and improved results. targets and monitoring and reporting progress externally. The Vice President We understand that culture does not just happen, so we take care to nurture • We have a section dedicated to sustainability in our internal education Sustainability is part of the Group Management. and enhance it whenever possible, also in seminars and training. Because it is program – the Oriflame Academy. However, because of the collaborative nature of our business and the enimportant that our Consultants also understand and represent our culture, we trepreneurial people we employ, we have structured the strategy so that the • We provide ongoing training in specific areas of sustainability to those who present and discuss our values in our initial business opportunity presentation, at responsibility of fulfilling its commitments is spread right across our business. require it. conferences and in all Oriflame Academy training. Our values are also included in our Code of Conduct, which is rolled out to all employees as well as in the • We communicate with employees about sustainability through our intranet Consultant Code of Conduct. and other channels. An e-learning is available to all employees globally, and gives a basic introduction to sustainability and what it means to our BOARD OF DIRECTORS business. TOGETHERNESS Togetherness is about inspiring a dynamic and energetic community. Believing We are also working on more ways to engage both our employees and our that working with others achieves more than working alone. Having the ability 3 million Consultants around sustainability issues. to absorb and respect opinions and beliefs that are different from one’s own in GROUP MANAGEMENT order to move forward. CEO SPIRIT Oriflame is a company built by true entrepreneurs. Spirit in Oriflame is characterised by a hard-working and winning mentality and a deep belief that if you try VP SUSTAINABILITY SENIOR VP hard enough, everything is possible. Driven by a constant sense of curiosity, unable to leave things unresolved. Spirit is not being afraid of making mistakes, but having the courage to try things never done before. GLOBAL PASSION SUSTAINABILITY Passion is the energy and self-confidence that turn possibilities into realities. More SUSTAINABILITY REPRESENTATIVES TEAM than logic or what is rational, this is the feeling inside that propels actions and guides decisions. Passion means being on fire for the things you do. Passion instills the belief that you should dream and that dreams can be achieved. Passion inspires, sustains and changes lives. 12 13 HOW WE ENGAGE ON SUSTAINABILITY KEY ISSUES RAISED STAKEHOLDER CONSUMERS • Product ingredients & safety • Consumer research, primarily product focused • Sustainable/environmentally • Consumer surveys, sometimes including Oriflame Consultants in their role as consumers responsible products • Customer engagement engagement and dialogue CONSULTANTS • Online surveys, collecting information on overall Consultant satisfaction regarding product range, price, quality, support, training, customer service etc. • Consultant engagement • Job creation/recruitment & benefits OVERVIEW • New method to measure consultant satisfaction launched in 2014, the Net Promoter System • Community engagement Our business’ success is created by people – from our employees, Consultants, customers and suppliers, to our shareholders, civil society and the general Memberships of associations or public. These are all our stakeholders, and they rightly expect global compaadvocacy organisations • Employee engagement survey covering Oriflame’s main markets. Information collected about employee work • Performance management EMPLOYEES • Recognition and rewards nies – like Oriflame – to pursue the highest levels of social and environmental situation regarding managers, performance management, recognition and rewards, development, empowerment etc. The organisations below are some of those that • Personal development responsibility. • For our most recent materiality assessment, short survey with 30 senior managers on priorities within sustainability Oriflame is a member of, or works closely with. • Empowerment – leadership, We are determined to become a leader when it comes to meeting that ex• Continuous training and feedback corporate culture pectation.To that end, we maintain a good level of dialogue with our stakehold• World Federation of Direct Selling Associations er groups so we can better understand and incorporate their expectations. We • Seldia, the European Direct Selling Association • Sustainable sourcing INVESTORS engage our stakeholders through a range of methods, including Consultant • Cosmetics Europe • Meetings with investors – one-on-one meetings, quarterly road-shows, capital markets days and conference calls • Supply chain meetings, consumer questionnaires, employee surveys and investor dialogues. • Global Compact • For our most recent materiality assessment calls/meeting with selection of investors/analysts • R&D and ingredients Beyond this, we consult non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to discuss • Customer relations sustainability challenges and receive feedback on our efforts. This is a vital part • The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) of how we stay accountable and continue to improve our performance. • Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights • One-on-one meetings discussing both general strategy and more specific questions • Supply chain During our materiality assessment, we collected input from all major stake• Transparency & communication NGOs • Discussions at industry events holder groups to help validate our identified material issues. • NGO Roundtable meeting hosted by CEO with approx. ten NGOs attending giving feedback on sustainability • Product ingredients & safety strategy, open forum for discussion and feedback • Female empowerment SUPPLIERS • Regular meetings/site visits with Oriflame teams regarding purchasing, packaging etc. • Sustainable product development • Regular site audits • Supply chain • Supplier self-assessment survey • Participation in industry initiatives and standardisation bodies. E.g. • DSA (Direct Sales Association) • Responsible sourcing SOCIETY •  Cosmetics Europe • Human rights • RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) • Ethics and fraud • Swedish Network for Business and Human Rights • Charity • Community involvement, including Oriflame Foundation initiatives 14 15 MATERIALITY – understanding our impact OVERVIEW In 2013, we started taking action on a new sustainability strategy in order to Below you will find the final shortlist and corresponding graph A IMPORTANT FOR STAKEHOLDERS expand and deepen our progress. During the development of this strategy we of most of our material sustainability aspects. IMPORTANT FOR STAKEHOLDERS conducted an in-depth materiality assessment to gain a clearer view of the D B G C issues most material to our business. Materiality refers to the issues that reflect A E N L an organisation’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts, and F J B D substantively influence the decisions of stakeholders. In addition to conducting G C P O the in-depth analysis, we are continuously monitoring and evaluating relevant N L M HE J F areas to make sure we are focusing on the right issues. K P O I M H K A closer look at our process I In the first step of our materiality assessment we used all our existing knowledge and research of our direct and indirect impacts to create a list of material aspects. IMPORTANT FOR ORIFLAME IMPORTANT FOR ORIFLAME The next step was an extensive review of media, industry associations and peers to identify what social, environmental and economic topics were raised by our stakeholders. We also made sure that the topics that we report A. PRODUCT PROFILE A. PRODUCT PROFILE I. ETHICS AND FRAUD I. ETHICS AND FRAUD to Global Compact were considered in the list of material issues. We then B. ECONOMIC B. ECONOMIC ANDAND VALUE VALUE CREATION CREATION J. ENVIRONMENTAL J. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IMPACT C. CUSTOMER C. CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT K. EMPOWERMENT K. FEMALE FEMALE EMPOWERMENT asked our most important stakeholder groups to help us prioritise what they D. SUSTAINABLE D. SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY SUPPLY CHAIN CHAIN L. CARBON L. CARBON FOOTPRINT FOOTPRINT believed were the most relevant aspects to them. This included speaking with E. SUSTAINABLE E. SUSTAINABLE SOURCING SOURCING M.TO M. ACCESS ACCESS TO EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT Oriflame employees, customers, investors and social actors such as NGOs. F.F. PRODUCT PRODUCT SAFETY SAFETY N. WELFARE ANIMAL WELFARE N. ANIMAL The result was a prioritised list of aspects, which we then combined with G. HUMANRIGHTS G. HUMAN RIGHTS O. HEALTH HEALTH O. AND AND SAFETY SAFETY our sustainability strategy and other indicators from the Global Reporting H. TALENTMANAGEMENT H. TALENT MANAGEMENT P. CORPORATE P. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY PHILANTHROPY Initiative (GRI). We used this to inform and reevaluate our original list of Oriflame’s biggest impacts and relevant issues. Oriflame’s materiality process follows the below steps, This approach meant we could be certain the final list did not omit any MATERIALITY as recommended PROCESS by the GRI: issues – such as, for example, the wide range of environmental issues that are so important to our business strategy. And that we could prioritise the STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 REPORT Identification Prioritisation Validation list accordingly. As a result of this work, we have been able to identify the GRI indicators that we report on. Moreover, it has helped us to fully understand our business impact, to improve our knowledge on what our stakeholders find STEP 4 important and care for, and to develop our priorities and processes. Review 16 17 Opportunity and TRANSPORTATION Managing risk and impact: Creating opportunity: As with transportation, the more waste-efficient we make our packaging, RISK MANAGEMENT the greater cost savings we will see overall. Working to ‘close the loop’ drives Our Consultants and customers are located in over 60 markets, which means innovation. For example, we have found ways to use materials for packaging we ship products around the world. Transportation therefore has a significant – such as plastic – that has already been recycled. impact on our carbon footprint. The vast majority of shipments are by sea or truck freight – we try to avoid air freight as much as possible. OUR CONSULTANTS OVERVIEW Creating opportunity: Oriflame’s strategy takes a value chain approach to managing risk and creating opportunity Managing the environmental impact of transportation has a direct positive Managing risk and impact: Every year Oriflame invites its top sales Consultants to conferences at different impact on the costs of transportation. For example, due to ongoing changes – see below for what this looks like in practice. to our packing and loading routines (so that more can fit in each container) locations around the world. These events are a core part of our business model we have saved more than €5.5 million since 2010. because they provide thousands of leaders with an incentive to achieve new targets. We have started to implement our Sustainable Conference Guidelines, which will help us limit the environmental impact and improve the social impact RAW MATERIALS manufacture our ingredients, components and products. We also want to CONSUMER USE PHASE of our conferences as much as possible. ensure compliance with our standards further up the supply chain – that is, Managing risk and impact: Managing risk and impact: Creating opportunity: the people who work with our direct suppliers. For example by making sure We are working to reduce the impact of the raw materials we select for our We want to help our customers make less impact when they use our prodAs well as their environmental impact, these conferences also have a social that the farmers who supply us with palm oil and forest based products work products. Palm oil and paper have significant negative environmental impacts ucts. For example, can we encourage our customers to use less energy to impact – a positive one. Together with our day-to-day work, they are one of in acceptable conditions. if not sourced from sustainably managed forests, therefore we work actively heat water for their showers? We are also working to reduce the emissions the main channels for us to help our Consultants build their self-confidence, with improving our sourcing. We are gradually working to reduce the use of Creating opportunity: to water from our rinse-off products – like shower gel and soap, and we still networks, abilities and knowledge. They also give us a good opportunity to petroleum in formulations, and replace them with plant-based alternatives When we take this kind of social and environmental approach it makes sense have areas to address such as hair colourants. This is particularly important in educate and inspire our Consultants on sustainability issues. where possible. Other efforts we are working on is to manage a number of to build longer term relationships with our suppliers. As a consequence, the countries with underdeveloped water treatment plants. One way we can do potentially contentious raw materials, including plastic micro beads, fragrance relationships strengthen and transaction costs are brought down because of this is through finding ways to improve our choice of raw materials. allergens and mica. an increased level of mutual trust. Creating opportunity: PRODUCT DESIGN Creating opportunity: If we communicate our sustainability efforts and achievements properly, and Managing risk and impact: Looking at raw materials from a risk perspective and proactively hunting for MANUFACTURING get our Consultants and consumers to participate in our journey, we will We are working to incorporate sustainability into our product development better substitutes makes us more creative. A proactive approach to finding improve our brand image and strengthen our relationship with them. This right from the design phase. This affects decisions about the materials we low-impact alternatives will help us earn and keep the trust of customers and Managing risk and impact: can lead to improvements in customer loyalty and satisfaction. choose, as well as ensuring products can be efficiently produced and transother stakeholders. The work we are doing with plant stem cells is a great Although the impact of our own manufacturing sites is relatively low from a ported, as well as guaranteeing products can be recycled at the end of life. example of this, another area is the work to improve the biodegradability product life-cycle perspective, it is symbolically important. Approximately 50% profile of our rinse-off products. of our cosmetic products are produced internally at different sites in Poland, WASTE Creating opportunity: Russia, India and China. Our products bring beauty and wellbeing into the lives of our customers. Managing risk and impact: Our big ambition is to be able to include sustainability into that offer as well. Creating opportunity: The packaging we use for our products constitutes a significant share of our SUPPLIERS When we manufacture our own products we have better control over the waste. We want to reduce waste by using materials more efficiently, by reusing Responsible products will help us attract new customers, strengthen our brand and push us to be more innovative and efficient. Managing risk and impact: whole production environment, from the ingredients used to making certain materials wherever possible and by contributing to increase recycling, both A significant share of our impact comes from our supply chain. We are working production is efficient and limits waste, and ensuring compliance with interwithin our own operations and among our consumers. For example, we are hard to ensure social and environmental standards are met by those who nationally recognised standards in relation to labour conditions. using post consumer recycled (PCR) plastics where possible in our plastic tubes. 18 19 For us at Oriflame, we want all our business activities to be recognized by honesty and respect. We do not accept any form of corruption. Our Code of Conduct reinforces our position on zero-tolerance towards corruption, and spells out the way we do business. The code formally displays our mission and vision, core values, operating principles, and business practices. The way we deal with the world around us, helps us define who we are as a company. Communication and training on Code of Conduct views all reports in connection with the Oriflame Code of Conduct and conOVERVIEW ducts investigations where necessary. During 2016 fewer than 10 cases were Oriflame’s Code of Conduct applies to all Oriflame employees, and compliance escalated through various channels to the Governance Committee for investiis mandatory for everyone. When commencing their employment, employees gation and corrective actions implemented. are required to confirm that they have read, understood and that they will abide by the terms of the Code of Conduct. Our principles and guidelines can be found on our intranet. During 2016 more than 1000 employees were trained Supplier and Consultant Code of Conduct in in-class sessions on International sanctions compliance, anti-corruption and Through audits and close co-operation with suppliers, Oriflame works to enreporting mechanism for misconducts. sure compliance with internationally recognised labour standards, principles During 2016 we strengthened our training procedures by adding a compleand ethics. Oriflame’s Supplier Code of Conduct applies to global suppliers mentary training on policies, mandatory for our management team (top 200 and this document outlines requirements regarding working conditions, health managers), which has already been taken by more than 500 employees. Senior and safety, discrimination and environmental impact, including a consideration management are together with the compliance team raising awareness throughon corruption. out the company. Specific group-approved training materials were developed We have also created a separate Code of Conduct for our Oriflame Conand all sessions and participants are logged. An e-Learning course regarding the sultants. This is to ensure that everyone involved with Oriflame acts and does Code of Conduct is also part of this training system. During this course employbusiness the way we want to. ees are trained on the Code of Conduct and make a formal commitment to live by Oriflame’s principles and values, including our anti-corruption policies. In the past three years more than 2 300 employees have completed this course. Risk management framework Ethical and corruption risks are continuously being identified, assessed and adFollow-up of the Code of Conduct dressed within Oriflame’s general risk assessment process. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and Conduct or actions that are, or may be perceived as, infringements of National oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. Oriflame’s risk manageLaws or the Oriflame Code of Conduct are to be reported. Employees are ment policies are established to identify and analyse the risks to which the encouraged to report any such conduct or action to their superiors, or, if the Group is exposed, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor Ethics and superior is involved in the situation or will not act upon it, to the next level in the risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reorganisation. Employees may also choose to report their concern by sending an viewed on a regular basis to reflect changes in market conditions and in the e-mail to an address created for that purpose. The e-mail address is owned by Group’s activities. The Vice President Group Risk and Compliance works to enCODE OF CONDUCT the General Counsel.The report will be handled with the utmost confidentiality. sure that necessary attention is given to risk and compliance matters within the Reporting anonymously by using a non-identifiable email address is also possible. organisation. Oriflame has a range of disciplinary measures available to match the severity The Audit Committee implements preventive mechanisms that protects the of the breach of the Code of Conduct. Oriflame has established a Governance group from entering into high risk relationships, and as a result during 2016 no Committee composed of members of the management. This committee reintervention actions were required from them. 20 21 SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE We are committed to creating opportunities for people to improve their lives. Social responsibility is important for Oriflame because of the impact SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE and potential influence we have on people around the world. Through our employees, our Consultants, our suppliers, the communities where we operate and our customers, our business touches millions of lives every day. Oriflame’s business model creates value by offering people around the world the chance to improve their lives: enabling risk-free entrepreneurial opportunities for Oriflame Consultants, attractive career opportunities for employees and a unique shopping experience for customers. Our commitment to social sustainability is an on-going one, but below are a few highlights of what we have achieved so far. HIGHLIGHTS • Through bonuses and other forms of recognition we distributed • In 2016, Oriflame Foundation raised more than €1.1 million to almost €350 million to Consultants in 2016 – the majority of children and young women, with a focus on educational initiatives. whom are women in developing markets. • We recently conducted an in-depth study assessing the major • Our work with Integrated Performance Management helps us human rights impacts throughout our business. One outcome is identify what Oriflame needs from its employees to perform at a list of our most salient risks that we are now working to ensure its best. This helps us recruit, define roles and expectations, design are adequately addressed. training and help managers assess competence and potential. • A specific human rights commitment has been approved and • We have a good gender-balance in our overall workforce with forms the basis for our work with implementing the UN Guiding almost equal shares of men and women. Women currently Principles on Business and Human rights. represent 41% of our top 200 managers, and we are taking steps to increase the gender balance at higher levels in our company. 23 CONSULTANTS Oriflame has changed many things in my life and the most important is my personality. Before joining Oriflame, I was a very shy person, who couldn’t talk to any stranger, but now I want to talk to the whole world! I also managed SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE to leave my work as a Director of Administration in Egypt We believe that giving people the opportunity to earn an extra income or run their own business Air to work full time with Oriflame. That decision gave me is the best way to help them improve their lives. ’’ an immense amount of strength, although I was at first a bit worried taking this step. This is by far the best decision of Anyone can become an Oriflame Consultant, as long as they live in one of our likely our Consultants are to recommend Oriflame to a close friend or relative. 60+ markets around the world. We offer an attractive business opportunity We also get feedback about what the Consultants expect from us and indimy life! Thanks to Oriflame, I also managed to earn a financial and make it easy and risk-free to join. cations on where we can improve. By analysing the results, we have been independence, not even being dependent on my husband! Our Consultants benefit from access to flexible income. It is always up to able to identify the main areas in each market, in which we should focus The feeling of independence and strength is priceless the individual how much she or he wants to work: our Consultants can achieve our improvement efforts. During 2016, we focused on implementing these and I owe it to Oriflame! everything from earning a little extra money, to having a part-time income, to actions and measured impact on touchpoints like the Consultants’ experience maintaining a full time career. In addition to the immediate profit of around of product availability, delivery and our website. A structured approach was Rawia Afifi 20% that Consultants make when they sell a product, in 2016 we distributed taken towards improving customer experience with clear responsibilities Oriflame Global Leader, Egypt almost €350 million in bonuses and other forms of recognition. defined for each market, region and global function. Because a majority of our Consultants are women who live in developing The decision has been taken to implement the NPS program in every single countries, this kind of income has the potential to make a big difference Oriflame market. By the end of 2016 the NPS program had been introduced to their lives – such as increasing their purchasing power and giving them in 32 countries. more independence. Beyond income, Oriflame Consultants also benefit from Feedback from Consultants globally has been received and we are very access to coaching and training, which increases their earning potential and proud that the majority of our Consultants highly recommend Oriflame, and self-confidence across the board. Through the Oriflame Academy, we offer are very satisfied with the quality of Oriflame products. progressive levels of training – from basic business skills right through to advanced leadership training. Moreover, every Oriflame Consultant belongs to a friendly, dynamic and Using the power of our network global community that is committed to improving their wellbeing. Because of Oriflame operates in regions that differ hugely in economic development this, we believe that joining Oriflame gives many of our Consultants something and cultural characteristics, and our reach is both vast and complex. Not beyond simply access to income and new skills. only can we use this reach to improve lives, we can also use the power of our networks to facilitate social and environmental progress. This is an Consultant satisfaction opportunity for us because many of our Consultants and customers are in markets with low interest and understanding of sustainability issues. That It is very important that we understand how all our Consultants are getting is why one of our most ambitious commitments has been to reduce conon – wherever they are in the world and however much they are earning. sumer impact by providing educational information to one million people. Measuring their satisfaction provides insights to how the brand is meeting their During 2016 the new Ecobeauty range was launched with some educational expectations and is essential for our long-term success. messages to consumers. However, the launch of our overarching communiIn 2014, we introduced a new method of measuring Consultant satisfaction cation concept was delayed and will instead take place in 2017. on an ongoing basis, the Net Promoter System (NPS), that allows us to see how 24 25 EMPLOYEES about the future and recognise that we are continuously making improveGender characteristics in total workforce ments to ensure we are as efficient as possible. The survey’s response rate MEN WOMEN of 97% was well above the benchmark for high performing companies. 50% Oriflame’s Engagement Survey 2016 40% Our people are the reason for our success. Scope: Central Europe 30% • Response rate: 97% • The overall Sustainable engagement score: 85% SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE 20% • 88% responded that ‘I would recommend Oriflame as a good place to work.’ We have always understood how important our employees’ health, happiness employee an opportunity to give feedback on the manager, the department • 95% responded that ‘People in my team treat each other with respect 10% and wellbeing is to the success of our company. We fulfil this commitment and the company. We believe transparency and ongoing feedback is essential, and fairness’. 0% to our employees by investing in personal and professional development, and the IPM process is a tool to help us achieve this. • 90% answered that their manager effectively works with people that are <30 30 – 40 40–50 50 – 60 >60 improving the diversity of our workforce and valuing our corporate culture. During 2016 we continued to work with IPM in all our regions. Our local different from him or herself – something which is crucial for Oriflame as we operate in different markets with employees from all over the world SENIORITY: 5,7 years AVERAGE AGE: 36 NUMBER OF NATIONALITIES: 73 We also focus on ensuring that Oriflame provides a safe and healthy working Human Resource teams are continuously training and supporting managers environment for all employees. and team members in this area. In the spring of 2016 we conducted a global with diverse backgrounds, ethnic group and beliefs. review of the IPM process to understand improvement areas and priorities. Support Office in Stockholm, more than 40 nationalities are represented. Attracting and retaining talent Based on interviews with managers and Human Resource professionals, an Based on the survey results, action plans and goals have been created to address improvement areas. Plans have been built on three organisational In the workforce as a whole we have a good gender-balance. In 2016, improvement plan for 2017 has been developed. The purpose of the review was women represented 41% of the global management team, constituting the Attracting, empowering and retaining high performing individuals with the to make sure the process achieves the desired results while being user-friendly levels: team – function – country, in order to develop comprehensive strategies. Company’s top 200 managers, a marginal increase compared to 2015. The right skill-sets and experience is crucial for Oriflame’s success. In Oriflame and practical to use. Group Management consisted of 2 women and 7 men in 2016. We are taking we want to do this by offering a unique working environment and promoting Oriflame’s aim is to offer our employees a mix of classroom based trainings Improving our diversity steps to increase representation of women in management positions through the best conditions for our workforce. in combination with other on-the-job learning opportunities. During 2016 we our Diversity and Equal Opportunities policy and have initiated a quarterly We work hard with identifying our talent needs within the organisation continued to provide employees with training courses and e-learning modules. We strongly believe that one of our greatest strengths is our diversity. We have Diversity scoreboard to closely follow progress. and we invest in acquiring the best talent worldwide. Oriflame offers a range In addition, employees are encouraged to share their skills with their colleagues, seen over and over again that a balanced mix of gender, nationality and culture leads to the creation of better perspectives, ideas and products. Oriflame of attractive international internships, which provide young individuals an opportunity to start their careers with us. During 2016, we had almost 20 sessions where employees train their peers in specific topics are held regularly. has a presence in more than 60 markets around the world. When recruiting, Protecting health and safety On a global level the top 200 managers were invited to a Strategy Training people participating in internship programs in our Global Support Offices as in Stockholm, Sweden where 7 days were spent going through Oriflame’s we aspire to reflect the global audience that we serve. Overall, more than In Oriflame we acknowledge that we have the duty to protect our employees well as in the sales organisation. strategy and identified growth drivers. 70 nationalities are represented in our global workforce and in our Group by mitigating health and safety related risks, as well as improving the quality In addition, a number of opportunities are offered to young professionals On average, our employees* received 16 hours of training during 2016. of the workplace and working conditions. We work to put in place the right through our Global Business Leader program, Oriflame´s trainee program Employees participate in additional local training events and courses, both Gender diversity in total workforce measures that ensure that our workers are protected, healthy, and satisfied. for future leaders. The program has an ultimate goal to find future Managing in-house and externally that we do not yet capture in our systems. MEN WOMEN In general, our operations pose a low risk when it comes to the health and Directors for countries where we operate. The trainees get a unique chance to safety of our factory workers. We gather and monitor incident and accident 100% reach a senior management position and experience Oriflame in fast growing and developing markets. In 2016, 8 young professionals enrolled in the program. Employee engagement 90% data from our sites, and analyse results to help us implement any necessary 80% improvements or preventive measures. In 2016 an Employee Engagement Survey was conducted in Central Europe, 70% During 2016, there were no fatalities at any of our manufacturing sites. In Investing in development and more than 560 employees from 14 markets were invited to participate. The survey addressed several areas including Oriflame’s strategic direc60% total there were four accidents per million hours worked and the absentee 50% rate was 4.0%**. None of these were considered major accidents. At Oriflame we want to create opportunities for both professional and personal tion, feedback about immediate managers and the performance manage40% At our major sites we have established health and safety committees repgrowth for all our employees. To achieve this aim we work with Integrated ment process. As several of the markets were running the survey for the 30% resenting the total workforce. Meetings usually take place four times a year, Performance Management (IPM) to ensure clearly established goals, individual second time, we were able to compare results over time. The majority of 20% depending on the location, and involve representatives from the workers and 10% development and to improve organizational performance. This process is markets had improved the overall score, a few remained the same and no health and safety authorities. 0% the foundation for all people related decisions in Oriflame. It also gives the markets had deteriorated. Employees in the entire region were positive ORIFLAME GLOBAL GROUP BOARD ** MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT OF DIRECTORS An error was identified in the absentee rate reported in 2015, the TEAM * At present training data covers 70% of employees correct rate for 2015 is 4.1% instead of previously reported 2.3%. 26 27 HUMAN rights SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE Oriflame takes a strong stance on social and ethical issues and we are proactively embedding this position across our value chain. Oriflame operates in several high-risk areas in terms of breaches of human compliance by conducting sustainability audits in these markets, in addition rights. In order to understand the risk as fully as possible, we have developed to using the Supplier self-assessment tool. We have dedicated staff for this a Corporate Human Rights Due Diligence process. Sustainability and human purpose in both India and China. See the section on suppliers for more right risks are incorporated into our corporate business risk assessment process. detailed information. During 2015 we conducted an in-depth study assessing the major human rights As a business, we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and impacts throughout our business. The assessment included an overall analysis of the United Nations Global Compact. We have integrated the ten principles of our value chain and the major impacts our operations have on people. In order the Global Compact into the Oriflame Code of Conduct, the Supplier Code to identify our most salient impacts, we conducted interviews with some of of Conduct and other policies. These principles speak directly of human rights, our key internal stakeholders, including business unit heads and representatives labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption, and help guide us in from all our regions. The evaluation was completed with desktop research making good decisions across our business. Trainings regarding the Code of on the major human rights issues in our markets and business sectors. As a Conduct and Oriflame policies are an integral part of the Oriflame training result, we have identified our most salient risks and we are now working to system, the Oriflame Academy. ensure these are adequately addressed. For some areas we are developing action plans to mitigate risk and potential human rights impact, while seeking We recently developed a specific Human rights commitment for Oriflame, the opportunity to increase our positive contribution to society. based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights. To make sure these principles now become an everyday part of how we do business, We are integrating human rights issues into existing risk assessments when we have also made a commitment to educate our employees on our business entering new markets and have committed to conducting country specific responsibility to respect human rights. During 2016 group management and assessments for high-risk markets. This is important because it also allows us additional key functional heads were trained, and the training will be rolled to concentrate our efforts on those areas where we have the highest level out to more employees during the coming years. of influence. Oriflame also participates in the Swedish Network for Business and Human Some of our products are sourced from markets that are classified as high Rights, a business network that focuses on exchanging best practices. This risk in terms of e.g. child labour and forced labour, mainly in Asia. As part of allows us to build our knowledge and competence, as well as stay up to date our supplier evaluation process, we put additional resources into verifying on developments in this area. 28 29 NIGERIA CASE STUDY ORIFLAME Over half of Nigeria’s population lives in poverty, without access to running water, basic sanitation and nutrition, much less education. In order to help foundation address this situation, Oriflame funded the education of 50 children, through a cooperation with Inner City Mission, a local NGO aimed at supporting SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE orphaned and vulnerable children from inner city slums. By focusing on giving children a chance to fulfill their potential through sustainable solutions such as nutrition and education programs, they strive to break the cycle of poverty by teaching children from Oriflame Foundation aims to empower children and young women all religions and cultures how to become responsible, self-reliant adults, who can give back to society and in by providing opportunities for them to change their lives for the better, turn give Nigeria a chance for a better future. through a wide range of educational initiatives. Our role as an aspiring socially sustainable company allows us to create a lot of The Foundation allows us to make long-term charity commitments and partnerpositive change across our value chain. But we want to reach further than our ships, and measure the quantity, quality and overall impact of our investment. own direct area of influence. That is why we have the Oriflame Foundation – it is our way to create long-term value for the people we do not connect with How the Foundation works COLOMBIA CASE STUDY through our business, specifically children and young women. From the beginning, Oriflame has supported NGOs and charity organisations In Colombia, Oriflame has had a long standing around the world. One of them being the World Childhood Foundation, Highlights from the Foundation’s charitable work: founded by H.M. Queen Silvia of Sweden and co-founded by Oriflame and cooperation with Aldeas Infantiles SOS, an international NGO that has operated locally for over 50 • The amount of money raised in accordance with the strategy and concept the Af Jochnick Foundation. years, supporting children in need. In 2016, Oriflame developed by the Oriflame Foundation reached more than €1.1 million in The Oriflame Foundation also provides grants to projects that have been financed education for 70 school children and extra2016. Since 2009 the total amount raised amounts to more than €8.4 million. selected or initiated by our local offices, and/or makes donations to projects curricular activities for an additional 110 children and • In 2016, 47 of our markets were involved in charitable activities. promoted by our Consultants. teens in one of Colombia’s poorest areas. Through • Through our Volunteer Guide we are working to increase the number of However, there are other ways people within our business can contribute to hands-on engagement, Oriflame staff and leaders also Oriflame volunteers and currently 16 markets have volunteering programs supporting the Foundation. For example, employees are actively encouraged participated in activities throughout the year meeting in place. to support their own local projects and organisations through fundraising families and children participating in Aldeas Infantiles • We have officially recognised the World Childhood Foundation and SOS activities or simply volunteering their time, with all employees given 1 work SOS program. One example was the inauguration of Children’s Villages as our preferred global NGO partners. day per year for volunteering. a new community center in Cazucá, where Oriflame We also develop accessories and products sold specifically for fundraising. contributed to building a small recreational area, and Why we introduced the Oriflame Foundation Markets are also encouraged to raise additional funds through fun, creative and innovative activities, for example through galas and sponsored activities. Oriflame employees volunteered to help paint and decorate the house. Oriflame has always supported charitable causes, in order to make a bigger global impact, we decided to combine all our efforts under one umbrella and establish an independent foundation – the Oriflame Foundation. 30 31 Cooperation with Supporting WORLD FAIR TRADE CHILDHOOD COMMUNITIES foundation SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE in India During 2015 Oriflame launched a new fragrance, Tenderly Promise, in support Oriflame sources Fairtrade® Organic coconut oil from a community of farmers of World Childhood Foundation. The fragrance was developed in cooperation in Kerala, India, for use in the world’s first global Fairtrade certified cosmetic with World Childhood Foundation, represented by H.R.H Princess Madeleine products – the Ecobeauty face and eye cream. By working with Fairtrade, the of Sweden, and for every bottle sold Oriflame makes a donation to World farmers are ensured a fair price for the ingredients. In addition a percentage of Childhood Foundation, with the aim of raising over €1 million over a three the sales of the products are invested into a fund which further supports the com’’ year period. The goal is to help children who are neglected, abused, exploited munity in specific social, economic and environmental projects. Projects include: and alone to have happier, healthier childhoods full of dreams and the promise of a brighter future. • The organising of South India’s largest seed exchange event: The annual Seed Festival brings together each year tens of thousands of farmers who between them exchange nearly 6000 indigenous varieties of seeds that enhance bio diversity and food security. • The creation of community seed banks where neighbourhood women’s I respect the work that Oriflame does to support and empower collectives serve as custodians of the myriad seed diversity in select crops children. As one of the co-founders of World Childhood through in situ conservation. Foundation, they have worked in close collaboration with us • Training on climate risk mitigation and natural resource management, including the development and protection of community water resources. over the last 15 years, raising more than €2 million. This • Promoting food security and crop protection through bio-fencing around new initiative shows the company’s clear dedication to help farm lands and solar/battery powered fencing. children fulfill their dreams by having a better childhood. Fair Trade Alliance Kerala is an organisation of small holder farmers in South All children should have the opportunity to dream, and the India. The organisation evolved as a response to the agrarian crisis that resulted in opportunity to pursue those dreams. indebtedness and a situation where farmers were many times not even covered for the cost of production. By introducing the Fairtrade principles, small scale H.R.H Princess Madeleine of Sweden farmers are guaranteed a fair price for their produce, while sustainable farming Honorary Board Member of World Childhood Foundation also means that the land and workers are better protected. 32 33 GOALS & COMMITMENTS Create opportunities to COMMITMENT 5 Ensure equal opportunities for all women and men, by ensuring that the COMMITMENT 9 Continue implementation of the Oriflame Global Supplier IMPROVE minority gender represents no less than 40% in management teams. Evaluation Program. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE In 2016, women represented 41% of the global management team, constitutThe roll-out of the 5 step Supplier Evaluation program continued. The PEOPLE’S LIVES ing Oriflame’s top 200 managers, a slight increase compared to 2015. self-assessment tool has been further rolled out to global suppliers, In Group Management, women held 22% of the seats. suppliers representing 92% of our Finished Goods suppliers, currently use the tool. For our high risk suppliers, mainly located in Asia, we conducted sustainability audits during the year covering approx. 20% of the global 4 RESPECT HUMAN RIGHTS FOR direct and second tier accessories suppliers. THOSE TOUCHED BY OUR OPERATIONS COMMITMENT 6 5 SUPPORT ORIFLAME FOUNDATION 1 PROVIDE ORIFLAME’S UNIQUE BUSINESS 2 USE THE POWER OF OUR NETWORKS Educate our employees on our business responsibility to respect TO ALLOW CHILDREN & YOUNG WOMEN OPPORTUNITY TO OUR CONSULTANTS TO FACILITATE SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL human rights. Train the global management team (top 200 managers) TO CHANGE THEIR LIVES FOR THE BETTER by 2018. COMMITMENT 1 PROGRESS Deadline: 2018 Progress: Updated COMMITMENT 10 Continue to grow the business in order to increase the number of COMMITMENT 3 Classroom training of the full global management team did not take place Help educate children by doubling the amount of money donated individuals receiving payout from the Success plan as well as the total Reduce consumer environmental impact by providing educational in 2016, instead selected workshops and trainings for smaller teams were to Oriflame Foundation by 2020. amount paid out to Consultants annually. information to 1 million people by 2016. conducted and will continue throughout 2017. Deadline: 2020 Progress: More to do Deadline: Year on year Progress: On track Deadline: 2016 Progress: More to do During 2016, the total amount of money raised by Oriflame Foundation During 2016 we distributed almost €350 million directly to our Consultants Through the re-launch of Ecobeauty we have been integrating some COMMITMENT 7 was more than €1.1 million, similar to 2015. Since 2009 the total sum raised through bonuses and other forms of recognition, an increase from €320 environmental messages in our catalogues and social media. The launch of a Respect Human rights by continuing implementation of UN Guiding Princiamounts to €8.4 million. million in 2015. specific concept to increase sustainability communication and reach a wider ples on Business and Human Rights through our due diligence process and audience has however been delayed and will be launched in 2017. integrating human rights into Oriflame’s policies, procedures and culture. COMMITMENT 11 COMMITMENT 2 Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Updated Support Oriflame foundation by engaging 100% of our established Help raise self-esteem by doubling the number of Consultants trained 3 PROVIDE SAFE AND REWARDING markets in Oriflame foundation fundraising activities by 2016. via Oriflame Academy. During 2015 our most salient human rights impacts were identified and Deadline: 2016 Progress: More to do Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track PLACES TO WORK actions are now being taken to ensure these are adequately addressed. During 2016, a new Human rights commitment was developed and roll-out In 2016, 48 markets (87% of all sales companies) were involved in charitable In 2016 a total of 80 000 leaders and potential leaders participated in leadCOMMITMENT 4 and integration will continue in 2017. activities, by raising money for the Oriflame Foundation or by developing ership trainings run by Oriflame. In addition approximately 160 000 ConCreate great places to work by improving employee engagement survey other activities with the employees, local communities and NGOs. sultants participated in Oriflame Business and Beauty academy trainings, ratings year on year. COMMITMENT 8 learning business skills as well as more about our products. The roll-out Conduct a Human rights risk assessments for all new markets as part of Deadline: Year on year Progress: Completed 2016 of the open e-learning platform continued with the development of new our due diligence process. video sessions and micro e-learning courses launching in 2017. A total of 37 An employee engagement survey was conducted in Central Europe, more than 560 employees from 14 markets were invited. The response rate was Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 markets have now implemented the e-learning platform, up from 33 during 2015, and 32 000 course completions by Consultants during the year. high at 97% and the overall sustainable engagement score 85%. No new markets were entered in 2016. 34 35 GREAT PRODUCTS Our vision is to bring beauty and wellbeing to millions through our products. At Oriflame, we are committed to creating responsibly-made products that bring more wellbeing into the lives of our customers. Finding GREAT PRODUCTS inspiration in nature and respecting the environment are key to our philosophy. We are constantly striving to make our products, processes and packaging more ethical, sustainable and safe throughout their lifecycle. Below are a few highlights of our achievements so far. HIGHLIGHTS • Oriflame’s sustainability flagship range Ecobeauty was relaunched • We apply a thorough safety evaluation process and have in 2016. The skin care range is approved by leading independent certificates of safety for 100% of our 1,000+ cosmetic products. organisations, Ecocert® as natural or organic certified and the carton board is sourced from Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) • We have reduced the use of petroleum as an ingredient in our certified forests. In addition, some of the products contain product formulations by 80% since 2009, replacing it with plantFairtrade® certified ingredients. derived alternatives. • We measure and report on our palm oil use and were one of • In 2015, we successfully carried out a trial run of biopolymer-based the first companies to commit to purchasing 100% of our volume packaging in our Love Nature range – a plant-based alternative to usage sustainably though GreenPalm credits. petroleum. • In 2012, we also launched the world’s first foaming product • Since 2014 we are only using natural origin exfoliants in new containing RSPO-certified segregated sustainable palm oil. product developments. During 2016 we launched a number of scrub products containing natural origin materials such as castor • In 2016, 8% of palm oil used was Mass Balance certified palm oil wax, olive stone and sugar. (up from 4% in 2015), and the remaining share was covered by GreenPalm credits. • Our environmental scientists review every single ingredient’s * The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil developed a standard for the certification of sustainable palm oil production. The Segregation supply chain model ensures that RSPOsustainability profile, assessing how natural, ethical and certified oil palm products delivered to the end user comes only from RSPO certified sources. environmentally responsible it is. For more information, please visit www.rspo.org. 37 Product development and innovation SUSTAINABLE DESIGN Over the last two years all of our new exfoliating products launched contain they can be disposed of responsibly where recycling facilities are available. natural origin scrubs, including almond shell, olive stone, silica, castor wax, And we are continuously working to find the right balance between lighter sugar and fruit seeds. packaging and durability. We also look to nature for inspiration during our concept stage, and are Below are some of the initiatives we are actively working on to improve developing new formulations with ethically and environmentally responsibly the impact of our packaging. sourced ingredients in mind. For example, our search for sustainable anti-ageCartons, liners and leaflets We want products that keep us healthy and beautiful GREAT PRODUCTS ing active ingredients led us to plant stem cells, which bring many benefits to our products. • We have been working with the Rainforest Alliance since 2010 to improve to also help keep our natural world at its best. Furthermore, in 2015 we launched our first biopolymer packaging as a the impact of our paper and other wood-based packaging. With their help, trial – a plant-based alternative to petroleum-based plastic. This kind of iniwe set goals to increase the percentage of materials that are FSC certified. tiative helps reduce the total environmental impact from the packaging. We • During 2016 we sourced 97% of display packaging cartons and leaflets from Ecobeauty proves this idea is possible. It is the most natural, ethical and continuously look for improvements like this everywhere – from eliminating FSC certified sources, a significant increase from 85% in 2015. At the end of environmentally responsible range we have ever developed. Ecobeauty was unnecessary components to reviewing the materials we use. the year all our global carton and leaflet suppliers had switched to 100% FSC. relaunched in 2016. The skin care range of products are approved by leading independent organisations, Ecocert ® as natural or organic certified, and FSC TM FSC certified product packaging to guarantee that the fibers used in the cartons come from well managed forests. In addition, the face and the eye cream contain Fairtrade ingredients Understanding our ingredients 97% 100 92% 93% and are certified by Fairtrade®. In addition to our safety assessments, we put all new cosmetic raw materials 85% 80 As well as showcasing sustainability, Ecobeauty is our innovation laboratory through a rigorous sustainability review process and assess it on the following 60 53% – we use it to develop new ideas and share them across our product lines. three criteria: This culture of innovation and sharing delivers real value for our business • Naturalness: this addresses origin and determines whether the material 40 and our customers. Beyond this tangible positive impact, Ecobeauty also has come directly from nature or has been processed in some way – such 20 symbolises Oriflame’s deep and long-held connection with nature and our as physical pressing to extract for example avocado oil, or a biotechnical 0 firm commitment to embed sustainability across our product development. process like fermentation. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 • Environmental impact: this involves checking whether a material has come Partnering with nature from an endangered plant or ecosystem, and evaluating its biodegradability Reducing impact from plastic • In 2011 we started using post-consumer recycled plastics (known as PCR and potential aquatic toxicity. Nature and ingredients from nature play an important part in our product • Ethicalness: we look at whether the ingredient is animal-based, contains plastics) in some of our tubes. Ecobeauty and Love Nature are examples philosophy. This explains why we do not use materials derived from protected genetically modified organisms or has any connections with forced labour, of ranges using PCR plastic, and our ambition is to increase usage across or endangered flora and fauna, and why we were one of the first companies child labour or conflict concerns etc. all our brands. in the world to use ingredients sourced directly from nature. For example, • The vast majority of the materials we use are recyclable and our ambition instead of using petroleum-based synthetic alcohols in our Eau de Toilettes and We are also constantly monitoring scientific reports on environmental issues is to use only recyclable materials. One small but important achievement aerosols, we use natural origin alcohols that most often come from fermented to stay up-to-date and informed. By building this holistic understanding of our was the development of the Ecobeauty Face Cream pump which is made grains – a great example of promoting the use of natural ingredients, reducing ingredients we can make accurate reports to our internal and external audiout of only plastics, and therefore 100% recyclable. Pump-based products carbon impact and boosting sustainable farming economies. Moreover, we ences and know where and how to make the most impactful improvements. are notoriously hard to recycle because of their mixed material makeup; track the palm oil content of all our products and are the first company in the Ecobeauty pump however does not contain any metal and is, as a result, the world to offer a foaming cleansing product that contains RSPO-certified segregated sustainable palm oil. Packaging that performs much easier for our customers to dispose of responsibly. Additionally, the Ecobeauty Face Cream pump is airless, meaning that all of the product gets In a similar way, we wanted to stop using plastic microbeads in our exfoliating Oriflame’s cartons, bottles, tubes and jars are a large part of our environmendispensed from the pack. products. We started testing alternatives at the start of 2013 and identified tal impact. The vast majority of our packaging materials consist of paper and • In 2015 we successfully carried out a trial run of biopolymer-based packaging a number of alternatives of natural origin, including plant waxes, nutshells other wood-fibre materials, plastics and glass. We strike to make our primary in our Love nature range. Because this uses renewable plant-based materials and seeds. These all meet our high performance and safety expectations. packs for example, the tube or bottle a product comes in are recyclable so rather than petroleum, it has a lower climate impact. 38 39 Oriflame has a team of safety experts working with internal and external specialists. Together, they make sure every ingredient we use and product we sell meets our high quality, safety, ethical and environmental standards. We use Social & ethical STANDARDS the same high standards wherever in the world our products are made or sold. For all our cosmetic products, we apply a comprehensive evaluation that GREAT PRODUCTS includes the following: • We conduct a thorough evaluation of all raw materials. We only use reputable suppliers, and only select ingredients that are supported with We are committed to marketing products satisfactory data. that meet our own social and ethical standards, • We carefully measure safe concentration levels. Our team of expert toxicologists ensure ingredients are safe for intended use and intended and those of our customers. consumer group. • We test our final formulations for irritation and sensitisation on healthy Oriflame cares about animal welfare and endangered species and we human volunteers in independent laboratories, and also use ‘in vitro’ have high standards for all materials we source: (non-animal) tests to further confirm the safety of our products. • We do not use animal fur and only accept leather from cattle that • Post-launch, we proactively collect feedback from consumers and data have been bred for human consumption. about any unwanted effects. • For some products, we use selectively sourced animal by-products – such as beeswax and honey, lanolin derivatives (a secretion All Oriflame cosmetic products are made to be safe in accordance with the from wool-bearing animals) and dairy products. provisions of the European Cosmetics Regulation (EC No 1223/2009) and • We do not use plucked animal hair or feathers and only accept other major International Regulations. In markets where regulations are less animal hair and feathers cut from living, domesticated animals developed, Oriflame applies the European regulation requirements for safety including pony, goat and boar. as a minimum. • We use fish oil from sustainably managed stocks in our Wellness We have the same strict safety measures for our wellness products. All food supplements range. ingredients are of the highest food grade purity, fully approved internationally We have never tested our products or ingredients on animals at any Product for use in food and selected for optimum safety and efficacy. Everything we make meets EU Regulations (EC No 178/2002), as well as recommendations stage during product development. We have always advocated alternafrom various global health authorities, including the World Health Organisation. tive test methods and use the latest in-vitro (non-animal) methods for We are proud to have our product development based in one of the world’s any tests that are not appropriate for human volunteers – for example, SAFETY most scientifically advanced countries, and to further ensure the safety of the eye irritancy. range, it is evaluated and endorsed by renowned Swedish experts in the field However, in certain countries we have to submit our finished products of medical science and nutrition. for additional testing for regulatory reasons. When this is the case, we We have certificates of safety present for 100% of 1,000+ products we have offer other safety guarantees and try to persuade the relevant authorities on the market. In 2016 there was one incident with a cosmetic product that to accept this data. We also work with the European Cosmetic Trade did not meet our strict safety standards and this was immediately rectified. Association, Cosmetics Europe, to bring these kinds of local laws into 100% of Oriflame’s global cosmetic, accessory and Wellness products follow closer alignment with European regulations. When unsuccessful, we must occasionally – and reluctantly – submit finished products for further We never compromise on the safety of our consumers strict internal procedures and are assessed prior to launch to ensure they meet the relevant labelling requirements in all markets in which the products are testing, which may include animal testing. For more details, please see – their wellbeing is of paramount importance to us. sold e.g. EU Cosmetics Regulation No 1223/2009, 1169/2011 for Foodstuffs. our policy on animal testing. 40 41 GOALS & COMMITMENTS Bring Beauty & Wellbeing through 8 FOCUS ON PRODUCT INGREDIENTS AND SAFETY RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS COMMITMENT 16 Continue sustainability review of ingredients used across our product portfolio. Incorporate formal review of Wellness raw materials by 2018. GREAT PRODUCTS Deadline: 2018 Progress: Updated 2016 100% of our current cosmetics raw materials have been sustainability reviewed and profiled. Focus is now on our Wellness products. 6 IMPROVE THE SUSTAINABILITY 7 FOCUS ON INNOVATION PROFILE OF OUR PRODUCTS COMMITMENT 17 COMMITMENT 14 Focus on ingredient impact and work to phase out prioritised COMMITMENT 12 Launch at least one sustainable Oriflame product innovation annually, ingredients from a safety, environmental or ethical perspective. Drive continuous progress by ensuring that product for example the innovative Ecobeauty range, from 2015. Deadline: Year on year Progress: Completed 2016 categories improve sustainability profile year-on-year. Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 Our experts consistently monitor ingredient concerns – both from a Deadline: Year on year Progress: On track In 2016 we re-launched our Ecobeauty range which focused on luxurious regulatory and a consumer perspective. We have a governance process that Several initiatives are in progress with the aim to improve the products’ skincare with both natural and certified organic products, as well as two strategically supports the brand, and this will be formalised going forward so sustainability profile looking at both the raw material and product perspec(face and eye) certified Fairtrade products. In 2017 we will see the launch that the business continues to make decisions about key ingredient topics. tive. A number of launches with a clear sustainability direction are being of our new Love Nature range, which includes biodegradable rinse-off developed. To further strengthen our ambition to reduce our impact on products. COMMITMENT 18 water we developed biodegradable formulae for our new Love Nature Continue to implement the Oriflame Product Safety Evaluation COMMITMENT 15 process ensuring a single global safety standard. range. Our Ingredient Integrity Process progressed allowing us to address Focus on innovation by increasing use of actives from plant biotechnology. specific ingredients. Strategy work within all product categories is being Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 formalised. Deadline: Year on year Progress: Completed 2016 In 2016 there was one incident with a cosmetic product that did not meet We are consistently increasing our portfolio of actives from plant stem cells our strict safety standards and this was immediately rectified. The safety COMMITMENT 13 technology with an additional 17 products launched in 2016. evaluation process applies to 100% of our cosmetic and wellness products. Continuously increase the use of post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastics in our cosmetic packaging materials. Deadline: Year on year Progress: More to do 9 MARKET PRODUCTS THAT MEET PCR content is being introduced in plastic tubes wherever possible. Due to a number of reasons, e.g. quality perception and limitations in suppliers HIGH SOCIAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS providing PCR, the percentage of tube concepts launched during 2016 COMMITMENT 19 containing PCR material decreased. Respect animal welfare by never using cosmetic ingredients derived from dead animals or which cause harm or suffering to animals. Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 No products were launched during 2016 breaching this commitment. 42 43 THRIVING PLANET We are committed to reducing the impact of our business. We have a bold ambition: to make our business environmentally sustainable. To reach this goal, we launched a new environmental strategy in 2010, which we updated in 2014. The strategy, and its accompanying actions, is built on both a thorough understanding of our impact and a long held businesswide commitment to the principles of sustainability. Below are a few highlights of our achievements so far. THRIVING PLANET HIGHLIGHTS • In 2016, 99% of our catalogue paper came from credibly certified • Oriflame achieved a score A, Leadership for timber, and a score forests. B, Management for palm oil, in the CDP’s forests program, a • We stopped more than 96% of our manufacturing waste from recognition of our actions to source forest based products going to landfill in 2016. responsibly. • In the WWF palm oil scorecard 2016 Oriflame scored 9 out of 9 points, among industry best. We are proud of these achievements but we recognise we still • We are continuously working to reduce impact focusing on have a long way to go. To ultimately reach our goal of business-wide emissions to water from our products. For many years we have environmental sustainability we need to: used biodegradable cleansing agents in our bodycare rinse• Source only renewable or recycled materials off products, and in 2016 we focused on launching complete • Ensure no emissions to water and no negative impact on water biodegradable formulations for the 2017 Love Nature range. availability • Our main office in Moscow was granted BREEAM In-Use • Achieve neutral or net positive carbon emissions certification in May 2016. The certification helps drive sustainable • Send no waste to landfill improvements through operational efficiency. • Develop sites and operations with no negative impact. • In 2015, the Noginsk production site in Russia received Silver certification using the LEED® for New Construction rating system. In addition Oriflame’s new Wellness facility in Roorkee, India received Gold certification under the LEED® for New Construction rating system. CONTINUOUS FOCUS ON IMPACT • Since 2010, we have cut our carbon dioxide emissions by 32%. We have made commitments under each of these five areas. In 2016 absolute emissions were stable compared to 2015 while To sustain progress, most of these commitments focus on taking relative emissions decreased by 4%. action where our business makes the biggest impact, and where we • In the CDP 2016 climate change evaluation Oriflame was awarded can influence real change. As our journey continues, we will increase a score B – reflecting our actions to reduce carbon emissions and the number and reach of these commitments to further reduce our mitigate the business risks of climate change. impact across our value chain. 45 SUSTAINABLE sourcing We are working to make our business sustainable across our value chain. Progress on palm oil Because a significant proportion of our impact comes from the raw materials we use, we need to make the right decisions about how, where and what We are among the industry leaders when it comes to sustainable sourcing of we source. Today, we select sustainable and renewable materials whenever one of our main raw materials – palm oil. Palm oil is one of the world’s most possible. We have commitments for two of our main raw materials: paper widely used raw material and demand continues to rise. This is a problem because its cultivation has a number of serious environmental impacts – such Our ambition is to source only renewable and recyclable materials. and palm oil. as large-scale forest conversion and habitat loss, soil erosion, pollution and Progress on paper climate change. However, compared to other vegetable oils, palm oil gives the THRIVING PLANET highest yield per hectare and requires the fewest fertilisers and pesticides. Our main raw material is paper and other wood-based products, which we By 2020, we have committed to source 100% certified sustainable palm use for catalogues and packaging. Forests are a vital part of global and local oil* by physical supply chain. While in the past we have been restricted in eco-systems – they provide habitats, preserve biodiversity, clean our air and moving forward quickly towards our target due to, among other things, lack water, absorb carbon and provide people with materials, food and livelihoods. of availability of certified sustainable derivatives, our plan now is to accelerate In line with a strategy developed in collaboration with the Rainforest Alliance our uptake as we get closer to our 2020 deadline. in 2010, we have committed to source 100% of our paper and board packaging and publications from credibly certified or recycled origins by 2020. In practice, This commitment will be a significant challenge, but we have a strong track this means giving preference to Forest Stewardship Council (FSC TM) certified record to work from: paper when possible. If FSC is not available, we allow other certifications that • In 2010, we started purchasing GreenPalm credits to cover 100% our meet our minimum requirements – these are very closely modelled on FSC consumption and raise awareness of the issues surrounding palm oil. We Controlled Wood requirements. were among the first in the cosmetic industry to do this. Every year we ask our paper and board suppliers to report on their paper • In 2012, we made the world’s first foaming product that contained only use and full supply chain. We ask for data on the quantity of paper and board, RSPO certified segregated sustainable palm oil. the location of the forests and the exact species of the trees. This data is • In 2016, WWF gave us 9 out 9 on their Palm oil Scorecard, placing us with consolidated and we report publicly on the results. We have not yet had these the best in our industry. results independently audited, but are working closely with the Rainforest Alli• In 2014 we started purchasing Mass Balance certified palm oil and in 2016 ance to understand and analyse our suppliers’ responses and documentation. over 8% of palm oil products used in our finished goods was certified For example, in 2016, we were able to trace 99% of our catalogue paper to sustainable by Mass Balance (an increase from 4%** in 2015). We plan to a credibly certified origin. increase the share of Mass Balance materials further during the coming years. • We have participated in RSPO Conferences since 2011, and are currently Credibly Certified Catalogue Paper a member of one standing committee and one working group within the organisation. We are recognised as a leading player in our industry and continuously work to share insights with companies who want to make 98% 99% 100 94% 93% their palm oil use sustainable. 84% 80 * The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil developed a standard for the certification of 60 55% sustainable palm oil production. The Segregation supply chain model ensures that RSPOcertified oil palm products delivered to the end user comes only from RSPO certified sources. 40 For more information, please visit www.rspo.org. ** The method to calculate palm oil usage was updated during the year, resulting in adjusted 20 2015 results (previously reported 10%). The new externally audited calculations increase 0 accuracy of volumes used and exact timings of usage. Full 2015 volumes were covered by 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RSPO approved supply chains. 46 47 Carbon footprint and CLIMATE CHANGE Carbon emissions, 2010–2015 100 000 BUILDING LOGISTICAL BUSINESS OTHER ENERGY TRANSPORTATION TRAVEL THRIVING PLANET 80 000 60 000 We are taking action to cut emissions across our business. By 2020, we want to cut Oriflame’s CO2 impact by half *. tCO2e 40 000 20 000 Carbon emissions are a serious global challenge. There is more carbon dioxide also regarding the scope of issues under consideration. We will continue to in the atmosphere today than there has been for 650,000 years. All 16 years review the likely impacts of climate change on our business and supply model. 0 of the 21st century rank among the seventeen warmest on record, and the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 number of extreme weather events continues to rise. Results since 2010 Changing global climate patterns will mean more extreme and unpredictable weather with for example more frequent storms, heat waves, droughts and By implementing a company-wide program, we reduced the emissions from In particular, reductions have been achieved thanks to the significant modniques, upgrading lighting and lighting control, improving heating and ventilations floods. Greenhouse Gases, including carbon emissions, are one of the major Oriflame’s operations by 32% since 2010. In 2016 emissions remained on a ifications and changes to the set-up of our distribution network, which has systems and focusing on better building insulation. contributors to climate change. In addition they contain particles that result similar level compared to 2015. resulted in a more than 54% decrease in emissions from globally organised Finally, we are continuously working to increase our share of renewable in local air pollution and health issues. The emissions intensity measured as emissions per €M revenue (tCO2e/ transportation since 2010. energy across the business with the long-term ambition to achieve 100% Our business has a presence in countries that are already experiencing the €M) was 43.4 in 2016, a reduction of 17% since 2010. Compared to 2015 renewable energy in Oriflame owned buildings. During 2016 43% of total • We are gradually consolidating local warehouses and moving our product effects of climate change, which encourages us to take action to reduce our the ratio decreased by 4%. The emissions per square meter (tCO2e/m2), an electrical consumption, and 20% of energy use in manufacturing came from sourcing, catalogue printing and Global Distribution Centres (GDCs), closer impact. Results from lifecycle assessments show that Oriflame impacts the indicator of energy efficiency, decreased by 2% compared to 2015 and by renewable sources. The drop of renewable energy consumption over time is to our major markets, resulting in lower environmental impacts as well as climate in a multitude of ways; e.g. through the materials we source, man35% since 2010. mainly due to the divestment of our Swedish facility which ran primarily on reduced lead times. ufacturing, transportation and travel and how the products are disposed at EMISSIONS BREAKDOWN 2016 renewable electricity. • We are continuously reviewing the packing and loading routines so that more the end of life. Working to reduce our climate impact throughout our whole Emissions breakdown 2016 can fit in each truck and container. The average number of pallets shipped value chain will make us more efficient as a company and help drive innovation. in each truck and container have increased by more than 52% since 2010. Renewable energy consumption in manufacturing Since we track and analyse the emissions that are under our control, we (This helped saved us €5.5 million between 2010 and 2016.) have been able to develop a strong strategy for where to make savings in • We are improving our transportation routes, and focusing on reducing our 40 000 both emissions and cost. 27% air shipments. This also includes increasing the share of shipments directly 35 000 In line with the business strategy and Oriflame’s long-term vision to become TRAVEL from suppliers to Oriflame markets’ warehouses. 30 000 a sustainable company, actions are being taken to reduce our carbon depen• When selecting road carriers the aim is to utilise Euro 4, 5 and 6 standard 25 000 52% MWh dence through a wide range of initiatives. We started by focusing on our ENERGY trucks wherever possible, thus reducing particle emissions. 20 000 factories, and then moved on to our operations and other areas over which • Part of the reduction in emissions was also due to a 39% reduction in the num15 0000 we have control – such as our offices, travel and transportation. 21% ber of total pallets shipped since 2010, which was mainly due to lower sales. 10 0000 The next step is to start working on areas that we can influence but do LOGISTICS 5 0000 not control. This means reaching along our value chain to find and create At our manufacturing sites we are also continuing to implement energy efficien28% 28% 26% 44% 39% 21% 20% opportunities for change among our suppliers and our consumers. We intend cy measures, contributing to an absolute decrease in emissions and achieving 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to expand our strategy both in terms of reach across the supply chain but * This goal is based on emissions relative turnover from 2010 as our base year. our 2015 targets. Initiatives include developing lower energy processing techENERGY CONSUMPTION RENEWABLE ENERGY 48 49 WATER WASTE Waste is an area of significant impact for our business. A large proportion of our products and their packaging end up in landfill, which is problematic as unmanaged landfill creates a lot of harmful gases and contaminants, including methane – a particularly potent greenhouse gas. management We realise the scale of our waste challenge and are committed to tackWe are limiting our impact on water ling it. Much of our progress will come from creating better, more efficient packaging in the first place. That means continuing to increase the number of – globally and locally. THRIVING XXXPLANET materials we use that have already been recycled, and making sure consumers We are taking responsibility for waste can dispose of our products responsibly. Even though the volume is smaller, it is also important for us to address the waste that is created across the rest Water is an important part of our environmental impact. Today, water security across our value chain. of our business. is one of the most serious and fastest-growing environmental challenges facing our world. Demand for water is increasing and analysis suggests that by 2030 the world will face a 40% gap between what we need and what is available. Packaging for cosmetics Water issues are therefore a global challenge, but because we operate in water-scarce countries, it is important for us to consider the implications on a local level too. Looking specifically at our business, there are two main challenges we need to address: water contamination and water scarcity. To understand these challenges better, we conducted a water impact study of the lifecycle of a representative selection of our key products in 2013. 45% The results of this study have helped us define the focus areas for our PLASTIC water strategy and strengthen our existing commitments. For example, we 41% GLASS learned just how much of our water footprint comes from customers using our products – and how much higher the impact of this is in water-scarce countries like India. Because of this, we are looking at how we can engage our FRESHWATER WITHDRAWAL customers around more sustainable water use. Life cycle stages shampoo We know that the water impact from our manufacturing sites is a limited part of the life cycle impact, however, for local communities this impact may 8% 6% 20 PAPERBOARD METAL be important. Therefore we have looked at the exact locations of our manufacturing sites and we conducted a first analysis of the risks and impacts of the different locations. New targets for reducing water usage at our sites have END-OF-LIFE LITRE / CONSUMER USE 15 A snapshot of the different materials we use for packaging our cosmetics, by weight. now been set for 2020. USE STAGE This information helps us decide where to make the most impactful changes. Another important focus area raised by the study is the biodegradability of our ingredients. Many beauty products end up in the water system – in DISTRIBUTION particular, rinse off products like shower gel and shampoo. We have already 10 committed to using only biodegradable cleansing ingredients in our personal MANUFACTURING care products and the findings of our study are helping us prioritise how to Towards zero waste to landfill PACKAGING PRODUCTION By 2020, we plan to send zero waste to landfill across our manufacturing – in strengthen this commitment further, for example by phasing out specific ingredients. We have strengthened our efforts and during 2016 we focused 5 2016 96% of our waste avoided landfill, the vast majority going to recycling. INGREDIENTS on developing fully biodegradable formulas for a key upcoming launch, and of We will also be working to find new ways to help our three million Consulcourse we continued to use only natural origin scrub beads in our exfoliating tants reduce their waste – both while at our service centres and elsewhere developments. 0 in their lives. 50 51 Oriflame sites and THRIVING PLANET OPERATIONS Our business can make a positive social and environmental impact in the communities where we operate. We want to reduce the impact of our events, projects and facilities – it is internal audit program continued to be rolled out at production sites, wareimportant we get our own house in order. Increasing the sustainability profile houses and offices. The audits are focused on environmental sustainability of Oriflame’s buildings and operations is a key priority. including energy efficiency, water consumption and waste. The results have LEED ® – or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design – is a green helped us identify areas of improvement and establishing energy saving probuilding certification program that recognises best-in-class building strategies grams that can be replicated across the facilities. All manufacturing sites have and practices. We are aiming towards certifying all our new construction and targets to reduce their impact. major renovations. In 2015 our new Manufacturing facility at Noginsk, Russia Our goal is to apply sustainability to every project and event that we plan. was awarded a LEED ® Silver certification using the LEED® for New ConstrucFor example, we need to improve the overall impact of our global conferences. tion rating system. The same year our new Manufacturing sites at Roorkee, We already include travel for business and Consultants travelling to Oriflame India received Gold certification under the LEED ® for New Construction conferences in our CO2 scope – and have seen a significant decrease in emisrating system. The project incorporated many innovative measures focusing sions from travel since 2010. in particular on water and energy efficiency and included the installation of We have invested in video conferencing systems and are making sure everyroof mounted solar panels. one has access to the right software for online conferences, and knows how and Our main office in Moscow was granted BREEAM In-Use certification in when to use it. We also regularly communicate with our employees to keep May 2016. The certification helps drive sustainable improvements through them informed on our targets, progress and the actions we are undertaking. operational efficiency. Our Global Travel Policy encourages all our employees to make travel We have also developed internal guidelines and audits to improve our envichoices that balance cost, convenience and environmental impact. ronmental performance across our business sites. The ‘Oriflame Green Office We have also published a collection of Guidelines for Responsible ConferGuide’ includes detailed instructions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, ences, which are designed to help us run more sustainable conferences that minimising waste, sourcing sustainably and optimising water use. In 2016 the create pride and a sense of belonging among our leaders and employees. 52 53 GOALS & COMMITMENTS Drive environmental SUSTAINABILITY THRIVING PLANET  SOURCE RENEWABLE AND SUSTAINABLE COMMITMENT 23 COMMITMENT 26 Source 100% of catalogue paper from Reduce CO2 emissions from factories by 15% by 2020. MATERIALS WHENEVER POSSIBLE credibly certified origin by 2016. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track COMMITMENT 20 Deadline: 2016 Progress: Completed 2016 We are continuously working to increase our share of renewable energy Source 100% certified sustainable palm oil by physical supply chain In the annual supply chain analysis of our while becoming more energy efficient. The electricity at our largest manby 2020. catalogue suppliers we found that 99% of ufacturing site in Poland is from 100% certified renewable sources. Our Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track catalogue paper was fully compliant with our paper commitment – which new Wellness factory in India is getting part of its electricity from solar We continued to take steps in supporting the production and usage of means it came from a credibly certified source with an intact chain of panels. Since 2015 CO2 emission decreased by 1% per unit while absolute sustainable oil palm products. In 2016 over 8% of oil palm products used in custody. emissions increased by 12%. our finished goods was certified sustainable by Mass Balance (up from 4%* COMMITMENT 24 COMMITMENT 27 in 2015). The remaining usage was covered by GreenPalm Credits. Source 100% of display packaging cartons and leaflets from Reduce energy use in factories by 15% by 2020. COMMITMENT 21 FSC certified sources by 2016. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track Promote sustainable palm oil by purchasing GreenPalm credits Deadline: 2016 Progress: Completed 2016 Numerous initiatives to reduce energy consumption were implemented in to cover 100% of our consumption. The analysis of our supply chain for display packaging cartons and leaflets 2016, e.g. improved technical processes. The energy consumption per unit Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 purchased during full year 2016 showed that 97% of the material was cerdecreased by 8% while absolute figures increased by 4%. We purchased GreenPalm credits to cover our full 2016 volume. tified by FSC. By the end of 2016 all material purchased was coming from FSC certified sources. COMMITMENT 28 COMMITMENT 22 Increase renewable energy in factories to 70% by 2018. Source 100% of wood fibre from credible certified sources by 2020. Long term ambition to achieve 100% renewable in Oriflame owned buildings. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track  REDUCE EMISSIONS TO AIR Deadline: 2018 Progress: On track In total, all paper and board surveyed in 2016 showed a compliance rate During 2016 43% of total electrical consumption, and 20% of energy conof 99%. We will keep working to ensure that 100% of our paper is proven COMMITMENT 25 sumption at Oriflame factories came from renewable sources, similar levels acceptable by our policy. Reduce CO2 emissions from global Oriflame operations by 50% by 2020. to 2015. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track During 2016, the total greenhouse gas emissions from our operations *The method to calculate palm oil usage was updated during the year, resulting in adjusted 2015 results (figure previously reported 10%). The new externally audited remained on a similar level in absolute terms and decreased by 4% in relacalculations increase accuracy of volumes used and the exact timings of usage. tive terms. Since our base year 2010, absolute emissions are down by 32% Volumes for full-year 2015 were covered by RSPO-approved supply chains. and relative emissions by 17%. 54 55 GOALS & COMMITMENTS  REDUCE EMISSIONS TO WATER COMMITMENT 33 Increase recycling of packaging by gradually introducing recycling facilities COMMITMENT 29 at our service centres worldwide. THRIVING PLANET Use only biodegradable cleansing ingredients in 100% of our Deadline: Year on year Progress: More to do Personal Care products. A large share of our offices and service centres offer recycling facilities to Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016 employees and Consultants. The most common materials to recycle are Only biodegradable cleansing ingredients are used in our Personal Care paper, carton, plastic and glass. We need to further investigate how to developments. To further strengthen our ambition to reduce our impact increase share of facilities offering recycling and also how to increase usage on water we developed biodegradable formula for our new Love Nature of these facilities. range. COMMITMENT 30 Start to phase out plastic micro beads in all new products from 2014.  REDUCE IMPACT FROM ORIFLAME Deadline: 2014 Progress: Completed ACTIVITIES, EVENTS, PROJECTS & FACILITIES In 2016 we continued to use only natural origin scrubs such as olive stone, COMMITMENT 34 fruit seeds and silica – in all of our exfoliating products. We stopped manuPursue LEED Green Building scheme certification for all new construcfacturing older products with plastic microbeads at the end of 2016. tion and major renovations and pursue environmental effectiveness on all our premises. Deadline: Ongoing Progress: Completed 2016  REDUCE SOLID WASTE Oriflame’s main office in Moscow was granted BREEAM In-Use certification in May 2016. The certification helps drive sustainable improvements COMMITMENT 31 through operational efficiency. Reduce waste disposed at all our factories by 15% by 2020. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track COMMITMENT 36 We have reduced the waste produced per unit by 22% since 2015. In absoReduce water use at all our factories by 15% by 2020. lute terms this represents a decrease of 12%. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track The water consumption per unit decreased by 22% since 2015, while absoCOMMITMENT 32 lute consumption decreased marginally. Send no waste to land-fill from our factories by 2020. Deadline: 2020 Progress: On track In 2016, approximately 96% of all waste produced at Oriflame’s factories avoided ending up in landfill. 56 57 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS We want to reach along our value chain to find and create opportunities for change among our suppliers. A large proportion of the overall social and environment impact of a company occurs in its supply chain, beyond the direct scope of operations. In Oriflame, we believe that integrating sustainability criteria within the procurement practices is essential in order to move towards a more sustainable supply chain. We believe that companies should work towards guaranteeing responsible practices throughout the supply chain and work alongside their suppliers to help improve their performance. Below are presented a few highlights of our work so far. HIGHLIGHTS • We strive to move Finished Goods sourcing closer to our main • All global suppliers have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and sales markets, primarily CIS and India, and support them by every new global supplier is requested to do this before entering sourcing packaging and raw materials locally. into a business agreement with Oriflame. With the implementation of a new Global Procurement Policy in 2016, each regional • During 2013, Ecovadis supplier rating tool was launched to suppliers are also requested to sign our Code of Conduct to strategic suppliers. The trial results were positive, and the tool has entering business with Oriflame. been further rolled out to more key suppliers since then. More than 92% of our Finished Goods suppliers currently use the tool. • With regard to our accessory supply chain, in 2016, Oriflame audited 20% of global direct and global second tier accessory suppliers. 59 Oriflame’s SUPPLY CHAIN Accessories from Asia Audits of suppliers in 2016 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIERS When evaluating our supply chain, we concluded that our main risk suppliers In 2016, Oriflame audited 20% of global direct and global second tier accesare accessory suppliers located in Asia. For these global accessories suppliers, sories suppliers. During this year we also started rolling-out supplier audits Oriflame works in co-operation with established trading houses that conduct to our main cosmetics suppliers in India. Total audit results have improved annual audits of their subcontractors. In addition to these audits, Oriflame considerably compared to 2015. Focus in the past years has been on working conducts its own audits to ensure compliance with the Supplier Code of Contogether with suppliers to reduce non-conformances, and many re-audits were duct, and to verify that necessary actions are taken for any non-compliance. performed during 2016. We can also see positive results of collaborating with Oriflame produces close to 50% of cosmetic products in-house with manuof our product subcontractors and packaging suppliers, and undertake susOriflame has staff located in both China and India dedicated to conducting our trading houses to align expectations on second tier suppliers. Currently facturing sites located in Poland, Russia, India and China. External suppliers tainability audits at high-risk suppliers, especially in Asia. sustainability audits. During 2014, audits were also carried out at all key trading we are re-evaluating the scoring criteria and methodology for reporting our in Western and Central Europe, Russia and Asia produce the majority of the We support suppliers willing to make improvements, and will stop working houses to evaluate their systems and processes. We conduct regular review non-compliances, and therefore we are unable to show the compliance results remaining products, including cosmetics, accessories and wellness products. with any that score below the requisite grade and are unwilling to commit to meetings to ensure continual improvements and discuss main findings from for 2016. Chemical safety, Working hours and wages, and Freedom of assoThrough different regional sourcing initiatives, we strive to source as closely to making a positive change. audits. A limited amount of accessories are developed locally and we are ciation are the top three issues of non-conformance found during the audits. our markets as possible, to shorten the supply chain and increase service levels. When screening and selecting new suppliers, sustainability performance is currently working to put processes in place to ojectively verify that quality and When non-conformances are found a corrective action plan is put in place During 2016 we continued to increase regional sourcing by buying more from taken into consideration. A risk evaluation process also includes considerations sustainability parameters at these local suppliers are in line with our Supplier and the supplier is given a set amount of time to improve their performance. suppliers based in strategic locations, particularly in the CIS region and India on human rights issues such as child and forced labour. Code of Conduct. including locally produced raw materials, components and finished goods to both support in-house manufacturing and to build external competences. In Supplier assessment tool Sustainability audit score results Asia addition we kicked-off a China sourcing project to support our growth in China. During 2013 Ecovadis supplier rating tool was launched to strategic suppliers. 70% The trial results were positive, and the tool has been further rolled out to Helping our suppliers improve more suppliers since then. 60% Our Oriflame Global Supplier Evaluation program is an important way for This assessment tool enables us to collect and evaluate sustainability data us to improve sustainability performance, including human rights, across our from our suppliers. Suppliers are required to provide relevant documentation 50% value chain. The program allows us to assess our suppliers on a range of that evidences their sustainability performance, for example, energy audits, sustainability criteria. All global suppliers are part of this program, and join it certifications, social compliance data, and so on. The data is analysed and 40% by committing to follow our Supplier Code of Conduct. audited in order to evaluate the supplier and rate it, checking that its perWe have a five-step process that sets out requirements and details how formance is acceptable for Oriflame. A number of aspects within the areas 30% suppliers are evaluated, scored and developed. The foundation of this process of environment, social issues, supply chain and ethics are being considered is the Supplier Code of Conduct which outlines our requirements regarding during this evaluation. 20% for example working conditions, health and safety, discrimination and enviWhen non-conformances are found and suppliers do not achieve minimum ronmental impact. The Code applies to all our direct suppliers; however, we requirements through this evaluation system, they are flagged for a physical 10% encourage our suppliers to implement this Code of Conduct upstream in audit and we make sure that we work with them and provide the support for their own value chain. them to improve and achieve acceptable levels. 0% The Supplier evaluation process also helps us to identify high-risk suppliers More than 92% of our Finished Goods suppliers, currently use the assessEXCELLENT GOOD ACCEPTABLE WEAK and prioritise their audit and evaluation. We conduct regular site visits at all ment tool. 60 61 ABOUT THIS report Oriflame has a strategy for becoming a more sustainable information about the development of the Company and its operations, references are made to the Oriflame Annual Report for the fiscal year company which includes communicating openly on our 2016. Unless otherwise specified, all data concerning suppliers and commitments and progess. During the last years, we supplier factories includes all suppliers and factories that were active have increased our reporting gradually and we published and approved for production during the reporting period. Our GHG emissions calculations and reporting is aligned with the GHG Protocol our first separate Sustainability Report in 2014. and Defra. This methodology has been reviewed and approved by an external party, SGS, which also conducted a limited assurance review This Sustainability Report covers material sustainability strategies, of our logistics and manufacturing emissions, in accordance with the activites and performances for the company Oriflame Holding requirements set by the CDP. AG (called Oriflame in this report) during the period January 1 to December 31, 2016, unless stated otherwise. Franchise operations are This report has been developed and reviewed by Oriflame´s not covered in this report. This report was published on Oriflame’s sustainability team, relevant experts in the company, and is approved website, www.oriflame.com, on May 23, where you can also find by the CEO. additional information about our sustainability efforts. Our reporting in this document is prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, level Core and a GRI index with references for all applicable principles is found on our website. CONTACT INFORMATION Information and facts are selected on the basis of sustainability Antonia Simon-Stenberg aspects assessed essential for Oriflame’s operations, and are based VP Sustainability & Quality Management on the best possible sources known by the company. Regarding some Antonia.Simon-Stenberg@oriflame.com 62 63 © 2017 Oriflame Cosmetics AG
