JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 I. A statement of continued support for the Global Compact I am pleased to confirm that Julie Sandlau Vietnam continues supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environment and anti-corruption. With this annual report, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Julie Sandlau Vietnam will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. 20th October 2017 Mr. Soren Roed Pedersen CEO/Julie Sandlau Vietnam 1|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2017 II. Introduction: 1. About Julie Sandlau Vietnam. Company : Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Address : Km 9, Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. Contact Person : Soren Roed Pedersen, General Director Tel: +84 433 65 67 68 Soren@juliesandlauvn.com Reporting Period : 20th October 2016 – 20th October 2017 Membership Date : 08th November 2012 Sector : Jewelry designing and producing Number of Employees : 135 2. Brief description of nature of business a. The Company Julie Sandlau Vietnam Co. Ltd. Is 100% foreign own factory from Denmark located at Km 9 Lang Hoa Lac Street, An Khanh Commune, Hoai Duc District, Hanoi, Vietnam. We are specializing in producing & exporting high-end jewelry. b. CSR Julie Sandlau Vietnam has high focus on social responsibility and as a part of our Corporate Social Responsibility it is a wish to be able to comply according to the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles throughout the organization and collaborators. c. Julie Sandlau Vietnam CSR Vision Julie Sandlau Vietnam vision and intension is to act social responsible both local and global based on the principle and intension of the UN Global Conduct and support the values within: • Human Rights • Labor Rights • Environment • Anti-corruption 3. Availability of this COP This COP is available online at www.unglobalcompact.org . It will also be distributed to clients and suppliers as well as being forwarded to any requesting parties. 2|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2017 This is the fifth CPO report since 2013 when Julie Sandlau Vietnam joined the Global Compact. The annual CPO report is an opportunity for us to review and re-evaluate what we have done during the year and to bring more incentives and motivation for our action plan next year. 2017 is a difficult year for Julie Sandlau Vietnam in the aspect of production and business activities, but we still dedicate ourselves to internal CSR activities to enhance the connection, motivation and spirit between our employees. In January, we held periodical health checks for all our employees and came up with the result of no occupational diseases or infectious diseases. This result is due to our great effort to spread knowledge and to ensure about sound, light, environment for company working area. In January also, we organized training courses on ‘Occupational safety and health’ and ‘First Aid’ for all employees to help them increase their knowledge to protect themselves in production. This year we also distribute new uniforms, new industrial protective clothings such as masks, slippers, gloves, etc. and specific equipments for each production department so that our employees can work safely. In February, we cooperated with the local ‘Fire fighting and prevention police department’ to conduct training under strict regulations in theory and practice on: fire fighting and prevention; evacuation route when there is fire alarm. Together with the participation of Fire fighting police officer, we have gained a lot of helpful knowledge about risks of fire and explosion, how to prevent it and how to avoid it if there is fire at work as well as at any place outside of work. In March, we used to having a beautiful custom for International Women's Day and this year, our Company Trade Union has worked with HR Department to organize a movie show for all employees at Lotte cinema in Big C Thang Long. We all enjoyed that action movie with its unbelievable visual effects and we all can feel our combination is becoming stronger. Continuing to maintain 5S activities and applying the principles of lean management, our factory is always kept neat and clean, everything is optimized, every employee is conscious about 3|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2017 changing for better work process. The principles of 5S have been particularly useful within this year as it helped to rearrange our factory after some incident and recover our production in a fast order. Together with Kaizen improvements, we have saved a lot of time and money in cleaning, sorting and in production stages. Our company also kept organizing emulation movements for employees and cross-evaluation for departments. This has gradually become the habit of our company staff to participate in those activities, as can be seen they are very enthusiastic and now there are emulations between not only production shifts but also between individuals, making this movement totally widespread. Moreover, 5S mindset becomes life style of each employee, they have been appling 5S theory in their arrangement of furniture and household items. Within the year, a successful Trade Union Congress has been held and it came along with a whole new Trade Union Executive board, marking a new milestone for the development of Company Trade Union with the hope to create more activities to protect and be the truly representatives for the voice and interests of all staffs. The team-building tour to Ngoc Xanh Island in Phu Tho Province has brought a relaxing time after stressful working days, leaving many memorable moments for all employees and help them to raise their working spirits. We have coordinateed well with Company Trade Union to increase cultural and physical training activities for all our employees to enrich their spiritual life. Football club, yoga club and have been established and have attracted aftterwards a large number of staffs after working hours. Our employees have participated in ‘Hoai Duc singing contest for workers’ and won prize B. During the year, we have 15 employees awarded “Good worker” by Hanoi Trade Union and Local Trade Union; 05 employees awarded Good person, good work by Local People Committee and especially, 01 employee awarded Good person, good work by Hanoi People Committee. 4|Page JULIE SANDLAU VIETNAM COP 2017 Beside the great effort to create an ideal working environment with good infrastructure and reasonable policies for employees, our company and our Trade Union also care about personal lives of each individual. We shared about tatics to keep family happiness; we held Q&A sections on common problems for couple life; we also give presents to children of our employees on Lunar New Year or Mid-Autumn Festival or who have good academic achievements. In addition, we equip our employees very well with socio-culture knowledge by adding new books to our library on a regular basis by budget from selling old papers and classified waste. This year, we start join EuroCham Green Initiative movement which has been kicked off this year with a pilot exercise.The future plan is to have 2 initiatives per year. We are one of the first mover to join the movemement with the 2017 pilot initiative consisting of Plastic Bottle Ban in Offices. By joining this initiative, we commit that our company eliminates the use and purchase of plastic bottles in the office, particularly in the main office. At the end of this month, a member of the EuroCham staff will come to our office and “inspect” our implementation. We strongly believe that we will succeed and gain EuroCham certificate with “green initiative stamp” for our achievement. We are also interest and eager to join other activities of EuroCham Green Initiative in the following year to protect and improve environment. Finally, we pledge to continue to adhere to the principles of the Agreement and to never stop our effort on building a better Organization in good eviroment of corporate culture. 5|Page
