2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky 2 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CNOOC in Numbers SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT REPORT INTRODUCTION Following its launch in 2005, this is the twelfth consecutive issue of annual sustainability report of China National Offshore Oil Corporation. It is an accurate reflection of our fulfilment of economic, environmental and social responsibilities undertaken in 2016. Some pertinent information about the report is as follows: Reporting Entity: China National Offshore Oil Corporation Alternative Reference: China National Offshore Oil Corporation is herein also referred to as “CNOOC”, “the Company”, “the 76.97 The output of crude oil Corporation”, “we”, “our” or “us”. was 76.97 million tons Reporting Period: January 1 to December 31, 2016. In order to ensure the continuity and comparability of the information disclosed, the applicable period for certain information may be extended forward or backward accordingly. 38% 74.1 COD emission fell by 38% Reporting Cycle: This report is an annual report. The amount of tax paid was RMB 74.1 billion Reporting Principles: To meet the needs of the stakeholders and general public by disclosing key information of the Company in a true, objective, timely and comprehensive manner. Data: All 2016 data disclosed herein are annual statistics. In case of discrepancies with the data in the annual report, the latter shall prevail. Unless otherwise specified, all amounts are expressed in Renminbi (RMB). Reporting Scope: Unless otherwise specified, all information disclosed in the report is from official documents, statistical reports and reports of fulfilment of responsibilities by CNOOC and our subsidiaries. The information has been reviewed by our management, supervision department and various subsidiaries. Moreover, information about CNOOC’s management 136.08 The amount of charity 24.5 framework, management process for sustainable development and our subsidiaries is available on the Company’s website at www.cnooc.com.cn as sustainability and annual reports over the years. investments was RMB 136.08 million 21.5 The gas power Gas production was 24.5 billion m3 generation was Improvements: In order to reflect the fulfillment of CNOOC’s responsibilities in a more objective, comprehensive and intensive 21.5 billion KWh manner, the 2016 Report is presented with the theme of “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky” and three issues of “Promoting Economic Growth, Enhancing Environmental Protection, and Driving Social Progress” to demonstrate CNOOC’s sustainable development. In addition to the independent release of “CSR Report Overseas”, five major topics about social 32% 1152.7 responsibility are highlighted in the report: “‘Spirit of Craftsmanship’ Created Blue Legend”, “Ecological Protection Contributes The SO2 emission fell by 32% to A Beautiful China”, “Manifesting CNOOC’s Responsibilities through Targeted Poverty Alleviation”, “Combining ‘Blue Force’ with Charity”, and the “Global Presence of CNOOC’s Products and Services”. The compilation of the Report is based on site 30% The NOx emission The amount of total year-end asset was RMB 1152.7 billion investigation on the responsibility fulfillment of CNOOC’s affiliates and the selection of real cases. Opinions and suggestions from fell by 30% the stakeholders are also incorporated to give an active response to their concerns. References: This report is prepared on the basis of the “Ten Principles” of United Nations Global Compact, the Guidelines to the Central Government-owned Enterprises on Fulfillment of Corporate Social Responsibilities and the Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises on Better Fulfillment of Corporate Social Responsibilities issued by State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of People’s Republic of China with reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 4.0 Version), the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of Oil and Natural Gas Industry (2010 2nd Edition) jointly issued by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) and the American Petroleum Institute 3 30 《Petroleum Intelligence Weekly》 (API), the Guidelines on China’s Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting (CASS-CSR3.0) by the Corporate Social Responsibility The world’s third “The World’s Top 50 Oil Companies” Ranked 30th and up by 2 as Research Center of the Economics Department of Chinese Academy of Sciences, and the ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Guide largest LNG importer compared with 2015 (2010) by the International Standards Organization. Language: This report is published in both Chinese and English. In case of discrepancies, the Chinese version shall prevail. Accessibility: This report is available in print and electronic formats. The digital version can be downloaded from the Company’s website at www.cnooc.com.cn. To obtain a print version of the report, please email report@cnooc.com.cn. THE LOGO OF CNOOC The corporate logo of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) encompasses the basic design elements comprising the letters that make up the company’s initials CNOOC, enclosed by the blue curves and ripples that represent China’s seawaters. The design in red, formed by the capital letters CNOOC, depicts an offshore drilling rig silhouetted against the rising sun, symbolizing prosperity in the offshore oil industry of China. ABOUT THE COVER Chinese and foreign management staff are discussing the work on-site of Phase II Project of Huizhou Refinery. 02 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 03 Pursuing Green and Low Carbon Life for a More Beautiful China: CNOOC actively responds to Paris Agreement and positively copes with climate change, providing more clean energy represented by LNG. It also works for increasing the application of new technology for energy conservation and reducing emissions, so as to improve energy utilization efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases. Moreover, the Company attaches great importance to the protection of ecological diversity in areas surrounding the operation zone. It endeavours to create a better ecological environment for the development of a “Beautiful China”. The Company’s subordinate enterprises of ethylene, methanol and synthetic ammonia have each won the national honorary title of “The Leader in Energy Efficiency”. Furthermore, the Company’s energy conservation and emission reduction monitoring centre has been rated as the only “Industrial Energy Saving and Green Development Evaluation Centre” of China’s oil and gas industry by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China. Gathering Blue Force to Highlight CNOOC’s Responsibilities: As CNOOC’s social responsibility, we strive to “repay the society with developmental outcomes”, besides facilitating the realization of a sustainable and harmonious coexistence of enterprises, environment and the society. We value human resource development and regard our employees as the most important resource and wealth of the enterprise. Therefore, we fully protect the legal rights of our employees and expand their scope of professional development, besides improving their working environment. In addition, we also focus on physical and mental health of our employees and make efforts to help them grow together with the enterprise. For more than 20 years, we have never ceased our responsibility to the society. For the purpose of “targeted poverty alleviation”, we have invested an accumulative poverty reduction fund of more than RMB 570 million to help implement poverty alleviation programmes and carry out targeted poverty alleviation in the fixed-point poverty alleviation cities and counties of Hainan Province, Gansu Province, Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and Tibet Autonomous Region. We aim at accelerating the process of overcoming poverty and making the locals prosperous, thereby enhancing local “blood generation” capacity. We guide and encourage the employees to carry out voluntary service and remain committed to “serving the community, creating harmony and bringing benefits to the people”, while actively integrating into the communities through sharing their own resources. In addition, we also carry out the “co-construction of neighbourhood” activity and promote the national strategy of “maritime power”. Our voluntary activities have culminated into a “Blue Force”. In 2016, CNOOC’s “Blue Force” was selected as one of the Ten major voluntary service brands of the central enterprises. Expanding International Cooperation for In-Depth Global Integration: Having a business coverage of more than 30 countries and CHAIRMAN’S LETTER regions, with its products and services spreading throughout the five continents, CNOOC attaches great importance to the stable operation of overseas business and proactively conducts foreign cooperation to drive local socio-economic development. We have innovated the exploration and development mode of foreign cooperation blocks and have implemented the national strategy of “The Dear all: Belt and Road Initiative” to further expand the Company’s developmental space. CNOOC adheres to compliance operation overseas and takes an active part in the development of relevant laws of the countries and regions where it operates. It strictly observes In 2016, the Chinese economy entered a “New Normal” phase of medium-speed development as the global economy witnessed the philosophy of safe production and works for enhancing its performance, besides promoting the culture of safe production. weak growth of demand for energy consumption and persistently low international oil prices. Faced with severe challenges, CNOOC It has applied advanced technologies to its overseas projects, while it encourages independent innovation in overseas projects has been constantly launching bold strategies in search of new breakthroughs in the harsh market environment. As a member of the to overcome difficult scientific and technological problems. It has conducted in-depth studies on the impact of its operations United Nations Global Compact and leading promoter for China's “Energy Revolution”, CNOOC adheres to the “Ten Principles” of on the ecosystem. In that context, it has also carried out systematic protection activities with the local environmental protection Global Compact with an in-depth understanding of the essence of “Energy Revolution”. It aims at fulfilling the development principles organizations. We actively promote the employees’ localisation system and believe in building a cordial and harmonious employment of “innovation, coordination, greenness, openness and sharing”. We attach great importance to safe production and green operation, culture. We maintain a good communication and cooperation mechanism with the government and the community, where we promote low carbon growth, sincerely fulfill our social responsibilities and make great efforts to balance economic growth, environmental continuously and effectively carry out charity activities to jointly create sustainable development opportunities. protection and social welfare. We strive to achieve our vision of providing “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”. 2017 is an important year for CNOOC to comprehensively implement “The 13th Five-Year Plan”. We have to work hard for improving Ensuring Energy Supply and Seeking Development through Innovation: CNOOC always makes it a point to contribute high quality our industrial core competitiveness while promoting the development of the first-class international energy company. Our aim is to energy to the society as its duty. The Company’s oil and gas exploration achieved outstanding results in 2016 and the newly benefit employees and the society, so as to achieve common development with the stakeholders for a better future. discovered oil and gas reserves of domestic self-financed exploration continued to be kept at a high level. We also vigorously developed the LNG industry and strived to achieve the development and utilization of more clean energy. The completion rate of LNG imports reached up to 119%. Both gas and liquid distribution of LNG increased significantly. The Company further implemented the innovation-driven strategy. Taking the opportunity of the Eighth Conference of Science and Technology and the First Innovation Conference, CNOOC actively promoted scientific and technological innovation, management innovation and business model innovation for the optimization of a scientific research input mechanism and the establishment of an innovation fund for encouraging and facilitating internal entrepreneurship. The Company continued to carry on the “Quality and Benefit Year” 3.0 Edition with the standard of “Exquisite, Fine, Profound and Solid” and issued the 13th Five-Year Quality Plan of CNOOC. In 2016, CNOOC was Chairman Yang Hua ranked 30 in the Petroleum Intelligence Weekly (PIW) World’s Top 50 Oil Companies. March 24, 2017 04 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRESIDENT’S LETTER 05 mechanism, integrated emergency management information system. Since the quality of management was improved effectively, we established a comprehensive quality management system and issued and implemented CNOOC “13th Five-Year” Quality Plan. We carry forward the “spirit of craftsmanship” and forge the world-renowned brand by providing quality products and services. Our “Hai Yang Shi You 981” Platform has won the “China Quality Award”, the highest honour in Chinese quality field, and the Zhuhai LNG has won the “Golden Shielded Reward” of national quality project. Aiming at Green and Sustainable Development to Strengthen Environmental Protection: CNOOC adheres to the principles of environmental protection throughout its project life cycle. In 2016, the Company strengthened the standardized management of environmental protection and issued multiple special work guidelines. It was appointed by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China to introduce the experience of constructing green factories and participate in drafting industrial standards. It has also proactively coped with climatic changes and researching CCUS, besides enhancing carbon inventory and carbon trading, promoting the application of carbon reduction technology with compliance and contract fulfillment. Moreover, the Company adopted measures for water reuse, sear water desalinisation, etc. and saved 674,000 tons of water resources in the entire year. Besides, it also remained engaged in energy conservation and emission reduction efforts in the various areas of production, circulation and consumption, etc., achieving the total annual standard coal savings to 230,000 tons. CNOOC attaches great importance to protecting the ecological diversity in the areas surrounding the operation zones and promotes resource restoration and environmental improvement. It has established characteristic projects, such as “Protection of Leopard Seal”, “Enhancement and Release Activities” and “Protection of Chinese White Dolphins”. The Company has positively participated in propagating environmental protection, making great efforts for creating better ecological conditions for a Beautiful China. Fulfilling Responsibilities towards Employees and the Society to Promote Social Progress: In pursuit of our “people-oriented” philosophy, we strongly believe in guaranteeing our employees’ legal rights, professional development and occupational health, while fulfilling our corporate responsibility to the staff. We have been persistently carrying out a variety of colourful staff caring activities, paying attention to supporting employees with living difficulties. CNOOC Marine Environmental and Ecological Protection Public Welfare Foundation is regarded as the unified management platform for public welfare programmes. We have made efforts for fixedpoint poverty alleviation, student care, special public welfare and other philanthropies, so as to effectively help the recipients improve their living environment, education and healthcare. CNOOC actively commits to serving the community, creating harmony and benefiting the masses while establishing a mechanism of communicating with the communities and sharing our resources with them. We constantly carry out heart-warming projects to jointly build a beautiful home. We encourage our employees to actively participate PRESIDENT’S LETTER in voluntary services. We have launched large-scale surveys besides initiating small-scale welfare initiatives, such as “BlueForce, Love Marine”. CNOOC was awarded the title of “2016 Welfare Enterprise in China” at the annual meeting of China Public Welfare in 2016. Dear all: Ensuring the Stability of Foreign Businesses for Fulfilling International Responsibilities: CNOOC always places emphasis on the CNOOC adhers to the corporate social responsibility approach of “safe and efficient operations with low carbon and green growth, compliance operation of international business. Our products and services are marketed at home and abroad. We went to the North while remaining people-oriented, innovative, compassionate and transparent”. We thoroughly fulfilled our economic, environmental Pole for operation and set multiple records. We have also promoted the systematic development of safe production overseas. We and social responsibilities by “Promoting Economic Growth, Enhancing Environmental Protection and Improving Social Progress”, have carried out technical innovation and cooperation, summarized multiple achievements of the scientific research of the overseas treating these principles as the main path for the Company to actualise sustainable development. projects and applied for many patents. We have operated in strict accordance with the biodiversity protection rules of the United Nations and the countries where we operate. We have also cooperated with the local environmental protection organizations to Ensuring Safe Production and Business Operations for Promoting Economic Growth: In pursuit of its economic responsibilities, the systematically carry out protection activities. Moreover, we are concerned about the professional development and occupational Company endeavours to consolidate its resource base and steadily enhance its quality and effectiveness. Our aim is to ensure safe health of our overseas staff. Pertinently fulfilling our overseas responsibilities, we have established and maintained a good and stable production the entire year and we have achieved unexpectedly high operational performance. Our annual production of communication and cooperation mechanism with the local communities. We have widely conducted effective charitable activities to crude oil was 76.97 million tons, while natural gas production stood at 24.52 billion m3, processed crude oil at 32.29 million tons, help the locals improve their living conditions and education level. refined oil production at 7.38 million tons, imported LNG at 16.52 million tons and natural gas-fired power at 21.5 billion kWh. The Company focuses on enhancing scientific and technological innovation for the development of vital technologies for heavy Dear friends, we harvested support and trust in 2016. Looking forward to 2017, we will work together to seize the opportunities, rise oil and low permeability, besides working on deep water exploration. It comprehensively implements the “13th Five-Year” science up to the challenges and firmly forge ahead against all hurdles. We will promote mutual progress of economy, environment and the and technology plan, while extensively promoting “New Ideas, New Technology and New Approach along with Simplification, society through exceptional operations and strive to supply quality energy to the society for the construction of a better future! Standardization and Domestication”. The Company’s project of “Major Breakthrough in Epicontinental Deepwater Oil and Gas Geological Theory and Technology Innovation and Exploration in the Northern South China Sea” has won the second prize at the State Scientific and Technological Progress Awards while the key research projects have achieved substantial breakthroughs. Many major scientific research technological projects have achieved positive progress. We have managed to maintain the level of overall stability for safe production, besides upgrading the entire edition of QHSE internal control system, perfecting the establishment of safety training system and implementing the main responsibility of serious and safe production. Moreover, we have publicized the CNOOC Safety Standard Behaviours. Furthermore, we have scientifically planned safe production management, intensified President Liu Jian supervision measures, effectively reduced the occurrence of major accidents, constantly perfected the emergency management March 24, 2017 06 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 07 CONTENTS Chairman’s Letter 02 Outlook on 2017 84 President’s Letter 04 Third-party Assessment 86 About Us 08 Glossary of Terms 88 Key Performance Index of Reporting Indicators 09 Indicators 90 Stakeholders 10 Feedback Form 92 Promoting Enhancing Driving Social Progress CSR Report Overseas General Economic Growth Environmental Protection Annex [P12-35] [P36-49] [P50-66] [P67-83] Stakeholders’ Concerns Stakeholders’ Concerns Ensuring Energy Supply 14 Green Operation 38 Emphasizing Sci-Tech Innovation 22 Tackling Climate Change 39 ECONOMIC Intensifying Safe Operation 26 Water Resource Management 40 GROWTH Improving Quality Management 33 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction 42 Biodiversity Conservation 46 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Stakeholders’ Concerns Stakeholders’ Concerns ENVIRONSOCIAL Employee Development 52 Economic Growth Overseas 69 MENTAL PROGRESS Humanitarian Engagement 60 Environmental Protection Overseas 77 PROTECTION Voluntary Service 61 Social Progress Overseas 80 Integration into the Community 66 Theme Recognition Information Disclosure height 90 Concerning degree of Operational 80 Quality Energy safe and efficient openness and 70 Conservation Our Vision Philosophy Safe Climate Common Sci-tech 60 Water Supply Operation operations transparency Resource Chain Change Innovation Social 50 Compliance Concerns Humanitarian AntiOperations Employment stakeholders corruption 40 Engagement Green Energy Energy for All People-oriented low carbon and Voluntary Responsibility Service Biodiversity Operations Supply charitable giving 30 green growth Communities Responsibilities 20 Contribution Employees’ Win-win benefits Ethos courage to 10 Rights people-oriented Credibility innovate 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 height Inside and Outside Concerns Innovation Selection model of social Importance to CNOOC www.cnooc.com.cn responsibility theme of CNOOC 08 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 09 ABOUT US KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2016 Source of Company Overview the philosophy “people-oriented, Internal Audit Item 2014 2015 2016 National National Data responsibilities, win-win benefits, Data China National Offshore Oil Corporation, The Company aims at “controlling credibility and innovation” and our Crude Oil Production (10,000 tons) 6,868 7,970 7,697 19,969 NBS the largest offshore oil and gas producer risks, reducing costs, strengthening ethos in “safe and efficient operations, Yield of Natural Gas (hundred million m3) 219 251 245 1,368 NBS in China, is a state-owned mega company management and promoting low carbon and green growth, peopleLNG Imports (10,000 tons) 1,411 1,316 1,652 operating under the control of the development” for its internal audit. In oriented, courage to innovate, charitable Crude Oil Refining Capacity (10,000 tons) 2,845 3,262 3,229 State-owned Assets Supervision and 2016, 442 internal projects, 1,600 audit giving, openness and transparency”. Crude Oil Trading Volume (10,000 tons) 4,951 5,616 7,941 Administration Commission of the State findings and 987 audit advices were The Company systematically built a CSR Fuel Oil Production (10,000 tons) 672 576 435 Council of the People’s Republic of completed. The audit reduced RMB model on the lines of “economic growth, Ethylene Production (10,000 tons) 103 90 107 1,781 NBS China (SASAC). 200 million of the cost of the Company’s environmental protection and social Methanol Production (10,000 tons) 155 156 151 investment projects. In the meanwhile, Economic Headquartered in Beijing, CNOOC was progress”, Moreover, the Company Growth Fertilizer Production (10,000 tons) 380 418 370 7,005 NBS joint domestic and foreign account book founded in 1982. After more than 30 promptly evaluates, adjusts and Natural Gas-Fired Power Capacity 177 223 215 1,881 China Electricity auditing deleted USD 44.0545 million (100 million kWh) Council years of reform and development, it has improves the effectiveness and results and a total of RMB 190 million of funds Direct Contractor Casualties 2 2 2 become an international energy company of its sustainability strategy through were recovered through audit correction. Employee Casualties 1 0 5 with prominent primary business, a benchmarking and making comparisons At present, the Company’s internal Recordable Injury Events (case) 64 72 65 complete industrial chain and business with global business leaders and control is in a good condition, with R & D Investments (100 million RMB) 33 31 21 spreading across 30 countries and historical data. an effective risk management system Science and Technology Employees (persons) 8,643 8,975 9,097 regions. The five main business segments As a participant of the United Nations constantly in place. Granted Patents (awards) 833 999 834 of the Company are oil & gas exploration Global Compact, CNOOC has always Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction and development; professional technical 4.3 2.9 4.1 been adhering the “Ten Principles”. Investments (100 million RMB) services; refining sales and fertilizers; CNOOC always strives for a balance Ethics Energy Consumption per RMB 10,000 Turnover 0.2841 0.2731 0.35191 natural gas and power generation; (ton of standard coal equivalent)1 among economic growth, environmental In pursuit of strengthening the Company’s financial services. In 2016, it was Energy Savings protection and social progress, and is Environmental 28.5 30.8 23.0 anti-corruption work, we have improved (10,000 tons of standard coal equivalent) ranked 109th in Fortune Global 500 and Protection committed to “Providing Our Quality the setting for supervision, established Sulfur Dioxide Gas Emission (tons) 12,376 8,844 5,796 30th in Petroleum Intelligence Weekly Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”. separate supervision units in headquarters Chemical Oxygen Demand (tons) 1,757 1,723 1,075 (PIW)’s World’s Top 50 Oil Companies, and key affiliated companies. Therein, we Nitrogen Oxides Emission (tons) 18,015 15,187 10,654 respectively down by 37 slots and up by have created full-time and part-time posts Ammonia Nitrogen Emission (tons) 448 149 109 2 from the previous year. By the end of Compliance Operation for supervision and audit. Moreover, we Staff Strength (10,000 persons)2 12.3 11.8 10.6 2016, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s The Company constantly strengthens have organized the affiliated companies Rate of Conclusion of Employment Contracts 100% 100% 100% rated the Company with credit ratings of its inter nal control system of risk to conduct internal patrol inspection for Rate of Social Insurance Coverage 100% 100% 100% Aa3 and A+. management. We started to review tracing the problems and acting as a Percentage of Employees 100% 100% 100% and optimize our internal control system participated in Labor Union deterrent, thereby urging them to deepen Strategy of Sustainable i n 2 0 1 6 . M o r e o v e r, C N O O C h a s rectification, strengthen internal control, Employees’ Satisfaction (10 scores) 7.82 7.74 7.62 Development strengthened the supervision and reinforce management and have their writ Percentage of Female Employees 23% 24% 21% inspection of its subordinate units at all Social Frequency of Occupational Disease 1 4 3 established in governing the enterprise. CNOOC shoulders the crucial mission Progress Rate of Physical Examination levels for strict rectification. We have also We adhere to “dealing seriously and 99.8% 99.6% 99.9% of ensuring national energy security, for Occupational Health strengthened risk inspection in the key strictly in the early period, while the d ev elopin g mar in e re sourc e s a nd Average Training Duration per Employee (hours) 87.5 81.3 86.0 investment areas and integrated the risk case is small”. We have dealt with protecting marine ecology. CNOOC Employee Turnover Rate 2.6% 7.4% 2.6% management concept into the internal cases violating laws and the Company’s regards three elements “economy, Charitable Donation (10,000 RMB) 11,672 16,822 13,608 control system for the resolution of major regulation with an iron hand, besides environment and society” as the most Profit and Tax (100 million RMB) 1,143 821 741 risks. In this way, we have gradually put enhancing anti-corruption awareness on solid cornerstone for energy development Number of Foreign Employees 9,041 7,664 4,864 into place a “closed-loop” management a daily basis and carrying out training for and value contribution. Localization Rate of Overseas Employees 86% 85% 71% system for risk prevention. preventing crises before they emerge. Note: 1 The data of comprehensive energy consumption of production value per ten thousand RMB in 2016 was obtained from calculation by taking the data in The Company adheres to its corporate 2015 as the comparable price base, and the data of 2014 and 2015 was obtained from calculation by taking the data of 2010 as the comparable price base; v i s i o n “ E n er g y f o r A l l ”, i nsi st s on 2 The Staff Strength included foreign employees. 10 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 11 STAKEHOLDERS In 2016, we held several local and international activities on the theme of “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”. We communicated with our stakeholders in the three dimensions of “Promoting Economic Growth, Enhancing Environmental Protection and Driving Social Progress”. Opinions and suggestions from the stakeholders were incorporated to give an active response to their concerns. Our stakeholders include the government, employees, shareholders, customers, industry partners, suppliers, contractors, financial institutions, media, communities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). We highly value communicating with our stakeholders and engage with them in an open and transparent manner. We keenly listen to them and take their opinions into account while formulating and implementing our strategies, policies and plans. We are able to achieve long-term and sustainable development with the trust and support of our stakeholders. We pay close attention to their concerns and exchange opinions via visits, exchanges, E-mails, telephone, international conferences, website, WeChat, micro-blogs, etc. We constantly optimize and update the disclosure information on the Company website and disclose to the stakeholders about the operation performance and social responsibility activities of the Company through annual reports, sustainability reports, and other periodical reports. We have established a special column of social responsibility on the company website to respond to the concerns of the stakeholders continuously and disclose the communications on social responsibility participated by the company management level and the exchange activities with the Chairman Yang Hua met Bob Dudley, BP Group CEO President Liu Jian met Sokawan, Secretary of State of Ministry of stakeholders through the channels including the company website and China Offshore Oil Press, etc. We hope to continuously Mines and Energy of Cambodia strengthen the communication and cooperation with our stakeholders for jointly promoting the harmonious development of economy, environment and the society. CNOOC has achieved remarkable After renovation, the results in its development service stations of CNOOC strategy of building the world gave a new look to Zhangjiagang class petrochemical industry base City. The mode of cooperation in Huizhou Refinery. It can quickly between state-owned and private adapt to the development needs of enterprises has been successfully refining and chemical industry with established. It contributes a obvious second movement advantages. CNOOC negotiated with Saudi Aramco CNOOC carried out anti-mine safety training for Iraqi local villages great deal to the supply of local oil products besides boosting ——Wang Jiming, academician economic and social development. of the Chinese Academy of Engineering ——Chen Jianhua, Deputy Mayor of Zhangjiagang City “I know that this reconstruction p ro j e c t o f t h e p r i m a r y CNOOC’s strong school is very difficult and full of support to the legal problems. In the construction, CNOOC Congo (Brazzaville) actively cooperated aid for comprehensively with the construction party to solve the promoting rule of law has enabled problems. On behalf of all the teachers and pupils, the needy and the disadvantaged to I would like to extend our sincere gratitude to you, and feel the love and warmth. Resultantly, fairness I also wish CNOOC can have new discoveries of oil and justice is increasingly getting rooted in the and gas!” masses. ——Jean-Marc, Thysere Tchicaya ——China Legal Aid Oil Minister in Congo Foundation (Brazzaville) Canadian enterprise representatives visited CNOOC Industrial 26 Canadian enterprises participated in the CNOOC-sponsored This is the first time Exhibition Hall the “3rd Business Promotion Activity for Canadian Small and The “Salvage” for Shell to grant the title Medium-Sized Enterprises in China” project of CNOOC of “Flying Dragon Group” played a supporting to a team, the 4th drilling team role for the poverty alleviation of “Hai Yang Shi You 943”. The programme. Particularly, it played a operators and service contractors positive role in helping the Typhoon of Shell are deeply moved by their victims this year. operational performance. ——Women’s Federation of ——Jiao Bo, Vice President of Hainan Province Shell (China) Exploration and New Business CNOOC communicated with Australian cooperative partners CNOOC discussed 2016 social responsibility themes with its stakeholders 12 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 13 PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH It is the responsibility and mission of CNOOC to contribute inexhaustible energy. Given the severe situation of the oil and gas industry, CNOOC facilitates economic growth through several measures. It actively copes with the serious challenge of low oil prices, insists on innovation, enhances oil and gas exploration and development, strengthens cost control, ensures energy security supply and attaches importance to the development and utilization of clean energy, such as natural gas. The Company strives for realizing the corporate value with more diversified, greener and environmentfriendly energy products and services. 14 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 15 ENSURING ENERGY SUPPLY Oil and Gas Production Driven by global economic development and pursuit of high quality life for humans, the In order to ensure national energy security, CNOOC actively responds to the internal and external challenges in the low oil price enviroment. The Company adopts safe, efficient and precise management for oil and gas production and continues 45.55 Domestic production energy demand will continue to rise. In order to ensure uninterrupted energy supply to maintain the high production percentage and high utilization rate of the well. It of crude oil was 45.55 76.97 has been deeply optimizing technical proposals and the investment for 9 optimized million tons and achieve environmental sustainability, China is transforming its energy structure by “substituting coal with gas”. There is still a wide space for the development of natural projects dropped by 46%. It also optimized the contract model as the operating cost gas industry. per barrel reduced continuously for three consecutive years while various indicators production of crude oil was 76.97 million remained at the forefront in the industry. It aims at promoting innovative commercial CNOOC believes that expanding the use of clean energy will be an important tons mode of cooperative development of trial oilfields, besides making great efforts to 12.92 guarantee of building a beautiful China and promoting social sustainability. The settle problems of coordinated development and consolidating the developmental Company has stepped up efforts in exploring the conventional oil and gas resources. foundation of yield stabilisation and increase in the “13th Five-Year Plan”. In 2016, the It has been continuously developing unconventional gas, such as CBM (coalbed domestic production of crude oil was 45.55 million tons while that of natural gas was methane), tight gas. It has attached great importance to the development and Domestic production 12.92 billion m3 (in which CBM was 0.94 billion m3). utilization of clean energy, such as LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas), strived for enhancing of natural gas was 12.92 billion m3 its corporate value with more diversified, greener and environment-friendly energy Stable production of Bohai Oilfield exceeded 30 million m3 for seven 24.5 products and services. In 2016, the annual production of crude oil was 76.97 million years consecutively tons, while that of natural gas was 24.5 billion m3. The processing volume of crude oil In 2016, Bohai Oilfield strengthened technical innovation and implemented a series of stood at 32.29 million tons, refined oil product at 7.38 million tons, imported LNG at Gas supply to Hong Kong and stimulation measures, including acidification separating deployment of 885 injection wells, 16.52 million tons and natural gas-fired power at 21.5 billion kWh. production of Hainan added up to more than and enlarged the scale of well development and well adjustment, so as to effectively control the natural gas was 50 billion m3 24.5 billion m3 composite declining rate of the main maturing oilfields within 10%. It set a new record of stable The largest offshore cooperation gas field in Oil and Gas Exploration production of Bohai Oilfield, exceeding 30 million m3 for seven years consecutively. China, namely “Yacheng 13-1”, located in Being led by corporate development planning and guided by discovers of medium southwest Hainan Island has been operated and large-scale oil and gas fields and optimizing its exploration investment portfolio, for 20 years and continuously supplies CNOOC has achieved breakthroughs in multiple regions, and has harvested fruitful clean energy to Hong Kong and Hainan. It results in oil and gas exploration. In 2016, the Company completed the evaluation of developed the domestic jetting system through “Kenli 16-1”, “Caofeidian 12-6/6-2”, “Penglai 20-2/20-3”, and “Liuhua 21-2”, etc., with innovation, using the return air of the dry gas compressor as the high pressure gas source high efficiency. It has comprehensively promoted the integration of exploration and for fluidics. As a result, the daily output of the development and has obtained new reserves in such oilfields as “Jinzhou 25-1”, oilfield low pressure and inefficient well was increased group in southwest Weizhou, “Wenchang 13-6”, “Panyu-4-1”, “Xijiang 30-1”, etc. It by 70,000-100,000 m3. By the end of 2016, has achieved multiple commercial discoveries overseas and has successfully evaluated it had supplied more than 50 billion m3 gas the oil and gas bearing structures in Libra Project of Brazil and other projects. accumulatively to Hong Kong and Hainan and contributed a great deal to the economic and social development of both regions. Natural gas field was discovered in 1,688-metre ultra-deepwater of South China Sea In February 2016, the oil and gas reserves evaluation office of the “Enping 24-2” Oilfield became the largest extra-production oilfield in eastern South China Sea Ministry of Land and Resources confirmed that the natural gas field, The Enping Oilfield group in eastern South China Sea was implemented namely “Lingshui 18-1”, which CNOOC discovered during the regional joint development with the existing production facilities based on the exploration of 1,688-metre ultra-deepwater in western South China “Enping 24-2” Platform. The “Enping 18-1” and “Enping 23-1” Oilfields were Sea, was the first ultra-deepwater natural gas field in China. put into operation successively. The high-efficient operation and safe running The extremely low temperature in the ultra-deepwater seabed of the oilfield group has been ensured and the continuous high and stable yield (2.6℃) and the extremely high bottom-hole absolute pressure is achieved through delicacy management of the well, scientific arrangement of (30.9MPa) set higher requirements for the well drilling technology well production, optimization of the planned shutdown period and strengthening and drilling device, greatly increasing the difficulty in drilling. The implementation of operating procedure. “Enping 24-2” has become the single successful exploration of “Lingshui 18-1” displayed CNOOC’s oilfield with maximum yield in the eastern South China Sea for two consecutive ability of ultra-deepwater exploration of drilling and testing, taking years. In addition, their production time efficiency reached up to 99.01% and the level of its offshore oil and gas exploration to a historic high. 98.04% respectively. 16 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 17 Refining and Chemical Production Taizhou Petrochemical’s paraffinic lubricating oil hydrocracking unit with annual capacity of 400,000 tons was formally put into operation The Company insists on the value maximization of refining production overall. It fully Taizhou Petrochemical’s paraffinic lubricating oil hydrocracking unit with annual capacity of 400,000 tons was formally put into operation and it displays the advantage of production and marketing integration, cultivates the internal 32.29 has successfully produced qualified base oils. Taizhou Petrochemical is the only refinery base with both naphthenic and paraffinic lubricating oil strength and strengthens the production planning management, so as to ensure hydrocracking units in China. This project is expected to promote the industrial restructuring of petrochemical industry in eastern China. stable and high-efficient operation of the production facilities. In 2016, the Company accumulatively processed 32.29 million tons of crude oil, produced 7.38 million tons processing crude oil was 32.29 million of refined oil products, 1.07 million tons of ethylene, 8.43 million tons of asphalt, tons 770,000 tons of lubricants, 2.25 million tons of sodium carbonate and 3.7 million tons Service Network of chemical fertilizers. CNOOC always regards customer satisfaction as an important indicator to measure The Company was highly appraised by the National Energy Administration for service quality. It attaches great importance to the protection of its customers’ upgrading the oil quality ahead of schedule. Moreover, the following 4 new projects were completed and successfully started up in one go. The comprehensive utilization of acidification heavy oil and product quality upgrading project of Zhongli Company; 828 Total number of information and makes endeavours to achieve mutual benefit and win-win result with the customers by continuously enhancing its service capability, constantly improving customer satisfaction, and striving for 100% resolution rate of customer complaints. the mechanical completion of safe, environment-friendly and clean energy upgrading service stations In order to allow its customers to enjoy its products and services, CNOOC strives to 7.38 was 828 project of Zhongjie Petrochemical; the comprehensive utilization of distillate in Daxie build a service network centring on “Yangtze River Delta, Pearl River Delta and the Petrochemical and the integration project of Taizhou Petrochemical. Bohai Bay region”. It continuously explores new service modes and strengthens the refined oil products The Company adjusts its product structure according to the market efficiency and construction of service stations, gas stations, bulk plants, LNG receiving terminals and was 7.38 million develops a variety of new products. It makes good use of the excess capacity of the gas pipelines. By the end of 2016, the Company owned 828 service stations, 206 gas tons stations, 7 LNG receiving terminals and 4,536 kilometres of onshore gas pipelines. styrene plant and increases the production of high-grade, high value-added rubber oil, transformer oil and special asphalt products. In 2016, the Company produced Petroleum Products Supply accumulatively naphtha up to 1.68 million tons, jet fuel 2.28 million tons. In 2016, CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals Co.,Ltd. optimized and reorganized its sales 14.65 system, implemented the optimal arrangement of “resource, market and efficiency” in the regional market centred on refinery, and applied the operational mechanism of Daxie Petrochemical’s project Installation of heavy equipments of the Phase II Project of Huizhou Refinery was completed “close to market, close to refinery and close to the government”. These measures of efficient utilization of distillate was put into operation 14.65 million tons significantly improved the operational efficiency of integrated production management After the hoisting of synthetic gas re-absorber of the largest coal-to-hydrogen plant self-designed of oil products smoothly and marketing. The Company aims at constantly enriching new products through and constructed in China, the lifting and installation of heavy equipment of Phase II Project were sold Daxie Petrochemical’s project of efficient of Huizhou Refinery CNOOC was completed. The construction and operation of the Phase II development of high-grade and high value-added rubber oil, transformer oil, lubricating utilization of distillate which can satisfy Project of Huizhou Refinery will boost the development of petrochemical industry to a high level oil and special asphalt products, while gradually broadening the service networks of the growing demand in the petrochemical and high-end, boosting cluser development to better serve the ever-increasing demand for highpetroleum products, such as asphalt, lubricants and fuel oil. The Company has won markets in Zhejiang province and its end petrochemical products in the Pearl River Delta and the entire country. accolades from its customers by virtue of its quality oil products of State-V standard, surrounding areas, was formally put into upgraded service stations and thoughtful services. By the end of 2016, CNOOC Oil operation. This is CNOOC’s landmark & Petrochemicals Co.,Ltd, had sold 14.65 million tons of refined oil and added 89 project for promoting the layout in the service stations under its belt. Yangtze River Delta, Pearl River Delta and the Bohai Bay region, besides achieving the intensive optimization of resource allocation and intensive management. The operation of this project marks that Daxie Petrochemical Online fuel and gas filling E-card has taken a new leap forward in its comprehensive processing capacity of crude On October 12, 2016, the Information Department of CNOOC completed the online inspection oil, product structure, product quality, energy of the trial project of retail management system of gas stations and service stations. It marked conservation, environmental protection the completion of all 53 gas stations planned to be online. The project is aimed to establish a set and other aspects. In addition, it will boost of retail management system shared by fuel and gas filling through integration of HOS system the transformation and upgrade of local of headquarters level, card system, station level system and natural gas dispenser/refuelling petrochemical industry for diversification, machine, thereby realizing the retail and payment integrated management of filling blocks. intensification and integration, resulting in low-carbon, intensive and environment friendly resource utilization. 18 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 19 It actively establishes Micro-Marketing Platform of refined petroleum products Natural Gas Supply CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals Co., Ltd positively changes its operational concept for realizing Centred on the Yangtze River Delta, Pearl River Delta and Bohai Bay, the development 90 an overall transformation from the traditional operation mode to an all-channel resources of natural gas supply network is a continuous task for CNOOC, which is focused integration through building smart service stations. The company cooperates with internet-based on actively building LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and gas stations, enterprises, such as “Weicheche”, “WeChat Public Number”, “WeChat Pay” and “Baidu Map”, striving for opening up the coastal natural gas as the main artery and providing to build a comprehensive service platform of “Internet +” Service Station. It constructs people natural gas business sustainable economic development with clean energy. By the end of 2016, the natural was distributed in 90 and vehicle-oriented CNOOC ecosystem by integrating the internal resources of CNOOC and prefecture-level cities gas business of CNOOC had been distributed in 90 prefecture level cities in 20 third party’s resources, thereby connecting “people”, “vehicle” and “life”. of China provinces while its LNG receiving capacity reached up to 27.8 million tons per year. CNOOC has stepped up efforts for marketing development and is actively seeking new growth points in natural gas industry while employing innovative marketing modes, such as electricity-sale company, natural gas distributed energy, “Internet+” and others, CNOOC expands direct supply channels of jet fuel while keeping the advantage of natural gas markets in southeast coastal areas, the On September 30, 2016, a truck full of jet fuel products of CNOOC Huizhou Refinery left the loading jack of the company for Guangzhou Baiyun Company constantly expands its business into northern and inland area, realizing the International Airport. It marked the successful opening of CNOOC’s jet fuel automotive transportation direct-supply channel to Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport, which is the third stable direct-supply airport of CNOOC jet fuel automotive transportation after Ganzhou Airport and Huizhou Airport. 27.8 LNG receiving expansion from coastal region to inland and from first-tier cities to second-tier cities. It strengthens the liquid distribution of LNG, pays attention to small and medium end users and establishes direct marketing channel to the terminal market. Moreover, it is rapidly capacity was 27.8 developing LNG filling business and continuing its work on replacing diesel with gas for million tons/year inland waterway vessels, constructing LNG stations and LNG exemplary ship, etc. in the major river systems of Yangtze River, Zhujiang River and Beijing-Hanzhou Canal, thereby “Haijiang” transformer oil provides Asphalt from “CNOOC 36-1” striving for strengthening its leading position in domestic LNG industry. support for electrical utilities was applied in Tibet “Haijiang” transformer oil has been sold in In 2016, the asphalt produced from many areas of China as this first domestic “CNOOC 36-1” successfully made its product actualised the sales of more than “Haijiang” way to 14 roads with high altitude and Extension of gas supply CNOOC becomes the first to publicize information about natural gas 100,000 tons in two consecutive years. Transformer Oil harsh climate, including the Tibetan network infrastructure This product can be regarded as a green highway, national and provincial CNOOC Gas & Power Group engaged in Completely meeting the national information disclosure standards, CNOOC Gas & Power Group and environment-friendly product per trunk road and rural highway. The network extension on the basis of building proactively issued Announcement on Publicizing the Relevant Information of Opening-Up Supply of Petroleum European Union (EU)’s regulation on CNOOC asphalt has 28 grades to the original and consolidating the existing gas Natural Gas Facilities of Gas & Power Group to disclose information on the natural gas pipeline Products environmental protection. It has become adapt to the temperature range from supply networks. In 2016, CNOOC Gas & network and the LNG receiving terminal facilities. CNOOC always adheres to the win-win Expanding the second largest domestic transformer -30℃ to 40℃ and the altitude of Power Group extended the network coverage concept of fully promoting fairness in opening-up of natural gas infrastructure, actively checking oil production plant to provide support Service Network 4,000 m. It is one of the top brands of and publicizing the pipeline network information to contribute to the market-oriented reform of from the eastern coast of Hainan Island to the for the Chinese electrical utilities. In HydroPure “CNOOC 36-1” heavy asphalt in China. hinterland of Wenchang Tourism Expressway, natural gas. addition, the transformer oil products Lubricant Asphalt Gusong Road branch, Caihong South Road are exported to Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan branch and Guanglan Road branch, among and other countries for the electric power others, laying a solid foundation for the longconstruction of the “Silk Road Economic term and stable gas supply to the Wenchang Belt”. satellite launch base. It also extended the supply network from Yangtze River Delta to the Dabie Mountain area located at the junction of Hubei Province, Henan Province “HydroPure” lubricant fully launched in the terminal market and Anhui Province. It reached a formal In 2016, CNOOC’s high-end lubricant brand “HydroPure” was launched for sale in the terminal cooperation agreement of natural gas supply markets. The product features a complete series of lubricants, including automotive oil, bunker and technical support of industrial gas station oil, industrial gear oil, hydraulic fluid and lubricating grease. Its quality meets the standards and with Anhui Kangtai Glass Technology Co., requirements jointly set by organisations such as International Standard Organisation (ISO), Ltd. to realize the LNG supply to Dabie vehicle and engine manufacturer (EOLCS), Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) and Mountain of CNOOC for the first time. American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM). The product series has passed the OEM technical certification of multiple companies, such as Benz, Volvo, VW and MAN. 20 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 21 LNG imports exceeded 100 million tons in total CNOOC has imported a total of 100 million tons of LNG for 10 years, which is equivalent to 140 billion m3 of natural gas and 130 million tons of crude oil calculated by thermal value, which is about a quarter of the oil consumption of China in 2015. As many as 100 million tons of LNG can help China in reducing 380 million tons of CO2 emissions. Its function equals planting 800 million trees. In addition, it can also help in reducing Practising emission of 3.1 million tons of SO2, 27.5 million tons of NOX and 1.75 million tons of smoke and dust pollution, which plays an important role in Promotion of public bidding treatment of haze and has significant low carbon, green and environment-friendly effects. localization The electronic bidding platform Strengthening The Company encourages and is applied to provide open and Tianjin LNG alternative project ensures gas supply for Putian Power Plant powers up G20 Summit Centralized Procurement promotes the relevant domestic fair participation opportunities for heating systems in winters Management Being the backbone peaking power plant in the East China power enterprises to intensify R & suppliers/contractors. The suppliers The operation of Tianjin LNG substitutional project displays its system and the eastern load centre of Fujian power grid, Putian The Company established strategic D and investment of the new are required to operate according to capacity of independent, stable and continuous gas transmission. Power Plant offered all-out support for ensuring safe and smooth cooperation relations with the products, new technologies and the laws, to be honest and faithful, It is estimated that Tianjin LNG would transmit 800 million m3 operation of the generatorunits during the G20 Summit. The suppliers and contractors who have new processes through vigorously perform their social responsibilities of natural gas to Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region with the accumulative generating capacity of Putian Power made excellent performances for promotion of the work of “new seriously in the various links. The daily supply reaching up to 30 million m3 in peak Plant is 2.651 billion kWh, while it ensures the years, through the comprehensive ideas, new technology and new s u p p l i e r s a re re q u i re d t o p a y time throughout the whole heating season. While accumulative reduction of CO2 emission by 1.2 evaluation of qualification, approaches, simplification, attention to the requirements in the passing on warmth to the local residents, the million tons, thereby significantly contributing achievement, risk management standardization and localization” aspects of HSE and have obtained natural gas can also significantly reduce the to the green ecology of eastern China. and control, process control, so that a batch of domestic the corresponding certificates. The harmful exhaust gas emissions, such as CO2, quality management competence, manufacturing enterprises have QHSE assessment weightings of SO2 and NOX. personnel competence and the strength to compete with the suppliers have increased from 10technical qualification, as well as foreign renowned enterprises. It 15% to 15-20%. The Company Zhejiang LNG Company addresses gas supply needs after outage caused by HSE management. It proactively successfully realized the localization adopted the measures of providing rainstorm communicates and discusses the latest of a batch of key equipments quality commitment through technological trend and management and materials including Ni9 steel, suppliers and implementing inDuring mid-to-late July 2016, the natural gas supply was cut off as the pipelines were fractured and practice with the suppliers and offshore crane and umbilical cable, factory supervision of important displaced because of landslide caused by several days of insistent heavy rains. Zhejiang Province experienced a huge natural gas shortfall of 6 million m3 per day. Coming to the rescue, Zhejiang LNG Receiving Terminal of CNOOC Gas & Power Group contractors to lay the foundation of fair etc. by means of joint research and p ro d u c t s a s w e l l a s s a m p l i n g immediately opened multiple LNG seawater vaporisers to increase the send out rates successively twice, meeting the extremely urgent needs and transparent procurement and windevelopment, tackling key problems quality inspection of the products to for natural gas in the downstream pipeline network. Zhejiang LNG has repeatedly shouldered the responsibility of emergency gas supply in the win cooperation of both parties. together with the domestic units. prevent and eliminate quality risks. events of extreme weather conditions and gas pipeline accidents, with the maximum peak-to-valley ratio of monthly gas supply reaching up to 56:1. It has set the highest record of 14 million m3 daily supply which is more than half of the daily gas consumption of Zhejiang Province. It has a remarkable advantage in its peaking capacity. Supply Chain Management Optimization of the refining The purchasing efficiency of CNOOC maintains a prudent manner and strict standards in terms of selecting and petrochemical supplier Bohai Oilfield increased by “Thanks to the cooperation with suppliers and contractors, valuing much their concepts and actions in fulfilling the data base more than 15% CNOOC, we have a deeper social responsibilities. CNOOC upholds the idea of “cooperation for win-win results and common development”, thus realizing a whole process dynamic management on the supply chain, and ensuring 100% compliance of economic contracts. 100% 100% certification of In 2016, CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals Co.,Ltd started the work of integrating five supplier data bases. After integration, the optimized In 2016, all the 24 oil and gas production units of Bohai Oilfield realized the online management of remote logistics business understanding of API and ACME standards, our company’s size doubled and 13 sets of equipments HSE management supplier data base has 5,737 suppliers, and the system. Bohai Oilfield completed process were added. The utilization rate of The Company, based on “open, fair and transparent” bidding principles, applies system of suppliers supplier data importing standards were unified optimization of the material supply chain the machining equipment increased online and offline transaction to strengthen whole process management in bidding and contractors and improved. It realized the standardized and and achieved the business objectives of from 15% to 60%.” admittance, product and service quality management, performance assessment and high standard management of suppliers and reverse potential inventory optimization and ——Yang Jingtang, elimination of disqualified suppliers and contractors, preventing and solving the risk of fully implemented the supplier management solidification of consignment and purchasing Xi’an Andeli Oil Technology supply chain. In 2016, the Company deleted 203 suppliers, because of violating the requirement of “two-level management and process by changing the supply strategies, Deveolpment Co., Ltd. regulation, large risk and disqualified performance, and ensured 100% certification intensive development”. intensifying schedule management and of quality and HSE management system of suppliers and contractors. It constructed shifting operation mode. The material supply the diving contractors management information system and checked the safety time efficiency improved significantly and the qualification of 10 diving contractors, carried out inspection of diving emergency onefficiency increased by more than 15%. site to increase the safety management level of diving contractors. 22 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 23 EMPHASIZING SCI-TECH INNOVATION Major breakthroughs in epicontinental deepwater gas and oil geological theory and technological innovation and exploration in the North of South China Sea CNOOC established the gas and oil geological theory of “basin  LS25-1-1 LS25-3-1 LS17-2-7 LS17-2-8 LS22-1-1 LS17-2-4 LS17-2-1 LS17-2-3 LS17-2-2 LS18-1-1  （m） （-m） formation-hydrocarbon generation-reservoir forming” in Technical Innovation 2000 2000 T20 epicontinental deepwater detachment basins in the north of South T29 3000 3000 The technological innovation is a strategic driving force for an enterprise’s sustainable China Sea and achieved major innovations of key technologies in T30 development. Serving as an international energy company, CNOOC is making efforts to deepwater exploration through hard work to tackle difficult technical 4000 T40 4000 problems one after another and made breakthroughs in traditional 834 improve the sci-tech innovation system, encourage sci-tech development and innovation T50 understanding of deepwater oil and gas geology. It achieved major 5000 Ro=1.3 % 5000 and explore new-type ocean energies continuously based on the oil and gas business T60  historical breakthroughs in deepwater oil and gas exploration in China and driven by the technological innovation, with a view to providing the clean energy for 6000    6000 There were 834 with accumulative proven natural gas geological reserves of 300.09 T70 sustainable development of the economy, society and environment.   authorized patents billion m3 and the crude oil geological reserves of 68.2996 million m3. 7000    7000 In 2016, the Company implemented the “improving innovation and entrepreneurship” In 2016, the result won the second prize of the National Scientific and Gas field reservior of “Lingshui17-2” spirit and convened the 8th Sci-Tech Conference of CNOOC and the First Innovation Technological Progress Award. Conference. “Major breakthroughs on Epicontinental Deepwater Gas and Oil Geological Theory and Technological Innovation and Exploration in the North of South China Sea” won the second prize of the National Scientific and Technological Progress Self-developed Snake Xenzia completed its offshore debut Award. There were 834 authorized patents obtained for the whole year, in which 452 were the authorized patents for invention. Independently developed by CNOOC, Drilog® 800 LWD and Welleader® 950 RSS, also known as the “Snake Xenzia” in drilling industry, completed its offshore Project Name Main Achievement debut with success. Specialized in real-time Key vector processing technologies for multi-component Completed the seismic data processing in Bohai and Weixinan region over controlling of well trajectory with high seismic data 200 km2 and the imaging was significantly improved. precision and high performance towards Successfully applied to the time-lapse data processing of “Xijiang 24-1” oilfield, reservoir, which helps boost the operation Interpretation technology of time-lapse seismic difference the consistency of the time-lapse seismic marker layer reached 96% capacity with self-developed tools and speed up the transformation of scientific The research achievement on paleogene “clastic-carbonate Guided the projects of “Lvda 16-3N”, “Bozhong 27-2” , and “Kenli 16-1” to research. deposits” high quality reservoir and analysis on its achieve the key exploration goal exploration potential in Bohai offshore. Comprehension interpretation and evaluation technology of Applied to the evaluation of the oilfield water flooded reservoir of “Weizhou 12well logging at water flooded layer based on the dynamic 1” and successfully guided the adjustment of drilling of the oilfield of “Wenchang mixed conductive model 13-1/2” Independent development of large flow downhole oil and Successfully applied to Bohai Oilfield, broke the international technical monopoly water separation technolgy with the processing load of 12 and filled the domestic gap in this field million m3 per day Breakthroughs in key technological research on domestic design and Significant breakthrough in the Predication technology of driving and pulling of the pile in Applied in the field operation of 8 oil and gas fields in the waters at home and manufacturing of subsea christmas tree development technology of self-elevating drilling platform abroad and 5 preliminary research projects CNOOC developed the standby subsea christmas tree applicable to “Panyu 35-2/35-1” naphthenic base transformer oil Intelligent testing and regulation technological achievement Applied in 4 wells of Bohai Oilfield with the testing and regulation efficiency underwater gas field with the water depth of 1,500 meters for the first time in China, which In 2016, CNOOC successfully developed of water injection well in the offshore oilfield increased for more than 5 times reaches the international advanced level of similar products and fills the gap of domestic the technology of producing the base oil of underwater christmas tree manufacturing and testing system. transformer oil with complete hydrogenation Key technological achievement of debriscarrying drilling of Successfully applied in 14 high angle deviated wells in “Jinzhou 25-1” Oilfield high angle deviated well with the drilling operation safety increased greatly type process and solvent refining technique and the high efficient compound additive Independent development of integrated casing sidetracking Broke the foreign technical monopoly and reduced the operation cost for more tools than 20% The construction of Chinese first 160,000 m3 large-scale LNG full containment formula. The development of part of the storage tank project with independently developed technology started process fills the technology gap in China. Successful development of production and application The key technology of general naphthenic Widely applied in multiple oilfields like Liuhua Oilfield The construction of the 2 newly-added 160,000 m3 LNG storage tanks formally started in Fujian technology of TS series oilfield water treatment chemicals LNG Receiving Terminal. This is the first 160,000 m3 large-scale full containment storage base transformer oil achieved successfully Independent development of TH series hydrogenation Applied in the internal and external refineries of the systems like Zhoushan tank construction project designed, constructed and managed with completely independently industrial conversion which efficiently catalyst petrochemical impoved the added value of “Haijiang” developed technologies in China, marking that China has achieved fully independent development capacity for the large-scale LNG full containment storage tank technology. CNOOC transformer oil products. Successful development of the first domestic submersible pump in large-scale LNG storage tank with self-owned Applied in the Guangxi LNG projects has become the first energy company with the core storage tank technology and EPC contracting intellectual property capacity in Asia. 24 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 25 Significant breakthrough in well completion and sand control technology Marine energy resources development Natural Gas Hydrate and utilization technology In 2016, the domestic developed sand control tool independently researched by CNOOC was successfully used in B54 Well of “Kenli 10-1” Oilfield which is the sand controlled well with In order to develop the marine energy and improve the CNOOC has carried out substantial research on the cuttingthe longest central sand control string in China so far. The process of six layers sand control for energy structure, CNOOC completed the “demonstration edge technology of natural gas hydrate for 12 years one-trip running of the tool was implemented for the first time, which is widely considered as project of 500 kW marine energy independent electric and has undertaken the National “863”, “973” and other extremely difficult in the operation in the global industries. The success of this operation marked power system” which achieved many records in China, that significant scientific and technological projects successively. the major breakthrough in the well completion and sand control techology in China. is, the independent electric power system of multi-energy It focused on the target zone for pilot exploitation of natural complement of ocean tidal current energy, wind energy gas hydrate in the South China Sea and established the and solar energy with the largest total installated power, gas hydrate development method simulation reactor at Aromatic hydrocarbon refining agent independently developed by the first 100 kW class of floating type horizontal axis tidal world class. It takes the leading position in the fields of CNOOC successfully realized industrialization current energy generation device, the first 100 kW class of domestic natural gas hydrate exploitation technology and In 2016, “A Type of Preparation Method of Olefin Removal Refining Agent” of CNOOC submersible horizontal axis tidal current energy-generation risk evaluation technology. In 2016, CNOOC got initial EnerTech won the 18th China Patent Excellence Award. The armoatic hydrocarbon refining device, the first application of DC grid connection achievements in the hydrate sample drilling in South China agent produced by the result of this patent has become the first industrialized petrochemical Sea, sample restoration and testing at lab, and successfully technology to collect the electric energy generated by catalyst independently developed by CNOOC, providing powerful technical support for the multiple power generating units using multiple renewable applied for the “Pilot exploitation technology and process upgrade of the aromatic hydrocarbon industry in China, and has created the sales revenue of energies. of marine nature gas hydrate” in the first batch of key RMB 300 million since the patented technology was applied for 5 years. research and development planning projects of the Ministry In 2016, CNOOC launched project of “preliminary research of Science and Technology. At the same time, the project of ocean thermal energy development technology”, on risk evaluation of marine natural gas dydrate supported investigated the feasibility of development and utilization of by national great scientific and technology plan passed the ocean thermal energy in China, strived to formulate a national examination and acceptance smoothly. The dydrate conceptual scheme of ocean thermal energy development Pioneering Innovation sediment dynamic, static tri-axial tesing device and the risk and provided technical support and decision making CNOOC carried out a sustainable exploration and research of the natural gas dydrate, marine tidal current energy, ocean thermal evaluation method established by CNOOC and cooperators support to the construction of large-scale ocean thermal energy, hydrogen energy and other new type low carbon and green energies. The Company supported the research, development reach the international leading level. energy power generating platform. and incubation of the leading energy technologies such as low cost production and application technology of the new material of graphene on the basis of science and technology projects. Several significant projects at national level undertaken by the Company have acquired positive progress. Graphene Hydrogen Energy Technology Roadmap of Preliminary Research of Ocean Thermal Energy Graphene is a two dimensional carbon mateiral formed by The hydrogen energy is known as the ultimate energy. the monolayer of carbon atoms periodicly packed densely C N O O C s u c c e s s f u l l y re s e a rc h e d t h e i n t e g r a t e d Research on the technology of the coupling of ocean thermal Conceptual design and economic analysis of ocean thermal Preliminary research report of ocean thermal energy development Research on the Semi-submersible platform in the form of aromatic structure. It is the elementary unit for technology of solid polymer electrolyte (SPE), electrolysis Resources and technology of the construction of the other dimensional carbon materials pure water to produce hydrogen and developed the allsite investigation deepwater platform of ocean thermal and has tremendous application potentials in the fields of in-one equipment of SPE water-electrolyzer and fuel cell. energy conversion Other deepwater platforms energy storage, conversion and catalysis, etc. CNOOC has CNOOC’s SPE water electrolysis technology has reached been focusing on the technical and industrial development international advanced level. Simulation model of ocean of graphene, continuously tracking and researching the energy power generting unit and the platform energy development thermal energy conversion system new progress of graphene manufacturing, utilization technology and exploring the application of graphene in Research on the Sensitivity analysis of operating International technology of condition parameters energy generation. exchange of the thermodynamic technology of ocean cycle of ocean Design and type selection of thermal energy thermal energy the key equipments of power development conversion generation system Design of power and control system 26 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 27 INTENSIFYING SAFE OPERATION In 2016, the Company solicited articles on “Safety Management at Basic Level”. It concluded the experience of safety management in the basic units and promoted effective safety management measures. A total of 172 articles were received, 61 of which were published in the “China Offshore Oil Press”. We organized the activity 2,884 CNOOC-affiliated units CNOOC regards safe operation as the lifeblood for corporate sustainable development. of “Safe Production Month”, wherein affiliated units carried out 2,884 special topic carried out 2,884 special It adheres to the core values of “safety first, environment utmost, people-oriented and topic briefing sessions briefing sessions on safe production, 72 online interviews and 56 forums, and on production safety equipment intact”. It persistently improves its security system for safe production to published 638 articles of comment and experiences learned from the activity. The reinforce management of the personnel, production process and emergency response, Company edited 174 special bulletins, distributed 51,936 leaflets, set up 2,630 display thereby striving for building a substantial safe entity. The production safety situation panels of various kinds and received consultation of the masses for 1,727 personof the Company was stable as a whole in 2016 without the occurrence of major or time. Moreover, it held 78 speech contests, 1,281 training seminars, 281 contests, serious safety-related accidents. CNOOC was awarded the honourable title of “Best 81 exhibitions and 3 artistic performances, besides creating and publishing 2,017 Organisation Unit” during “National Safe Production Month” and “Safe Production 1,027 pictorials and 241 cultural works on safe production. We also set up 539 inspection Wanlixing”. teams to carry out safety inspection in 1,027 basic units. CNOOC takes the initiative in guiding the cooperation partners on safety management. It carried out safety Safety Culture It organizes thematic activities on Safety Day, involving screenings of videos on safety, inspection in 1,027 sharing of accident cases, group games and individual security commitments, so as to basic units CNOOC actively advocates “Safety Standard Behaviours” and on-site operation behaviour guidance of “Five Do’s and Five No-nos”. We carried out a variety of improve the employees’ safety consciousness and promote safety management. publicity and educational activities of safe production to continuously build a safety 10 10 security education culture with CNOOC characteristics. In 2016, the Company perfected the construction of security training system and online courses were implemented the whole process supervision of syllabus, teaching material, test developed database, training, assessment and certification. The test database of the major managers and security personnel of CNOOC was built and 8 phases of examinations Safety behaviour at bulk plant for them were conducted successively. A total of 1,986 people accepted trainings. As many as 10 online courses of safety education were developed and completed with an enrolment of 740,000 people and course completion rate of 87%. We promoted the construction of CNOOC Test Centre and security classrooms. 76 “safety physical training classrooms” have also been put into use. We held 1,842 phases of trainings with 60,000 people participating throughout the year. HSE In 2016, the Company extended the implementation of CNOOC Safety Standard strategic goals 60,000 Behaviours to the grass-roots staff and carried out the safety standard behaviour activity of “Three Ones”: “one action suggestion table”, “one time of supervision and inspection” and “one week observation of behaviour”. The aim is to promote Safe physical training the implementation of the safety standard behaviours of the three levels: leaders, New employees must accept training The engine of the truck must be shut off for 60,000 trainees on safety management before taking up and electrostatic clamps must be used organisations and staff. Taking the CNOOC Gas & Power Group as an example, a total the post of 33 basic units, 458 frontline leaders and 4,896 people of 131 phases participating in this safety standard behaviour promotion activity and revised 41 items of the system. Soliciting articles on safety In May-June 2016, COSL solicited articles on “Safety Management at Basic Level” and “Caring for Employees” by means of networks, so as to promote and publicize safety culture and advocate the implementation of safety behaviour. The activity received 425 safety management articles concerning trainings, drills, organisational activities, events happened around us, deeds of characters, personal experience and Work permit must be obtained for In the process of oil loading, special comments and ideas on safety, which achieved a electricity utilization and hot work in the employees shall be on the spot for good promotion effect. bulk plant area supervision 28 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 29 Ingenious application of “red face, white face” culture in safety management Sparing no efforts to deal with the ice condition to ensure production safety Bohai Oilfield built 3D safety and protection network COSL advocates “red face, white face” culture in safety management. “Red face” refers that the security managers strive to build a safety culture, In early 2016, large area of sea ice appeared in the waters of Liaodong Bay due to continuously regularly organize activities on safety education to ensure that employees are vigilant to safety issues at all times and constantly improve their low temperature. Faced with the severe situation, “Jinzhou 9-3” Oilfield Group of Liaodong The Bohai Oilfield utilizes the maritime own safety skills. “White face” refers that the safety management department strictly implements the various safety management regulations and Operation Company of Bohai Oil Corporation spared no efforts to respond to the sea ice. navigation early warning system to formulates scientific and standard production safety management systems, while the operating centres strengthen the safety performance assessment It stepped up monitoring and strengthened the guard of icebreakers to ensure the safety of comprehensively monitor the surface by project, team or group. The “Three-Violation” operation found in the production will be punished severely with zero tolerance. production and send-out operation of the oilfield group. and underwater targets in the oilfield, and identify the suspicious targets that may cause damage to the oilfield facilities. The Production Safety system’s monitoring centre integrated several functions such as, data acquisition, processing, CNOOC always adheres to the policy of “safety first, prevention-oriented recording, monitoring, evidence collection, comprehensive control”. It continuously strengthens the development of QHSE recognition, warning, communication and 0 management system, intensifies key prevention and control, strives to provide a command, with various sensing technologies safer working environment for all including contractors and develops the first class including underwater, water surface and management capacity of production safety. above water, thereby forming a 3D spacenumber of major In 2016, CNOOC continuously improved QHSE management. It adhered to the time defence network with the combination or more serious safety-related of point, line and plane, so as to achieve the systematic thinking and management model, upgraded the QHSE internal control accidents was 0 overall safety network of the oilfield. system for the whole edition, revised 45 system documents and of which 8 were abolished. It published 10 QHSE internal control system, and published 6 management requirements. The Company strengthened safety supervision measures and effectively prevented serious or exceptionally serious accidents. It implemented risk rating control of the Adopting preventive measures for maintenance and providing strong Removing potential hazards of equipment support the pipelines in advance offshore production facilities and downstream enterprises to promote the construction of risk rating control information system of the downstream enterprises. Moreover, Huizhou Refinery strengthened preventive measures for maintenance to ensure the round-theThe length of the offshore oil and gas pipelines clock operation of the oil refining and chemical plant as the plant’s closure would cause a huge under CNOOC is about 6,800 km and 2,774 it established and improved risk monitoring indicators, including monitoring of well control and risk monitoring of major operations in project construction. It strengthened safety management at basic level, promoted the creation of post responsibility list and improved on-site patrol inspection system and the capacity of ensuring on-site 10% number of recordable loss and impact the production. Huizhou Refinery conducted scientific analysis of various production data and data of equipment conditions so that a warning can be issued in advance when abnormal conditions are found. It made scientific prevention and corrective measures to km for downstream. The Company conducted the centralized control to the 144 items of the potential safety hazards of the oil and gas ensure the safety in production at the enterprise. transmission pipelines which are reported production safety; it sets out to tackle control over the hidden perils of oil and gas injuries dropped 10% to the State Administration of Work Safety transmission pipelines and continuously reinforces its rectification and reform on the The intact condition ratio of the critical and important equipment of Huizhou Refinery for the (SAWS) for tracking according to the control whole year reached 100%, the average value of static seal leakage rate was only 0.045‰ while hidden perils of those pipelines so as to ensure the reduction of uncontrollable risks or and correction requirements of the potential the failure rate of the key units was zero. leakage at different stages throughout the entire life cycle of the facilities. In addition, safety hazards of the pipeline deployed by it continues to focus on the key parts, key links and high risk points of the safety the State. After two years of hard work, the management of dangerous chemicals and promote the safety management of high rectification was completed on September risk links including dangerous chemical storage tanks, special operation and start-up & 22, 2016. The task objective of control and shutdown maintenance, etc. correction of the potential safety hazards in the national oil and gas transmission pipelines was The Company conducted the annual inspection and examination and promoted QHSE achieved one year in advance. management. The inspection, including HSE management systems of 8 units, the special inspection of quality, self-owned railway and diving contractors, along with 6 full-system safety inspections, such as special supervision for safe production of offshore oil, were conducted. The Company organized special inspection against the QHSE risks of 6 specific units and organized 885 units which were involved in on-site operation by using the information system to complete the self-inspection of “Six Rules of Enterprise Safe Production Risk Announcement” and supervised the implementation of rectification. In 2016, production security situation was stable, and the number of recordable injuries occurred in the whole year was 65, which was reduced 10% as compared to that of the previous year, without the occurance of major or more serious safetyrelated accidents. 30 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 31 CSPC achieved excellent results in production “Hai Yang Shi You 943” was awarded the first prize of ICS Emergency Command System was online safety Shell’s global contractor safety appraisal CNOOC used the ICS emergency command In 2016, CSPC continued to pursue the goal of HSE “zero On September 6, 2016, “Hai Yang Shi You 943” drilling platform stood out system framework as reference to create accident” against the clock of the production process, in the global contractor KPI appraisal in the second quarter of 2016 by Shell the standardized new model of emergency strengthened the implementation of HSE management process, and won the first prize of safety appraisal KPI. “Hai Yang Shi You 943” management in line with the international improved the safety consciousness of the employees, carried out gained the Shell’s recognition for several times for its excellent operation standard. The ICS system can not only resolve all kinds of safety themed trainings and activities, and conducted performance and outstanding safety performance. The employees of the the problems of coordination, language 8,184 on-site safety inspections, 21,736 behaviour based safety platform were awarded the honourable title of “Flying Dragon Heroes” by unification and resource deployment in the observations (BBSO) and 108 on-site process safety inspections, Shell for 9 times successively and the platform “Drilling Team IV” was even process of emergency, but also has advantage so as to ensure the timely discovery and correction of the safety awarded the honourable title of “Flying Dragon Group”, which was firstly in guiding the role assignment and goalproblems and potential hazards. No in-factory process safety issued by Shell within its global business scope. oriented conference organisation and recording accident or a recordable personal injury occurred for the whole the emergency process among others. The year, and no lost-time accident for 1,681 days consecutively. In Company strived to realize the comprehensive 2016, the ethylene output of the company reached up to 1,066,700 utilization in the whole company by carrying tons with the profit of RMB 5.17 billion. It sets the best record in ICS emergency drill in Pengbo Company pilot both production and operation for 10 years since it operated. site of CNOOC Tianjin branch. CSPC carried out the implementation of “Phase II of Chemical Project” safety management system and completed the pre-job safety training for all the Phase II personnel with the total training hours of more than 30,000 man-hours. It strengthened on-site inspection of construction and conducted 45 tripartite inspections of CNOOC, the Shell and CSPC since July. It found 240 items CNOOC participated in process of Sino-Korea Offshore Oil Spill “Qinhuangdao 32-6” Oilfield Emergency Drill held offshore joint drills for of potential hazards and completed the overall correction. Other search & rescue and oil spillage basic works of safety management were also carried out on On July 14, 2016, CNOOC dispatched its professional environmental protection vessel “Hai schedule to promote the implementation of safety culture and Yang Shi You 252” to participate in the whole process of “2016 NOWPAP Sino-Korea Offshore On June 6, 2016, CNOOC “Qinhuangdao system in Phase II Project. Oil Spill Emergency Drill” held in the sea area of Shandong Weihai North Port. As the main 32-6” Oilfield held the offshore joint drill force of offshore oil spill emergency, CNOOC continuously focuses on the construction of of search & rescue and oil spillage together offshore oil spill emergency response capacity and established 8 emergency bases, 9 professional with seven departments, such as Tangshan environmental protection vessels and constantly improved the comprehensive strength in offshore Marine Affairs Bureau, Tangshan Port emergency handling. While expanding cooperation in domestic emergency field, CNOOC pays and Ship Administration Bureau, Tangshan Emergency Management more attention to the international cooperation of oil spill emergency and constantly enhances the Oceanic Administration, Tangshan international recognition and discourse power in offshore oil spill emergency field. Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Bureau, 779 Based on hazard identification and risk analysis, CNOOC continuously improved Tangshan Border Protection Detachment, the emergency management mechanism, integrated the emergency management Tangshan Search and Rescue Centre and information system, developed the APP of emergency management, improved ICS Tangshan Jingtang Harbour Oil Spill Using helicopter by system construction, strengthened the emergency trainings and drillings and fully Emergency Headquarters. A total of 7 779 sorties for typhoon enhanced system capacity to resist risks and minimize the impact of emergencies. vessels, comprising 3 AHTS vessels of the emergency oilfield and 4 vessels from the government In 2016, the Company strengthened the construction of emergency repair and department were used. The drill lasted for maintenance base and promoted oil and gas pipeline emergency rescue. The 3 hours and completed multiple emergency South China Sea base Phase I Project, Tanggu Subsea Pipeline Emergency Repair items, such as search and rescue of overboard and Maintenance Centre Phase II Project and Fujian Pipeline Emergency Repair personnel, arrangement of oil spill emergency and Maintenance Centre Phase II were included into national programmes. The equipment, setting spill containment boom 16,732 Safety mobilization Company is always getting ready for typhoon warning and emergency response. A total of 25 typhoons occurred in northwest Pacific Ocean and South China Sea in 2016, 13 of which affected the normal production operation. In order to avoid the and laying oil skimmer, etc. and demobilization of influence of typhoon, the Company started the anti-typhoon emergency plan in time. operation personnel It used helicopters for 779 sorties, ships for 62 voyages and safety mobilization and for 16,732 people demobilization of operation personnel for 16,732 people. No personnel casualties were recorded. 32 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 33 Western South China Sea Oilfield carried out anti-terrorism emergency drill IMPROVING QUALITY MANAGEMENT On June 11, 2016, the Weizhou Terminal of the Western South China Sea Oilfield, Management Committee of Weizhou CNOOC considers “pursuing leading postition and customer satisfaction” as its quality objective and always adheres to the policy Island and border protection armed police of “people-oriented, safety first, integrity and law-abiding operations, reinforcing foundation, being innovation-driven and wining with union jointly carried out anti-terrorism quality”. It establishes a comprehensive quality management system, builds a quality information management system, publishes emergency drill. This drill simulated that three and implements “CNOOC 13th Five-Year Quality Plan”. It carries forward “spirit of craftsmanship” and builds the world famous brand unidentified people drove into the factory by providing quality products and services. It continues to promote the “QC team” activity, in which 7 QC teams were awarded the with suspected explosives and were subdued title of National Excellent QC Team and 259 QC teams at basic level were awarded the title of Industrial QC Team. “Hai Yang Shi in their attempt to rush into the tank field to You 981” drilling platform of COSL drilling division won the “China Quality Prize” of the second session and became the only awarddetonate explosives. It also conducted other winning unit in the frontline teams. Zhuhai LNG Terminal of CNOOC Gas & Power Group was awarded the “National Advanced drill subjects, such as inspection of suspected Enterprise of Implementing Excellent Performance Model” of China Quality Association. The oilfield chemical division of COSL was explosives, anti-terrorism and anti-explosion, awarded the “Quality Benchmarking Enterprise” of National Association of Petroleum and Chemical Industry. rounding up terrorists, etc. CNOOC “Emergency Model” showed up in Huludao On October 28, 2016, the offshore installation company of COOEC and the government of Huludao City jointly held “2016 Hand-in-Hand” Shipto-Shore Emergency Handling Drill, featuring fire-fighting, life-saving and anti-pollution as its contents. The drill was based on the simulation of the “Hai Yang Shi You 981” platform was awarded second-term China Quality Prize situation that the temporary paint storage areas in the middle part of the port side ship of “Binhai 108” ship was suddenly on fire. In response, fire On 29 March 2016, “Hai Yang Shi You 981” Drilling Platform won China Quality Prize, the highest governmental honor in Chinese response deployment was made to arrange the fire fighting truck and fire fighting tugboat to put out the fire successfully. The coordination between quality field, and became the only front-line production team at the basic level. Since it was put into operation, the platform has developed the cooperative enterprises and the co-action of government and enterprises in the emergency process was greatly strengthened. It achieved the goal a comprehensive management system covering the overall production and operation process with the quality management as the main line of rapid control and regulation of enterprise and social emergency resources, besides preventing the accident from aggravating and reducing losses through constant practice. The management team set an excellent example for CNOOC based on high quality and high standards. as much as possible. Eastern South China Sea Oilfield successfully defended against violent Daxie Storage Company typhoon “Nida” COSL won good reputation by COOEC was awarded the highest quality prize in innovated in emergency building competitive projects welding field After receiving the warning of violent typhoon “Nida” (the maximum wind scale is level 14), the response mechanism COSL places emphasis on the control over On 7 November 2016, the “Panyu 35-2/35-1” underwater Eastern South China Sea Oilfield started the emergency plan in advance to arrange for production Daxie Storage Company belongs to various professional service qualities and thus facility project contracted and undertaken by the Special emergency response and personnel evacuation. It used helicopters for 125 sorties and evacuated dangerous chemicals storage enterprise. It reaches the service level of green contractors Equipment Company of COOEC won 2016 National 2,194 offshore operation personnel. After all the personnel left, the “Typhoon Production Mode” signed the emergency response agreement of the Shell to become “the most competitive Excellent Welding Project First Prize issued by China of unattended facilities of the platform was initiated. The Eastern South China Sea Oilfield with the adjacent PetroChina Fuel Oil Co., drilling service contractor”, “shipping service Engineering Construction Welding Association, the highest enabled the “Typhoon Production Mode” for four times, including the one in “Nida” period for Ltd. and PetroChina Terminal Co., Ltd. contractor with excellent reliability and quality prize in the welding field of Chinese engineering the whole year and kept production for 270.9 hours. The natural gas production in these periods to provide mutual assistance and rescue outstanding performance”, “well logging construction. The award winning projects are all the key added up to 100 million m3 which satisfied the natural gas demand of power plants, residents and in case of emergency events and realized service contractor of distinguished orientation”, engineering projects which reach domestic advanced level enterprises in the western part of Pearl Delta. the emergency resources sharing, such as and “the most outstanding well cementation in the aspects of design, construction, and construction emergency response team and emergency and sludge treatment contractor”. quality, etc. supplies. The interconnection of the fire water of the three parties greatly improved the fire fighting capacity and reduced the emergency cost. This reasonable suggestion was awarded the excellent “Golden Idea” of Zhuhai LNG Project won the highest prize of National Quality Project Award suggestions on safe production of Ningbo The Phase I Project of Zhuhai LNG Terminal won the golden prize of 2016-2017 National Quality Project Award, which is the highest prize of City this year. national construction management. The annual LNG processing capacity of Phase I Project is 3.5 million tons, while the gas supply capacity stands at 4.4 billion m3 per year. After the whole production line was put into operation, this project can effectively optimize the energy structure of the west seashore of the Pearl River region, replace 6.32 million tons of standard coal and reduce 609,000 tons of CO2 emission, 136,700 tons of SO2 emission and 88,400 tons of NOX. 34 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH 35 Proactively upgrading the quality of oil products Phase II Project of Huizhou Refinery guaranteed quality in In 2016, CNOOC Oil & Petrochemicals Co., Ltd continued upgrading oil products and a fault-finding manner completed the project of comprehensive utilization of acidic heavy oil of Zhongli Company, Zhongjie Petrochemical clean fuel upgrading project, the project of comprehensive utilization of As the largest on-building project of distillate of Daxie Petrochemical, Ltd. and the quality upgrading of refined oil projects of Taizhou CNOOC, Phase II Project of Huizhou integration project, with the output of refined oil products reaching the National V Emission Refinery is characterised by huge construction Standard. It also reserved space for upgrading to national VI emission standard and took the quantity, wide operation scope, countless leading position in the industry. construction personnel and management difficulty. Therefore, ensuring the on-site construction safety becomes a top priority. The project team values quality as their Special own life and adheres to the entity quality Topic “SPIRIT OF CRAFTSMANSHIP” CREATED BLUE LEGEND of “never lowering the standard, discarding the procedure or missing a step”, strictly CNOOC proactively cultivates the “spirit of craftsmanship” of constantly seeking for perfection, and pursues the utmost perfection of implements the supervision of project quality, the product quality. People at CNOOC have always great reverence for the brand and the public reputation. Their hard work, persisABC three-level quality inspection, material tence and repeatedly practice are backed by their spirit of steadfastness, concentration and pursuit of excellence. Their respect for approaching acceptance, welder admission career, their admiration for the profession and their inheritance of skills all reﬂect the passion and persistence in their hearts. CNOOC and elimination, shut down for quality problem, “establishing model project” and craftsmanship and sophisticated creative ingenuity has been polished over time. other quality management modes, so as to ensure “zero defects” in construction quality. “Similar to the four ways of diagnosis in traditional Chinese “The connotation of ‘spirit of craftsmanship’ is medicine; ‘look, listen, question and feel the pulse’, the ‘refinery embodied in tightening of every bolt, paying craftsman’ shall master the five ways of ‘look, listen, feel, check and attention to details and striving for perfection; smell’, e.g. looking at the operation conditions of the plant, listening this reflects persistence in maintaining quality to the operation sound of the equipment for abnormity, feeling the of work. Shutting off power supply, isolation equipment vibration for steadiness, checking the lubricating system and evacuation, never skipping a single for normal operation and smelling the equipment for peculiar smell. maintenance procedure and working with The ‘spirit of craftsmanship’ requires us not only to master good the greatest care; this reflects persistence operation skills, but also have a strong sense of responsibility to do in maintaining the safety system. Being all the work seriously with every detail considered.” professional and devoted to work; this reflects Guan Jianqiang, Huizhou Reﬁnery persistence in pursuing career and constantly progressing. Dong Fei, Chengbei Oilﬁeld Carrying Out The Company enhanced quality publicity with the help of multiple media to create an atmosphere “‘CNOOC Frogmen’ have gone through “The one who cannot bear loneliness and solitude and be patient Activities of of pursuing excellent quality. It strengthened awareness of quality risks to make response numerous twists and turns and grown out of and persistent will not become a “craftsman”. The model workers of “Quality Month” measures, carried out quality sampling and special actions for key products to ensure product nothing. It was the persistent pursuit and Capitan Fu Yonghan and “Golden Steering” Capitan Xu Ping stuck and Carrying quality. It carried out QC team activity, technological PK, etc. to enhance the quality consciousness insistence to realizing the ideal that has to their post in the frontline in the sea for 30 years and strived to do Forward “Spirit of among the staff, concentrated on the cultivation of “spirit of craftsmanship” to strengthen quality culminated in the form of achievements the best for every voyage and every berthing. Their goal is to keep Craftsmanship” training and improve the vocational quality and professional competence of the employees. today. Faced the temptation of high salary improving, which is the developing process of craftsmanship, the from competitors and the harsh working result of self-improvement and persistence.” environment, the ‘CNOOC Frogmen’, represented by Chu Jinyong, continued to Zhang Huafeng, COSL stick to their post. Their persistence is the Implementation best interpretation of craftsmanship spirit.” “A series of processes, such as safety inspection before LNG filling, of special The Company conducted special inspections of 6 laboratories, special quality inspection of “full Guo Hongwei, COOEC loading pipe connection and charging, etc. is dull and heavy. The inspection of coverage, overall process and identical standards” of 44 service stations in Hunan province, and send-out of 100 trucks per day means these processes would be quality to improve self-inspection of 480 service stations, 58 bulk plants and 27 transport fleets, discovering 1,534 repeated for 100 times. Every time must be done carefully. In my the quality of problems. After that, it made an improvement plan and completed on schedule. opinion, to do the repeated and dull work extraordinarily well is the products and craftsmanship spirit.” services Zhang Guopeng, CNOOC Gas & Power Group 36 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 37 ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION CNOOC upholds the developmental concept of “green, low-carbon, clean and circular economy”, pursues having “resource-saving and environment-friendly” enterprise and implements overall management of environmental protection to constantly improve the level of green operations, realizing sustainable development of the Company and the environment. 38 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 39 GREEN OPERATION TACKLING CLIMATE CHANGE With the principle of developing a green, low carbon, clean and circular economy in mind, CNOOC steps up its efforts in As global warming is increasing, it has become one of the core issues globally in need transforming itself into a resource-conserving and environment-friendly company. It adheres to the management principle that “control of resolution, so as to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect the environment. after the event is inferior to control during the event, control during the event is inferior to control before the event, and control As a responsible international energy corporation, CNOOC attaches great importance before the event is inferior to whole process control”. In this way, CNOOC has effectively reduced environmental risks and realized to the work of tackling climate change. It is the first central enterprise which has sustainable development between the Company and environment through continuously improving environmental management system, continuing to enhance overall environmental management process in construction projects, and integrating environmental protection into daily production and operation. 1,000,000 Total amount of CCER completed carbon interrogation as per international standards. In 2016, the Company actively tackled climate change. It has been reducing greenhouse gas emissions through developing carbon emission monitoring and exceeded 1 million tons verification technology besides constant research on Carbon Capture, Utilization Environmental Management and Storage technologies. It strengthens carbon interrogation and promotes carbon trading, conducting carbon interrogation according to the newly-launched 24 In 2016, the Company promoted the standardised management of environmental protection and issued special work guidance, standards, so as to have a clear idea of the current situation. Multiple Chinese Certified such as Guidelines to Post-Assessment of Environmental Impact, Guidance to Completion of the Marine Pollution Prevention Record Emission Reduction (CCER) projects were allowed to enter into the carbon market. Form, Guidance to Compilation of Report of Environmental Assessment Changes, Guidelines of Solid Wastes Management and The total amount of CCER exceeds 1 million tons. Implementation Guidelines of Energy Performance Contracting Project. The Company has strengthened the supervision and liability of environmental protection, and it has printed, distributed and implemented Administrative Rules on Accountability for Ecological Environment Damage. Moreover, the Company was appointed by the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology to introduce Steadily promoting research Launching the Chinese Certified Emission Reduction Project (CCER) on carbon emission reduction the experience of creating green factories and participate in drafting the industrial standards. In 2016, CNOOC’s business level of carbon asset development was further increased; technology multiple CCER projects were approved by the National Development and Reform CNOOC attaches great importance to Commission (NDRC) with the total amount of CCER certified to enter the carbon market for Launching the office building green lighting project the emission reduction of the greenhouse more than 1 million tons. The low carbon team of the Company not only proactively served gases, such as CO 2, and has established the internal enterprises of the system but also won recognition from external customers In 2016, CNOOC carried out a comprehensive transformation for energy-efficient lighting in its office buildings through investigation by internal multiple agencies like energy conservation by virtue of its professionalism and high efficient development capacity. It successfully professional service company and centralized procurement by the Headquarters. An overall cost of more than RMB 10 million was saved, and the and emission reduction centre to carry out developed more than 10 CCER projects outside the system, including photovoltaic power average payback period of lamps and lights after transformation is expected to be about 2 years. research on CO2 emission reduction and generation, wind power generation, biomass energy, etc. utilization technology. In 2016, the Company has been continuously concentrating on China BlueChemical constructed “Green Mine” the progress of CCUS (Carbon Capture, China BlueChemical focused on the coordinated resource development and environmental protection. It carried out environmental impact Utilization and Storage) technologies, and Promotion of Marine LNG Clean Fuel assessment and geological disaster assessment and made the corresponding protection scheme to eliminate the potential hazards in the process of proactively promoting the follow-up study CNOOC promoted the application of LNG on ships, adopted a marine LNG fuel system for mine construction. The waste water, exhaust gas and waste residues generated in the mine were disposed effectively to make sure to meet the control on CO2 capture, transmission, CO2 drive, the first time, and arranged the main engine of LNG fuel on traditional harbour tugboats. The standard. The Company conducted the restoration and control of the ecological environment and the land rehabilitation of the closed mine, striving geological sequestration and CO2 chemical designs of LNG storage, supply and filling are all independent initiatives. They have realized to construct a “Green Mine”. utilization technologies. emission reduction of SO2 by 89%, NOX by 85%, and CO2 by 26%. 40 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 41 WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT CNOOC places emphasis on technological progress and innovations, increases efforts on technology reforms, intensifies supervision management, strengthens waste water comprehensive treatment and recycle, and enhances water resource management in the round. In 2016, CNOOC specified water conservation tasks and targets in all its subsidiaries, proactively carried out promotion activities regarding water conservation, and continued to reduce fresh water consumption volume per unit product by optimizing production process. CNOOC successfully saved precious fresh water resource through measures of reclaimed water recycle and sea water desalination. The Company had 84 million tons of fresh water consumption and saved 674,000 tons of water resources in the entire year. Built the largest water conservation terminal in Asia CNOOC Gaolan natural gas processing terminal is the largest “water saving” terminal in Asia. In order to save the consumption of tap water, it takes a full consideration of the recycling of surface water and designs a rainwater reuse system and the comprehensive utilization scheme of mountain spring water. The rainwater reuse system can be used for Turning wastewater into Wastewater reuse of Zhongshan Jiaming Electric Power Co., Ltd. is paid off collecting rainwater of the whole site and later sending it to the circulating water and waste “Golden Water” to realize zero water processing system of the terminal for purification and subsequent use as circulating In order to save water, Zhongshan Jiaming Electric Power Co., Ltd. newly constructed the emission water. As for the comprehensive utilization system of mountain spring water, after the domestic, oily and the industrial waste water treatment equipment to collect and process all The annual amount of water Shandong Haihua implements the construction of dam, water tank and lying of pipeline network system independently, about resource saving reached up the waste water in the factory of domestic, industrial and oily waste water until the water to 674,000 tons improvement of carbonised cooling system quality reached the required standard. Later on, it reuses the water in the industrial cooling 5,000 m3 of mountain spring water can be recycled per month, especially in rain season, the to replace seawater with subsurface brine for water system. The annual water saving amount is 216,000 tons and the annual economic recycling capacity can be doubled. Thanks to these measures, the total water saving amount temperature reduction. After the system’s benefit is about RMB 280,000. can reach up to 60,000 m3 for the whole year, which can completely meet the needs of green Bohai Oilfield: Expanding improvement, the subsurface brine used and domestic water consumption of the terminal. capacities without increasing to replace the seawater will be sent to emissions the bromine plant for bromine extraction “Penglai 19-3” Oilfield uses turbine’s residual heat to desalt seawater Bohai Oilfield strictly controls the produced and then be sent to the salt works for salt waste water, by means of implementation manufacturing. After the overall technical China BlueChemical comprehensively carries out water resource “Penglai 19-3” Oilfield installed a flue-gas heater and hot water heat exchanger on the flue of gas of waste water reinjection measures for the transformation, part of the waste water management turbine to use the hot water circulating pump to circulate hot water and transfer the heat absorbed from the flue-gas of turbine to the fresh water generator, producing fresh water through distilling newly-developed oilfields, and improvement generated from the other temperature Placing emphasis on water resource management, China BlueChemical completed the key seawater. 74 m3 of fresh water can be produced every day in this way to supply the production of the effect of the sewage treatment reduction system of the new and old project of “development of water saving of industrial cooling system and waste water near and domestic consumption of the offshore oil platform. facilities for the old oilfields, so as to satisfy production lines of the soda plant is to be zero emission technology” of National “863”. China BlueChemical strongly advocates the the requirement of “expanding capacities recycled to the system after precipitation in economical utilization of water resources and positively adopts water-saving measures to without increasing emissions”. Presently, the sedimentation tank. Thus, the system reuse the produced waste water after clarification in the production system for recycling, so Watering flowers and plants with organic reclaimed water the various offshore platforms in the Bohai recycling waste water in traditional sense as to reduce the consumption of fresh water. It also makes use of the reverse osmosis device Tianjin LNG Company designed a reclaimed water greening system, which is especially used for Sea have basically realized “zero emission” is turned into valuable “golden water” of to construct the reclaimed water recycle station with the recycling rate above 70%, which greening of office area. It purifies domestic waste water into reclaimed water whose water quality of produced water. The water quality of the producing products and creating benefits, greatly improves the utilization efficiency of the water resources. is more suitable for the growth of plant than that of domestic water. Thanks to this system, the discharged domestic waste water is also realizing the resources recycling and zero LNG factory area located in Tianjin Nanjiang port has been built into beautiful green belts. closed to the index of tap water. emission from waste water for system cooling. 42 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 43 ENERGY CONSERVATION AND EMISSION REDUCTION Reducing Emission of General Special Treatment of VOCs Pollutants Guided by the main ideology of It organized promotional activities by tons of standard coals and contributed “green development, low carbon and the names of Energy Conservation continuously to the ecological civilization innovation”, CNOOC always advocates Week and National Low Carbon Day. construction. In 2016, the annual We are continuing to adopt the method The Company constantly constructs strengthened its support to the scientific green and low-carbon production, living It concentrated in conducting energy comprehensive energy consumption of “reducing scale, replacing fuels and improves the VOCs comprehensive researches on control and supervision and consumption patterns. It controls audit, “Green Factory”, formulation of of CNOOC was 14.343 million tons of and taking measures” to promote management information system and standards of VOCs pollution, estimation energy consumption of new projects the construction scheme of energy standard coal, the energy consumption the implementation of emission the supporting management system. m e t h o d a n d p o l l u t i o n p re v e n t i o n from the source through exploring energy management centre, optimization of of production value per ten thousand reduction projects and promote treating It issued CNOOC VOCs Renovation technology. It constantly carried out conservation potentials of the existing energy system, investigation of the yuan was 0.3519 ton of standard coal environmental hazard through exhaust Plan, constructed 12 types of source the equipment leakage detection and facilities, planning energy distribution boiler energy conservation potentials, (comparable price in 2015). In 2016, five gas desulphurisation and special refinery item accounting platforms of VOCs. It repair (LDAR) work and strengthened w i t h i n t h e re g i o n a n d c o n t i n u o u s renovation of variable frequency pump units under CNOOC, including Huizhou reconstruction of treating odour. In urges the affiliated units to conduct the VOCs emission at dynamic/static investment of the special fund of energy and water and electricity conservation Refinery Branch, were awarded the 2016, our emissions of SO2, NOx, COD VOCs source survey, registration and sealing points of equipment and pipeline conservation and emission reduction. of circulating water system to promote “Energy Conservation Advanced Unit” of and Ammonia Nitrogen were 5,796 total amount accounting. It organized valve fittings. A total of 11 enterprises It promotes the work of energy the overall improving of the energy the petroleum and chemical industry of tons, 10,654 tons, 1,075 tons and 109 VOCs training video session in the year carried out LDAR work in the year. conservation and emission reduction conservation. China. CNOOC Energy Conservation and tons respectively, with a year-on-year with a participation of 215 persondepending on technical progress. It also Emission Reduction Monitoring Centre decrease of 32%, 30%, 38% and 27%. time. It comprehensively sorted the In 2016, CNOOC was awarded uses energy conservation and emission and CNOOC Energy Conservation & annual VOCs reconstruction projects the 4th term of “Excellent Energy and further promoted the VOCs Hazardous Waste Management reduction management information Environmental Protection Service Co., Conservation and Emission Reduction system to carry out energy conservation Ltd. were awarded the “Excellent Service comprehensive control and management Enterprise” issued by State-owned and emission reduction work in the Unit of Energy Conservation” in national of petrochemical and warehousing The Company sends hazardous wastes Assets Supervision and Administration various links of implementing production, petroleum and chemical industry. The enterprises, with emphasis on the VOCs to qualified units for recovery processing Commission (SASAC) as its 30 affiliated products circulation and consumption. Company takes “Energy Efficiency emission sources, such as storage to ensure that hazardous wastes will not key energy-consumption units all In 2016, the Company strictly complied Frontrunner” activity as a long-term tanks, loading and unloading trucks and cause pollution to the environment. accomplished the “Ten Thousand of with the requirements set out in the mechanism. The ethylene, methanol sewage treatment units. The Company Enterprises” energy conservation task new “Environmental Protection Law” to and synthetic ammonia of the affiliated assigned by National Development intensify the supervision and inspection enterprises were each awarded the and Reform Commission(NDRC). The of environmental protection, energy honourable title of “Energy Efficiency Establishment and Implementation of conservation and emission reduction. Frontrunner”. CSPC was awarded the Application of solar energy on platform by the design company of COOEC Geophysical vessel reduces oil Comprehensive Energy Conservation consumption by applying new Moreover, it established the monthly title of “Energy Efficiency Frontrunner” The “thermoelectricity + solar energy” double power supply system independently designed by Management won the first prize of system tracking and feedback mechanism, in 2016 national ethylene industry and COOEC, using both explosion-proof thermoelectric generator and solar energy as the power national petroleum and petrochemical “Hai Yang Shi You 721” fleet applied tracked and settled 50 environmental ranked second. source of the platform, has less energy consumption and less cost than those power supply “Excellent Achievement of Enterprise C-JOY system and used the linkage mode to hazard events and specified the system with traditional single thermoelectric power generation method. In addition to be used Management Moder nisation”. The in the domestic offshore oil production platform, this system was formally put into operation in control the ship speed within the range of ± responsible units and personnel to energy conservation and emission Zawatika WP4 oil production platform of Thailand in 2016. 0.1 knot of the set speed and the maximum make correction within a definite time. reduction monitoring centre of the head limit of lateral deviation speed at ± 0.05 It formulated and revised five energy knot. In this way, the fuel consumption will office was rated by Ministry of Industry 230,000 conservation standards and conducted be reduced while increasing the operation and Information Technology as the only Thermal recycling at evaporation workshop of Shandong Haihua the overall revision of the systems, potassium sulphide plant efficiency. As many as 360 tons of fuel oil one “Industrial Energy Conservation and regulations and detailed rules of energy can be saved in a year. Green Development Assessment Centre” Shandong Haihua used salt-making mother solution (bittern) as the raw material. It evaporated conservation management. It carried energy conservation in the oil and gas industry of China. amount of 230,000 tons of most of the water content in the bittern through the new energy-efficient evaporation technology out “Energy Efficiency Frontrunner” of “3+1 switching” so that the magnesium sulphate, magnesium chloride, potassium chloride standard coal equivalent and advanced energy conservation Moreover, the Company implemented and sodium chloride in the raw material bittern were precipitated and separated respectively, campaigns of “12th Five-Year Plan” 52 energy conservation projects and before converting into agricultural potassium sulphide, industrial magnesium chloride and and the training activity of energy invested RMB 406 million for the whole refined industrial salt. Besides, it also achieved comprehensive utilization of the salt-making conservation management personnel. year. As a result, it saved 230,000 mother solution (bittern) resources to turn “waster” into wealth and achieved the goal of energy conservation and emission reduction as well as efficiency increasing and consumption reduction. 44 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 45 New ways of energy conservation by various oilfields Flare gas recovery of Daxie Petrochemical, Ltd. can save RMB 150 LDAR innovation and million a year implementation achieved surprising effects In 2016, the project of comprehensive utilization of distillate of Daxie Petrochemical Ltd. Eastern South China Sea Oilfield Bohai Oilfield successfully extinguished the flare and recovered the flare gas. Through flare gas recovery, the On the basis of the experimental LDAR various plants of the comprehensive utilization of distillate project can recover about 30,000 tons work of carried out on two sets of plants of gas, which is sufficient to supply the 20,000 households for nearly six years if converted to in 2015, Huizhou Refinery, in 2016, Gaolan terminal skilfully used the low temperature to reduce the energy consumption LNG. It can save nearly RMB 90 million every year. comprehensively carried out LDAR on through three adjustments: adjusting the operation modes and quantity of the fans of the 15 sets of refinery production plants. It the after-cooler of the propane compressor to change the power frequency to variable added major innovations in the following frequency; adjusting the pneumatic brake opening of fan of the decarbonised barren Bohai Oilfield realized zero pollutant emission from operation in the four aspects during the implementation: 1) liquor cooler to reduce the circulation volume of the decarbonised agent on the premise marine ecological red-line areas In the implementation model, it combined of ensuring the CO2 removal effect; and adjusting the resurgent gas supply method of In order to reduce the impact of drilling operation on the marine life, Bohai Oilfield cleared carrying out the work independently the dewatering unit to reduce energy consumption by using low temperature. In the lowthe basic requirement of avoiding fishing season, specially made the environmental protection with entrusting professional company to temperature weather, it reduces the electric power consumption by reducing the usage of measure of recovering all the drilling cuttings and muds and arranged centralized operation of provide guidance and training, saving the the cooling air-conditioning of the electric plate cabinet in the substation with the daily “Jinzhou 9-3” Oilfield realized the drilling platform according to the fishing season. For the exploration well operation in the marine implementation cost of more than RMB electric power conservation of 3,000 kWh. annual natural gas conservation of 26 ecological red-line area, Bohai Oilfield completed the reconstruction of drilling platform in 10 million; 2) In the positioning of on-site million m3 with energy conservation “Huizhou 19-2” platform recycled the released gas for electric power generation by advance. It thereby recovered all the drilling cuttings, muds and domestic wastewater generated detection points, it innovatively combined capacity of 32,000 tons of standard installing the pre-treatment device of associated gas and micro turbine generator to in the whole process of operation for storage and then transported them to the qualified unit the positioning by on-site signing with photo coal by rational distribution of the recycle the associated gas originally released and burned through the flare. One set of the on the land for disposal, realizing the zero emission of the operation pollutant in the marine positioning, thus forming a new image electric power load of the power main generator in the original power grid is eliminated after the equipment was put into ecological red-line area. signing method; 3) In the transmission of generator, thereby improving the operation with the annual natural gas recycling of 4.5 million m3, equivalent to the energy the monitoring data, it realized the automatic operational efficiency and energy conservation capacity of 6,500 tons of standard coal. transmission of monitoring data on the utilization rate of the power station Zhongshan Jiaming Electric Power Co., Ltd. achieved high efficiency on “Hai Yang Shi You 111” FPSO waste heat recovery reduced energy consumption. Through management platform; 4) In the control system according to the production emission reduction through implementation of “Green” reconstruction a series of measures, such as recovery and utilization of waste heat from main engines and of big data, it realized the closed-loop conditions of the oilfield group within On August 5, 2016, Zhongshan Jiaming Electric Power Co., Ltd. of CNOOC Gas and Power management of VOCs emission monitoring boilers, and renovation of lighting system, it accelerated the recovery of waste heat from Stage I and Stage II electric power Group completed the renovation of dry low nitrogen (DLN) combustion system in the overhaul and equipment maintenance to expand the the exhaust gas of the main engine. The annual reduction of fuel oil consumption of the network area. of No.3 unit. It applied the world’s most advanced low nitrogen combustion technology, coverage of preventative maintenance. boiler is equivalent to about 5,600 tons of standard coal. The emissions of CO2 and other “Suizhong 36-1” Oilfield installed the improved the burner nozzle and adopted sorting transmission of fuel to effectively reduce the After the implementation of the project, the exhaust gases can be reduced. reactive-load compensation equipment emission of nitrogen oxides. After the renovation, every 1kWh of electric power generated can equipment leakage rate reduced under 0.01% on the platform with low power factor reduce the emission of 75 mg nitrogen oxides. The annual emission reduction of nitrogen oxides with the total emission amount of 42 tons, in the power grid to reduce the reactive is 750 tons, which significantly expanded the applicable range of Wobbe Index (natural gas heat with an emission reduction rate of 66%. power exchange flow between the load index) and achieved cleaner and more environment friendly effect. Eastern China Sea Oilfield power stations. It used active filter for centralized filtering to ensure the safety Eastern China Sea Oilfield has a good method of recovering the associated gas of the subsea operation of power grid and reduce the China BlueChemical promotes treatment of exhaust gas and dust Bohai Oilfield achieved high pipes. A certain platform of Eastern China Sea Oilfield used two needle valves and a piece of running current, realizing the annual yield and low carbon China BlueChemical implemented clean production and carried out pollution prevention to instrument pipe to transform the manual residual gas release of crude oil subsea pipe, so as energy conservation capacity of 20,000 minimize the impact of production and operation on environment. In 2016, it completed the Bohai Oilfield adheres to the philosophy of to effectively control slug flow and recover all the residual natural gas through compressor. tons of standard coal. treatment of boiler flue gas and urea tower dust in the Inner Mongolian Base and effectively “high yield with low carbon; development The accumulative natural gas conservation reached 957,700 m3. reduced the emission volume of SO2, NOx and urea dust, in which the annual emission reduction on the premise of protecting environment”. It of SO2 is 1,303 tons, NOx is 1,507 tons and urea dust is 330 tons. strengthens the work of energy conservation and emission reduction and implements the measures of high standard emission limits to minimize the impact of their operations on the environment. In 2016, “Qinhuangdao 29-2” project team exploited the natural gas block with CO2 in the method of gas injection to use the residual gas with rich CO2 in the gas injection exploitation of the extremely thick and low permeability oil reservoir in the Eastern 4 block of “Qinhuangdao 29-2” oilfield, realizing the win-win combination of energy conservation and high yield. 46 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 47 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION Distribution and protection of the finless porpoise population quantity, breeding migration in the Huanghai Sea and the Bohai Sea The finless porpoise is listed among the Class Ⅱ Endangered and Protected Wildlife Species of China and in Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, and faces the severe living condition under the double pressure As a proactive advocate for the protection of marine ecological environment, CNOOC always attaches great importance to the of deteriorative ecological environment and overfishing. In order to grasp the population dynamics of finless porpoise group and protection of biodiversity in the area surrounding the operation zone. Protecting the environment is the Company’s unwavering its individual behaviour in the Huanghai Sea and the Bohai Sea, CNOOC formulated the constructive strategy of protecting finless commitment during all phases of a project life cycle. In order to maintain a harmonious balance between the economic projects porpoise and funds to conduct a 5-year research project. and ecological environment, the Company always makes it a point to pre-assess environmental risks, so that it can identify the environmentally sensitive targets in the vicinity of the project and avoid environmental risks. Research on protection and restoration technology of typical coastal zone ecological environment In addition, through the platform of CNOOC Marine Environmental and Ecological Protection Public Welfare Foundation, we have and resources in Shandong actively committed ourselves to the ecological diversity research and protection project, promoting resource restoration and The Company has organized to conduct the species selection for key biological resources remediation. It researches the key environment improvement in the area where the project is located and establishing characteristic projects, such as “protection technology of remediation of the coastal wetland vegetation and constructed the science popularisation exhibition room of marine of larga seal” and “enhancement and releasing”. In the meanwhile, the Company has positively participated in propagating ecological environmental protection. It carries out further study on the current situation of genetic resources of the biological environmental protection, making efforts to create better ecological conditions for building a beautiful China. remediation species in Shandong typical sea areas to make the protection policies of coastal wetlands and vegetation. The construction project of eco-village in the beautiful Weizhou Island CNOOC positively supports the healthy development of villages in the Weizhou Island, financing and planning the layout of environmental protection facilities of Zitongmu Village in Weizhou Island. It has carried out the village road reconstruction, centralized construction of waste water and rainwater and environmental protection campaign among others. It has protected the biological resources and ecological environment of Weizhou Island and the surrounding sea area, improved the villagers’ level of awareness of natural environmental protection and made a positive contribution to the construction of beautiful Weizhou Island. Chinese White Dolphins protection project Chinese White Dolphins belong to the first level protected species in China, and are listed in the near threatened species by IUVN. Influenced by human activities, their number and diversity are continuously reduced. Their population in Pearl River Estuary and Xiamen appears differentiation in genetics. CNOOC proposes to make constructive protection strategies for the protection object of Chinese White Dolphins in the water areas of Fujian, Guangdong, Hainan and Guangxi. It comprehensively masters the information of population quantity and distribution range of them in China sea area and then defines the potential and key habitats of them. It is planned firstly to take one year’s time to conduct the small population dynamic monitoring and risk assessment of them in Xiamen City, and Shantou City, etc. and then complete the investigation of their distribution range and core habitat. Bohai Sea Penaeus Orientalis Enhancement Capacity Research Project CNOOC has carried out the three-year project of Bohai Sea penaeus orientalis enhancement capacity research. It has thrice launched comprehensive investigation on Bohai Sea’s nekon, benthos and plankton, etc., besides embarking on a voyage of basic productivity survey. Through such extensive basic researches, it has determined the evaluation method of penaeus orientalis enhancement capacity based on Ecopath model. Larga Seal Protection and Research Project The protection and research of various larga seals in the Dalian Larga Seal National Nature Reserve has become the characteristic ecological protection project funded by CNOOC for four consecutive years during which the Company conducted more than 30 times animal rescue activities and successfully rescued 11 larga seals and one finless porpoise. It assists the construction of Lvshun Shuangdao Larga Seal Monitoring Station and has completed the construction of holding pond of larga seals with volume of 300 m3 to provide hardware basis for the protection of larga seals. It also raised awareness on larga seal protection through releasing activities and popular science campaign at “the scenic spots, communities, fishing zones and school districts”. Moreover, it has been continuously carrying out the scientific research of investigation and observation of larga seals distribution on the ice and larga seal physiological research, among other activities. 48 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 49 Special ECOLOGICAL PROTECTION Topic CONTRIBUTES TO A BEAUTIFUL CHINA CNOOC sticks to its initiatives, always cares for the surrounding environment and proactively contributes to the construction of a beautiful China and makes great efforts to promote the harmony between human and nature. In the Bohai Sea, the ﬁnless porpoises are swimming around the oilﬁelds, eastern cattle egrets are ﬂying to the offshore platform and the larga seals constantly have a short break on the subsea pipeline facilities; in the South China Sea, whale sharks occasionally visit Weizhou Oilﬁeld, dolphins come to the Enping Oilﬁeld from time to time and the wounded hawks are taken good care of; in the sea shore, millions of fries are released to the sea, egrets are wandering and ﬂying in Diefu mountain with the vicinity of natural gas plant; in the North Pole, the CNOOC stuff are in harmony with the various living things and carefully protect the last piece of pure land on the earth... CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS CNOOC proactively promotes and adheres to the parallel performance of economic, environmental and social responsibilities. We believe that the fundamental of enterprise social responsibility is to facilitate the economy and employment by enterprise development. In 2016, the Company upheld the “people-oriented” philosophy and cared for its employees. We continued to devote to humanitarian engagements with a yearly total investment of RMB 136.08 million. 52 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 53 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT management. It strongly opposes any kind of inhumane treatment or forced labour and strictly conforms to the specifications related to the wages, overtime hours and legal welfare in the region where the operation is conducted. The Company adheres to the principle of “gender equality and equal pay for equal work”, and treats the staffs equally without discrimination in terms of recruitment, training, promotion and salary, regardless of race, nationality, faith, gender, age, marital status and special legal protection. Employees are the most valuable resource and asset of the Company. CNOOC pays In 2016, the total number of the Company’s staff was 106,000, in which female employees accounted for 20.9%, middle-level and close attention to staffs’ interests and development, adheres to the principle of “peoplehigher-level female managers accounted for 11.3%, minority employees accounted for 2.7%, and the localization rate of overseas staff oriented and care for employees”, seriously fulfils its responsibility to the employees, accounted for 70.8%. 249 graduating students were recruited, with the rate of signing labour contracts being 100% and the coverage respects their legal rights and interests, expands their career development space, rate of social insurances also being 100%, and staff turnover rate being 2.6%. During the whole year, the Company neither found any concerns their physical and mental health, improves work environment for them to violations, such as child labor and forced labor, nor received any complaint of violation of human rights in any regions. achieve the common development of the Company and the employees. Democratic Management Rights and Interests CNOOC strictly abides by laws and regulations of United Nations and the countries 106,000 The total number of CNOOC constantly improves the employee democratic management system and makes full use of employees’ roles in the democratic decision-making, administration and supervision of the Company. It effectively protects the employees’ rights to be informed, to oversee, to participate and to be heard, safeguarding employees’ democratic and legitimate rights and interests. Since where its business are located. It faithfully implements the relevant international employees conventions approved by the Chinese government, respects human rights and 2008, the Company has carried out the investigation of employees’ satisfaction according to the principle of “all-staff participation pursues equality. We proactively advocate our partners, suppliers and contractors and scientific sampling”. The employees’ satisfaction in 2016 scored 7.62 out of 10, decreasing by 1.6% compared with 2015. to make common efforts to observe relevant regulations. We follow the principle of The Company, through the labour unions at different levels, protects employees’ legitimate rights and interests, and supervises fairness, impartiality and transparency for recruiting people on the basis of qualities Company’s fulfilment of responsibilities and duties, with 100% of employees participating in labour unions. required for the job. We strictly carry out various employment policies without any The Company issued Opinions on Strengthening and Improving the Party’s Mass Organisation’s Operation by the Party Group of the discriminatory provisions or behaviours to establish harmonious and stable labour Head Office and Detailed Regulations for Establishment and Management of Workers’ Congress of the Affiliated Units of the Head relations and maintain employees’ legitimate interests. Office. It works for improving the enterprise democratic management system and the factory affair disclosure system with the basic Salary and Welfare form of workers’ congress, so as to strengthen the protection rights of labour union. Channels for reporting employees’ opinions and transmitting to lower levels were effectively unblocked and channels for democratic management were further broadened CNOOC strictly abides by the Labour Law, Labour Contract Law and Employment through the form of collecting proposals for workers’ congress, suggestion box, the leaders of Party Organisation Reception Day, Promotion Law, adhering to annual leave with payment and other related laws and 20.9% the General Manager Reception Day, on-site officing of basic levels, publicity of factory affairs, replying on internet forum, WeChat, regulations. It ensures the employees’ legitimate rights and interests and strives for MicroBlog and other new media, allowing employees to fully express their opinions and to participate in democratic decisionproviding the employees with salary and welfare competitive in the same industry. making, administration and supervision. In 2016, up to 20,000 items of rational advice from employees were collected, in which The Company gradually establishes the distribution mechanism that matches market Female employees more than 5,000 items of good advice were adopted. mechanism and connects the working value and contribution, so that the employees in the Company could share the achievements of the enterprise. accounted for 20.9% The Company establishes a comprehensively effective employee welfare system, Normalisation of Party Group Leaders Reception Day featuring social basic insurance (endowment insurance, medical insurance, CNOOC held a total of 12 Party Group Leaders Reception employment injury insurance, unemployment insurance and maternity insurance), Day activities for the entire year. On January 26, 2016, supplemented insurance (personal accident insurance, commercial supplementary the Party Secretary and Chairman, Yang Hua, conducted a medical insurance, and juvenile children supplementary medical insurance), and “zero distance” communication with more than 70 staff of occupational pension and housing allowance. the head office on the subject of “survival and development The Company pays attention to and ensures the occupational and psychological health under low oil price” for the first time. He analysed the far of all employees, establishes and improves the labour protection mechanism, strictly reaching influence of low oil price on the development of the Company in the future according to the current oil implements employees’ periodic health examination and special health examination, 2.7% price. He introduced the practice commonly adopted by the and distributes the labour protection appliances and heatstroke prevention subsidy in international counterparts to resist the severe situation of low time. It encourages the employees to take vacation for wellness and issues a one-off oil prices and answered the employees’ questions related resettlement subsidy and comprehensive subsidies to the inter-regional employees. E m p l o y e e s f ro m to innovation and entrepreneurship, party construction and m i n o r i t y g ro u p s new media construction. It is generally accepted that the Employment Policies accounted for 2.7% activity widened the communication channel for employees CNOOC respects for staffs’ legitimate human rights, value, individuality and privacy to participate in democratic management and was helpful for of staffs with different cultural backgrounds. With the core of contract management, the employees to reach a common consensus on the reform the Company standardizes the market labour management based on position and development of the Company. 54 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 55 Career Development The Company effectively promotes skill appraisal. We have organized the development or revision of test libraries on 12 types of work, laying a solid foundation for training In pursuit of its people-oriented philosophy, CNOOC provides its employees with equal and appraising skilled employees. In the meanwhile, appraisals of junior, semi-senior, and open growth environment and clear access to professional growth. According senior, technician and senior technician levels were organized for 70 types of work, 819,000 to the characteristics of different specialized groups, we have designed three career with the number of appraisals totalling 8,490 person-time. The Company attaches development accesses: management, technology and work, besides establishing a great importance to the cultivation and selection of high-skilled talent by holding training system of “four in one” with respect to selection, training, assessment and technician innovation training class and organizing skills and innovation exchanges. promotion & qualification authentication, so as to improve personal professional ability 819,000 employee were We actively participated in national and industrial skill competition with the outstanding and work performance step by step in a planned manner. trained in the entire year achievements. Therein, four individuals, including Chen Keying from Zhanjiang branch, were awarded the title of national technical experts. Moreover, the competitors Career Access dispatched by the Company were awarded No.1 individual for two items, No.2 and CNOOC always regards training and selection of excellent young talents as a No.3 individual for one item and second group prize in 2016 (the 4th) “Jiake Cup” significant strategic task of ensuring national energy supply safety and sustainable International Welding Skills Competition. development of the Company. It constantly improves the construction of three channels and mechanisms of science and technology, management and operation, Employee Training while rationally simplifying and shortening the staff promotion ladder and setting CNOOC constantly improves talent training system according to different levels broader conditions so that more excellent young talents can have the opportunities to and stages, besides creating a platform of employees’ ability training and potential 821,086 stand out. development. The Company continues to promote the scientific and technological young talents In 2016, the Company compiled the “13th Five-Year” talent development plan, cultivation project and provide dual tutors to the first batch of 136 young talents. It Total training hours put forward 10 major measures to strengthen the construction of talent team and organized two periods of trainings for them and held five professional young talent reached 821,086 in the designed “213” talent engineering, knowledge management engineering and five major forums of exploration, development, drilling and well completion, offshore engineering, entire year plans of talent development. The Company equally emphasises “long-term cultivation refinery & petrochemical and gas power to provide the opportunity for the young and short-term effect”. It regards compiling and implementing CNOOC’s annual key talents to communicate with the high level experts and rapidly develop them to be training plan as emphasis point and cultivates the important, urgently required and key 136 professional technical leaders and medium and high-end technical management talents, considering whole staff training of three teams. In 2016, the Company carried talents, so as to realize the strategic succession of talents in the Company. out 46,499 training courses, with 819,000 person-time, 821,086 hours of training and The Company reinforces management on occupational qualification. We improve on average 86 hours per person, in which the international talent training was carried Dual tutors were provided the certification policies of internal occupational qualification, perfect occupational to the first batch of 136 out for 14,556 hours per person. qualification management system, and strictly implement Company’s Management young talents Rules of Professional Technical Qualification as well as 6 supporting detailed rules, constantly improving talent evaluation level. In 2016, 646 individuals were qualified for the positions of senior technical professional. In terms of exploration, borehole and drilling and completion operation, 25, 62, 7, 9 and 439 individuals were qualified CNOOC “13th Five-Year” talent development plan for senior general supervisor and general supervisor, senior project manager or The Company advocates the principle of lifelong learning and has built a categorised, hierarchical and systematic training system. We encouraged above level, senior project manager and project manager and below level positions, staffs’ online learning by means of information platforms, such as “Employee E-Bookshop”, “CNOOC Online Video Platform”, “Online Schools”, respectively. “Learn in China”, etc. In 2016, we organized the contest of “Good Lecturers and Good Courses of CNOOC” for the first time to select 40 CNOOC excellent courses from 1,009 independently developed and applied courses and select 10 CNOOC good lecturers from those who applied for the The Company actively participates in the selection of national high-end talents. In courses. The type selection of online study platforms is completed and trial operation of it is started in the pilot units. The “cloud classroom” system 2016, as many as 19 individual candidates were recommended for special government allowance, 4 individual candidates for national technical experts, 3 candidates for participating in Central Enterprise Outstanding Young Talents Support Plan, 2 25 25 individuals were qualified independently developed by CNOOC Zhanjiang Branch can meet the management needs of talent development and cultivation. candidates for Chinese Skills Award, and one was selected as one of the scientific for the positions of senior First Technician Innovation Training Class held by CNOOC and technological innovation leading talents for “Ten-Thousand Talents Program”. general supervisor for exploration, borehole, drilling In July 2016, the Company held “2016 Technician Innovation Training Class” with 63 technicians and above level in participation. The training It selected technical and skillful experts, as well as 38 people as the third batch of and completion operation opened up new innovation ideas of high-level technical talents and strengthened their ability to analyse and discuss innovative approaches besides Headquarters technical experts, and 17 people as the third batch of skillful experts in mastering the innovation tools with the combination of the on-site cases, so as to promote them to make contributions in the cost reduction and the affiliated units of the Head Office. efficiency enhancement activity of the Company. 56 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 57 CNOOC listened to the voices of young scientific research personnel In May 2016, CNOOC conducted a survey titled “Behavioural Habit and Demand of Young Scientific Research Personnel” and individually interviewed 561 young scientific researchers. The survey result showed that the prominent problems encountered by them in their research were as follows: It was hard to guarantee time for research; it was difficult to apply for research fee; it was hard to publish, to appraise, and to popularize their research achievements. Based on the result of the survey, CNOOC improved its mechanism to open up “private space” to the young researchers for innovation and invested an additional RMB 3 million on a yearly basis to support youth innovation projects. It also built a platform to share the innovation resources to the great extent by making use of the Internet in order to effectively motivate the innovation vitality of those young researchers. Career Health With the “people-oriented” philosophy, CNOOC constantly perfects occupational health management system, actively improves the operation environment, strengthens the identification, analysis, evaluation and control of occupational disease hazard factors in workplaces, and comprehensively applies occupational health management system, realizing entire coverage of occupational health surveillance. In 2016, pre-evaluation on 44 projects for occupational disease hazards and evaluation on 54 projects for the effect of occupational disease hazard control were taken, with 100% coverage of occupational disease hazard periodic surveillance and the occupational health examination rate reaching 99.91%. The annual incidence rate of occupational disease was 0.003%. During the whole year, 3 cases of newly added occupational diseases were properly settled according to relevant requirements. The Company focuses on staffs’ physical and mental health and enhances health promotion through “Health Embraces CNOOC”, the CNOOC’s employee health promotion management system. CNOOC launched the psychological health information service and pressure and psychological health management, expanding to offshore staffs and parts of staffs in the headquarters and institutes. By the end of 2016, a total of 77 offshore and onshore work units of CNOOC had constantly conducted the pressure management services and served more than 4,900 employees, positively relieving the staffs’ mental stress. It also carried out “Q & A of career health” through WeChat platform for group-wide occupational health knowledge publicity. Building offshore food security network CNOOC catering company established 15 food detection labs, covering 63 detection indexes and more than 50,000 inspections annually, so as to ensure the safety dining of 50,000 people per meal per day. It independently carried out the scientific research project of “Research and Application of Offshore Platform Catering Materials Nutrition Maintenance Technology”, established Food Storage and Distribution Packing Technology Standard, and was awarded two software copyright certificates and three patents issued by National Copyright Administration. It established “Offshore Oil Nutrition Catering Management System” to automatically calculate the nutrition caloric demand and nutrient per capita based on the parameters such as number, age, intensity of labour and health of the personnel who have dinners and to form the healthy and nutritional recipes, VIGOROUS and to conduct the monitoring analysis and early warning of the dietary data of the diners. CNOOC CNOOC Tianjin Branch adopted multiple measures to care for the employees’ health CNOOC Tianjin Branch adopted multiple measures to care for the employees’ physical and mental health to strengthen the prevention and caring of occupational diseases and carried out various “health promotion” work. It regularly organized the staff for physical examination and created the physical examination archives for them. It provided the alert service of disease review, established the model of safe production-psychological health to carry out the psychological counselling by means of network, 400 psych-consultant hotline, on-site consultant, emergency psychological intervention for unexpected events and 3-month follow up interview and establishing Home of Staff, etc. It regularly organized the occupational health and safety training and enhanced the staff’s health protection consciousness in the form of performance appraisal. It conducted the occupational disease prevention and control work and established and improved the responsibility system for occupational disease prevention and control and management measures. It carried out occupational health monitoring and informed the staff of occupational hazard in the contract. Moreover, it installed warning and alarm devices in the workplace and established the emergency rescue plan of occupational hazardous accidents while regularly carrying out drilling. 58 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 59 Caring for Employees Balancing Work and Life Assisting Employees in Need Employees are the source for sustainable development. We CNOOC advocates “Happy Work and Happy Life” and cares In order to help employees in difficulties, the Company took the initiative to create uphold the philosophy of “people-oriented” and adhere to the for the employees’ life in an all-round way in the spare time assistance model combining “relief, service and poverty alleviation”, issued CNOOC distribution principle of “efficiency first, considering fairness”. after their hard work of offshore operation. It opens up a warm Employee Poverty Alleviation Management Method (Trial) and carried out activities, We have established a linkage mechanism and a normal recreational corner in the nervous and busy work and organizes such as helping internal needy employees, assistance volunteering and donation to growth mechanism for employee remuneration and outcomes colourful recreational and sports activities of the employees to achieve “door to door” poverty alleviation. of enterprise development, leaning towards the front-line, lowbalance their work and life. CNOOC carried out special activity of “visiting the employees’ families in special need income and low-level posts. The Company improves employee to send warm support”, so as to visit and convey greetings to the employees who welfare system, highly emphasises on assisting needy are in special difficulties in their family lives caused by illness or unexpected accidents employees and timely helps the families of needy employees and provide financial relief. The Company issued special assistance fund of RMB in settling the troubles of their everyday lives. The Company 3.93 million and helped 603 households of employees in special need, delivering the The Company leaders condoled employees in special difficulties in their family lives constantly improves employees’ working and living conditions, Company’s concern and warmth to employees. carries out various caring activities, strives for ensuring Sweet Moment When the flood disasters took place frequently in the summer of 2016, CNOOC labour that employees balance work and life and helps promote unions at all levels immediately conducted the work to find out the conditions of the employees’ happiness. disaster affected employee families to give support for them in time. It visited more than 700 households and issued more than RMB 800,000 of condolence payment. CNOOC Family Affections Offshore Life CNOOC Spirit 60 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 61 VOLUNTARY SERVICE CNOOC constantly advocates and promotes voluntary services. In 2016, CNOOC proactively advocated and organized voluntary service activities through the Company’s Labor Union, the Youth League Committee, and women’s organizations to deliver warmth and support to socially vulnerable groups and people in straitened circumstances in various forms, to publicize and popularize marine knowledge, and to provide care-taking services. Currently, the Company has 237 volunteering service teams and 10,527 young volunteers, and it organized nearly 207 volunteering activities of various kinds for the whole year with the participation of 35,920 young employees. CNOOC was awarded the honorable titles of “2016 Charity Committeed Enterprise of China” and “Advanced Unit of Unpaid Blood Donation in Beijing”, and Chen Wei from CNOOC EnerTech won the honorable title of “Chinese Excellent Youth Volunteer”. The charitable activity launched by CNOOC attracted the spontaneous participation The employees from Bohai of nearly 1,000 volunteers, Petrochemical Administration citizens and tourists helped the children of On June 29,the staff of “Shepherd’s Field” repair their Western South China Sea bicycles Petroleum Administration Bureau donated blood HUMANITARIAN ENGAGEMENT Humanitarian engagement is one of the main methods to fulfil our social responsibility. CNOOC Marine Environmental and Ecological Protection Public Welfare Foundation is the unified management platform for public welfare programmes, such as charity and environmental protection carried out by CNOOC. In 2016, we made efforts to fixed-point poverty alleviation, caring for students, Young volunteers from Eastern special public welfare and other philanthropies. South Sea Huizhou Oilfield visited autistic children in “Xingguang Rehabilitation The children are exploring Helping pupils in Yunnan Nine years of persistence lighted the hope Centre” the secret of “environmental Province to realize the dream protection ship” As the first domestic fund company taking the children of rural migrant workers as the main Employees from CNOOC of holding sports meeting Gas & Power Group Zhejiang donation object, the CNOOC Foundation, managed by Zhonghai Trust Co., Ltd., launched a Branch visited the elderly in On March 31, 2016, the labour union and series of activities of environmental protection and caring for students with the theme of “It takes the nursing home league committee of CNOOC EnerTech ten years to grow trees, but a hundred years to rear people” in early 2008. It helped the migrant jointly launched the initiative of “caring workers’ children in Shanghai and the left-behind children in Tianma School of Dujiangyan City, for students”, organized the employees to Sichuan Province through targeted love donations, establishing “Music Education Special Fund” carry out donation activity for the schools in and assisting the construction of “Loving Care Book Bar”, etc. In 2016, CNOOC Foundation was poverty mountain areas and purchased the awarded the prize of “Fund Company with Most Social Responsibilities” in the selection of “2016 equipment and prizes necessary for sports Oriental Wealth List”, jointly sponsored by www.eastmoney.com and www.fund.eastmoney.com. meeting with the money raised through donation, helping the children to realize the dream of sports meeting. Hearing Rehabilitation Project Charitable Foundation sent warmth to the society On October 20, 2016, the donation On July 30, 2016, “Wenchang 13-1/2” Oilfield held the donation activity themed “Caring, Typical public welfare character-Zhao Yao ceremony of “Hearing Rehabilitation” Mutual Assistance, Gratitude and Inheritance” to celebrate the sixth anniversary of Guo Mingyi Engineer Zhao Yao of CNOOC Shenzhen Branch actively promoted the social work of public project was held in China Hearing and Charitable Foundation of the Oilfield in modest and practical ways. In the past 6 years, the welfare with Chinese characteristics. In 2014, Zhao Yao established Qing Yuan Academy in Language Rehabilitation Research Centre. Charitable Foundation received donations of more than RMB 110,000 from 462 donors and Jingzhou City to transform full-time public welfare to professional social work and cultivated CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation donated issued more than RMB 90,000 to help 16 employees turn the corner and three poor students to four certified social workers and absorbed 20 professional charity volunteers to go to the RMB 500,000 to the China Foundation for complete the high school studies and one poor student to complete the university studies. households, communities, schools, enterprises and public institutions to carry out activities, such Disabled People to fund for 50 povertyas inheritance of Chinese excellent traditional culture, psychological and legal assistances etc. He stricken deaf children to receive the artificial launched various voluntary charitable activities for women, children and elderly people. More cochlea implanting operation. than 80,000 people were benefited. 62 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 63 Caring for Students Lifeline Express Special MANIFESTING CNOOC’S RESPONSIBILITIES Topic THROUGH TARGETED POVERTY ALLEVIATION CNOOC makes efforts to improve the educational Since 2003, CNOOC has been supporting the “Cataract environment of poverty-stricken areas and helps the Patients Supporting Project” of the Lifeline Express and has students in these areas grow healthily. By aiding the accumulatively donated nearly RMB 16 million. construction of Hope Schools, funding needy college Two eye centres were constructed under the assistance With endless love and sense of responsibility, CNOOC adheres to the poverty alleviation principle of “overcoming difﬁculties, supportstudents and others, we have reduced the ﬁnancial of the Company in Gansu Province and Inner Mongolian pressure on students from impoverished families, Autonomous Region. They provided services radiating ing foundation, blood generation and establishing long-effect mechanism”. In the past 21 years, we have invested more than RMB created a good learning environment for students and to the cooperative cities and Xiahe County of Gansu 420 million of poverty relieving fund with 36 cadres to support Tibet. We help implement the poverty alleviation programmes and carry enhanced the education level of poverty-stricken areas. Province and Zhuozi County of Inner Mongolian Autonoout the targeted poverty alleviation in the ﬁxed-point poverty alleviation cities and counties under Hainan Province, Gansu Province, “CNOOC University Educational Assistance Fund”, mous Region of CNOOC ﬁxed-point poverty alleviation the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region and the Tibet Autonomous Region. We accelerate overcoming poverty and achieving jointly set by CNOOC and China Soong Ching Ling programme. The three treatment centres have provided Foundation, has seen operated for 13 years. A total of cataract operations to 17,347 poor cataract patients prosperity of the local residents, enhancing local “blood generation” capacity. RMB 40 million has been invested for funding more with the reduced operation fee or for free. than 13,000 needy students in 37 universities. On October 17, 2016, “CNOOC University Educational Mother Water Cellar Assistance Fund of ‘Youth, Responsibilities and Accountability’ ” 2016-2017 school year project signing ceremony In 2016, the drinking-water safety in the beautiful villages was held in Beijing Soong Ching Ling’s Former and schools and small-size water conservancy engineerResidence as a prelude to the next period of cooperation. ing construction of “Mother Water Cellar” project was implemented. In addition, 6 schools in the ﬁxed-point poverty alleviation programme in the Zhuozi County were provided with 6 solar water puriﬁcation equipment through “drinking-water safety in schools” project to solve the problem of excessive bacteria in school’s water. Hainan Province Gansu Province Inner Mongolia Tibet “1+1” Legal Volunteer Programme “I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude to CNOOC for their concerns on legal assistance We conducted dilapidated We implemented the We launched rural cleaning The parking lot poverty In 2016, CNOOC continued to support “1+1 Legal cause and their strong supports to the legal house transforming for the construction of well-off project, ﬁnanced RMB alleviation project Volunteer Programme” implemented by China assistance cause in Hainan Province! Thanks poverty-stricken households village of ecological 600,000 to help 100 people constructed by CNOOC. Legal Aid Foundation in the no-lawyer counties in to the great support and assistance of your which established the civilization to improve their for work relief. records, settled the drinking appearance, developed Meat processing plant remote and border areas. Therein, the Baoting company to the legal assistance work in our water problem of the schools industry to increase We conducted the constructed by CNOOC. County of Hainan Province received the key legal province and especially in Baoting County, the and developed the tourism. villagers’ income and maintenance and reconstruction of the The two maintenance and assistance. poor people in the ethnic minority areas can protect environment. renovation projects of hotels We continued to support “Sanshun Road” to access quality and efﬁcient legal service in the “Young Phoenix Children We provided assistance in effectively improve the in Nima County and the comprehensive building. neighbourhood.” Education Fund”. the construction of health travel conditions of 2,000 centre in the cooperative people in the eight The rural cleaner project We solved the water, cities, towns and villages administrative villages electricity and road shortage supported by CNOOC to —Hainan Provincial Department of and Traditional Chinese along the road and created provide public service problems dedicatedly and Tibetan Medicine Hospital, conditions for nearby Justice built the road and drinking positions for 100 povertyand purchased tents, villages to become well-off. stricken people. water engineering. livestock and forage and constructed warm shed for We implemented drinking We supported tourist training. water support project of the shepherds in Xiahe We started “saving County. Geda Village to solve the emergency” project to drinking water shortage provide ﬁnancial assistance problem. to people suffering poverty or return to poverty caused by disasters, diseases and schooling. Total Investment Investment in 2016 Province Name of Province Poverty Alleviation Fund Poverty Alleviation Fund (RMB 10,000) (RMB 10,000) Hainan Province 9,260 600 Gansu Province 5,000 1,000 Tibet 27,000 1,300 Inner Mongolia 1,200 300 64 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS 65 Special Topic COMBINING “BLUE FORCE” WITH CHARITY CNOOC “Blue Force” youth voluntary activity is aimed at carrying out voluntary, environmental protection and public welfare projects of scientiﬁc development and protection of the oceans. 237 “Blue Force” young volunteer service teams and 10,527 young volunteers are involved in building the communication bridge between young employees and enterprises, and between enterprises and the society. With the goal of establishing harmonious family, harmonious mining area and harmonious CNOOC, the Company encourages the employees to actively participate in the voluntary services and public charity activities. It carried out activities, such as cleaning the beach, campaign of environmental protection, planting of corals, closing to Blue Force, supporting education, voluntary supporting agriculture, charity sales and community services, etc. CNOOC, together with the medium and large-scale institutions and social media, has launched projects of large-scale survey on maritime consciousness of the Chinese youth Screenshot of “BLUE FORCE” APP along with the youth micro-public welfare action of “Blue Force, Love Marine”, so as to promote the conservation of marine environment. Since 2015, “Blue Force” volunteer service team has been ﬁnanced by CNOOC Public Welfare Foundation and has carried out all kinds of micro public welfare activities more extensively. In 2016, CNOOC “Blue Force” continued to adhere to the strategy of “serving enterprises 07 and contributing to the society” and drove the voluntary service to standardization, normalization and branding. It innovated the means of voluntary service and developed “Blue Force” youth voluntary service APP and built the “Internet+” public welfare model. In 2016, CNOOC “Blue Force” was selected in the Top Ten voluntary service brands of central enterprises. “Blue Force” —Top Ten Voluntary Service Brands of Central Enterprises 02 01 A couple of volunteers, due to be married soon, 05 Weizhou terminal staff explained industrial knowledge 01 03 visiting the children at the Shepherd’s Field, of energy-saving production, safety ﬁre control and Wuqing District, Tianjin etc. to young volunteers 02 Volunteers of Shenzhen Electric Power Co., Ltd. 06 Getting close to the blue sea and caring for sea and Dapeng LNG Receiving Terminal jointly carried turtles out the activity of “Speed Environmental Protection Challenge of Blue Force” 07 “Blue Force” invited teachers and students in Beihai City to enter the Weizhou Terminal 03 400 pupils participated in the activity of “100-Meter Long Mural Painting” to draw the offshore platform in their minds 06 05 04 04 “Blue Force” volunteers were cleaning the beach 66 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 67 INTEGRATION INTO THE COMMUNITY With 100% environmental and social influence evaluation of new projects, CNOOC proactively commits to serving the community, creating harmony and bringing benefits to people, besides establishing the periodic communication with community and listening to rationalization proposal of local governments and community residents. We make efforts to share our resources with communities, proactively carry out community building and pay back with our development. We help the residents settle life difficulties, improve local ecological environment and create safety and harmony in the communities. We constantly carry out the heart-warming projects to effectively 100% E n v i ro n m e n t a l a n d social influence assessment ratio of the new project was 100% 2016 CSR REPORT OVERSEAS Deeply Integrating into Global Economy Joint Development for Bright Future improve the residents’ living standard, drive the community culture construction and build a beautiful home. Proactive participation in maritime rescue In 2016, the Company, taking advantage of its resources, has been actively participating in social marine rescue on the premise of ensuring the operation safety. COSL participated in 22 marine rescue missions, dispatching its ships for 24 times to rescue 17 ships and 33 people. Bohai Sea Petroleum On July 20, it rescued “Haiyuan 2768” freighter and four crew members. Administration Eastern China Sea It signed the MOU of maritime search and rescue with Zhejiang Bureau of Maritime Affairs. Petrochemical On September 27, 2016, it rescued five Taiwanese crew members on “Manfeng 36918” freighter. Administration Western South China Sea On February 16, 2016, it rescued an engineering ship on fire in Sanya harbour. On August 19, 2016, it rescued a terminally ill pregnant woman in Weizhou Island. Petroleum Administration On October 26, 2016, it rescued the trapped crew members in the fishing boat “Guibeiyu 65828”. Eastern South China Sea On October 5, 2016, it rescued “Rui Long Ling Bo” Yacht and eight crew members on it. Petroleum Administration CNOOC EnerTech Logistics The Harbour tugboat “Hai Yang Shi You 503”, “Hai Yang Shi You 504” were awarded the honourable title of “Ocean Warriors and Rescue Model” granted by Marine Emergency Rescue Huizhou Company Centre of Huizhou City. CSPC in the communities Upholding the sustainable development philosophy, CSPC attaches great importance to the harmony development of communities. It has carried out work from four aspects of community communication, education support, promotion of health and safety environmental protection concept and employee volunteering service. CSPC has adopted an active public communication strategy, in addition to the “Open Day” activity held in the communities for different objects. It has conducted the educational support programmes of “Scholarship for Tomorrow”, “Realizing the Gardeners’ Dream”, “English Corner in the Community” and “Sunshine Classroom”, jointly with functional government departments, schools and other units. Besides, CSPC has proactively conducted the sharing activities of “Traffic Safety Funny Day”, “Defensive Driving Learning Activity”, “Road Safety Patrol Inspection System”, etc. for many times, jointly with Daya Bay government and petrochemical industrial park. In addition, volunteer team of CSPC employees is the main force to implement community caring activity. 6 special voluntary service sub-teams have carried out more than 100 community caring activities independently in the past 6 years since its founding in 2010. 68 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 69 Special Topic THE GLOBAL PRESENCE OF CNOOC’S PRODUCTS AND SERVICES As an international energy company with a complete production chain, the products and services of CNOOC are well favoured in the market in and abroad throughout the ﬁve continents with various categories such as reﬁned oil product, sodium carbonate, chemical ECONOMIC GROWTH OVERSEAS fertilizer, coating and chemicals, etc. The Company-owned brands of “CNOOC 36-1”, “Haijiang”, “Awode”, “Yuandu”, “Baiqing” and “Zhonghai Jinzhou” enjoy a very high reputation in the international market, in which the “CNOOC 36-1” asphalt was ever used for the construction of the Brazil’s Olympic Stadium, the “Haijiang” lube has made great contribution to the construction of multiple projects Development Overseas COOEC has constantly achieved good results in the international projects. The of “The Belt and Road Initiative”, the “Awode” coating has been applied to several strategic projects of Russia, Pakistan and other company is operating 7 international projects. The YAMAL Project has set the record countries as a high-end coating, the marine chemicals of “Yuandu” and “Baiqing” are sold well in more than 10 countries, and “ZhongI n 2 0 1 6 , C N O O C a t t a c h e d g re a t of safety without accident for 38 million working hours. The Zawtika 1B Project in hai Jinzhou” pipelines have been exported for more than 30 tons. importance to the stable and sound Thailand was put into operation ahead of schedule. The FPSO Project in Brazil has operation of the overseas business. completed the extra long distance international sea towing operation with the voyage Russia Uzbekistan Tajikistan Japan Therefore, it continued to achieve a for about 11,800 nautical miles, which set a new record in the towing distance of good operation performance and made Libya Italy Turkey Iraq Kazakhstan COOEC. new breakthroughs in multiple regional markets. The percentage of the overseas CNOOC EnerTech completed its layout in overseas markets. In 2016, the company has The Europe Middle East assets of the Company by the end of the basically completed the layout of its overseas businesses and established 5 regional year was 38.8%. centers in the Middle East, Asia-Pacific Region, Africa, South America and North America, 3 overseas investment companies and 14 overseas holding subsidiaries CNOOC Ltd. continued to be well with its businesses covering more than 20 countries. It has launched 15 management recognized in the international capital systems and regulations successively and has guided its various regional companies to market. It continued to be listed in the establish 95 internal control management sub-regulations. It cooperated with PEMEX annual “Platts Energy Top 250” and was to establish the oilfield technology service company which obtained promotion in EOR awarded again the honorable titles of “The industrial research and implementing operation in Indonesian market. Best Investor Relations Company (China)”, “The Best Corporate Governance”, “The CNOOC Gas & Power Group operated its international business steadily and soundly. South Korea Best CEO in Asia (Investor Relations)” by The total annual LNG imports were 16.52 million tons with the year-on-year growth the Corporate Governance Asia journal rate of 26%, reached a historic high. It has constantly deepened the cooperation with Hong Kong in 2016. In addition, it was awarded the resource parties and other buyers. Vietnam the titles of “Annual Enterprise AwardsSingapore Platinum Award” by “The Asset” and “The Listed Company with the Most Valuable Brand Value” of “Golden Bauhina Awards” in “Ta Kung Pao Newspaper”. 38.8% 31.42/11.57 The CNOOC President Yang Hua won the overseas crude oil 38.8% year-end overseas production 31.42 million prize of “The Most Influential Leader of asset proportion tons, yield of overseas the Listed Company” of “Golden Bauhina natural gas 11.57 billion m3 North Canada Brazil Africa Uganda Iran Pakistan Malaysia Awards” in “Ta Kung Pao Newspaper”. In America 2016, the overseas crude oil output of the South Angola South Oman India Indonesia Australia USA America Africa Company was 31.42 million tons, and the natural gas output was 11.57 billion m³. COSL highlighted the overseas business. Based on the original overseas market scale, the company entered three new Diesel Jet fuel Gasoline Asphalt Lube Urea markets in Russia, Saudi Arabia and Oman respectively and newly signed 128 overseas contracts with the total Water Clariﬁer Coating for Nuclear Power Sodium Demulsiﬁer Defoamer Colored Sheets Coatings Carbonate contracts amount up to RMB 4.41 billion, in which 10 contracts boast the contract amount of over RMB 100 million. For the Sodium Nitrate, Sodium Nitrite Calcium Chloride Pipelines Catering Barrack first time, the company entered the arctic region for its operation. In 2016, “Hai Yang Shi You 720” worked continuously in the North Pole and the equator, setting the highest record of the monthly output of the 3D seismic acquisition in China. 70 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 71 COSL set several records in its operation in the North Pole In 2016, a large fleet made up by the five large-scale equipments of “Hai Yang Shi You 720”, “Hai Yang Shi You 718”, “Hai Yang Shi You 685”, “Nan Hai No. 8” and “Nan Hai No. 9” sailed to the North Pole for operation, which was rated as a breakthrough voyage, a pioneering voyage. The “Arctic Fleet” sailed all the way bravely to the distant and unfamiliar freezing waters of the North Pole where they left the first footprint of CNOOC and created several records of milestone significance and showed an excellent performance record card. AXION Energy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Bridas Corp., won the “Best Oil Company Award” in Argentina’s national rich list. Up to now, AXION Energy Nan Hai No. 8 has controlled 756 service stations in Nan Hai No. 9 Its first time to operate on the extremely cold Russian Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay. In CNOOC’s first drilling platform to serve in the Russian Far East market Fast East Sea addition, AXION Energy was on the top The semi-submersible platform with the longest wet towing distance Its first operation to ultimate depth limit in terms of sales volume of oil products in CNOOC in a single service station in the city of Its first operation after dock repairing and application The northernmost footprint of COSL drilling fleet in the Okhotsk Sea of home-made facilities including the BOP Buenos Aires. The first COSL drilling platform to apply the RMR system Handling shallow layer gas during drilling for the first time Installing BOP at-1.7℃ at seabed in the Frigid Zone for the first time The first core process module of COOEC YAMAL LNG Project has been successfully delivered and shipped Tackling with collapse-prone stratum and hard interlayer for the first time On April 9, 2016, the first core process module of the YAMAL LNG Project undertaken by First test of the overall platform management under COOEC was shipped successfully and delivered to the North Pole. This is the first LNG core international standards equipment independently designed and constructed in China and also the first LNG core process module exported from China, which marks that COOEC has successfully mastered the construction technology of LNG core process module and that “Made by CNOOC” entered the international high-end oil and gas equipment market smoothly. Hai Yang Shi You 720 Fleet Located in the Arctic Circle within Russia territory, the YAMAL LNG Project is the world’s first The first Chinese seismic vessel to work integrated project of polar LNG exploration and development, liquefaction, transportation and above 75 degrees north latitude Hai Yang Shi You 685 sales. COOEC was responsible for the construction of the 36 core process modules of the project Performing its first 3D seismic survey in the Arctic Its first operation in the Far East with the total weight of about 180,000 tons. Winning its biggest overseas 3D seismic Its first operation in extremely survey service contract cold and freezing area Nine oilfields in Uganda have obtained the development and production licenses Making a monthly 3D seismic data collection Its first overseas operation without record in Chinese seismic vessels a running-in period Nine oilfields/oilfield groups owned by CNOOC Uganda have obtained the development and production licenses in 2016. In the process of Performing the first all-weather operation in Hai Yang Shi You 718 Fleet license application, the CNOOC Uganda fully exercised its power as the project partner and carried out negotiations and communication with the the Arctic The first vessel of COSL to conduct government, in cooperating with partners. It is a significant milestone for the company to obtain the development and production licenses in the 3D seismic survey in the Russian Far East Sea, the operation is sited at the development and production process of the resources in Uganda upstream. middle east of Sakhalin The accumulated output of Nexen Buzzard Oilfield reached up to 0.6 billion barrels On August 3, 2016, the Buzzard Oilfield of Nexen produced accumulatively 600-millionth barrel of oil, which was regarded as the most important milestone in its development history. This oilfield was the biggest finding in the North Sea in the past 20 years whose production accounted for about CNOOC EnerTech and PEMEX established a joint venture 25% of the total offshore crude oil production in UK and has met nearly 10% of the UK energy consumption. It made an enormous contribution In September 2016, CNOOC EnerTech and the subordinate companies PPS Company of PEMEX, Mexico-based Petrofalcon Corporation jointly signed to the sustainable development and the social welfare of the UK economy. It was estimated in 2003 when the oilfield was approved that the a framework agreement. According to the framework agreement, both parties will establish a joint venture to undertake part of the work of exploration, oilfield would produce 486 million barrels of oil in its life cycle. As a matter of fact, thanks to the great efforts made by the working staff of Nexen development and production of the land, costal water and deepwater oil and gas fields in Mexico. CNOOC EnerTech will fully make use of its integration Petroleum UK Limited, the production of the oilfield is still much higher than that we expected after the production was stable for 13 years and it is advantages to provide various oilfield technology services, equipment rental and leasing service, safety and environmental protection technology service, estimated that this oilfield will continue to produce oil in the next 10 years. oilfield stimulation service and well workover service to the joint venture. 72 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 73 Compliance Operation The CNOOC Uganda participated in the formulation of the New Work Safety In 2016, CNOOC improved the overseas Petroleum Law Facing the complicated operating environment, CNOOC strictly adhered to the “The responsibility for safety assets management systems such as Since 2011, the CNOOC Uganda has actively participated in the formulation of the New bottom line of safety production and carried out overseas safety production work supervision is significant. In the work, the rules for implementation of foreignPetroleum Law in Uganda, in response to the call of the Ugandan government. In the revision persisting in scientific ways according to the laws and regulations for continuous I am familiar with all the safety and related assets audit, overseas agency process of the Petroleum Law, CNOOC Uganda and the cooperative partners proposed hundreds promotion of the systematic construction, organizing the specific safety production environmental protection systems and procurement management method of revision opinions, organized and attended more than 10 seminars and made outstanding inspection, promoting the safety culture construction and improving safety production documentation of the company, have and property management rules, etc. contribution to the come out of the New Petroleum Law. After the new law was promulgated, the learned to organize safety conferences, performance. In 2016, the Company further urged its affiliated units to develop CNOOC Uganda organized the working staff of the company to conduct detailed analysis and plan safety trainings and conduct In addition, it strengthened overseas and improve the HSE administrative program for overseas projects as well as to interpretation of the new laws. routine safety inspections. To be a auditing, paid close attention to the regularly track the HSE risk of overseas projects and the project progress. In addition, good security supervisor is not only conditions of improving quality and the Company organized and conducted HSE examination for facilities in Nexen’s for the development of the company, effectiveness of the overseas projects, headquarters in Calgary, Canada and in Lang Lake oil sand deposit, conducted safety CNOOC EnerTech carried out training on overseas tax laws and but also for the self-realization.” and particularly, put forward some inspection during the equipment assessment of the delayed project in Indonesian regulations compliance system specific suggestions on the sensitive SES Oilfield of the International Corporation of CNOOC Ltd., and carried out the pre——Habibi Mawardi, The Middle East Regional Center of CNOOC EnerTech continuously concerned and followed excellent Security Supervisor of assets. It strengthened the trainings production safety inspection of new projects. It also highly focused on the overseas the changes of the tax laws and regulations of the United Arab Emirates and organized the legal CNOOC Southeast Asia on overseas compliance operation by security situation, intensified the business communication with the international institutions such as Deloitte Law Office and Yingke & Shayan Legal Consulting, etc. to carry out means of WeChat and on-site training trainings on the laws and regulations of the influence on the oil and gas companies by the Value security consulting service companies such as Control Risks and international SOS, and took an active part in the formulation Added Tax proposed to be implemented in 2018 and those on establishing offshore company in etc., and effectively promoted the establishment of the overseas security information of the relative laws and regulations of the United Arab Emirates. collecting mechanism and the warning information releasing mechanism. the country and the region in which it operates business. Nexen Petroleum UK Limited won Marine Safety Prize In September 2016, The Scott Oilfield and Golden Eagle Oilfield under Nexen achieved non-lost-time accident for 1,000 days and two years respectively. I n a d d i t i o n , N e x e n P e t ro l e u m U K Limited won the Offshore Safety Award in the British oil and gas industry in 2016 through its outstanding safety performance. Nexen Petroleum UK Limited won The International Company The CNOOC Iraq carried out legal training the Offshore Safety Award 2016. built a compliance learning In 2016, the CNOOC Iraq systematically classified, updated and researched the laws and platform regulations in 9 fields of the new labor law in Iraq, such as social insurance, HSE, company The International Company of CNOOC registration and compliance, import and customs, foreign judgments and enforcement, antiBob Smith Justin Hughes corruption, government mandates and real estate in order to let its employees understand and the On-site Manager of Scott Oilfield the Senior Manager of Golden Eagle Oilfield Ltd. made full use of the official WeChat platform to actively carry out the compliance observe the local laws. It carried out focused legal trainings on 6 special topics to improve the “This is the reflection of our safety production culture, team “This milestone is of great significance to Golden training for the overseas operation. In legal consciousness of all staff and effectively guaranteed the legal, compliant and contractual spirit and the conformance with the specifications of the platform Eagle Oilfield. It means that we have operated for procedure. During this period, although the various work content, two years without any lost-time accidents. This is the 2016, the company developed a column of operation of the company. sometimes the projects were very complex, which presented a result from the unremitted efforts and hard work of “Training World” on the WeChat platform number of challenges to the team; they overcame all the difficulties our team. I appreciate very much that they are always and guaranteed the mutual safety tirelessly. I acclaimed for their giving priority to safety.” to carry out “Popularize Law Class” activity. performance. This prize gave full expression to our cultural idea of So far, 8 phases of detailed explanation ‘Safety First’ which facilitates our achievements of zero accident every day.” of the US FCPA were carried out to focus on the description of the key terms and countermeasures on the FCPA in relative to Sam McKillop the company business. General Manager of HSE & A department “Teams in Scott Oilfield and Golden Eagle Oilfield achieved excellent performance, which demonstrated the principle of ‘Safety First’ we adhered to in all our business activities. They mark the major milestones. Well done! Hopefully they can make persistent efforts!” 74 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 75 Missan Oilfield of Iraq paid close attention to security details The Security and Environmental Protection Company built the safety During the war, a large number of landmines were hidden in Missan Oilfield. CNOOC Iraq actively communicated and coordinated with Iraqi physical training room in Indonesia military demining organizations and DMA to carry out the demining work systematically to prevent the employees and the local residents from The Safety Physical Training Room in Indonesia built by the Security and Environmental being stricken by the landmines. In order to ensure the safety of the local residents, the company also accessed to multiple local villages to give out Protection Company of CNOOC EnerTech is a comprehensive training base of HSE knowledge anti-mine and UXO safety warning and issued the safety instruction card. and skills, covering an area of 500 square meters. The design and construction of the training room are completely based on the actual operating environment of the land and offshore As the contractor of Missan Oilfield in Iraq, COSL attaches great importance to the security work of daily operation. The operating personnel operation with the aim to improve the employees’ HSE consciousness and skills through actual shall make access registration and accept OPF inspection in entering or leaving the workplace and shall be approved by the managerial personnel. practices. Since its opening, more than 50 training courses have been conducted in the training The operating site is protected with multi-layer protection facilities to guard against the possibility of suspicious personnel entering the operating room with a total number of participants of more than 1,200. The targeted trainees involved the area. The employees said, “The company has taken very strict security measures, we are provided with bullet-proof vehicles, bullet-proof vest and working staff of 20 local companies and the relevant organizations and the customers’ safety protection of security company from the airport to the oilfield. And in the oilfield, there are enclosed places and policemen are on duty. We have performance was greatly improved. guaranteed security here which makes our family feel relieved and give more support to our work.” The Missan Oilfield Base in Iraq of CNOOC Energy Technology & Services Limited has carried out 17 times of trainings on various safety topics such as anti-mine, anti-Zika virus, prevention of hand injury, electrician operation, Five To-do’s and Five No-nos and accident case analysis, and Southeast Asian Company was awarded the highest prize in safety management performance a total of 107 people participated; 6 times of emergency exercises such as fire emergency and emergency evacuation, etc., a total of 50 people HCML, a subsidiary of CNOOC Southeast Asian Company, acts as an operator in Indonesian SES section. The oilfield has been developed for more participated; 7 times of safety education for the personnel coming to Iraq for the first time and a total of 12 people participated. than 45 years. As production facilities become aging, the safety production gets into a more severe situation. By intensifying duty fulfillment, strictly searching potential problems, and conducting inspection and administration, HCML enhances safety management and greatly practices CNOOC’s key value concept of “safety first, environment utmost, people-oriented and equipment intact” HCML’s recordable incident rate was 0.07 in 2016, which is the best performance in safety production in its 45-year history of operation in SES section. In August 2016, at the 2016 Indonesian Oil and Gas Industry Safety Communication Forum, HCML received “Patra Nirbhaya Karya Utama”, the highest award in safety management performance from Oil & Gas Department of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Republic of Indonesia, in recognition of its accumulative 3.22 million Lost Time Injury (LTI) free man-hours from November 2010 to March 2016. “We are very grateful for the support and cooperation of CNOOC Iraq Limited that strictly enforced the demining standards and specifications of Iraqi Government and carried out fruitful management work of demining operation in Abu Garab Region of Missan Oilfield.” ——Mibras, President of DMA South Region Fire extinguishing training The demining organization of Iraqi Government granted the Certificate of Honor CNOOC Iraq carried out anti-mine education in the local village 76 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 77 Scientific and Technological Innovation ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION OVERSEAS CNOOC has been committing to applying the advanced technology to the overseas projects, to encouraging the independent innovation of the overseas projects to overcoming the scientific problems. So far, the Company has classified and concluded several scientific and research achievements related to the key technological difficulties of the overseas projects for the application of multiple patents. Environmental Management CNOOC aimes to be a responsible energy supplier and tries to minimize the impact of energy on the environment through all kinds of technological means and actions so as to jointly create the sustainable energy in the future with all relevant stockholders in a Nexen asphalt upgrading scientific research project was supported by the Government clean, efficient and responsible way of operation in the countries where it operates. In 2016, half of the research funds of the bitumen upgrading project led by Nexen was supported by Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC), which proves the recognition of Nexen’s research capacity in this field. This research project was conducted by the oil research experts from the University of Calgary and University of Alberta in Canada and the researchers from multiple oil companies who are COSL Mexico took an active part in the environmental protection and committed to the partial upgrading of the bitumen so that it can meet the requirement of long distance pipeline transportation. public welfare activities Upon the arrival of the World Environment Day, employees of COSL Mexico came to the Carmen North Beach to carry out the environmental protection activity. The staff of COSL The Overseas Evaluation Center of CNOOC Research Institute overcame the technical problem of overseas projects Mexico was divided into two groups to pick up cans, waste package and litters on the beach “As the first foreign company The Australia Exploration Team of Overseas Evaluation Center of CNOOC Research Institute has performed a great amount of fundamental along the two directions of east and west respectively. Seeing this, some citizens who were doing participating the environmental geological studies on 8 major basins offshore Australia, during which a quick assessment method based on Australia has been established. Up to 440 morning exercises on the beach also joined in the team actively. The team of volunteers was protection activity this time, COSL blocks have been evaluated in the last decade. The coverage of evaluated basins is comparable to the entire offshore area of China. getting bigger and bigger. Mexico is a model for other local enterprises and is praise-worthy.” The Santos Basin in Brazil has superior accumulation conditions and is of vast resources. The Libra Oilfield, of which 10% shares held by CNOOC, COSL Mexico actively responded to the initiative of the Isla Verde, the local environmental is commonly recognized as one of the largest hydrocarbon discoveries in worldwide 21st century, however, it is facing various worldwide geological NGO, participated in Mexico’s public environmental protection activity of “To co-build a Green ——ELENA, difficulties. The Brazil Exploration Team of Overseas Evaluation Center proposed new geological recognizations of this area, formed multiple Island” for recycling utilization of the used newspapers and publications. The employees packed the responsible person of the geophysical technologies and geometrically described carbonate reservoir and igneous rocks. By applying these recognizations and technologies, the used newspapers and books they collected and sent them to the Conference and Exhibition environmental protection activity the Brazil Exploration Team alerted CNOOC management and the operator of significant risks in the second exploration well in the central district, Center of Carmen City, the activity venue, and were warmly welcomed by Ms. ELENA, the which was greatly appreciated by the partners. responsible person of this activity. In 2016, aiming at the key technical problems confronted for the development of overseas shale oil and gas, CNOOC Research Institute carried out researches around shale oil and gas productivity evaluation technology and method, followed up the latest international development trends, and conducted independent innovation research. A systematical set of shale gas and oil productivity evaluation system with four approaches supplement for each other was established initially, which will lay a good theoretical foundation for the development of domestic shale gas. CNOOC Iraq focused on the basic research of reservoir In 2016, The CNOOC Iraq published a monograph of Geology of Carbonate Reservoir in the Middle East and created a set of new technology, which is used to evaluate the reservoir of carbonate in the Middle East. A Crack Detection Technology Based on the Wide Azimuth Seismic Data and Core Description . The content of the patent is the completion of the wide azimuth 3D seismic data required for the development of oilfield and the processing results which were used to successfully guide the deployment of the Mishirf reservoir horizontal well and the drilling tracing, successfully evaluated the reserves potential of AG-2 well field, clarified the geological reserves and avoided the development risk in the southern part of Buzurgan Oilfield, expanded the approaches of reservoir dynamic analysis and simulation measures research, promoted the significant change of the oilfield development ideas from mainly concentrated on straight well development to mainly concentrated on horizontal well development and laid a solid foundation to adjust and optimize the oilfield stimulation plan with marked economic benefit. The IT support service is synchronized at home and abroad On September 1st, 2016, the “Overseas Call Center” of CNOOC started the trial operation. Employees in Australia, Singapore and other countries can enjoy the same IT technical support as in China by dialing “1331” directly via landline phone. Thanks to the Overseas Calling Center, the domestic technical team could help the overseas employees to solve the related IT problems directly by means of telephone and remote technology which greatly reduced the service response time, unified the service standard and decreased the service cost. 78 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 79 Nexen disposed the sulfur waste with environmental protection Biological Diversity measures The overseas operation area of CNOOC has diverse ecosystems with many biological species that have very important natural and Nexen disposed 90,000 tons of pending sulfur in the Balzac Gas Power Plant in Alberta which was shut down with environmental protection measures. Instead of applying the traditional social value. CNOOC carried out its operation in strict accordance with the biodiversity conservation rules of the United Nation and landfill treatment, the company used the biological composting facilities nearby to combine the the countries where it operates, conducted in-depth research on the impact of ecosystem by operating activities and cooperated sulfide with the biological fertilizer to turn it into fertilizer and supplied it to the neighboring with local environmental protection organizations for systematic protection activities. sulfur deficient farmland. This move not only eliminated the sulfide waste, but also created USD 6.5 million benefits for the company. Nexen assisted in the protection of ancient mankind historical sites The protection of biological diversity not only refers to the protection of other plants and animals, but also covers the protection of human’s culture CNOOC Southeast Asia persisted in carrying out environmental protection activities and lifestyle and understands the human being’s way of life and influence in the natural environment as a biological population. In an archaeological SES, an affiliated unit of CNOOC Southeast Asia, persists in giving support for mangrove planting in Thousand Islands surrounding its operating activity in 2016, the archaeologists discovered the relics of ancient human activities near the Nexen’s assets in British Columbia, Canada. region. With nearly 10 years of efforts, mangrove forests have formed scale, greatly contributing to water and soil conservation and ecological After learning the news, Nexen immediately sent a team formed by environment experts and surface land experts to actively assist the archaeologists protection in these islands. In 2016, SES accumulatively invested USD 19,000 to assist the local NGO and communities planting 130,000 mangrove to unearth and protect the historical sites and was highly appraised by the archaeological team. saplings in four islands, including Kelapa, Harapan, Panggang and Sebira. On the occasion of 2016 World Environment Day, SES also organized more than 70 volunteers to take part in the coast cleaning activity held on the southern island in its operating region. “After authorized by Nexen, we conducted archaeological field survey in their own CNOOC Southeast Asia continued to carry out a variety of environmental protection activities such as protection of mangrove forest, picking areas and discovered the relics of ancient human life. Under the strong support of the up litter, etc. shareholders such as Nexen, we conducted excavation in this area and carried out archaeological training, achieved the archaeological research goal in the first phase.” ——Excerpt from the excavation report of the archaeological team COSL took concrete actions to protect the ecological environment in the Arctic Circle The North Pole is one of the last large undeveloped lands on the earth, the weak productivity and the simple biologic chain structure of the biosphere in the North Pole lead to a very weak ecosystem in this area with low selfrestoration capabilities. During the operation in the Arctic Circle, the operation team of COSL followed the green development concept and made great efforts to protect the fragile ecological environment. During the voyage, During operation, environmental During operation, the pollutants influence on marine After the completion protection education management was conducted strictly organism was of operation was strengthened minimized Mobilize the crew to The ship garbage management is conducted Set the special post to Do not leave a piece of learn garbage classification in strict accordance with MARPOL and the observe the marine mammal garbage! placement and disposal requirements of the company Fire the air gun before Do not leave a drop of oil! Play the education video of Carry out regular garbage management operation to warn the marine training for the crew animals to keep away from Do not hurt a marine life! environmental protection in the Arctic Circle Assign a post for the garbage station management the operation area Conduct monthly oil spill emergency exercise Stop operation immediately when any animal is found to Check for oil stains on the deck and clean break into the operation area them as necessary at set intervals 80 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 81 SOCIAL PROGRESS OVERSEAS Outstanding overseas employees Staff Development Rina Martianingsih Asia-Pacific Regional Center of CNOOC CNOOC adheres to the concept of “Respect, Mutual Trust and win-win” to optimize 70.8% EnerTech the overseas employment system, actively promote the employee localization system, Financial Director establish the promotion channels and encourage the local employees to grow with Annual Special Contribution 70.8% of localization the enterprise; it respects the customs and religions of the employees from different Award in 2016 rate of overseas staff regions and countries, strengthens the cultural communication, so that the Chinese and foreign employees can deepen their understanding to each other and build a harmonious and syncretic corporate culture. The number of existing overseas employees is 6,114, of the international employees is 47, of the overseas local employees is 4,331, 70.8% of localization rate of overseas staff. CNOOC Southeast Asia effectively promoted the personnel localization Yasser Mohammad CNOOC Southeast Asia pays high attention to staff localization, gives priority to recruit local Pascal Olan / Madeleine Thomas Iraq Branch of CNOOC Ltd. talents and execute the internationized human resource strategy. In recent years, with the support CNOOC Uganda International of recruiting companies, it has attracted a large number of local professionals. The rate of staff Senior Tax Consultant / Comprehensive Daviq Chandra Assistant Manager of security post Support Staff The southern operating region of localization is up to 96%. In the company employees can easily have access to occupational CNOOC Southeast Asia SES Good at the high-risk safety control promotion. A lot of high-caliber Indonesian employees have held senior managerial posts like Excellent Employee Award of the Offshore Director on-site, promoted to be Assistant department manager, senior manager and vice president. The company established a perfect plan Chamber of Commerce of Uganda Security Manager from Security for training the local employees. Although the oil price was low in 2016, the company persisted Chinese-invested Enterprise Winning the title of “Excellent Director” Supervisor within two years of CNOOC in 2016 in carrying out trainings for the local employees. In 2016, the number of training days reached 3,023, with a training spending of USD 817,000. Therefore, the company improved employees’ The Service Award site in 2016 of SES professional knowledge and service ability. In order to show gratitude to employees for their CNOOC Southeast Asia contributions, the company holds Service Award (a prize presentation event) annually. At Service Award the company will grant a golden commemorative medal to the local employees who have served it constantly for 10, 15, 20, 25 or 30 years. Nexen was named Alberta Top 70 Employers List In 2016, Nexen was once again to be named in the Alberta Top 70 Employers List for providing the best working environment to the employees and the contributions and promotion to career development and personal growth. The criteria for top 70 employers includes physical workplace, career Supply Chain Team health, training, skills development, financial and family benefits. Quinn Wilson, the Senior Vice President of global support service Nexen, said, Nexen Petroleum UK Limited “We are much honored to be rated as the best employer again. This award shows that the development plan and opportunities that we provide to our employees can still be helpful to create a positive and efficient working environment.” To be the best practice guidance model in British oil and gas industry for consecutive years and have made outstanding contributions to the cost reduction and benefit increasing of the company “For 3 years, I have worked with the colleagues from different cultures, in different languages and Juang Gahalta with different customs. We work and live together harmoniously like in a big family. I feel I grow up Tom Harding / Bill MacFarlane COSL Operation Company in Nexen Canada with the company every day. I am never afraid or worry about my work because I have a respected Indonesia Senior Engineering Advisor Downhole Tools Engineer manager who can give me strong support in the professional area and a group of great, trust-worthy and reliable teammates as well as the encouragement of strengthening cooperation and the constant The co-authored paper on oil sand To accomplish the maintenance work improving corporate culture.” extraction was awarded the Best of large sized tools excellently and Paper Award of the 8th annual found the casing collapse in time to ——Era Irawan, World Heavy Oil Congress avoid accident Administrative Director of (Asia-Pacific) Regional Center of CNOOC EnerTech 82 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 83 Public Charity 1.CNOOC Southeast Asia constructed a maritime passage 2.CNOOC Southeast Asia CNOOC has established and maintained good communication and coordination mechanism not only with the local governments, for the convenience of the fishermen to rest donated medical facilities but also with the communities where it operates and has conducted effective public welfare and charity activities for consecutive to the local hospital CNOOC Southeast Asia constructed the embankment of the surrounding years to help the community residents improve the living and education standard and to create sustainable development villages of the land metering station of BD project to protect the fish In areas surrounding its operating opportunities together. ponds and also constructed a maritime passage for the convenience of regions, SES provided community the fishermen to rest. The accumulative cost of the two projects is USD residents with medical services. 22,000 and 2,000 community resident benefit from it. The company was appreciated by the community residents Nexen struggled to cope with the forest fire in Alberta because it provided free physical 3.CNOOC Uganda carried out interactive meetings with examination and simple medical local officials services as well as commonly On June 7-8, 2016, CNOOC Uganda organized interactive meetings with used drugs in these islands the former and new officials of the regional government where it operates and villages. More than 1,000 to introduce the basic information of CNOOC and the operating oilfield, community resident benefited the commitment to the shareholders by the company, the interaction from these services with an Nexen struggled with the shareholders and the measures it has taken in implementing the investment of USD 25, 000. to cope with the enterprise social responsibilities. forest fire in Alberta 4.CNOOC Uganda 5.CNOOC Congo (Brazzaville) renovated the local granted the “CNOOC primary school Merit Scholarship” CNOOC Congo (Brazzaville) used the social project budget in the On May 20, 2016, CNOOC years of 2016 and 2017 (USD 400,000) for the reconstruction of the Uganda held the awarding local primary school and presented school supplies to the pupils. After Alberta announced to enter into the fire emergency state, Nexen shut off its operation ceremony of CNOOC Merit area immediately on May 4, 2016 and dispatched vehicles to send 550 employees and Scholarship in the Hoima their families to safe area and arranged shelters and daily supplies for them. The company region offices. 90 outstanding opened a helpline in time to receive and respond to the help requests from the employees students who got excellent and their families at any time. The employees also organized voluntarily a fire brigade to results in the graduation exams 6.Nexen Nigeria 7 . C N O O C E n e r Te c h assist the governmental fire department for the fire-fighting. After the fire broke out, the of the primary school, junior employees visited Ecuador took an active employees launched a donation activity and received more than 250 boxes of clothing and high school and senior high SCCWI in Lagos part in the earthquake 100 computers. The company also donated USD 100,000 to the Red Cross. school were awarded the Merit relief activity Nexen Nigeria employees came Scholarship Certificate and When the 7.8 magnitude to the Street Child Care and the scholarship co-signed by earthquake occurred in the Welfare Initiative (SCCWI) in CNOOC and the government coastal city of Ecuador, CNOOC Lagos to donate USD 25,000. officials of Hoima Province. EnerTech Ecuador prepared This is the 6th consecutive year 8.Nexen Petroleum UK Nexen employees that Nexen makes donations to Limited was received by food and clothing actively to the the organization. UK royal family member earthquake victims. In addition, voluntarily for positively supporting it also responded to the call by conducted a the poor teenagers the local government to pay the donation activity special tax for earthquake relief In 2016, Nexen Petroleum UK in time. Limited was received by Prince Henry for positively supporting the local poor teenagers. It is “I know that this reconstruction project of the primary school is very also the long-term supporter of difficult and full of problems. In the construction, CNOOC Congo the two charitable organizations (Brazzaville) actively cooperated with the construction party to solve “Street Sport” and “Positive the problems so that the project can be completed smoothly and Destinations Initiatives” in successfully. On behalf of all the teachers and pupils, I would like Aberdeen City and has made a to extend our sincere gratitude to you, and I also wish CNOOC can positive contribution to help the have new discoveries of oil and gas in Congo (Brazzaville) block! local poor teenagers integrate Wish you success!” into society and to prevent their antisocial behavior. ——Jean-Marc, Thysere Tchicaya Oil Minister in Congo (Brazzaville) 84 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CSR REPORT OVERSEAS 85 OUTLOOK ON 2017 In 2017, the world economy will continue to be in the profound adjustment and transformation; the international security environmental protection into daily production and operation activities, actively respond to Paris Agreement, speed situation will be even severer. Due to complication and variability of geopolitics and rapid accumulation of systematic up the research of making low carbon strategies, establish a carbon asset management system for the Company to financial risks, external uncertainties will rise. Domestic economy presents a development momentum of “being stable promote energy conservation and emission reduction, protect marine ecological environment, and strive to the protection in moderate development and positive in stability”. Under the tremendous environmental pressure including adjustment, and the research on ecological diversity. transformation, and upgrading of industrial structure and treatment of haze, etc., cleaner and lower-carbon products Undertaking social responsibilities and being enthusiastic about commonweal. We will be persistent in fulfilling our social provided by the energy companies are in demand. Under such circumstances, we will get a clear understanding of responsibilities, try to achieve mutual development between the enterprise, its employees and the society, implement the severe challenges to turn pressure into motivation, actively adapt to the energy transformation, guarantee energy supply concept of “people-oriented”, respect the legal rights and interests of the employees, care for their phyiscal and mental so as to manifest CNOOC’s social responsibilities, and make efforts to achieve a harmonious coexistence between health, and expand their career space. We will continue to carry out charity work including targeted poverty alleviation, CNOOC and the environment. special public welfare and launch voluntary services. We will actively integrate into communities and share our own Concentration on the development of major business to provide high-quality energy. We will intensify the construction of resources with the society to feed back to the society with our own development. the Company’s core competence by adhering to the development of the main business of oil and gas and consolidate Optimizing overseas businesses and promoting win-win cooperation. We will continue to carry out cooperation of the oil and gas reserve base, with the overall planning of the industrial structure of upstream, midstream, and overseas operation, further strengthen the constructions in core areas and the key bases of overseas business, become downstream, strengthen scientific and technological innovation to develop the oil and gas resources more effectively, the refined oil and gas operation center, cultivate overseas upstream “project cluster”, and make efforts to achieve the strongly promote the development of clean energies such as natural gas and CBM, etc., optimize the refining product deep integration with the global oil and gas industry to realize mutual benefits and achieve win-win result with overseas structure, extend industrial chain, and perfect the service network so as to continuously supply energies, products and partners. We will stick to the compliance operation of overseas business, constantly improve overseas scientific and services with high quality for the society. technological level, actively participate in and support the environmental protection activities in the countries and Strengthening safety awareness for stable and compliance operation. We will continue to regard safety production as regions where our business are located to maintain sustainability of local ecosystems. We will implement the employee the foundation of the sustainable development of the Company, make efforts to realize the first-class safety production localization system and attach importance to business trainings and career development for overseas employees. We management, strengthen the safety awareness to implement the Safety Code of Conduct, and promote the safety are committed to active integration into local communities and to promote local development by long-term systematic culture construction through system implementation. We will perfect the double prevention mechanism of risk grading activities such as charitable donation, voluntary activities, etc. control and potential hazard checking, implement the security governance deployment of the dangerous chemicals, In 2017, we will continue to insist on the philosophy of “safe and efficient operations, low carbon and green growth, practically complete the supervision over the rectification of potential hazards, implement the system of responsibility people-oriented, innovation, compassion and transparency”, fulfill CNOOC’s social responsibles by “enhancing economic in safe production to strengthen supervision, inspection and accountability, and perfect the emergency management growth, strengthening environmental protection and promoting social progress”, make our efforts to provide more high mechanism to minimize the impact of emergency events. quality and clean energy, expand service network, extend the industrial value chain, upgrade sci-tech innovations, Strengthening environmental protection to achieve harmonious coexistence. We will continue to strengthen the whole strengthen environmental protection, fulfill social responsibilities, deeply integrate into global economy, and untiringly process management of environmental protection to realize sustainable development between the Company and the struggle for “Energy for All”. environment. We will adhere to the philosophy of green operation, strengthen water resources management to integrate 86 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANNEX 87 THIRD-PARTY ASSESSMENT Rating Report on China National Offshore Oil Corp. Comparability ( ★★★★★ ) Sustainability Report 2016 This report discloses date on 37 key performance indicators of at least three consecutive years, including “LNG Imports”, “Crude oil production”, “R & D Investments”, “energy conservation and emission reduction investments”, “Energy consumption per RMB Upon the request of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (hereinafter “CNOOC”), Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report 10,000 turnover”, “Charitable donation”, and compared “Crude oil production”, “Yield of Natural Gas”, “Ethylene production” etc. Rating invited experts to form a rating team. The rating team rated CNOOC Sustainability Report 2016 as follows (hereinafter to national data. The report has super excellence comparability. “report”): Readability ( ★★★★★ ) 1. Rating criteria This report is themes on “Our Quality Energy for Your Blue Sea and Sky”, focusing on the three issues of economy, environment and society, with a clear framework and logic, proper length. The cover of the report is designed with the main business Guidelines on Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (CASS-CSR 3.0) and Rating Standard on of CNOOC, highlighting the industrial characteristics. The report contains abundance cases used to describe the social Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting for Chinese Enterprises (2014). responsibility practices and the professional vocabulary has been explained. All of above makes the report super leading readable. 2. Rating process (1)The process assessment team interviewed members from the social responsibility department and viewed the relevant Creativity ( ★★★★☆ ) materials involving the preparation of the report on site. The report sets five major topics: “Spirit of Craftsmanship Created Blue Legend”,“Ecological Protection Contribute to a Beautiful (2)The rating team evaluates the management process and the information disclosed in the report and draws up the rating report. China”,“Manifesting CNOOC’s Responsibilities through Targeted Poverty Alleviation”,“Combining ‘Blue Force’ with Charity”,“The (3)The Vice chairman of the Chinese Expert Committee on CSR Report Rating and the leader of the expert rating team sign the Global Presence of CNOOC’s Products and Services”. CNOOC establishes the regulation of the sustainability report, promoting rating report together. the standardization of the report. So the report has leading creativity. Overall Rating ( ★★★★★ ) 3. Rating results Through evaluation and deliberations, the rating team agreed to rate China National Offshore Oil Corporation Sustainability Report Process Management ( ★★★★★ ) 2016 as super excellent by giving five-star rating to it. Establishing the organization structure of the report complied with the leading group, office and relevant departments & affiliated unit, the vice president is responsible for guidance and viewing of the report. The editorial team identifies stakeholders and 4. Suggested improvements consults their advices by meetings, questionnaires and interviews. The substantial issues are defined according to material issues Increase report balance by disclosing more inadequacies and negative data. of the corporation, relevant state policies and industry benchmarking analysis and the stakeholders’ opinions. It is planned to hold the special conference, and the report would be presented in printed papers, electronic version, Chinese and English version as Rating team well as H5 version. Thus, the report progress management is super excellent. Team Leader: Materiality ( ★★★★★ ) Cheng Duosheng, Director of Corporation Innovation Department of China Enterprise Confederation The report systematically discloses key performance issues on its industries such as “implement the macro policy”, “improve the quality management”, “ensure energy supply”, “intensifying safe operation”, “focusing on the technological innovation”, “tackling Team Members: climate change”, “biodiversity conservation” etc. with detailed description. The report has super excellent materiality. Wei Xiuli, Associate professor of School of Economics and Management of North China University of Technology Zhang En, Wang Zhimin, Process Evaluators of Center Completeness ( ★★★★☆ ) The report systematically discloses key information on “promoting economic growth”, “enhancing environmental protection”, “driving social progress”, “CSR report overseas” etc. With 85.2% of core indicators disclosed on its industries. The report has leading completeness. Balance ( ★★★★☆ ) This report discloses negative information on “Direct contractor casualties”, “Employee casualties”, “Recordable injury events(case)”, “Employee turnover rate”, “frequency of occupational disease”etc. The report has leading balance. Wei Zichuan Cheng Duosheng Vice Chairman of the Chinese Expert Team leader of the expert Committee on CSR Report Rating rating team 88 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANNEX 89 GLOSSARY OF TERMS the QHSE management framework usually refers to the framework that directs and controls the quality, health, safety and environmental aspects of an organisation. COD Drilling Platform Chemical oxygen demand or COD in short refers to the amount of oxidant consumed when treating water samples using a certain Offshore drilling platforms are marine structures used mainly for drilling exploratory wells. Such platforms, generally divided into amount of strong oxidants under certain conditions. The usual use of COD is to determine the extent of contamination of water mobile and fixed platforms, are essential for offshore oil and gas exploration and development operations and house drilling, bodies by reducing substances. power, communications, navigation and other equipment, as well as lifesaving and accommodation facilities. Coalbed Methane Recovery Ratio Coalbed methane, which is a coal-associated mineral resource and considered an unconventional form of natural gas, refers to a Recovery ratio refers to the percentage of geological oil reserves accounted for by the amount of oil that can be extracted from oil kind of hydrocarbon gas (predominantly methane) found trapped within coal beds, mainly adsorbed to the surface of coal matrix reservoirs. This is a key criterion in evaluating the level of development of an oil field. particles, and partly dispersed in the porosity of coal or dissolved in the coalbed water. Reserve Replacement Ratio Shale Gas As an index to reflect reserve replacement capacity, reserve replacement ratio is a ratio between the annual newly proven reserve Shale gas specifically refers to an unconventional form of natural gas found trapped within shale formations. and the reserve that has been mined and consumed in the same year. Deepwater Semi-Submersible Drilling Platform Heavy Oil Deepwater semi-submersible drilling platform refers to a semi-submersible drilling platform that can operate in deep waters. Heavy oil is highly viscous crude oil that contains a relatively high level of asphaltenes and resins. This usually refers to those with Semi-submersible drilling platform, also known as column-stabilised drilling platform, is a kind of mobile drilling platform with ground densities greater than 0.943 and underground viscosities greater than 50 centipoises. small waterplane area and a large part of the floating structure submerged under water. Oil Reservoir CCUS This is the smallest unit for the storage of oil. Oil reservoir layer or oil layer in short refers to the porous strata for the storage of oil. CCUS (Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage) namely the carbon capture, utilization and storage. CCUS technique is the new Not every part of an oil layer will contain oil. Oil reservoir refers to those independent oil-containing areas within an oil layer. developmental trend of CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage), to-wit, purifying the carbon dioxide discharged during prodcution Adjustment Well and then putting into the new production process for recycling utilization instead of simple storage. Adjustment wells refer to scattered or clustered wells drilled, in addition to existing well clusters, for improving the development of CNOOC oil fields. China National Offshore Oil Corporation Limited (HKEx: 00883, NYSE: CEO, Toronto: CNU, www.cnoocltd.com). Well Logging COSL Well logging usually refers to geophysical well loggings, in which different forms of well loggers made based on electrical, China Oilfield Services Limited (SSE: 601808, HKEx: 02883, www.cosl.com.cn). magnetic, acoustic, thermal, nuclear and other physical principles, enter wells through the use of well logging cables, to allow the ground electrical measuring instruments to record continuously along the well bore the various parameters that change CNOOC Engineering with changes in depth. Underground rock formations, including oil, gas, water, and coal layers and metal deposits, can then be CNOOC Offshore Oil Engineering Co., Ltd. (SSE: 600583, www.cnoocengineering.com). identified through curves representing these parameters. China BlueChemical Oil Spill Response China BlueChemical Ltd. (HKEx: 03983, www.chinabluechem.com.cn). Oil spill response is the formulation of plans and adoption of measures to control and prevent oil spills and reduce pollution damage, based on the environment and resources in the potential spill sources and waters within the designated sea areas. This CNOOC Gas and Power Group sees common use in offshore oil exploration and development activities. CNOOC Gas and Power Group Limited (www.cnoocgas.com). LNG International Company Liquefied natural gas or LNG in short refers to the liquid that forms when natural gas extracted from gas fields cools to a CNOOC International Co., Ltd. low temperature under high pressure after undergoing the fluid and acid removal, drying and distillation processes. LNG is predominantly methane and is colourless, odourless, non-toxic and non-corrosive. CNOOC EnerTech CNOOC Energy Technology & Services Limited. Recordable Production Safety Events According to the OSHA standards of the United States, recordable production safety events include medical treatment, work CNOOC Oil & Gas Utilization restrictions, lost time and deaths. CNOOC Oil & Gas Development & Utilization Corporation. Occupational Disease Shandong Haihua This refers to diseases that develop as a result of exposure to occupational hazards at work. Shandong Haihua Group Co., Ltd. (www.haihua.com.cn). QHSE Daxie Petrochemical The abbreviation QHSE stands for Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental. Established based on the principles of compatibility CNOOC Ningbo Daxie Petrochemical Limited. of similarities and complementarity of differences, and on the basis of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards, GB/T 28000 family of standards and SY/T 6276 Petroleum and Natural Gas Industries-Health, Safety and Environmental Management System, CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited (CSPC) CNOOC and Shell Petrochemicals Company Limited (CSPC). 90 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANNEX 91 INDEX OF REPORTING INDICATORS Continued CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API CONTENTS CASS-CSR GRI IPIECA/API COVER Biodiversity Conservation P5.1/E5.1/E5.2/E5.3/E5.5 DMA/EN12/EN13 E5/SE5 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5/G2.4/G2.5/G5.4/ 3/17/18/28/30/31/34/38/42/43/ Special Topic: Ecological INSIDE FRONT COVER M1.1/M1.2/M1.3/M2.7 44/45/46/47/48/49/50 Protection Contributes to a Beautiful China P4.7/P5.1/M1.4/M1.5/M1.6/S1.5/S4.13/E2.21/ CNOOC in Numbers 9/EC1/EN27 E2/SE4 E2.24/E2.26 DRIVING SOCIAL PROGRESS CHAIRMAN’S LETTER P3.1/P3.2/P4.6/G1.2 1/2/15/16 P4.5/P5.1/S1.6/S1.7/S1.8/S2.1/S2.2/S2.3/S2.4/ 9/10/DMA/EC3/EC5/LA1/LA6/ PRESIDENT’S LETTER P3.1/P3.2 1/2 S2.5/S2.6/S2.8/S2.9/S2.11/S2.14/S2.15/S2.16/ HS1/HS2/HS3/SE5/SE6/ Employee Development LA9/LA10/LA12/LA13/LA16/ S2.18/S2.19/S2.20/S2.22/S2.23/S2.24/S2.25/ SE8/SE15/SE16/SE17/SE18 HR2/HR3/HR5/HR6 CONTENTS P2.2/G1.1/G1.3/G5.3/ 19/27/56 S2.26/S2.27/S2.29 SUSTAINABILITY Humanitarian P5.1/S4.10/S4.11 DMA SE4 MANAGEMENT Engagement P4.1/P4.2/P5.3/G1.1/G1.2/G1.4/G2.1/G2.3/ 3/4/5/6/7/8/13/15/16/35/56/ Voluntary Service P5.1/P5.3/S4.14/S4.15 DMA About Us G4.1/G4.2/G6.1/M1.3/S1.1/S1.2/S1.3 DMA/S04 Special Topic: Manifesting P5.2/G4.1/M1.4/M1.5/M1.6/M2.17/M2.18/S2.1/ 9/10/EC1/EC3/EN5/EN6/ CNOOC’s Responsibilities Key Performance S4.10/S4.11 DMA/EC7/EC8 SE4 S2.4/S2.8/S2.9/S2.11/S2.20/ S2.24/S3.6/S3.7/ EN21/EN27/EN31/LA1/LA6/ E2/E4/E7/SE4 through Targeted Poverty Indicators Alleviation S4.7/S4.13/E2.4 LA9 Stakeholders P2.3/G2.2/G5.1/G5.4/G5.5/G5.6/M1.3 24/26 Special Topic: Combining “Blue Force” with Charity PROMOTING ECONOMIC Integration into the S4.1/S4.2/S4.3/S4.4 DMA SE1/SE2/SE3/SE5 GROWTH Community P4.2/P4.3/P4.4/P4.7/G3.2/M2.1/M2.2/M2.3/ CSR REPORT 9/12/13/DMA/EC32/EC33/ OVERSEAS M2.4/M2.9/M2.11/M2.14/M2.15/M2.16/M3.1/ Ensuring Energy Supply EN19/EN32/LA14/LA15/ SE5/SE7/SE9/SE12 M3.2/M3.3/M3.7/M3.9/M3.10/M3.11/M3.12/ HR10/HR11/S09/S10 Special Topic: The Global S3.8/E3.1/E3.7 Presence of CNOOC’s P4.4 4/6/8 Emphasizing Sci-tech Products and Services M2.16/M2.19/M2.21/E2.5 DMA E3 Innovation Economic Growth M2.2/M2.5/M2.16/S1.1/S3.1/S3.2/S3.3 DMA/EC1 SE11/SE12/SE13 Intensifying Safe P5.1/G6.4/M2.6/S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/S3.4/S3.8/ Overseas 14/DMA/EC2 HS4/HS5 Operation S3.9/S3.10/S3.11/E2.7/E2.8/E2.11/E2.32 Environmental Protection E1.1/E1.3/E1.6/E2.8/E2.28/E5.1/E5.2/E5.3 DMA/EN12/EN13 Improving Quality Overseas M2.6/ M2.7/E3.3 DMA/PR3 HS4 Management HS1/HS2/HS3/SE1/SE2/ Special Topic: “Spirit of Social Progress Overseas S2.18/S4.6/S4.7/S4.12 DMA/EC7/EC8 SE3/SE4/SE5/SE6/SE7/ Craftsmanship” Created SE8/SE15/SE16/SE17/SE18 Blue Legend OUTLOOK ON 2017 A1 ENHANCING ENVIRONMENTAL ANNEX PROTECTION Third-party Assessment A2 Green Operation P5.1/E1.1/E1.2/E1.4/E1.10/E2.28 16/DMA/S01 SE5 Glossary of Terms Tackling Climate Change P5.1/S1.6/E3.7/E4.1/E4.2/E4.3 DMA/EC2 E1 Index of Reporting A3 Water Resource Indicators P5.1/E2.18/E2.34/E2.35/E2.36 DMA/EN10/EN22/EN27 E6 Management Feedback form P1.5/A4 31 P5.1/S1.6/E1.6/E2.1/E2.2/E2.3/E2.14/E2.15/ Energy Conservation and 22/DMA/EN3/EN6/EN7/EN19/ E2.16/E2.21/E2.22/E2.23/E2.24/E2.25/E2.26/ E2/E4/E7 Emission Reduction EN21/EN23/EN27/EN31 E2.27/E2.30/E3.7 92 CNOOC 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FEEDBACK FORM 6. If you have any opinion or suggestion on the social responsibility engagement of CNOOC or the production and dissemination of our sustainability report, please feel free to let us know: In order to improve the social responsibility engagement of CNOOC on an on-going basis, we would like to hear your thoughts, which will form an important basis for us to do better. We hope that you could spare some time to give us your valuable feedback on the report and our work. Your Information: Name: Company: Tel: E-mail: Your Feedback: 1. What is your overall opinion of the report? □ Very good □ Quite good □ Average □ Quite poor □ Very poor 2. What do you think of the information disclosed in the report? □ Very abundant □ Quite abundant □ Fair □ Quite little □ Very little 3. What do you think of the quality of the information disclosed in the report? CONTACT US: □ Very high □ Quite high □ Average □ Quite low □ Very low CNOOC Office for Policy Research Postal Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China 4. What do you think of the report structure? Tel: 86 (10) 84523487 □ Very reasonable □ Quite reasonable □ Fair □ Quite poor □ Very poor Fax: 86 (10) 64602830 E-mail: report@cnooc.com.cn 5. What do you think of the design of the report layout? □ Very reasonable □ Quite reasonable □ Fair □ Quite poor □ Very poor Designed by Beijing Ideal Media Corp. http://www.bjideal.com CNOOC Office for Policy Research Address: CNOOC Building, No. 25 Chaoyangmenbei Dajie, Dongcheng District, Beijing 100010, P.R. China E-mail: report@cnooc.com.cn BV-COC-010509 Website: www.cnooc.com.cn
