Principle Mellon Application (in brief)Mellon Application (extensively) 2015 Annual CSR Report Page 1 Businesses should support and respect 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and p.6,8 the protection of internationally 2. CSR Charter holds the protection of human rights of its employees as a high proclaimed human rights 3. Code of Conduct priority in the context of it's CSR and HR written company 4. ISO 26000 policies, which are summed up in the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of Conduct, and diffused in the company's everyday practices and interactions. The company also makes sure all its' suppliers and manufacturers represented support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the completion of an evaluation questionnaire administered by the Procurement department (applicable to all principles) 2 Businesses should make sure that they 1. NewComer's Guide Mellon makes a point to ensure the company is not complicit are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. CSR Charter with human rights abuse, through written company policies such 3. Code of Conduct as the Newcomers's Guide, the CSR Charter & the Code of 4. ISO 26000 Conduct. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 1.Mellon syndicate Mellon respects the ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles association and the effective recognition 2. Collective Agreements and Rights at Work and upholds the freedom of association. This of the right to collective bargaining 3. Local Labour Law respect is also exemplified by the presence of an employees' 4. ISO 26000 syndicate within the company. Mellon also recognizes the right to collective bargaining by adopting the collective agreements and local labour law in the countries of its presence. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and of all forms of forced and compulsory 2. CSR Charter compulsory labour by denouncing such practices and complying labour to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 5 Businesses should uphold the effective 1. Local Labour Law Mellon upholds the effective abolition of child of all forms of abolition of child labour 2. CSR Charter forced and compulsory labour by denouncing such practices and 3. Code of Conduct complying to local labour law in the countries of its presence. 4. ISO 26000 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination 1. Selection Policy Mellon upholds the elimination of discrimination regarding p.6 of discrimination in respect of 2. ISO 26000 employment and occupation with written company policies (e.g. employment and occupation Selection Policy) at all levels by applying an equal opportunities policy in its day-to-day practices, at all phases of personnel management (recruitment and selection, payments and promotions). In addition, the company follows ISO procedures that ensure an objective recruitment process and has also participated in an EU program for the improvement of work-life balance of its 7 Businesses should support a 1. WEEE Directive Mellon as a VAR (value added reseller) it not in the manufacturing P.9 precautionary approach to environmental 2. CSR Charter industry, however the company makes sure all suppliers adhere challenges 3. Green CSR initiatives to environmentally friendly guidelines. More specifically, Mellon (Recycling, Park cleaning, ensures its suppliers are in full compliance with RoHS and WEEE Tree planting,etc.) directives. Moreover, the majority of our partners have received 4. ISO 26000 the international certification for the environmental management system ISO 140001. Finally, our suppliers have explicit to their activity certifications from the corresponding local and international carriers. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to 1. WEEE Directive Mellon believes businesses should support initiative to promote promote greater environmental 2. CSR Charter greater environmental responsibility as demonstrated in the responsibility 3. Company energy relevant policies the company adopts and adheres to, its CSR consumption monitoring Charter and the WEEE directive. Moreover, the company monitors policy its environmental footprint and undertakes initiatives to 4. ISO 26000 counterbalance it. 9 Businesses should encourage the 1. Green CSR initiatives Mellon has undertaken a number of green initiatives, such as development and diffusion of (Recycling, Park cleaning, recycling, park cleaning, tree planting etc. In addition, an effort is environmentally friendly technologies Tree planting,etc.) made to create environmental awareness among personnel 2. ISO 26000 through training and participation in such initiatives. 10 Businesses should work against 1. Code of Conduct Mellon believes in working against corruption in all its forms, as corruption in all its forms, including 2. ISO Procedures stated in the Code of Conduct and demonstrated in its ISO extortion and bribery 3. Chart of Authority policies, such as vendor management and evaluation process, 4. ISO 26000 official and registered contract approval process and by the company's annual customer satisfaction survey. Finally, a chart of authority is applied to simplify the authorization process, while ensuring transparent processes. Glossary: RoHS: The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) EU Directive bans the placing on the EU market of new electrical and electronic equipment (containing more than agreed levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybromiated bipheny).The aim is to increase the amount of e-waste that is appropriately treated and reduce the number that go to the final disposal. WEEE Directive: The WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) directive imposes the responsibility for the disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment on the manufacturers of such equipment. ISO 14001 is a standard for environmental management systems to be implemented in any business, regardless of size, location or income. The aim of the standard is to reduce the environmental footprint of a business and to decrease the pollution and waste a business produces. The ISO 14001 environmental management standards esixt to help organizations minimize how their operations negatively affect the environment. ISO 9001 specifies requirements for a quality management system where an organization needs to demonstrate its ability to consistently provide product that meets customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, and aims to enhance customer satisfaction through the effective application of the system, including processes for continual improvement of the system and the assurance of conformity to customer and applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.
