AVSNITT OPERATIONS 1–31 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 58–60 2016 in brief 1 GRÄNGES IS A CORPORATE GOVERNANCE This is Gränges 4 GLOBAL LEADER CEO statement 6 REPORT 61–71 IN ALUMINIUM Strategy and financial targets 8 Board of Directors 68 ENGINEERING, Business model 10 Group Management 70 MANUFACTURING Market overview 12 The inside story 18 AND INNOVATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72–117 Research and innovation 20 Financial statements content 72 Products and production 22 Consolidated financial statements 73 Risk management 27 Notes to the consolidated The share 30 financial statements 78 Parent company financial SUSTAINABILITY 32–57 statements 101 Strategy and governance 32 Notes to the parent company Value chain 34 financial statements 106 Stakeholder dialogue Definitions and glossary 111 and materiality analysis 36 Five-year summary 112 Environmental impact 38 Proposed appropriation Social impact 42 of retained earnings 114 GRI-index 54 Auditor’s report 115 Global Compact index 56 Reporting principles sustainability 57 Annual General Meeting 118 History 119 Addresses 120 ii GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2016 IN BRIEF INCREASED PROFITABILITY AND A KEY STRATEGIC ACQUISITION  Sales volume increased to 239.1 ktonnes (163.9).  rofit for the period increased to SEK 498 million (379). P Excluding the acquired business in the US, sales Diluted earnings per share increased to SEK 6.64 (5.07). ­volume increased by 7.6 per cent1).  ash flow before financing activities amounted to SEK C Net sales increased to SEK 7,207 million (5,494) . –2,046 million (600), and includes cash consideration for the acquisition in the US of SEK 2,581 million.  Acquisition of Noranda’s downstream rolled aluminium operations in the US, and new contracts resulted in a Return on capital employed was 17.5 per cent (18.1). strong increase in sales in the Americas. N  et debt amounted to SEK 2,722 million (275) as of  djusted operating profit increased by 27.0 per cent A December 31, 2016, which corresponds to 2.1 times to SEK 687 million (541), corresponding to an adjusted adjusted EBITDA (0.4). operating margin of 9.5 per cent (9.8). Excluding the N  ew strategy and financial and operating targets for acquired business, adjusted operating profit rose 2020 was launched. 10.9 per cent to SEK 600 million. 1) The  Noranda downstream operations are consolidated into Gränges accounts from 22 August, 2016. Financial summary Sales volume per region, 2016 SEK million 2016 2015 Change Sales volume, ktonnes 239.1 163.9 45.9% Net sales 7,207 5,494 31.2% Europe, 27% Adjusted operating profit2) 687 541 27.0% Asia, 34% Adjusted operating margin, % 9.5 9.8 –0.3 ppt Americas, 39% Adjusted operating profit per tonne, kSEK 2.9 3.3 –0.4 Operating profit 559 538 3.9% Operating margin, % 7.8 9.8 –2.0 ppt Profit for the year 498 379 31.4% Earnings per share basic, SEK 6.66 5.07 1.59 Earnings per share diluted, SEK 6.64 5.07 1.58 Cash flow before financing ­activities –2,046 600 n/a Equity/assets, % 37.0 56.8 –19.8 ppt Net debt 2,722 275 2,447 Return on capital employed, % 17.5 18.1 –0.7 ppt 2) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12 on page 87). Sales volume, 2006–2016 Adjusted operating profit, 2012–2016 ktonnes SEK million % 250 800 12 200 600 9 150 400 6 100 200 3 50 0 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Europe Asia Americas Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 1 2016 IN BRIEF THE YEAR IN BRIEF QUARTER BY QUARTER Q1 Sales volume increased by 5.7 per cent while adjusted operating profit was unchanged. Strong growth in Europe and the Americas, stable in Asia. Launch of a new strategy and new financial and operating targets for 2020, focusing on i­ nnovation and growth. Q2  ales volume increased by 7.0 per cent and adjusted operating S profit by 13.6 per cent. Recovery in Asia and substantially increased sales in the Americas. Offer made for Noranda’s rolled aluminium operations in the US. Q3 Acquisition of Noranda’s rolled aluminium operations in the US.  ales volume increased by 61.5 per cent and adjusted operating profit S by 61.2 per cent. Excluding the acquired business in the US, sales volume increased by 5.6 per cent and adjusted operating profit by 17.0 per cent. Continued strong organic sales growth in Asia and Americas. Q4  ales volume increased by 117.6 per cent and adjusted operating profit S by 47.6 per cent. Excluding the acquired business in the US, sales volume increased by 12.3 per cent and adjusted operating profit by 15.2 per cent. Continued strong demand in Asia and the Americas. Gränges adopts the UN Global Compact. 2 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2016 IN BRIEF NORANDA ACQUISITION GRÄNGES STRENGTHENS POSITION IN NORTH AMERICA IN AUGUST 2016, Gränges acquired Noranda’s rolled aluminium operations in the US. The acquisition, which means that Gränges’ ABOUT more than doubles its sales volume, is strategically important and in line with Gränges’ target of being market leading in all geographical NORANDA’S regions by 2020. Noranda’s operations represent a good complement to Gränges’ current business, and strengthens the position in the OPERATIONS Americas and globally, which creates excellent opportunities for ­continued profitable growth. Noranda downstream, (now part of Gränges Americas), manufactures rolled aluminium products for customers in North America, which include air conditioning, transformer windings, food packaging, heat THERE ARE THREE STRATEGIC RATIONALES shields and other niche products. FOR THE ACQUISITION: The company is a significant supplier in all these markets. The rolling mills 1. Access to production capacity in North America are strategically located in the The acquired business has one of the most modern and efficient rolled Southeastern US. The rolling mill in aluminium ­production facilities in North America, and has a skilled and Huntingdon, Tennessee, is one of experienced organisation. Gränges obtains a solid platform for growth the most modern and cost efficient and reduces risk for overseas deliveries to customers in North America. rolling mills in North America, and accounts for some 80 per cent of 2. Access to a strong position in stationary heat exchangers (HVAC) the company’s sales volume. Total The acquired business has a number one position and a strong cuscapacity amounts to around 180 tomer base in the North American stationary heat exchanger market. ktonnes, and the number of employGränges gains access to major customer accounts in this area, and ees stands at approximately 550. becomes even better positioned to drive the conversion to brazed ­product solutions. 3. Access to attractive adjacent market niches The acquired business also has strong positions in attractive adjacent market ­niches in rolled aluminium. Gränges thus diversifies its business portfolio and strengthens its overall position on the market for rolled aluminium products. “The acquisition of Noranda downstream is an important step to ensuring that Gränges achieves the targets outlined in its 2020 strategy.” Johan Menckel, CEO GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 THIS IS GRÄNGES A LEADING POSITION ON THE GLOBAL MARKET Gränges is a global leader in aluminium engineering, manufacturing and innovation. We focus on rolled products for heat exchangers and selected niche applications. Our vision is to transform the world through innovative, aluminium engineering. >> SALES BY MARKET1) Gränges end-customers are in the automotive industry, the stationary heat exchanger industry, and niche markets such as transformers and food packaging. Automotive/HEX, 70 HVAC/Stationary, 13 Automotive heat exchangers: Around half of Other: In North America, aluminium is the Other, 17% all cars produced in the world today have heat preferred choice of winding material for exchangers that contain Gränges materials transformers, in which market Gränges holds and expertise. a lead. Aluminium foil has many superior properties which makes it suitable for food Stationary heat exchangers: There is a rise containers. Gränges is a major ­supplier in Automotive/HEX, 70% of aluminium as a stationary heat exchanger this market in the US. HVAC/Stationary, 13% material. Gränges has a strong position in Other, 17% this shift. Reported sales volume 2016. >> SALES BY REGION1) From 2017, Americas is expected to account for about 60% of Gränges’ sales volume. Europe: Gränges has a leading position in Americas: Gränges has a leading position Europe, 27% rolled products for brazed aluminium heat in rolled aluminium products for stationary Asia, 34% exchangers. heat exchangers and transformers. Gränges Americas, 39% has a number two position in rolled products Asia: Gränges has a leading position in for aluminium heat exchangers for the autorolled products for brazed aluminium heat motive industry, and for the food container exchangers. industry. Europe, 27% Asia, 34% 1) The  acquired business has been consolidated Americas, 39% from August 22, 2016. Reported sales volume 2016. Key production facilities Gränges has a production capacity of about 400,000 tonnes split across four manufacturing facilities in three continents. All these facilities are specialised in meeting customer requirements in terms of quality, flexibility, and delivery. Headquarter Sales offices and technical support Production sites 4 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 THIS IS GRÄNGES THE INVESTMENT CASE FOR GRÄNGES 8 STRENGTHS FOR CONTINUED PROFITABLE GROWTH 1 Market leading position 4 A leader in brazing materials 6 Strong presence in Asia Gränges has a leading position in Brazing is the pre-eminent technology In 2016 34 per cent of Gränges’ sales the global market for rolled aluminium within manufacturing of aluminium volume originated in Asia, of which the products for heat exchanger and heat exchangers for the automotive Chinese market amounted to around other niche markets. The market industry. The use of this technology is half. Gränges established operations share in the niche for material for also expected to increase for stationin China back in 1996, and has built brazed aluminium heat exchangers ary heat exchangers in the coming up a leading position in the region amounted to approximately 20 per years. This is a market in which since then. Asia is the market that is cent in 2016. Gränges has secured a leading posiexpected to grow fastest in the years tion in North America through its ahead. 2 Close to customers acquisition of Noranda downstream. Our customers are primarily larger 7 Well-invested facilities companies. Geographical proximity 5 High technology content Gränges production facilities in China, to customers in their respective marCustomers have exacting requireSweden and the US have a total annual kets is necessary to meet customer ments in terms of product perforcapacity of 400,000 tonnes, and are demand. Gränges has its own producmance and metallurgical properties. well invested. In the coming years, tion capacity and a strong customer The development of heat exchanger annual maintenance investment is base in all major markets. Gränges’ materials for a specific heat exchanger expected to be lower than depreciaten largest customers account for typically takes around two years. For tion. 53 per cent of the company’s sales many years, Gränges’ research and volume in 2016. development has been conducted in 8 A stable revenue model close co-operation with customers, Under Gränges’ revenue model, the 3 Industrial craftsmanship and the pace of innovation is rapid. cost of our primary raw material, Many companies – large and small During 2016 Gränges obtained 52 ­aluminium, is passed on to customers. – are involved in rolling aluminium new patents. Gränges’ performance is therefore ­products, the majority of which offer not dependent on fluctuations in the large-scale manufacturing according price of aluminium. The Group’s to standardized specifications. Howincome is based on the value that is ever, few have the comprehensive added to products. competence required to produce the technologically advanced materials in which Gränges specialises. AUTOMOTIVE STATIONARY HEAT EXCHANGERS HEAT EXCHANGERS Demand for automotive heat exchanger strips is closely tied A large number of manufacturers, end-users and to the global automotive industry as well as the number of applications fragment the market for stationary heat exchangers installed per vehicle. A number of unique heat exchangers. The market includes commercial heat exchangers are developed for every new vehicle platand residential property, data centres, and manuform. This development is conducted in close co-operation facturing. Together, these areas account for a with c ­ ustomers to ensure that the end-product has the ­considerable share of energy consumption in many required capacities. Advanced requirements for product countries. Demand for reduced energy use and ­performance, especially in terms of energy efficiency, mean ­limits to the amount of, and choice of, refrigerants that brazed a ­ luminium heat exchangers are currently the is driving demand for smaller and lighter heat prevalent t­ echnology in this industry. exchangers, and is speeding up the shift to brazed aluminium heat exchangers, which currently account for a small percentage of the total market. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 CEO STATEMENT A LARGER, STRONGER GRÄNGES – WITH GREAT RESPONSIBILITY With the acquisition of Noranda downstream we have doubled sales but we continue to focus on long-term growth, while retaining profitability. GIVE US AN IDEA OF WHAT THE SO YOU’VE ACHIEVED THE GOALS ised by modest growth. In the Americas, ACQUISITION OF NORANDA OUTLINED IN THE NEW STRATEGY excluding the acquisition, new customer ­DOWNSTREAM MEANS? LAUNCHED IN SPRING 2016? contracts contributed to a substantial Noranda gives us not only a platform to We have taken big leaps towards these increase in sales. The contribution from broaden our exposure in the US automogoals. And the strategy remains intact. the acquired business to our sales voltive industry; it also provides us with We’re set to drive growth through innoume towards the end of the year was of a strong position in the stationary heat vation, increase efficiency through course sizable. The sales volume was exchanger market and other niche marcontinuous improvements, grow primarily driven by the strong organic kets. Gränges at the end of 2016 is a very through acquisitions and add value growth that the business registered different company to the one that through our sustainability i­ nitiatives. in markets such as stationary heat started the year. Today, we are one of This will result in us out-performing exchangers (HVAC) where unusually few global players in rolled aluminium the market, becoming a leader in all warm weather in the US fueled demand products for heat exchangers and our regions while retaining profitabilfor air conditioning systems. The develselected niche applications, with the ity. With the Noranda acquisition, opment in our various markets in 2017 potential to grow on all major markets we have taken an important step to is, naturally, hard to determine. Foreand in several key product categories. achieve these goals. At the same time, casts suggest that growth in vehicle We are now working on integrating operwe are working in an industry characsales will be modest in Asia and the US, ations in the US to effectively share terized by extended business cycles. while Europe is projected to continue its knowledge and technologies in the same As market leader, we have a responsidampened but still positive growth. For way that we have done with our operability to drive the development in a stationary heat exchangers, the link to tions in Sweden and China for 20 years. direction that favors all our stake­ the late-cycle construction and property holders, hence our strong focus on sector provides the right conditions for sustainability as an integrated aspect continued good growth – even if the in everything we do. As a result of our global economy experiences a period of focus on sustainability, we signed the relative calm. UN Global Compact in 2016 and we are committed to continuously integrate WHAT EFFECTS DO YOU SEE OF YOUR the ten principles in our strategy and INCREASED FOCUS ON R&I? operations. We have, for example, been even more “TODAY, WE ARE effective in our close-customer product ONE OF FEW GLOBAL HOW ARE YOUR MARKETS development, which is important for PLAYERS IN ROLLED DEVELOPING OVERALL? improving each stage of products’ lifeALUMINIUM PRODUCTS While the automotive industry’s share of cycle together with customers. In terms FOR HEAT EXCHANGour sales volume has decreased from of our long-term strategic research, ERS AND SELECTED 90 per cent to around 50 per cent, it there are a lot of exciting things hapNICHE APPLICATIONS, remains considerable. In 2016 we saw a pening, especially in areas such as marked upward trend in all our markets. energy consumption and improved cost WITH THE POTENTIAL Car sales in China recovered following efficiency. With our comprehensive TO GROW ON ALL the introduction of new tax subsidies, pipeline of development programs, we MAJOR MARKETS and our sales were lifted by this positive are well positioned to meet the chalAND IN SEVERAL development. In Europe, we continued to lenges that our customers face in the KEY NICHES” grow our share of a market characterlong term. 6 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CEO STATEMENT FOLLOWING AN EVENTFUL AND SUCCESSFUL 2016, WHAT WILL YOU FOCUS ON IN 2017? Even though we have doubled sales though the acquisition of Noranda downstream, we continue to focus on growth while retaining profitability. The key to this is of course to harness the advantages that the new organisation offers. During the year, we will complete an evaluation of the potential for manufacturing clad products at our plants in the US, an important long-term initiative to meet demand from our North American customers in the automotive industry. We will also benefit from our leading position in stationary heat exchangers to strengthen our offering and sales in this important area in all geographical markets. Our dedicated and long-term investment in innovation and sustain­ ability drives our development. I often say that our most important ingredient for success is, in close co-operation with our customers, our ability to support changes that have positive effects on society. It’s a responsibility that we have as the market leader, and one that I and my 1,500 colleagues around the world will take with us as we embark on the next phase of Gränges’ more than 120-year history. FOCUS 2017 Increase customer driven R&I by using our competences in aluminium materials and processing F  urther develop our sustainability strategy based on the foundation laid in 2016 Drive operational excellence to achieve cost efficiency Evaluate investments to increase our capacity and capabilities in the US Johan Menckel, CEO Assess long-term growth opportunities in Asia GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL TARGETS GREATER FOCUS ON GROWTH AND INNOVATION Gränges’ goals and strategy for 2020 was presented in March 2016. By focusing on developing and strengthening our leading, global position in aluminium heat exchanger materials, Gränges expects to achieve growth in all geographical regions, with sustained and ­sustainable profitability. >> STRATEGY 2020 Gränges’ 2020 strategy has four pillars: 1 DRIVE GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION Gränges wants to lead the development of heat exchanger materials and advanced aluminium 3 INCREASE EFFICIENCYTHROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS Gränges aims to increase productivity, process ­solutions and to be the customers’ preferred choice. ­stability and energy efficiency and to reduce waste in our operations. 2 CREATE VALUE FROM SUSTAINABILITY Gränges strives to be a sustainable link in the value chain by reducing its environmental footprint and by 4 GROW PRESENCE THROUGH STRUCTURAL EXPANSION Gränges plans to invest in production capacity and enforcing the strictest of work place safety standards. capabilities and to expand into adjacent markets. ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 Profitability and Through a continued high pace in product development and market expansion, Gränges was able to register higher than market growth cash flow reached in 2016. P ­ rofitability and cash flow also reached record levels. An record levels increased focus on sustainability issues in production, including recycling, resulted in reduced energy use per tonne, and contributed to improved productivity. With the acquisition of Noranda downstream, Gränges has obtained a strong position with its own efficient manufacturing capacity on the North American market, including the strategically important stationary heat exchanger market. 8 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL TARGETS >> FINANCIAL TARGETS Gränges’ long-term financial targets state that Gränges should grow at least in line with the market, generate a return on capital employed of between 15–20 per cent, have a net debt in the range of one to two times EBITDA, and pay a dividend of between 30–50 per cent of the profit for the year. GROWTH ktonnes Comment: The acquisition in the US was ­consolidated into Gränges’ accounts from Increase sales v­ olume at least in line 250 August 22, which resulted in a considerable with the company’s end-markets. increase in sales from the third quarter of 45.9% 210 2016. Excluding the acquired business, sales volume increased by 7.6 per cent in 2016, 2.5% which was higher than the growth in end170 0.9% markets. 4.6% 130 12 13 14 15 16 Sales volume Growth CAPITAL STRUCTURE SEK million Comment: Net debt increased by SEK 2,447 3,000 3 million in 2016 to SEK 2,722 million, as at Net debt should normally be between 1–2 December 31, due to the acquisition in times EBITDA over a 12-month period. August, which was entirely financed with 2,000 2 loans. Net debt amounted to 2.1 times EBITDA as at December 31, 2016. Gränges’ assessment is that net debt will return to 1,000 1 the target range during financial year 2018 at the latest. 0 0 14 15 16 Net debt Net debt/EBITDA RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED SEK million % Comment: Return on capital employed decreased 0.7 percentage points to 17.5 Target is to generate a return on 4,000 20 per cent in 2016. The acquired business capital employed of 15–20 per cent contributed to improved adjusted operating over time. 3,500 15 profit and higher capital employed. 3,000 10 2,500 0 12 13 14 15 16 Capital employed Return on capital employed DIVIDEND POLICY SEK per share % Comment: A dividend of SEK 2.40 per share is proposed. This is an increase of 20 per Target is to pay a dividend of between 9 45 cent on the previous year, and corresponds 30–50 per cent of the profit for the year to 36 per cent of the profit for the period over time. Decisions on dividends will 6 40 in 2016. reflect the company’s financial position, cash flow, and outlook. 3 35 0 30 14 15 16 Earnings per share, diluted Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 BUSINESS MODEL A PLATFORM FOR CONTINUED EXPANSION Gränges’ business model is based on the development, production and marketing of advanced materials that improve the efficiency of customer manufacturing processes, and end-product performance. STRONG, LONG-TERM CUSTOMER SPECIALLY ADAPTED ­ RELATIONSHIPS MANUFACTURING PLANTS OUR MOST IMPORTANT Gränges works closely with customers Gränges’ manufacturing plants are INGREDIENT FOR from product design to rolled product ­optimised for the production of heat deliveries for full scale production. exchanger materials, and materials for SUCCESS IS, IN CLOSE Gränges’ customer relationships are food packaging, transformers and other CO-OPERATION WITH therefore typically long-term. Gränges’ niche markets. Between 2008 and 2012 OUR CUSTOMERS, OUR R&I continually supports the developGränges conducted a major investment ABILITY TO SUPPORT ment of new products and processes, program to increase capacity and proCHANGES THAT HAVE which enables technical advances in a ductivity at its manufacturing plants in POSITIVE EFFECTS ON number of areas. Of Gränges’ customChina and Sweden. This initiative has SOCIETY AS A WHOLE. ers, 85 per cent have been customers to resulted in improved process stability the company for more than 10 years. and better profitability. At the plants in the US, we are reviewing the option of EXPERTISE IN KEY AREAS producing clad products in the medium Gränges has a strong development and term with a view to meeting demand for production competence primarily in the materials for brazed heat exchangers on following four areas: the development the North American m ­ arket. of alloys, hot rolling of clad materials, thermo-mechanical processing and AN ORGANISATION RICH ­slitting. These competences combine IN EXPERIENCE to produce products with a high degree Gränges’ many years of specialisation of added value. Manufacturing is underin the development and manufacture taken after an order is received and of rolled products for brazed heat according to customer requirements. exchangers have built extensive knowlGränges has a dynamic portfolio of up edge about material characteristics and to 3,000 products, which are adapted manufacturing processes at all levels of to specific customer needs. the organization. To this will be added the knowledge and experiences that the ESTABLISHED REVENUE MODEL acquired business’ operations will bring Gränges generates revenue through within rolled materials for stationary the sale of materials manufactured for heat exchanges and other niche marspecific products and customers. Heat kets. New knowledge and experiences exchanger materials for customers in are spread between different parts of the automotive industry and the stationthe organization systematically, with ary heat exchanger industry amounted the aim of retaining the skills-related to 83 per cent of sales volume in 2016. advantages that have seen Gränges Prices are quoted per tonne, and are become world leading in rolled aluminbased on the added value Gränges ium products. offers in terms of material properties and product complexity, as well as the price of our key raw material, aluminium. Raw material costs are passed on to customers, thereby insulating Gränges from fluctuations in raw material prices. 10 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS MODEL A STRONG POSITION IN THE VALUE CHAIN HEAT EXCHANGER ALUMINIUM PRODUCERS MATERIAL PRODUCERS END-USE MARKETS PRODUCERS PRO ION DU CT Gränges has a strong position in the value CT MASS P chain. The performance of the final product is RO VELOPMENT to a large degree dependent on the material DU properties. Our high degree of specialisation, DE product knowledge, and stable manufacturing processes allow us to offer considerable added value, excellent quality, and a high PR degree of delivery p ­ recision. OD N UCT TIO V ALID A GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 MARKET OVERVIEW LONG-TERM GROWTH DRIVERS Gränges’ operations are global, with products that are used in markets that are in constant change – a result of a number of drivers tightly linked to global societal development. These drivers include improved living standards, reduced environmental impact, and increased cost efficiency. IMPROVED LIVING STANDARDS Improved living standards contribute to a general increase in demand for vehicles and housing, and in turn to increased demand for comfort-related solutions. This trend is especially pronounced in newly industrialised countries where living standards and population growth are rapidly rising. In the automotive industry, air conditioning, for example, has become standard; and in the HVAC industry, the demand for comfort add-ons such as heat pumps and air conditioning is also increasing. Consequently, the use of heat exchangers and aluminium heat exchanger materials is expected to increase in both industries. REDUCED ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The aim of reducing emissions of damaging greenhouse gases affects production in the automotive and stationary heat exchanger industries primarily in two ways: demand for lighter weight products and increased efficiency. Certain components in the automotive industry– for example heat exchangers, engines, gearboxes and wheels – are to a large extent already made from aluminium. The continued development of these components, with weight being further reduced through improved design, results in even greater demands on materials and subcomponents. Similarly, the HVAC industry is faced with the challenge of phasing out harmful coolants, and of using alternatives with low or no environmental impact. Mechanically assembled copper heat exchangers are still widely used. The prevailing trend, however, is towards significantly lighter and more efficient aluminium products. INCREASED COST EFFICIENCY There is a constant need to reduce energy consumption and costs, and improve reliability for manufacturers and users of, for example, vehicles, and air conditioning and heating systems. A variety of HVAC applications ­currently account for a large amount of the energy consumed in a building or home. Demand is growing for logisticallyand production-efficient products, and more energy efficient engines and heat exchangers. This leads to reduced resource and energy use across the entire production chain, and for the end user, which generates considerable savings during a product’s service life. 12 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MARKET OVERVIEW >> DEVELOPMENTS IN THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY DRIVERS exchangers materials. In electric vehicent between 2012 and 2025, according Reduced negative environmental cles the battery cooling requires the to the Aluminium Association. The impact and increased cost efficiency. same amount of heat exchanger materinumber of hybrid vehicles is expected And simultaneously meet increased als as traditional power trains. to increase in the coming years, which demands in passenger comfort, which will drive demand for heat exchangers. requires more heat exchangers. ADVANTAGES OF ALUMINIUM Aluminium is lighter than copper and CUSTOMER ­MATURITY CONSEQUENCES FOR THE INDUSTRY steel, and offers excellent functional AND REQUIREMENTS Product development for lighter performance. Aluminium is also endHigh level of maturity and knowledge of ­vehicles. Smaller, lighter vehicles and lessly recyclable, corrosion resistant aluminium among customers. Exacting more sophisticated systems that place and has a cost advantage over copper. demands in terms of functionality, greater demand on efficient cooling. quality and delivery performance. Hybrid vehicles require additional coolOUTLOOK ing of electrical motor batteries, which The aluminium content of vehicles is results in increased use of heat expected to increase by about 60 per >> DEVELOPMENTS IN THE STATIONARY HEAT EXCHANGER INDUSTRY (HVAC) DRIVERS ADVANTAGES OF ALUMINIUM in the coming years. Demand is posiAchieve improved energy and cost effiAluminium heat exchangers are more tively impacted, reflecting growing perciencies, ensure reliability, and reduce energy and cost effective in terms of formance, energy and cost efficiency the use of environmentally damaging materials, manufacturing, transport demands from customers and end users coolants. Heat exchangers represent and storage. Brazed aluminium heat industry-wide. Demand for rolled prodthe single largest source of cooling. exchangers contain smaller amounts of ucts for brazed heat exchangers is proj­ coolants, offer more reliable perforected to increase by on average 15 per CONSEQUENCES FOR THE INDUSTRY mance and achieve lower operational cent per year 2016 and 2020. The development of new products that sound levels compared to conventional are more energy and cost efficient than alternatives. CUSTOMER ­MATURITY existing products. New, more compact AND REQUIREMENTS heat exchangers with fewer or no damOUTLOOK Low maturity and knowledge about the aging coolants that affect the environIn line with stricter legal requirements advantages of aluminium, primarily ment. The development of more environand regulations regarding the use of brazed solutions, but this is changing. mentally conscious technologies, due to coolants, the conversion to aluminium Demands in terms of functionality, increased regulation. heat exchangers is expected to increase quality and efficiency are increasing. SIGNIFICANCE FOR GRÄNGES As the leading global supplier of advanced aluminium materials for automotive heat exchangers and the stationary heat exchanger industry, the various drivers outlined above will positively impact Gränges. The auto­motive industry, accounts for 48 per cent of Gränges’ sales, while stationary heat exchangers accounts for approximately 25 per cent. As market leader in materials for brazed heat exchangers for the automotive industry, where brazed heat exchangers amount to almost 100 per cent of the market, Gränges is also well positioned for a similar, future conversion within the stationary heat exchanger industry. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 MARKET OVERVIEW GRÄNGES STRENGTHENS ITS GLOBAL POSITION The acquisition of Noranda downstream gives Gränges the advantage of being one of the few genuinely large global players in rolled aluminium products with production, sales and customer­-driven product development in three major continents. Gränges is active on the global market planning to minimise capital build-up for advanced aluminium materials, with in inventory, while at the same time a clear leading position in rolled prodmaintaining a high degree of delivery END-CUSTOMER MARKETS ucts for brazed heat exchangers. The performance. acquisition of Noranda downstream in 2016 resulted in considerable changes to DEMAND FOR CONTINUOUS Gränges’ Automotive/HEX, 48% customer structure, markets, IMPROVEMENT and geographical HVAC/Stationary, 25% exposure. The proporManufacturers of, for example, heat Other, 27%tion of sales to the automotive industry exchangers are faced with continuous has decreased in favour of stationary demands for improvements from their heat exchangers (HVAC), transformers customers, vehicle and air conditioning and food containers, and the Americas manufacturers. Thus, they need to conAutomotive/HEX, 48% have become Gränges’ largest geographtinually improve heat exchanger perforHVAC/Stationary, 25% ical market, with close to 59 per cent of mance, reduce total costs and increase Other, 27% sales volume (proforma, full-year 2016). the value of their cooling and climate control solutions. A core challenge is to Gränges´ sales volume per A COMPLEX MARKET constantly meet the new requirements end-customer market, The market for advanced aluminium of next generation platforms, new proforma for full-year 2016. materials is relatively hard to enter profapplications and demands of product itably. This is not primarily due to the end-users. In practice, this means that a capital-intensive nature of the industry, supplier such as Gränges needs to be at but rather because of the high level of the forefront of developing adaptable competence and experience required to and customised aluminium materials. develop the new, advanced materials that customers demand. Competence GRÄNGES’ CUSTOMERS and experience are also critical to operGränges has long-term relationships ating flexible production processes with its customers. This is a result of efficiently, and to be able to guarantee Gränges’ strong focus to continuously a high degree of delivery reliability in develop new products, materials and terms of volume, time and quality. Overprocesses in close co-operation with all, these exacting demands require customers. These long-term customer well-tuned manufacturing capabilities relationships are also the results of and processes refined over extended Gränges’ strong brand on the internaperiods of time. Over and above this, tional market for heat exchanger materiother requirements include an effective als, as is Gränges’ capacity as a global customer service and a global logistics supplier with excellent delivery reliabilcapacity, as customers are generally ity. Of Gränges’ customers, 85 per cent global players looking for daily just-inhave worked with the company for more time delivery to avoid inventory. So than ten years. The ten largest customthat customers are not left without key ers represented 53 per cent of the total production inputs, suppliers such as sales volume in 2016, and the largest Gränges has to be able to deliver up to customer accounted for 10 per cent of 3,000 different products. This requires a total sales for the year. high degree of flexibility and excellent 14 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MARKET OVERVIEW COMPETITION AND MARKET SHARE Gränges’ competitors vary in size and strategic focus. Factors that influence the degree of competition differs between region and end-user, but in general Gränges competes on product quality, the ability to meet customer requirements, product range, lead times, technical support, price and customer service. Competitors are primarily major global aluminium companies such as Aleris, Arconic, Huafon, Norsk Hydro, Novelis and UACJ. In Asia there are several local players that are direct competitors to Gränges on the Asian market. In Europe and North America there are growing signs of competition from Asian manufacturers. Today, Gränges has a leading global position in rolled aluminium materials. Within the industry for rolled products for brazed heat exchangers Gränges has a clear market leading position, estimated at around 20 per cent globally. END-CUSTOMER MARKETS As a consequence of the acquisition of Noranda downstream, the automotive industry’s share of Gränges sales volume has decreased from almost 90 per cent to around half. Sales to the stationary heat exchanger industry, primarily in air conditioning, today accounts for around half of sales in North America, and for almost a quarter of total sales. Furthermore, entirely new end-customer markets such as transformers and food packaging have become significant parts of Gränges’ operations. These developments offer considerable growth opportunities, as well as a reduced risk and reduced exposure to the automotive industry. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 MARKET OVERVIEW THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY The market for rolled products for aluOTHER MARKETS Aluminium foil provides a complete barGEOGRAPHIC minium heat exchangers closely correrier to light, oxygen, moisture and bacteEXPOSURE lates with global vehicle production, but ria. These properties make it ideal for Many of Gränges’ customers are is also affected by the number of heat food cartons and pouches. Container global, which requires Gränges to exchangers per vehicle, which tends to foil is divided into three major categohave a corresponding presence and increase in line with demands for such ries: household/institutional foil, semiscope. Gränges offers manufacturthings as improved comfort. Growth in rigid containers and flexible packaging. ing, sales and technical support on the automotive industry increased For decades, the use of foil has grown three continents. Production plants approximately 4 per cent (4.4) globally in steadily in each of these categories. in Finspång and Shanghai are, furthermore, important skill centres for 2016. Forecasts suggest average annual Semi-rigid containers are among the research and product development in growth of around 2 per cent between most versatile of all types of packaging close co-operation with customers. 2017 and 2020, according to market and are widely used for pre-packaged analyst IHS. Since the 1990s, brazed foods, easily withstanding great differaluminium heat exchangers have sucences in temperature from freezing to ASIA cessively increased market share in the heating. Gränges is a major supplier in Since the establishment of the plant in Shanghai in 1996, the company automotive industry at the expense of this market with a leading position has secured a leading position on copper-based and mechanically assemwithin the semi-rigid container category the Asian market. In 2016, Asia bled heat exchangers. Brazed heat in North America. As consumers are accounted for 34 per cent (46) of exchangers amount to close to 100 per becoming increasingly dependent on group sales in terms of volume, with cent of the market. ready-to-eat foods and beverages, the China as its main market. Other key demand for aluminium foils for conmarkets include Thailand, South THE STATIONARY HEAT EXCHANGER sumer packaging purposes will rise. Korea and India. The automotive industry accounts for the bulk of INDUSTRY (HVAC) Another end-market in North America Gränges’ sales in Asia, although sales HVAC includes heating and cooling sysis materials for transformers. A transin the stationary heat exchanger tems for residential housing, and comformer is an electrical device used to industry are increasingly important mercial and industrial property. The increase or decrease the alternating as the market matures. Most of the market for heat exchanger materials for voltages in electric power applications. production volume at Gränges’ plant HVAC is estimated to be as significant as It consists of two or more coils called in Shanghai is sold in Asia, of which the automotive industry. The underlying windings, which are wrapped around a around half goes to China. Global customers accounted for 43 per cent growth factor for heat exchangers in core. In North America, aluminium is (41) of sold volume in 2016. HVAC, regardless of type, is global conbecoming more common as winding After a slow start to the year, struction investment, which is expected material in distribution transformers, demand for heat exchangers in the to continue to grow to 2020. In time, while copper is more common for large automotive industry recovered, which brazed aluminium heat exchangers, power transformers. Aluminium has sigresulted in higher growth in 2016 which today account for only a few per nificant cost and weight advantages compared to the previous year. Longterm prospects are good, with an cent of the total market, are expected over copper. Gränges is the leading proincreased emphasis on comfort and to replace conventional mechanically ducer of high conductivity aluminium improved energy efficiency driving assembled solutions. Expectations are strips for electrical transformers used growth in the automotive and stationthat manufacturers of stationary heat by utility providers and industrial comary heat exchanger industries. A exchangers will convert to brazed alupanies in North America. growing aftersales market is one of minium heat exchangers, in a similar the contributors to increased demand way to the automotive industry. Demand for heat exchanger material. In terms of global light vehicle production, for rolled products for brazed heat Asia as a whole accounts for 52 per exchangers in this industry is therefore cent (51) while China accounts for expected to increase by some 15 per 29 per cent (27). In 2016 production cent per year to 2020. increased by 6.6 per cent in Asia and by 12.8 per cent in China. From 2017 to 2020, production of light vehicles is expected to increase by an average of some 3 per cent a year in both China as well as in Asia as a whole, according to IHS. 16 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MARKET OVERVIEW Finspång 59% 18% 23% New York Tokyo Franklin Seoul Shanghai Pune São Paulo Sales markets Offices sales and technical support Share of sales volume (proforma full-year 2016) EUROPE AMERICAS Gränges has a strong position on Gränges has been present on the The market for automotive heat the European market and through American market since 1994, and with exchangers is relatively concentrated advanced technological content in its the acquisition of Noranda downstream with a small number of manufacturers, products consolidated its leading posiin 2016, has obtained a leading position and the largest end-customers located tion and taken market share during also in this market, with exposure to a primarily in the Southeastern US. As the year. In total, the European market number of other market niches. a share of global production of light amounted to around 27 per cent (38) Americas accounted for around vehicles, Americas account for 22 per of group sold volumes in 2016, with 39 per cent (16) of the Group’s sales cent (23), and in 2016 production the UK, Italy, the Czech Republic and volume in 2016, following the consoliincreased 0.1 per cent. According to Poland as the single largest markets. dation of Noranda into Gränges’ IHS, between 2017 and 2020, the Europe is a consolidated market accounts from 22 August, 2016. manufacture of light vehicles in the with global customers that account Gränges’ main markets are the US region is expected to grow by an averfor approximately 77 per cent (75) of and Mexico. In South America, Brazil age of around 2 per cent per year. sales volume in 2016. The majority of is an important market. Excluding the The market for material for stationall volume supplied to the European effects of the acquisition of Noranda, ary heat exchangers, primarily air market is produced at the plant in Gränges’ sales increased by 23.6 per conditioning, is expected to grow in the ­Finspång. cent, as a result of previously agreed coming years on the back of rising US During the year, car manufactursubstantial customer agreements in household incomes and increased ers continued to discuss a faster the automotive industry. demand for indoor climate control. At transition to electric hybrid engines – Gränges’ global customers the same time, product development is engines that require a greater number accounted for approximately 30 per driven by the need for more energy of heat exchangers, which is positive cent (73) of sales volume in North and efficient units and reduced use of for Gränges. In terms of global light South America. coolants. vehicle production, Europe accounts Plants in the Southeastern United The market for transformer windfor 23 per cent (24), and in 2016 proStates supply the majority of customers ings is strongly linked to the non-cy­ duction increased by 2.6 per cent. in the region with products. Plants in clical market for transformers, which From 2017 to 2020, production of Finspång and Shanghai p ­ rovide automois expected to show a growth to 2020. light vehicles in the region is expected tive customers with material for brazed The market for food packaging is to increase by an average of around aluminium heat exchangers, which are expected to show a stable annual 1 per cent per year, according to IHS. currently not produced in the US. growth rate between 2017 and 2020. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 AVSNITT THE INSIDE STORY THE INSIDE STORY Modern vehicles typically contain up to ten different heat exchangers, sometimes more. In recent years, the number of heat exchangers per vehicle has increased, as engines have become more advanced, and environmental requirements and passenger comfort demands have grown. There are heat exchangers for cooling engines, transmission oil and engine oil, air conditioning systems, heaters, and in some cases, also for cooling batteries. Today, Gränges is a world leader in heat exchanger materials, and around 50 per cent of sales are to customers in the auto­motive industry.  ctive chiller A (for battery cooling) P  assive chiller (for battery cooling) Hybrid system radiator  harge air cooler C Condenser AC Engine radiator Engine oil cooler 18 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 THE INSIDEAVSNITT STORY  vaporator AC E Compartment heater Transmission oil cooler GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION CUSTOMER-DRIVEN, WORLD LEADING R&I Gränges’ advanced aluminium products are the result of a long-term commitment to research and innovation, and of close development work with customers that supports continued renewal of knowledge within the company. Gränges conducts world-class strategic 1972. Today the market in the automotive research and customer-driven product industry consists almost entirely of 168 development that are based on extenbrazed heat exchangers. sive knowledge of material properties and characteristics, and into our own CONTINUED RAPID PACE production processes and our customOF INNOVATION ers’ production processes. This strategic As at December 31, 2016 Gränges’ research work is managed globally, while research and development has resulted Gränges held the customer-driven development is in 52 patent families and 168 patents; a carried out locally, in close co-ordination further 100 patent applications are 168 patents at with customers and production plants. pending. An important research project, the end of 2016. which Gränges also offers to commercial EXTENSIVE EXPERTISE customers, is TRILLIUM®. Gränges’ R&I is conducted by some 60 specialists, many of whom have doctor• TRILLIUM® is a patented product, ates. Gränges collaborates with univerdeveloped in co-operation with sities and colleges on a regular basis. Sandvik, which enables brazing withNew products are in most cases firstly out adding a flux agent. Customers can developed in small-scale in the laborathereby avoid the high costs associtory. Prior to full-scale production of ated with conventional brazing pronew products Gränges uses computer cesses, where the addition of flux simulations to design the process route. agents is necessary. Gränges is curThis approach enables the planning of rently taking the next step in the comefficient production processes with a mercialisation of ­TRILLIUM® to meet great deal of accuracy. rapidly growing demand. • Strong sagging resistence (SSR) fins A LEADER IN MATERIALS covers products developed to meet ­DEVELOPMENT current and future down gauging In recent decades, Gränges has built up requirements, and to improve cusmarket leading expertise in materials tomer productivity. and product development. This is car• Strong, temperature resistant tubes ried out in Finspång, and focuses priWith this product customers are able marily on different material combinato use thinner tubes and/or tougher tions and surface coatings rather than brazing cycles without compromising developing specific materials. By giving quality or performance. products unique characteristics and • E xhaust gas re-circulation (EGR) – tailoring solutions to meet specific cusrequirements for lower engine emistomer requirements, Gränges creates sions are continuously increasing functional added value. The development Engine exhaust can be extremely of rolled materials for brazed aluminium ­corrosive due to its high acid content heat exchangers has been essential for (sulphur). Gränges is focusing on Gränges position on the market. The first material validation in this area. of these products were launched back in 20 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION CRITICAL TECHNICAL SUPPORT CO-OPERATION FOR NEW MARKETS Gränges has Application Engineers in With the addition of Noranda, Gränges all regions (Asia, Europe, and Americas) has entered new markets and customer who help customers optimize the intergroups. Gränges R&I in Finspång co-opaction between Gränges’ products and erates with Noranda’s expertise and customers’ own processes and applicanetwork in the US, with the aim of tions. This is how the company’s applistrengthening investment in the develcation centre, in co-ordination with opment of new, innovative products and production plants, provides support. It solutions for these markets and cusis here that customers’ forming and tomers. brazing processes can be replicated and tested. Gränges’ product developers and technicians are present in Asia, Europe, and the Americas FOCUS ON INNOVATIONS IN NANJING, CHINA Every year, Gränges hosts a technical seminar for its customers and other partners in Asia. In 2016, it was held in Nanjing in China, where more than 400 customers and other leading industry representatives attended the seminar, ­making it the largest seminar of its kind in the world. The seminar covered topics such as challenges with ­emissions, innovative technologies for brazing, development trends for aluminium heat exchangers, design and future solutions. Gränges Shanghai also celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2016. Since 1996, Gränges has been investing in Shanghai and growing its customer base throughout China and Asia. At present, Gränges Shanghai’s production capacity is more than 120,000 tons – the world’s largest production facility for specialised heat exchange materials. “When looking at the next coming years, challenges with emissions, new powertrain solutions, and more digital content are factors that will support demand for advanced heat exchange materials. We are committed to continue to invest and grow our business in the Asian region in the coming years”, says Johan Menckel. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS Gränges’ clear focus on serving the global heat exchanger industry with leading products and solutions has made the company into a trusted and long-term partner. The addition of Noranda downstream creates oppor­ tunities to develop new solutions in close co-operation with the customers. Over the years, Gränges has developed a FOCUS ON HVAC large number of products with improved Gränges focuses on driving technologiend-characteristics, increased stability cal change through stationary heat GRÄNGES´ SHARE and enhanced sustainability. Many of exchangers (HVAC), from mechanically OF MARKET these products are based on new conbonded copper tubes to brazed alumincepts such as SSR fin and TRILLIUM®. ium heat exchangers, just as was the 20% Gränges’ focus on technology, manucase in the automotive industry where facturing processes, and material Gränges’ solutions have played a key ­properties contribute to creating role in the conversion from conventional 10% smaller, lighter and better designed to contemporary systems. Focus is conheat ex­changers that are more energy centrated on products that contribute to efficient and reduce environmental improved energy efficiency and reduced impact. Through the acquisition of environmental impact. With a new Automotive Noranda downstream, Gränges now machine for folded tubes at the Shanghai HVAC also offers rolled aluminium products production plant, Gränges is taking a to manufacturers of automotive heat major step forward, and delivering Gränges’ estimates of shields, transformer windings and ­prototypes that customers are able to global market share. semi-rigid containers. test at their own applications. The product enables the development of even ADDED VALUE FOR THE CUSTOMER stronger, lighter, and more corrosion Gränges offers a comprehensive range of resistant condensers with greater efficlad and unclad rolled aluminium prodciency and reduced overall environmenucts used for brazed heat exchangers for tal impact. With its acquisition, Gränges applications with a high degree of funchas also obtained a broader offering of tionality and performance. Depending on products and solutions that also meet the specific needs of a given application, other needs within the stationary HVAC Gränges offers multi-layer products with industry. up to five layers. This variety provides ­virtually un­limited possibilities for cusHEAT EXCHANGERS FOR INDUSTRIAL tomised solutions based on carefully APPLICATIONS selected alloy combinations, delivery The next step is to develop solutions for conditions, plating thickness and industrial applications, such as wind geometries. power turbines and agricultural machinery, which have a market footprint that is four times the size of HVAC. 22 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION FOUR PRODUCT GROUPS CLAD TUBE CLAD FIN UNCLAD FIN CLAD PLATE There are up to 3,000 product specifications, including 200 combinations of alloys, that Gränges offers to its heat exchanger customers. The products can be divided into four main groups: CLAD TUBE Consists of a core alloy with braze clad on one or two sides, and in many cases a core alloy with a braze clad on the outside and a corrosion-resistant clad on the inner side of the tube. The customer makes a tube by folding or welding the material. CLAD FIN Consists of a core alloy with braze clad on each side, and is primarily used in ­condenser applications. UNCLAD FIN The most basic heat exchanger material. Unclad fin consists of only one alloy ­w ithout clad layers. CLAD PLATE Consists of a core alloy clad with braze clad on one or two sides. The rolled ­product is stamped or shaped by the ­customer depending on the application and used in most kinds of heat exchanger applications, either for coolant plates or manifolds. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION EFFICIENT, ADVANCED ­MANUFACTURING IN ALL REGIONS Through its acquisition in the US, Gränges is able to meet exacting customer demands on all three major continents. With its own manufacturing capacity in North America, Gränges has created a platform that, in the long term, enables expansion in the region. Thanks to 40 years’ experience and spesince 1972; the site has a production Initiatives include internal audits on cialised knowledge of production of capacity of 100,000 tonnes . The comhealth, safety and environment at material for brazed heat exchangers, pany’s production plant in Asia is in respective operations, to learn from Gränges has become a world leader in Shanghai, China, and was established each other. Following Finspång’s contrirolled aluminium for the heat exchanger in 996. Gränges has focused on expandbution to knowledge sharing and techindustry. The company has systematiing capacity at the Shanghai site to keep nology transfer during the establishcally built a good reputation associated pace with the rapidly growing market in ment of the Shanghai plant, Finspång with high quality, flexibility, customer the region, and capacity at the site now now benefits from knowledge of quality service and delivery reliability. Work is stands at 120,000 tonnes. In the US and process stability in the Chinese continuously carried out to improve effiGränges has three production sites – operation, factors that have been especiency and productivity at all Gränges’ in Southeastern United States – with cially important during its rapid growth. production plants – initiatives that in a combined production capacity of The newly acquired production plants in recent years have contributed to 180,000 tonnes. All Gränges’ facilities the US help strengthen our knowledge reduced environmental impact and are ISO-certified for quality standards, exchange even further. The process for improved profitability for Gränges and while in Sweden and China the facilities sharing technology and skills was its customers. also are ISO-certified for the environestablished immediately following the mental standard. conclusion of the acquisition in the US EXTENSIVE PRODUCTION CAPACITY in August. Gränges has production sites on three KNOWLEDGE SHARING continents with a combined capacity of DRIVES GROWTH STRATEGICALLY IMPORTANT 400,000 tonnes. The production facility A long-standing and close co-operation SITES IN THE US in Finspång, Sweden, was established in between our production plants in FinWith the acquisition in the US, Gränges 1922 and aluminium products for brazed spång and Shanghai has driven growth has gained access to three production heat exchangers have been produced and improvement work – at both sites. facilities, strategically located in the Gränges’ production facilities Annual capacity Location Est. (ktonnes) End markets Production set-up DC casting, hot rolling, Finspång, Sweden 1922 100 Automotive cold rolling, finishing DC casting, hot rolling, Shanghai, China 1996 120 Automotive, HVAC cold rolling, finishing 1967 HVAC, food c ­ ontainers, Continuous casting, Huntingdon, United States and 2000 146 transformers, other cold rolling, finishing Continuous casting, Salisbury, United States 1965 34 HVAC, other cold rolling, finishing HVAC, Surface treatment, Newport, United States 1951 n/a food ­containers finishing 24 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 PRODUCTS AND PRODUCTION Southeastern US, close to existing and COMPLEX PRODUCTION PROCESSES tences over the years that have contribpotential ­customers. The facility in HuntAt our plants in Finspång and Shanghai uted to making the company’s technical ingdon, Tennessee , is one of the most production is focused on rolled products leadership in heat exchanger materials: modern and cost efficient mills in North for brazed aluminium heat exchangers. Alloy development: the development America, and accounted for approxiThis is a complex, multi-step process. of material where aluminium is commately 80 per cent of acquired business’ The first stage of the process involves bined with several alloying elements to sales volume in 2016. In Salisbury, North re-melting and casting, where aluminachieve specific properties. Gränges has Carolina, there is a smaller facility, and ium ingots, alloying metals and recycled special expertise in the development of in Newport, Arkansas there is a finishing aluminium scrap are the input materials. alloys and combinations that have propplant. The three facilities represent a The next step is the hot rolling proerties adapted to each step of customcomprehensive production chain with a cess, during which the material underers’ manufacturing processes – from combined capacity of 180,000 tonnes. goes its first shape change. The material forming to assembly and brazing. Capacity utilisation was high at all is pre-heated in a furnace until it Cladding: a key capability that prothree plants throughout 2016. To ease reaches a temperature at which it vides high added value and differentibottlenecks in production, maintenance becomes soft and malleable. Hot rolling ates Gränges from manufacturers of investments will be made in 2017. Furcreates a metallic bond between clad rolled products for general use. The thermore, a review is currently being plates and core slabs. The hot rolled company produces singleand douconducted to assess the viability of coils are then cooled prior to cold rolling. ble-sided clad products, and symmetrimanufacturing clad products at the During cold rolling the material is cal and asymmetrical products, with plants, and thereby expand within heat rolled further to achieve the desired many different alloy combinations. exchanger material for brazed heat thickness. The coils can be heat-treated Rolling and thermo-mechanical exchangers in the region. That will in annealing furnaces between and after processing: used to alter alloys’ require a larger investment in casting cold rolling to obtain the desired micro-structure to achieve desired and rolling capabilities. strength and formability. Surface charproperties of an end-product. Gränges acteristics, flatness, correct gauge and has extensive experience of thermo-meDEMAND-DRIVEN PRODUCTION strength are the most important quality chanical processes, and its effect on the Gränges conducts demand-driven procharacteristics obtained from cold rollbehaviour of materials in the brazing duction based on lean manufacturing ing and annealing. process. principles. In brief, this entails creating The cold rolled coils are then treated Slitting: Gränges has market leading simple production flows, a direct link further in the finishing area. Depending competence and experience in slitting between production steps and well on the end-product, coils are then slit technologies that play an integral role in defined and efficient processes. Prointo desired widths. the manufacture of heat exchanger duction lead times should be as short as materials. The slitting process requires possible, and balanced against the need TECHNICAL LEADERSHIP IN HEAT craftsmanship and automation experfor processes to be cost efficient, which EXCHANGER MATERIAL tise to achieve the narrow tolerances also makes it possible for Gränges to offer Thanks to its focused strategy, Gränges required in terms of width, edge quality flexible customer service. has developed four specific compeand winding. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 AVSNITT 26 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT As a global group with operations in different parts of the world, Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainty. Gränges’ risk management aims to identify, assess, and reduce risks related to the Group’s business and operations. Gränges is primarily exposed to risks in the following areas stated below. BUSINESS RISKS Business risks are managed by the operative units in accordance with the guidelines and procedures established for every business area and unit. RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMMENTS FOR THE YEAR AUTOMOTIVE A  bout half of Gränges’ sales volume goes to suppliers in the As Gränges has a global offering, the risk of downturns in indiMARKET automotive industry. Vehicle production is in turn dependvidual markets affecting the company, is reduced. Gränges DEVELOPMENT ent on a number of external factors such as the economy, also sells materials for stationary heat exchangers used in for interest rates, consumer behaviour and taxes. During an example buildings. The aim is to increase sales to new economic downturn, the automotive industry normally end-customer markets other than the automotive industry. sees significant decreases in production, which results in Due to the acquisition in the US that was finalized in 2016, lower demand for aluminium products that are used in Gränges’ exposure to the automotive industry declined. vehicles. HEALTH AND Casting houses and rolling mills are work environments that Gränges has zero tolerance of injuries and accidents. SAFETY contain significant health and safety risks where strict safety Gränges has strict safety routines and continually invests routines may never be bypassed or assigned a lower priority. in different types of safety measures to prevent accidents If the implementation of safety procedures is unsuccessful at the production facilities. Three of the injuries that or is not effective, employees and other ­persons may be occurred in 2016 were deemed serious. Hand and ﬁnger injured. Unsafe workplaces can also increase employee turninjuries were the most common kind of injury. During the over and raise operating costs. ­Injuries can also mean proyear Gränges carried out projects for increased ﬁre safety duction stoppages, which could result in financial costs for at the facilities in Finspång and Shanghai. Gränges. ENVIRONMENTAL Gränges conducts operations in properties where indusWhen requested, Gränges takes part in investigations conIMPACT trial operations have been carried on for a long time. Local ducted by local authorities to ascertain who is responsible environmental laws and regulations govern the operations for cleaning up land. At present investigations are ongoing and Gränges can be held responsible for polluted land that in a number of municipalities in Sweden where business Gränges uses or has used. Under current regulation, the operations stem from business operations conducted by party that conducted the polluting operations is also Gränges. responsible for cleaning up the land. During the year, a number of projects were carried out The manufacture of aluminium materials is energy-­ ­aiming to reduce energy consumption. intensive and the capacity to reuse process scrap and to ensure quality is thus crucial to the Group’s total ­environmental impact. SUPPLY OF Gränges is dependent on the supply of input goods, As a rule, Gränges enters into agreements with slab ALUMINIUM AND ­especially aluminium. Insufficient supply of slabs means ­suppliers for the year to come on the basis of estimated OTHER METALS that Gränges cannot produce certain alloys. In the future, volumes. Agreements are entered into with two to five suphigh-quality slabs at the right price may be difficult to pliers in each market in order to ensure deliveries. Gränges source as it is not a standardised commodity but requires has its own casting houses in the production facilities, specially qualified suppliers. which makes the company less sensitive to supply issues regarding slabs. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 RISK MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL RISKS Gränges has international business operations and is exposed to financial risks such as currency risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. Gränges uses derivatives and other financial instruments to reduce the risks in accordance with the Group’s financial policy. Gränges Group Treasury most important responsibility is securing the Group’s financial flexibility in the short and long term, as well as monitoring and managing financial risks in collaboration with the individual operative units. More information on the Group’s financial risks is to be found in Note 25. RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMMENTS FOR THE YEAR CURRENCY RISKS Almost all of Gränges Group’s sales are generated outside Gränges’ treasury policy strictly regulates the company’s of Sweden. Sales contracts are mainly signed in US dollars, management of foreign exchange risk. Gränges uses ﬁnaneuro and Chinese yuan, depending on where the customers cial instruments, mostly futures, to reduce the company’s are located. Changes in exchange rates have an impact on exposure to changes in exchange rates with regard to the Gränges’ income statements, balance sheets and cash company’s commercial cash ﬂows. Changes in exchange ﬂow. Over time, changes in exchange rates also affect the rates for ﬁrm commitments are managed in accordance company’s long-term competitiveness and thus its earning with a model whereby the entire exposure with a duration of capacity. up to 18 months is hedged. Exposures relating to customer orders without ﬁrm commitments are in part hedged up to 24 months. COMMODITY Gränges procures large volumes of aluminium for the comThe aim of Gränges metal policy is to balance the short PRICE RISK pany’s production facilities in Sweden, China and the US. and long position, that is that the company should not be The price of aluminium is based on the trade price on LME affected by changes in the price of aluminium. Gränges does in London or SHFE in Shanghai. Gränges’ revenue model not take any positions whereby the company speculates in means that the cost of aluminium is passed on to the custhe future value of aluminium. Financial instruments allow tomer to the extent possible, through adjustment in agreeGränges to minimise the risk of changes in the price of aluments both with customers and suppliers. Sometimes lag minium during the time that Gränges has the metal in store can arise from the aluminium procurement date to the sale for processing. of the ﬁnished product, which means that Gränges to some extent is exposed to ﬂuctuations in the price of aluminium. INTEREST Gränges’ interest rate risk mainly relates to the Group’s G  ränges’ borrowings are mainly in Swedish kronor and US RATE RISK interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rate levels dollars at ﬂoating interest rates. The duration of the intermay affect the Group’s results and cash ﬂow and/or the fair est bearing debt portfolio can be changed by longer intervalue of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. The actual interest est periods or by interest rate swaps. The target for the rate risk is also dependent on the size of the interest bearduration of the interest bearing debt portfolio is regulated ing debt. in the Treasury policy. During 2016 no interest rate swaps where used to prolong the duration. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will not be able to  ränges shall have a liquidity reserve that covers payments G meet its payment obligations. Cash ﬂow from operations, on loans for the coming twelve months, investment requirewhich is affected by changes in working capital, among ments and a strategic reserve. Excess liquidity is managed other factors, is managed at the Group level. By monitoring by the Group’s treasury function and can be invested at liquidity ﬂows in the short and long term, Gränges mainapproved banks to mature within six months. The aim is to tains good ﬁnancial readiness. minimise excess liquidity in the Group and at the same time minimise the liquidity risk. CREDIT RISK The credit risk is the risk that a counterparty does not meet Gränges’ exposure to trade receivables is managed and folits obligations to Gränges. The management of credit risk lowed up continually in local credit committees. The need related to accounts receivables and other operating receivfor provisions to be made is tested on a quarterly basis or ables is handled as part of the business risk according to when necessary according to predeﬁned criterias. The strict routines. Gränges seeks to minimise the liquid assets credit risk on financial counterparties is handled by choosinvested outside the Group and deposits of excess liquidity ing counterparties with a good credit r­ ating and by agreewith other counterparties. ments, such as ISDA-agreements. 28 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT OTHER RISKS Gränges is exposed to a number of other risks in areas such as personnel and legislation. To manage these risks, Gränges is actively working with education, policies and guidelines for employees of the Group. RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK RISK MANAGEMENT AND COMMENTS FOR THE YEAR QUALIFIED Gränges operates in a specialised niche where experience Gränges offers remuneration levels in line with market PERSONNEL and knowledge of the company’s markets, customers and rates and conditions of employment necessary to recruit, production are key factors for the company’s success. develop and retain key employees. Among other things, Gränges has a number of specialists in research and development who may be hard to replace. The loss of key employees can have a negative impact on Gränges’ possibilities of conducting and developing its operations and its ability to develop new products. COMPLIANCE Gränges operates in many different markets, with local Gränges ensures that the company’s employees are reguWITH REGULAlaws and rules. If employees or persons who work on larly informed of relevant changes in legislation or other TIONS Gränges’ behalf violate these laws and rules it could have rules that the company must follow. This is done through negative consequences for Gränges. The company may be external partners, and also through membership in various affected by events that damage confidence in the comindustrial organisations. Gränges conducts in-house pany, its operations or employees, e.g. if environmental, training of marketing and sales managers to ensure good quality or ethical requirements are not met in the manner knowledge and understanding of legal risks and requireprescribed by Gränges. ments. CLEAR VALUES As a public company, far-reaching requirements are Gränges ensures that the company’s employees receive imposed in respect of conduct, ethics and transparency. regular training in questions concerning morals and ethics Gränges has adopted a Code of Conduct, policies, guideand that the company’s core values are complied with. The lines and core values in order to ensure that the company company’s internal communication, in the form of the and all employees always pursue sustainable entrepreintranet, the personnel magazine and actual meetings, neurship. Violations of the company’s internal policies and has the task of supporting and developing this work. The Code of Conduct may have negative consequences for the company’s policies and guidelines have also been develcompany’s reputation and brand and thereby adversely oped during 2016. affect the company’s earnings. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 THE SHARE CONTINUED STRONG SHARE PERFORMANCE The Gränges share’s strong performance continued in 2016, with an increase of 22.9 per cent, which represents a market capitalisation of approximately SEK 6.5 billion. Since listing on the Nasdaq in Stockholm in October 2014, the share price has increased by around 100 per cent to the end of 2016. The Gränges share is listed in the Mid Cap listed, sold its remaining holding in result in a dilution of approximately 1.3 segment, and in the Automobile & Parts Gränges in March 2016. As at December per cent of the total number of shares. category. During 2016, the share regis31, 2016 the number of Gränges shareDuring 2016, a total of 516,000 stock tered an increase in value of 22.9 per cent. owners increased to 7,757. The largest options were exercised. The number of This compares to the Nasdaq Stockholm shareowners were Fjärde AP-fonden, shares thereby increased to 75,155,386. OMX All Share index that, during the same whose holding increased to 8.7 per cent A total of 484,000 stock options were period, increased 5.8 per cent, and the of the total number of shares, followed outstanding at 31 December, 2016. Automobile & Parts category as a whole by AFA Försäkring with 5.6 per cent, and For more information regarding remuthat increased 0.3 per cent. The highest JP Morgan Asset Management with 5.5 neration and our staff options proprice for the share during 2016 was regisper cent. Overall, the ten largest sharegramme, see note 8 on page 84. tered on 10 August, when it stood at SEK owners’ holdings amount to 36 per cent 91.25. The lowest price for the share durof the total number of shares in Gränges. AWARD-WINNING INVESTOR RELATIONS ing the year was SEK 57.00, on 3 May. The There are no pre-emption clauses, AND FIRST CAPITAL MARKETS DAY share is traded under the ticker GRNG. refusal clauses or other restrictions to In April 2016, Gränges was awarded the the transfer of shares in the company by honour of Best Interim Report 2015 by TURNOVER AND TRADING LOCATIONS law, the company’s articles of associaKanton’s and Aktiespararna’s “Company The Gränges share is traded on several tion or any other document in which the of the Year” competition on the Nasdaq exchanges and trading platforms. In company is a party. Stockholm. The report was described as, 2016, official trading accounted for 48.0 amongst other things, “…characterised per cent of turnover in the share, of DIVIDEND by high ambition levels in terms of finanwhich the Nasdaq Stockholm accounted The Gränges Board of Directors procial and operations-related data and for 72.4 per cent. Unofficial trade, poses a dividend of SEK 180 million information presentation making it so-called “off-book”, represented 31.6 (149), equivalent to SEK 2.40 (2.00) per accessible to all categories of investors.” per cent of trade in the share. 8.8 per share for the financial year 2016. The Gränges was also named best Mid Cap cent of share were traded on so-called proposed dividend is equivalent to 36 Company in Regi’s annual ranking of listed “dark pools”, with the largest amount of per cent (39) of 2016’s net profit. companies’ investor relations activities, trades on BATS Chi-X CXE. The average Gränges dividend policy is to pay a diviand won the International Star award in daily turnover in the Gränges share dend of between 30 and 50 per cent of the European Small and Mid-Cap Awards amounted to 354,484 shares and turn­ net profit for the period. Decisions on 2016, which are set up to highlight the over in the share amounted to a total of dividends will reflect the company’s best European small and mid-sized comapproximately 89.3 million in 2016. financial position, cash flow, and outpanies that have gained access to capital look. markets via an Initial Public Offering (IPO). SHARE CAPITAL With the aim of further strengthening Share capital in Gränges amounts to INCENTIVE PROGRAMME knowledge about Gränges’ operations, SEK 101 million, distributed among In conjunction with Gränges’ 2014 IPO, the company held its first capital mar75,155,386 shares, each with a quota an employee stock option programme kets day in March. Gränges’ CEO outvalue of SEK 1.339775. Gränges has only was established for senior decision maklined the company’s goals and strategy class of share. During 2016 516,000 ers and other key employees. The proto 2020, and also presented in-depth options where exercised, and subsegramme comprises a total of one million descriptions of the Asian market for quently increasing the number of outemployee stock options with a two-year heat exchangers in the automotive standing shares with 516,000 and the term, and an exercise period of a further industry and the stationary heat share capital with 691,324 SEK. year thereafter. The exercise period exchanger market. started in October 2016 and runs until OWNERSHIP CHANGES November 2017. The exercise price is ANALYSTS Former primary owner Orkla Industri­ SEK 51 per option minus paid dividends For information about which analysts investeringar, which reduced its ownerduring the period. If exercised in full, the follow Gränges, please visit: ship in several steps since Gränges was employee stock option programme would www.granges.com 30 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 THE SHARE Share capital development Change in number Total number Change in share Total share Date Event of shares of shares capital SEK capital SEK 01 Jan 2014 – 37,319,693 – 932,992,325.00 14 Aug 2014 Decrease in share capital – 37,319,693 –832,992,325.00 100,000,000.00 15 Sep 2014 Share split 37,319,693 74,639,386 – 100,000,000.00 18 Nov 2016 Rights issue 516,000 75,155,386 691,324.02 100,691,324.02 Share information Share data 2016 2015 Market Nasdaq Stockholm Earnings, SEK 1) 6.64 5.07 Segment Mid Cap Stockholm Equity, SEK1) 39.27 33.45 Ticker symbol GRNG Cash flow from operating activities, SEK1) 9.15 9.70 ISIN code SE0006288015 Share price at end of period, SEK 86.00 70.00 Listed since 10 October 2014 Dividend, SEK 2.402) 2.00 Currency SEK Dividend rate, % 36 39 Number of shares 75,155,386 Yield, % 2.8 2.9 1) Calculated on the weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) The Board of Director’s proposal to AGM 2017. Ownership Share of ­capital and Largest shareholders Shares votes, % Geographical distribution Shareholders Share of capital, % Fjärde AP-fonden 6,548,931 8.7 Sweden 7,532 61.0 AFA Försäkring 4,235,760 5.6 Norway 38 16.6 JP Morgan Asset Management 4,113,338 5.5 UK 44 11.4 SEB Fonder 3,379,460 4.5 United States 40 5.8 Copper Rock Capital Partners 2,907,727 3.9 Luxemburg 21 1.5 Catella Fonder 1,448,646 1.9 Total other 82 3.7 Acadian 994,507 1.3 Total 7,757 100 DFA Fonder 970,582 1.3 Source: Euroclear as of 31 December 2016. Associated British Foods Pension Scheme 949,809 1.3 Länsförsäkringar Fonder 765,752 1,0 Total 10 largest shareholders 26,314,512 35.0 Other shareholders 48,840,874 65.0 Total 75,155,386 100 Source: Holdings as of 31 December 2016. Share distribution The Gränges’ Share Development 2014–2016 Volume Number of shares Shareholders Share of capital, % SEK ‘000 1–500 5,131 66.2 100 16,000 501–1,000 1,073 13.8 80 12,000 1,001–5,000 1,003 12.9 5,001–10,000 165 2.1 60 8,000 10,001–15,000 57 0.7 15,001–20,000 39 0.5 4,000 40 20,001– 289 3.7 Total 7,757 100 20 0 Oct Jan Dec Source: Euroclear as of 31 December 2016. 2014 2016 2016 Turnover Gränges OMX Stockholm_PI For additional investor relations-related questions, please contact Pernilla Grennfelt, SVP Communications & IR, at pernilla.grennfelt@granges.com, or on: +46 702 90 99 55. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Sustainability is an essential and integrated element of Gränges’ core competences and operations. Through continuous streamlining of ­production processes, environmentally conscious product development, and safety focus, Gränges contributes to a sustainable society. Gränges’ core values of action, commitSustainability activities are governed by ment and accessibility constitute the Gränges’ policies and management ABOUT THE foundation of the company’s culture, ­systems. Gränges is dedicated to the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and are also qualities of our work development and implementation of with sustainability. The company takes these policies to guide employees in This is Gränges’ first sustainability economic, environmental, and social their everyday work with sustainability report published according to the responsibility and strives to improve the and communication with stakeholders. Global Reporting Initiative’s framework for sustainability reporting. conditions in all parts of its value chain. Gränges’ policies include its Code of The report is prepared in accordance Through participation in industry initiaConduct, supplier declaration, anti-corwith GRI G4 Core and is not externally tives, Gränges works to ensure that aluruption policy, environmental policy, audited. It includes Gränges Communiminium is mined, produced and used health and safety, energy policy, crisis cation on Progress in line with the UN sustainably. plan and information policy. Global Compact. The GRI Index is on Gränges’ products increase the effipage 54, and the Global Compact Index is on page 56. ciency of customers’ production proA NEW MEMBER OF THE The sustainability report relates to cesses, as well as the performance of GLOBAL COMPACT financial year 2016 and includes the end-products. In this way Gränges In October 2016 Gränges joined the UN Gränges’ operations as at the begincontributes to more sustainable prodGlobal Compact. By doing so, Gränges ning of 2016. During the summer of ucts for customers and improve their undertakes to fulfil the principles of 2016 Gränges acquired Noranda Alucustomers’ competitiveness. the Global Compact relating to human minum Holding Corporation’s rolled During 2016 Gränges continued to rights, labour law, the environment and aluminium operations. The acquired operations are not included in the develop the company’s work on sustainanti-corruption. The membership highreport, but will be as of 2016. ability and objectives based on a comlights Gränges’ commitment to sustainGränges intends to publish a susprehensive stakeholder dialogue and ability issues. tainability report annually, according materiality analysis. In the coming year, to GRI guidelines. Gränges intends to further develop NETWORKING AND CO-OPERATION strategies and measures to strengthen Gränges is a member of several industry For more information, please contact: its sustainability work. bodies that contribute to improvements Pernilla Grennfelt in the industry, and promotes robust SVP Communications & IR SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT networks on markets where the compernilla.grennfelt@granges.com Sustainability activities are led by pany is active e.g. the Global Alumin+46 702 90 99 55 group management, and the SVP Comium Foil Roller Initiative. Additionally, munications & IR is responsible for Gränges is a member of Svenskt AluGränges’ sustainability work at a group minium, European Aluminium and the level. The G ­ eneral Counsel is responsible Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in for governance, the SVP Process EngiEurope. In Asia Gränges is a member of neering & Operational Development for the China Nonferrous Metals Industry environment, health and safety, and Association, the Nonferrous Metals the SVP Human Resources for social Society of Shanghai and the Shanghai responsibility. Aluminium Trade Association. In the US Gränges observes all applicable local Gränges is a member of the Aluminum and international laws and regulations Association. and continuously works with the preGränges also follows developments at cautionary principle by including susthe global Aluminium Stewardship Initia­ tainability aspects in risk assessments. tive and is considering joining the body. 32 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES SUSTAINABILITY ORGANISATION The SVP of BOARD OF DIRECTORS Communications & IR Chairman of the Board & CEO CEO Report is responsible for Gränges’ work on GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM sustainability at SVP Communications & IR Group level. The SVP Process Engineering & FINSPÅNG SHANGHAI Operational DevelopGOVERNANCE PRODUCTION FACILITY PRODUCTION FACILITY ment is responsible for General Counsel environment, health, ENVIRONMENTAL, Local managers Local managers and safety; the General HEALTH & SAFETY Production managers, Production managers, SVP Process Engineering & Quality managers, HR, Quality managers, HR, Counsel for governance; Operational Development security security and the SVP Human Resources for social SOCIAL Reports to local Reports to local ­ SVP Human Resources ­authorities authorities responsibility. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 SUSTAINABILITY VALUE CHAIN RESPONSIBLE RESOURCE USE Gränges’ value chain ranges from mines where bauxite is extracted to end-users of rolled aluminium products. Gränges works to improve conditions at all stages of the value chain, and takes responsibility for those areas of the value chain that fall under the control of the company. VALUE CHAIN 2. GRÄNGES´ 1. ALUMINIUM PROCESSES 3. CUSTOMERS Mining and Primary refining aluminium Melting Rolling Heat HVAC and and exchange and End-users casting finishing manuvehicle facturers OEMs Recycled aluminium RECYCLING 1. ALUMINIUM Aluminium is Gränges’ main input to reduce the energy intensity of its losses involved in transportation and material, and Gränges uses both priproducts in two ways. At one hand by handling of scrap. mary aluminium and recycled aluminincreasing the input of recycled aluIn 2016, recycled input materials ium. Gränges buys primary aluminium minium and thus avoiding the input of constituted 18.3 per cent of used on regional markets, from nine differenergy intense primary aluminium. At materials at Gränges Finspång and ent suppliers in China and Europa. the other hand by increasing the metal 5.5 per cent at Gränges Shanghai. The ore to produce aluminium, yield in the ­production process and the Gränges works actively to improve bauxite, is extracted from bauxite in-house remelting of the unavoidable traceability and responsible resource mines. After mining, bauxite is refined production scrap. By in-house remeltuse for primary and recycled alumininto aluminium oxide, which is the ing of production scrap versus selling ium. Read more on pages 39 and 50. input material for the production of of scrap to third parties, Gränges metallic aluminium. Gränges strives avoids quality degradation and energy 34 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY 2. GRÄNGES´ PROCESSES Gränges’ processes transforms 3. CUSTOMERS Gränges’ material is used in products 18.3 per cent of used materials ­aluminium into products with a high such as engine cooling products, cliconstituted recycled input added value. Efficient processes are mate control solutions, transformers materials at Gränges critical for Gränges to achieve susand packaging. Gränges takes on its ­Finspång in 2016. tainable, long-term growth. Energy customers’ challenges together with costs are the most significant them and constantly look for opportuexpense after metal and personnel nities to apply its technical expertise. costs. As a result of efficient process Aluminium from Gränges is found in improvements, Gränges has successthe heat exchangers of half of the fully reduced the company’s energy world’s cars that are manufactured consumption per tonne of aluminium today, and the prevailing trend is in the past three years. towards more, smaller and lighter Product development is also a key heat exchangers. Increased environway to ensure relevance and longmental requirements for stationary term profitability. Research and heat exchangers supports the shift development spend amounted to from copper to a ­ luminium, and 73 MSEK (57) in 2016, which correGränges has a strong position to sponds to 1.0 per cent of the com­ capture opportunities in this respect. pany’s net sales. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Gränges seeks to establish long-term and transparent dialogues with stakeholders. The key issues raised in the stakeholder dialogue constitutes the main parts of the company’s materiality analysis and reporting. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE standards, reporting frameworks and other stakeholder groups to respond to The company had an on-going dialogue issues previously raised by stakeholdthe survey. To obtain a more thorough with stakeholders throughout the year, ers. Respondents also had the option of understanding for stakeholders’ expecand also conducts more in-depth disraising additional sustainability issues tations of Gränges, the survey was folcussions with selected stakeholders as in the survey. lowed up by interviews with a selection part of its sustainability activities. Gränges has identified five main of representatives from respective During 2016, Gränges conducted a stakeholder groups: customers, sup­ groups in Sweden. Gränges plans to web-based survey regarding the com­ pliers, employees, society and investors. conduct similar interviews in China and pany’s sustainability activities. The The company invited all employees and the US in 2017. survey focused on relevant industry a selection of representatives from the Stakeholder dialogue Key sustainability issues Stakeholder Communication examples for stakeholders Further reading Customers • Customer survey • Material handling and proportion See page 39 of recycled aluminium • On-going dialogue • Customer satisfaction See page 53 Suppliers • Supplier declaration • Purchasing processes See page 50 • On-going dialogue • Proportion of recycled aluminium See page 39 Employees • Performance reviews • Gränges as a workplace See page 43 • Employee surveys • Health and safety See page 45 • Intranet • Diversity and equality See page 48 • Code of Conduct See page 44 Investors • Annual General Meeting •C ode of Conduct and supplier ­declaration See page 44, 49 and 50 • Quarterly reports and annual report • Ethics and anti-corruption See page 49 • Press releases • Emissions and energy use See page 40 and 41 • Conference calls • Customer satisfaction See page 53 • Capital markets days Society • Local co-operation • Gränges as a workplace See page 43 • Participation in networks and • Gränges in the local community See page 52 working groups • Interns and student dissertations • Emissions See page 41 36 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Those areas highlighted in the stakefor its work on sustainability and comResults from the online survey and holder dialogue were evaluated accordmunication with stakeholders. These interviews constituted the main parts ing to a materiality perspective where aspects will be reviewed on an annual of the materiality analysis that Gränges both stakeholders’ expectations of basis by a working group to ensure that carried out in 2016 within its work on Gränges, and Gränges economic, social Gränges is focusing on the relevant GRI G4. The materiality analysis was and environmental impact were taken issues, and is communicated with conducted by a working group made up into account. stakeholders in line with their wishes. of Gränges management team and other The materiality analysis resulted in senior company executives. Gränges defining eight material aspects Gränges’ material aspects Material aspect within Material aspects outside Gränges’ operations Gränges’ operations Further reading Use of recycled aluminium X Suppliers See page 39 Internal energy use X — See page 40 Emissions X — See page 41 Health and safety X — See page 45 Diversity and equality X — See page 48 Ethics and anti-corruption X Suppliers and customers See page 49 Supplier evaluation X Suppliers See page 50 Customer satisfaction X Customers See page 53 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 AVSNITT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 38 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY USE OF RECYCLED ALUMINIUM The extraction of bauxite and production of primary aluminium are ­energy-intensive processes. It is possible, however, to recycle aluminium without any appreciable impact on quality. Gränges therefore strives to maximize the use of recycled aluminium as recycling is more cost efficient as well as more advantageous from a sustainability perspective. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT NEW SCRAP PRESS IN FINSPÅNG solutions that not only achieve the Gränges works continuously to optimise To further increase the use of recycled required technical specification, but processes to increase aluminium yield. aluminium, a new scrap press has been also enables improved recycling rates. A certain amount of process scrap caninstalled in Finspång; similar to what is To ensure the suitable material propnot be avoided in the production proalready in place in Shanghai. The new erties Gränges clads different alloys cess. To ensure that the process is as press enables Gränges to make scrap onto the aluminium alloy cores. The cost effective as possible, internal more compact and thereby make the claddings change the composition which scrap is reinserted into the process melting process more efficient. This is affects the recycling potential. Gränges through remelting. thanks to reduced energy use, and runs a research program to obtain so If internal scrap of the right quality is reduced generation of dross. called “sustainable alloys”. These alloys unavailable, external scrap (recycled are designed towards optimal combinaaluminium) is purchased. If external SCRAP CODES RESULT IN MORE tions of application requirements and scrap of sufficient quality is unavailable EFFICIENT USE recyclability. on the market, primary aluminium is Group-wide scrap codes, for classificaused. Primary aluminium is generally tion of different scrap types, are used to GOALS AND PERFORMANCE more expensive than recycled aluminensure that scrap is used in appropriate Gränges’ goal is to increase the use of ium and therefore the use of recycled processes, and that the amount of unused recycled aluminium in its production aluminium is always prioritised. scrap is minimised. Scrap codes are conprocess. This will be achieved by: tinuously developed in line with Gränges • Increasing the percentage of recycled PURCHASING RECYCLED ALUMINIUM development strategy for new alloys. For scrap input versus primary aluminium Recycled aluminium is mainly purchased both Finspång and Shanghai, Gränges and alloying elements from aluminium scrap dealers. Gränges is has developed a code system that allows • Ensuring that internal aluminium also deploying some activities to buy back different clad scrap combinations to be scrap can be reinserted into the scrap from customers. The advantage of grouped together. The purpose of the ­production process. buying scrap from Gränges’ own customcoding system is to allow efficient scrap ers is that the composition is known, and handling and to optimize the remelting, More specific goals connected to metal it is therefore easier to remelt the scrap. and thus minimizing the sale of scrap that yield and internal scrap utilization is set The production facility in Shanghai cannot be re-used for own production. for each production facility. does currently not use externally The recycled input materials utilized sourced scrap as it is difficult to obtain ALLOYS OF THE FUTURE in Finspång emanates from purchased scrap with sufficient quality on the Recycling possibilities are increasingly external scrap. In Shanghai no alumin­Chinese market. important when developing new products ium scrap is purchased, however aluand alloys. Research and development minium slabs contain a certain amount work is focused on identifying integrated of recycled material. In 2017, Gränges plans to invest in its suppliers’ Percentage of materials used that are manufacturing processes. The investment will e ­ nable recycled input materials the supplier to deliver slabs in a size that reduces % 2016 2015 2014 the amount of scrap in Gränges’ own processes, and Gränges Finspång 18.3 22.7 17.3 thereby improving the overall efficiency and reduce costs. This investment is unique for Gränges, and Gränges Shanghai 5.5 5.6 5.5 is a way to, together with our suppliers, increase efficiency throughout the supply chain. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 SUSTAINABILITY ENERGY USE Reducing energy consumption is a focus area for Gränges. Use of energy is a key cost driver and reductions therefor offer opportunities to improve profitability and competitiveness. ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES Gränges also conducted a number of ment system in place, no additional Gränges primarily uses energy in the process optimization activities to reduce activities are required to fulfil the legal form of electricity, natural gas and liqleakages from pneumatic devices, avoid requirements of the directive. uefied petroleum gas. Furnaces conunnecessary idling, reduce internal sume large amounts of energy either via transport, upgrade motors and pumps, STAFF TRAINING direct combustion or induction. Work on and insulate furnaces and improve At Finspång there is an e-learning improving energy efficiency is under­furnace efficiency. course available to all employees. The taken in a number of ways, mainly: At the production facility in Shanghai course has been taken by 269 people • Gränges selects the Best Available the conformity handling procedures has since the start in April 2015. The purTechnology (BAT) when making new been optimised to ensure that the manpose of the course is to increase the investments. ufacturing process can be stopped as energy efficiency awareness of all staff, • Gränges continuously works with early and as quickly as possible followespecially around how everyone can energy audits to improve energy effiing an incident. This reduces the risk of contribute in their daily work. ciency. Energy efficiency goals are material and energy being used to proIn Shanghai operators and superviset for the production facilities and duce sub-standard products. sors are trained in energy efficiency and improvements are defined accordingly At the production facility in Finspång, energy use. for the facilities’ different ­processes work to replace old mercury lamps with • Gränges works to increase energy new low energy alternatives has con­ GOALS AND PERFORMANCE efficiency by, for example, use excess tinued, and upgrades were made in Gränges’ short term goal is to implement heat from a process to meet the heat several areas during the year. certified energy management systems demand of other processes Gränges has a company-wide energy for all production facilities in order to policy and the production facility in Finensure continuous improvements. During the year, Gränges focused prispång have a certified energy manageThe production facility in Finspång marily on activities linked to increased ment system according to ISO 50001. has implemented a certified energy metal yield and recovery of waste heat The facility also falls under the energy management system. Activities to from different processes. efficiency directive, but given that there ­c ertify remaining facilities will begin already is a certified energy managein 2017. Gränges has since 2014 worked on a large Total energy use energy recovery project which will enable the GWh 2016 2015 2014 entire site in Finspång to be independent of Electricity 223.5 216.6 206.2 external heat supplies. The heat demand will be Natural gas 151.3 145.8 153.0 met by utilizing waste heat from furnaces, which Liquefied petroleum gas 46.0 46.4 47.3 is fed into the local district heating network. Only on really cold winter days will the facility Diesel 6.9 6.5 6.4 be reliant on external heat sources. The project Other 2.5 1.8 2.6 is scheduled for completion in 2017. Energy intensity MWh/tonne aluminium 2016 2015 2014 Gränges Re-melting and cast house 1.21 1.22 1.27 Finspång Mill 1.16 1.14 1.18 Gränges Re-melting and cast house 1.22 1.19 1.22 Shanghai Mill 1.25 1.30 1.31 Gränges Total 2.46 2.50 2.62 40 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY EMISSIONS TO AIR Gränges’ emissions to air consist predominantly of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide and dust. Emissions are primarily emanating from the combustion of fossil fuels in production processes and transportation. Initiatives to reduce emissions are continuously implemented. CLIMATE CHANGE INCREASINGLY Gränges monitors regulatory developexploring the possibility to introduce oxyIN FOCUS ments in the area, and upcoming emisfuel technology at the production facility Climate change is an increasingly imporsion requirements, as these can have in Shanghai. Oxy-fuel involves burning tant societal issue, one that also affects considerable impact on Gränges future fuel in pure oxygen. This technology is Gränges’ operations. Greenhouse gases operations. already utilized at the production facility are generated by the combustion of fosin Finspång. sil fuels, which has a long-term impact STRUCTURED ENVIRONMENTAL WORK on the climate. Gränges’ has an environmental manageTRANSPORTATION Gränges’ emissions of greenhouse ment system certified according to ISO Transportation also generates greenhouse gases originate from fossil fuels, mainly 14001. Within the system work towards gas emissions. Gränges continuously natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas and continuous improvements are made in a reviews how it can optimise transportation diesel, which are used to mainly power number of areas, including airborne and logistics flows. The average load per furnaces. Gränges has worked continuemissions. truck is being increased by reviewing proously with energy efficiency for many Gränges´ production facilities have duction planning, and optimizing finished years, measures that have reduced modern technologies and effective flue goods inventory levels. Gränges strives emissions of greenhouse gases. gas cleaning equipment and emission to make internal logistics more efficient The climate issue has also been raised levels are generally maintained well below through process improvements and by stakeholders during the year. In the limits. In order to avoid potential investments to reduce the use of forklifts. response to this, Gränges has set a long exceedance of emission limits, Gränges is At Finspång, ECO-driving has been term goal to reduce greenhouse gas continuously working with inspections introduced to reduce fuel use. By emissions, both direct and indirect. and controls in its maintenance routines. increasing loading co-ordination between different machines, Gränges REGULATED BY LAW MEASURES TO REDUCE EMISSIONS has also been able to reduce the number Emissions are regulated by legislation, During the year Gränges has made of trucks at the production facility. and compliance is a prerequisite for improvements to a number of filters to Gränges’ continued license to operate. reduce emissions, primarily of dust and GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Local authorities continually monitor other particulate matter at the production Gränges’ long term goal is to reduce its compliance to ensure that emission facilities. Gränges has also implemented carbon footprint by reducing greenhouse levels are within limits. Emission limits process optimisation measures that, for gas emissions throughout the value in Sweden are based on requirements example, reduce the use of nitrogen and chain, both direct and indirect. from the Industry Emissions Directive thereby emissions of nitrogen comDirect emissions of carbon dioxide (IED), and in China national legislation, pounds. Reduction of greenhouse gas increased slightly in 2016 due to increased linked to Regulations of Shanghai emissions can directly be linked to energy production. Carbon dioxide intensity Municipality on the Prevention and Con­ efficiency measures and thereby reduced decreased as a result of improved energy trol of Atmospheric Pollution. Emissions use of energy, read more on page 40. efficiency, see also page 40. Dust emisthat are regulated by legislation include To further reduce emissions of, for sions decreased mainly due to improved nitrogen oxides and dust. instance, nitrogen oxides, Gränges is maintenance routines in Finspång. Total emissions Carbon dioxide intensity tonnes 2016 2015 2014 kg CO2 /tonne aluminium 2016 2015 2014 Carbon dioxide 42,902 41,761 43,394 Gränges Re-melting and cast house 145 147 157 Dust 3.8 5.3 5.1 ­Finspång Mill 6.6 6.6 6.5 Gränges Re-melting and cast house 210 207 220 Shanghai Mill 100 102 102 Gränges Total 245 250 273 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL IMPACT 42 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AN ATTRACTIVE W ­ ORKPLACE Gränges shall offer an attractive and safe working environment, where all employees regardless of gender, age, ethnicity and background have the opportunity to develop and receive competitive remuneration. Gränges employs a total of around 1,500 To develop the leadership skills within (950) people as per 31 December 2016. the company, all managers regularly COMPETENT, ENGAGED AND The marked increase in the number of undergo various types of leadership employees compared to the previous year training. Other employees are entitled INNOVATIVE EMPLOYEES is in large part due to the acquisition of to individual training within the range of WITH SOLID KNOWLEDGE Noranda’s rolled aluminium operations their key responsibilities and compePROVIDE THE BASIS TO in the US, which was completed during tence. This is revised on a yearly basis, DEVELOP AND MANUFACTURE the year. based on the individual’s unique develHIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS. Gränges seeks to offer good working opment plan complied after each conditions and interesting opportunities employees’ yearly performance review. to develop with the aim of attracting and International expansion, such as retaining competent personnel, somethe acquisition of Noranda’s rolled thing that is of the utmost importance for ­aluminium operations in the US, also Gränges’ long-term competitiveness. contributes to creating new career Employees shall feel proud to work opportunities for employees. at Gränges. Competent, engaged and Salary and performance reviews innovative employees with solid know­ are held for all employees every year. ledge provide the foundation to develop Gränges also has an incentive proand manufacture high quality products. gramme for senior executives and The company applies professional key people. recruitment processes to ensure recruitAll employees have the right to join ing of qualified personnel. The company unions or other organisations, and are also performs continuous training to covered by collective bargaining agreemaintain top-level craftsmanship and ments. leadership, which is an important aspect Sick leave during the year increased in the future growth of the company. to 2.2 per cent (2.0), excluding Gränges Multiple training, personnel developAmericas, which is in line with the comment and leadership initiatives have been pany’s goal of achieving sick leave of a carried out throughout the year: maximum of three per cent. • The processes for Talent Management have been improved in order to better A strong company culture take advantage of the individuals’ The company’s culture is extremely talents and develop selected employimportant for Gränges as a workplace ees based on their individual needs. where employees feel good, thrive, • A company-wide Succession Programme develop and perform, all of which has been developed with the aim of results in reduced sick leave and accise­curing future generational changes dents, improved effectiveness at work, and long-term leadership of the company. better product quality and improved • All managers in Finspång have taken a profitability. common training programme in which Gränges’ company culture is underleadership and communication is compinned by its core values of action, combined with business knowledge, quality mitment and accessibility. This means, control, marketing and finance. amongst other things, that decisions GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 SUSTAINABILITY shall be taken as far down the organisament, health, safety and equal treattion as possible, and that all employees ment are examples of areas that have GRÄNGES’ CORE VALUES are expected to drive change in line seen very positive results. with agreed goals to be proactive, sustained and accurate. Requirements for Code of Conduct ACTION co-operation and good service levels The Gränges Code of Conduct provides a are very high. framework for what Gränges considers Gränges works continuously on reinto be responsible and in all senses susforcing the company culture and values. tainable behaviour. All activities shall To entrench its core values Gränges has be conducted according to responsible, held seminars and workshops with all ethical and sound company and busiemployees in Sweden and with managness principles, and in line with all appliers at other offices around the world cable laws and regulations, as well as throughout the year. Gränges’ core the 10 principles of the UN Global ­values form an integral part of the leadCompact. ership programmes and other training All employees – permanent and temCOMMITMENT programmes. These values are also sigporary – as well as the Gränges board, nificant for recruitment and promotion. are subject to the Code of Conduct. The To measure and follow-up measures code also applies to independent contaken and identify areas for improvesultants and others who act on behalf ment, Gränges regularly – every 18 of Gränges. months – conducts employee surveys. The values of the Code of Conduct Employees answer questions related shall permeate employees’ daily work to their workplace, such as leadership, and all the company’s business relationremuneration, influence, working enviships. All employees are familiar with ronment, carer development, health and the Code of Conduct, and virtually all safety. The most recent survey had a officials, particularly managers and key response rate of 86 per cent and showed people, have also taken a web-based ACCESSIBILITY improved results in virtually all areas training course on the Code of Conduct. compared with the previous survey. All new employees receive an introConfidence in management, job satisduction to the Code of Conduct when faction, opportunities for skill developthey join the company. Gränges’ employees 20161) 20162) 2015 2014 Average number of employees 1,154 962 964 952 – of which employed in production 807 619 631 616 Employee turnover, % – 3.4 4.5 3.4 Sick leave, % – 2.2 2.0 1.8 Average age – 39 39 38 1) Including Gränges Americas from 22 August 2016. 2) Excluding Gränges Americas. 44 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY HEALTH AND SAFETY Gränges observes strict safety routines and works continuously to improve safety in the workplace. The company invests in and focuses regGränges believes that employees who • increased focus on training at the ularly on different types of safety mea­ are safe and well, and who are allowed remelter in Finspång to reduce risks sures to prevent accidents at its producto develop, perform better. and improve safety when working with tion facilities in Finspång and Shanghai, molten metal and to achieve the goal of an injury free Continuous improvement • continued focus on behaviour-based workplace. During the year, Gränges completed a safety where local activities and trainA good and safe working environment number of measures with the aim of furing drives are conducted at production is of the utmost importance to Gränges, ther improving the working environment facilities on an on-going basis. which cares about its employees; no and safety at the workplace. These employee shall risk injury at their place include: Gränges continues to focus on the five of work. A culture of high safety stan­ • the development and implementation critical risk categories in particular. dards, where accidents are rare, also of a new company-wide environmenThese are fall protection, molten metal, contributes to high quality production, tal, health and safety policy mobile equipment such as forklifts, cona positive environment at the work• the completion of internal audits in fined spaces such as tanks, and control place, and robust profitability. This is Shanghai and Finspång, with a view to of hazardous energy lockout/tagout/ also key to safeguarding the Gränges learning from each other and to work verify, i.e. that machinery is completely brand. A high degree of safety is also an together more in accordance with best switched off and de-energized prior to important way of avoiding the negative practice. The aim of this approach is maintenance. These areas are prioriand emotional costs and consequences to improve safety and the working tised, and Gränges continually reviews of accidents, for individuals and the environment, which also contributes and works on improvements to ensure company. to improved profitability for Gränges that safety becomes even better. (read more on page 47) Gränges also runs training and improveGRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 SUSTAINABILITY ment in other areas such as fire protecto ensure that those who have been Safety training is held for all employtion. During the year, Gränges in Fininjured or fall ill return to work in the ees at Finspång and Shanghai at least spång also held a theme week focused best possible way. annually. Gränges also carries out taron behavioural-based safety, during All employees are insured against geted safety training programmes for which 40 observers were trained. accident and illness, and undergo reguspecific safety issues. Production perlar health checks. sonnel receive specific subject training, Zero tolerance To ensure a good and safe workplace, for example related to risk for hand and Gränges strives towards an injury free Gränges has a structured and preventafinger injuries. workplace and analyses the hazards tive approach. Both for repetitive and New employees receive training in and minimizes the risks for serious non-repetitive tasks, so called JSAs safety issues as part of their introduc­injuries. During 2016 Gränges had three (Job-Safety-Analysis) are performed. tory programme. serious accidents where a person was This entails the identification of hazGränges also performs chemical subinjured, which resulted in a total of 306 ards, inherent to the task, and the stance hazard analysis and regularly days absence from work. assessment of risks for harm or injuries, substitutes chemicals in order to reduce The most common injuries at Gränges followed by action plans to reduce and the exposure to personnel. in Finspång are finger and hand injuries mitigate the risks. Management and Gränges’ production facility in Shanghai and these account for around 5 out of 9 safety representatives coordinate and meets all Chinese legal requirements injuries. The most common injuries in prioritize the actions. and regulations, and Gränges’ producShanghai are foot and leg injuries, All incidents are registered and classition facility in Finspång fulfils obligaaccounting for 3 out of 5 injuries. fied in an incident reporting system, tions under the EU’s chemicals legislaThe number of accidents resulting in which is transparent and available for tion REACH, (Registration, Evaluation, absence from work increased to 9 out of all. Outcomes of the incident reporting Authorisation and Restriction of 14 recordable accidents. system are followed up weekly and Chemicals). monthly. Training, risk minimisation The company regularly conducts GOALS AND PERFORMANCE and detailed follow-up safety inspections where office and Health and safety Gränges observes all relevant laws and ­production environments are invento• Gränges has a zero tolerance towards regulations in the EHS sphere. ried physically. Reviews are made of injuries and accidents. Gränges has Health and safety issues at Finspång everything from lighting, desk heights, reduced its number of total record­ and Shanghai are handled within the and that emergency exits are clear to able accidents by 2 as compared to framework of a management system in checking that safety information and 2015. line with the global OSHAS18001 standsignage are correctly located in produc• Gränges shall have absence from ard. Shanghai is also OSHAS18001-­ tion areas. Safety inspections are folwork due to illness of max 3 per cent certified. lowed-up in safety committees for our overall. In 2016 absence from work The new EHS policy is based on the various factories. Overarching safety due to illness increased to 2.2 per ILO Occupational Safety and Health committees, headed by the Presidents cent (excluding Gränges Americas). Conventions principles and the policy is of Europe and Asia respectively, implemented across the company. The ­m onitor that work is done by all safety company also has a rehabilitation policy, committees. Number of recordable accidents per million of hours worked 2016 2015 2014 Gränges Finspång 12.3 13.3 12.6 Gränges Shanghai 3.5 4.8 4.0 Gränges total1) 6.5 7.5 6.6 1) Excluding Gränges Americas. 46 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY Screenshot from Gränges internal safety film shot during cross-audit in Finspång. IMPROVED SAFETY WITH CROSS AUDITING Internal audits have been carried out at Gränges’ production sites in ­F inspång and Shanghai with the aim of improving working environments and safety standards. These audits were made in line with the group’s new environmental, health and safety policy. A working group travelled from Finspång to ment, confined spaces and lockout/tagout/verify. Shanghai, and two working groups, one from Fire prevention mea­sures were also reviewed. Shanghai and one from Gränges Americas, travOne of the areas audited this year, as menelled to Finspång, to learn from each other and tioned above, was mobile equipment. Safety is further enhance operational integration. Such of the utmost importance for those who use the activities help to drive further improvements in mobile equipment, and for pedestrians in and safety standards for those who work primarily in around our factories. This year, the audit production. Working according to best practice included routines for the control of mobile equipalso contributes to improved profitability for ment prior to use. The audits also examined how Gränges. employees drove the vehicles, for example forklift Audits were conducted by a working group trucks. Other areas that were audited included made up of those responsible for, and specialists ensuring that all employees have the relevant in, environmental and working environment issues, training. and health and safety; and were headed by proFollowing the auditing process, the working duction managers from Finspång, Americas and groups have developed recommendations and Shanghai respectively. proposals for improvements. The audits focused on safety in the five critical Cross audits will continue to be carried out areas: fall protection, molten metal, mobile equipregularly at our various production sites. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 SUSTAINABILITY EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Gränges maintains the highest possible standards in terms of ensuring that the workplace is suitable for all individuals. A workplace that is diverse and equal, and where all types of skill sets are utilised, is of the utmost importance to ensure that Gränges maintains long-term competitiveness. No individual shall be discriminated • The company’s Talent Management executives’ pay, which showed that against due to their gender, lifestance, programme, and the Successions remuneration levels at Gränges were background, sexual orientation, ethnic­Programme (see page 43), include in line with comparable companies. ity, physical ability, or in any other way. gender elements as key parameters. At Gränges’ production facility in People of different ages, genders, ethChina, salary levels are based on nicities, and backgrounds should be All employees should have equal opporemployees’ respective positions, and well represented at all management tunities to develop their careers. It there are no differences between salalevels. should be easy for employees to comries for men and women. Gränges believes that a multi-faceted bine their work commitments with their Gränges’ equality plan is part of the workplace contributes to more successfamily lives, and as far as is reasonably company’s equality policy. The equality ful and profitable operations. Diversity possible Gränges seeks to provide a policy states that no employee may be in the workplace is also a reflection of variety of flexible working arrangements. discriminated against in any way due to the international markets in which gender, lifestance, background, sexual Gränges is present. SALARY BREAKDOWN, PROGRAMME orientation, ethnicity, physical ability, or Gränges’ long-term goal is that the AND POLICIES for any other reason. This policy, together proportion of female employees, includAll employees shall have fair and marwith the company’s leadership and salary ing management positions, should reach ket-based salaries. Gränges regularly policy, ensures that no group is disadvan20 per cent. During the year, Gränges carries out salary reviews with a view to taged or disregarded in any way. adopted a number of measures to identify, address, and prevent unwarimprove equality: ranted salary differences between men GOALS AND PERFORMANCE • In recruitment processes, if all other and women with similar responsibilities. Twenty per cent of all employees including factors are equal, the under-repreIn 2016 a salary review was conducted managers should be female. In 2016 the sented gender is prioritised. with particular focus on gender and proportion of women employed by the • Leadership programmes conducted ­salary structure. The review showed company increased to 13.6 per cent, by Gränges Europe include activities that there are no unwarranted gender-­ excluding Gränges Americas. The ambition that support a more equal gender related salary differences. In addition, a is that thirty per cent of all new recruit­balance. comparative survey was made of senior ments shall be women on group level. Gender balance1) Age structure 20161) 2016 2015 2014 Management men/women men/women men/women % Total team Board Gender balance Under 30 12 0 11 total, % 86/14 87/13 86/14 30–50 69 50 22 Gender balance Over 50 19 50 67 ­production, % 94/6 95/5 95/5 Gender balance administrative staff, % 73/27 72/28 69/31 Gender balance Gränges’ management team 7/1 7/1 7/1 Gender balance Gränges’ Board 2) 7/4 7/2 7/2 1) Excluding Gränges Americas. 2) Includes employee representatives and deputy employee representatives. 48 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Sound business ethics and an honest and open business culture lie at the very heart of Gränges’ approach. All internal relationships and ­relationships with suppliers, customers and other business partners shall be c­ haracterised by responsible, ethical and sound business principles. Gränges categorically rejects all forms of bribery and corruption. An ethical and transparent approach is purchasers. Seminars and workshops The whistle-blower function is avail­ essential for Gränges to avoid conflicts are held once a year with all sales repreable to all employees, and is described of interest. It also ensures that the comsentatives and purchasers in Shanghai in the Code of Conduct and on the company has accurate reporting, has longand Finspång. All new employees pany’s intranet site. term sustainable and profitable operaundergo an introduction to the Code of One whistle blower complaint was tions, and strengthens the Gränges Conduct and corruption issues when brought in 2016. This has not resulted in brand. they join the company. The Board is also any further action. subject to the anti-corruption policy and CODE OF CONDUCT, POLICIES is informed of this. GOALS AND PERFORMANCE AND TRAINING All Gränges’ suppliers of materials, Gränges has a zero tolerance policy for Gränges observes all applicable local ingot, alloys and scrap as well as other all types of corruption and bribery. In and international laws and regulations. larger suppliers are required to follow 2016, there were no incidents relating to Gränges has a Code of Conduct, which Gränges’ Supplier Declaration. This corruption. No business contracts were applies to employees, the board, and means that suppliers are required, cancelled, or were not renewed, due to independent consultants and others amongst other commitments, to maincorruption. Neither were there any inciwho act on Gränges’ behalf. The Code tain the same standards as Gränges dents relating to corruption in 2014 of Conduct provides a framework for in terms of anti-corruption and to not nor 2015. what Gränges considers responsible and engage in any form of bribery or corrupsustainable behaviour, and states that tion. operations are to be run according to Prior to mergers with, or acquisition responsible, ethical and sound company of, other companies Gränges carries out and business principles. These princithorough due diligence to ensure that ples apply to the daily work of all corruption has neither taken place nor employees. is currently taking place. Gränges also has an insider policy As the company works to ensure ethiand an anti-corruption policy that all cal behaviour in all its business relationemployees are obliged to follow. The ships, Gränges has also continued to anti-corruption policy explains and tighten internal auditing routines. expands on Gränges’ view of corruption including the handling of gifts to charity, WHISTLE-BLOWER FUNCTION which primarily occurs on a local level, Gränges has a whistle-blower function and to political campaigns. where employees are able to anonyIn principle, all Gränges managers, mously report suspicions they may have officers in positions of responsibility that anything improper is happening in and key people in purchasing and sales the company, if there is an individual have taken a training programme in who commits irregularities, or in any anti-corruption issues. The training is other way violates the principles of the held every 18 months. The company’s company’s Code of Conduct. Reports are General Counsel regularly reviews regusubmitted anonymously to a panel comlations and guidelines in the company’s posed of the General Counsel and SVP Code of Conduct and anti-corruption Human Resources. policy with all sales representatives and GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49 SUSTAINABILITY A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN An effective and sustainable supply chain is a key element to how Gränges manages its metal purchases. Gränges has well-established purchasing routines and guidelines. An effective supply chain provides mental impact, take employment law Suppliers shall, in turn, work to Gränges with the right raw materials at responsibility and ensure good working implement the principles outlined in the right time to enable the company to conditions, not tolerate any form of the Supplier Declaration with their own meet customer requirements. It is also bribery or corruption, and respect suppliers. important that purchasing is optimised human rights. Virtually all suppliers have signed the so that the right types of scrap materials, Supply chain risks include lack of Gränges Supplier Declaration. Those with documented contents, are readily available materials, ethical risks companies that have not signed the dec­purchased. In this way, excess scrap such as bribes and corruption, espelaration have their own codes of conduct from production processes can be used cially in terms of scrap material supplithat they follow, which fulfils Gränges’ effectively, so that Gränges is able to ers, labour law risks such as unfair requirements and have illustrated this recycle as much excess material as working conditions and child labour. to Gränges. If a supplier should break ­possible. Purchasing of scrap material Gränges works continuously to the Supplier Declaration, Gränges first therefore needs to be continually improve controls and routines for purhas discussions with the supplier in co-ordinated with the production. chasing of scrap and other materials. question on how to resolve the issue, Responsible purchasing is also of followed by the development of an action great importance for Gränges: the ambiSUPPLIER DECLARATION plan. To date, no such discussions or tion is that suppliers shall observe simiIn order to ensure that the company acts action plans have been necessary. larly high standards on sustainability sustainably, all suppliers of material, issues as Gränges does. ingots, alloys and scrap material, and REGULAR AUDITING other larger suppliers shall follow and Gränges ambition is to audit all strategic LONG-TERM CO-OPERATION sign the Gränges Supplier Declaration suppliers before working with them, and Gränges has a close and long-term which was introduced in 2015. By signing subsequently to conduct regular audits co-operation with its suppliers. Co-­ the Supplier Declaration suppliers pledge of such suppliers. Gränges has audited operation also occurs with suppliers on, to observe all applicable laws and regulamost of its strategic suppliers. A total for example, product development and tions, including the 10 principles of the of six strategic suppliers were audited alloys. UN Global Compact on issues such as the in 2016. Gränges has a total of some 40 supplienvironment, labour, human rights, and Audits focus primarily on quality, but ers of material, ingots, alloys and scrap. to fight corruption, as well as comply with also issues relating to environment, No new suppliers were added during responsible, ethical and sound business employment law, health and safety, and 2016. and company principles. human rights. Before Gränges begins Gränges’ suppliers that deliver to proGränges Supplier Declaration means working with larger suppliers, their duction facilities in Finspång are located that suppliers shall have zero tolerance ­management systems are also audited primarily in Sweden and Norway, but of all types of bribes, corruption and to ensure that they meet Gränges’ also in Germany, the Netherlands, Spain co-operation that breaches competition requirements, and that they are fully and Russia. Those that deliver to our law, avoid conflicts of interest, have reaimplemented. Going forward, sustain­ production facility in Shanghai are sonable working conditions, good health ability issues will have an even greater located in China. and safety standards at their places of importance in supplier auditing. Suppliers are selected according to work, respect human rights such as not quality, service, price, reliability, and in accepting child labour or any form of GOALS AND PERFORMANCE the case of scrap suppliers also ethics forced labour, respect for the environAll strategic suppliers shall be audited and traceability of materials. The comment by, amongst other things, minimisby 2020. A total of six strategic suppliers pany’s suppliers shall share Gränges ing damaging emissions and waste prowere audited in 2016. values on sustainability issues, and just duction. like Gränges strives to minimise environ50 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51 SUSTAINABILITY GRÄNGES IN SOCIETY Gränges strives to contribute to society in positive ways, and to be an important and engaged member in the local communities. Gränges creates employment opportuother activities, Gränges sponsors trainships and summer jobs for students, nities in which employees have good ing and cultural projects, local sports and Gränges in Shanghai has a co-­ terms of employment, and develops high clubs, for example a football-based ini­ operation agreement with local primary quality products with the least possible tiative designed to support the integraschools to which the company donates. amount of environmental impact. tion of newly arrived immigrants in the Gränges also takes an active role in­ The company contributes to charity Finspång community. ­Finspång’s local business life, and takes and provides sponsorship, the majority One of the schools that Gränges part in a variety of initiatives to develop of which is done in the local communi­sponsors is Curt Nicolin High School in and make Finspång even more attractive ties where Gränges is operating. Among Finspång, where Gränges offers internas a municipality. 52 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Gränges strives to be our customers’ first choice as partner and supplier of rolled aluminium products. That our customers are satisfied with the products and service that Gränges provides lies at the core of the company’s long-term profitability and existence. Working closely with customers, Gränges NEW TOOLS 85 develops new technologies and prodGränges conducts annual customer ucts designed to solve customers’ spe­surveys. Every year a selected group of cific needs. Our strong customer focus customers are invited to take part in the leads to long-term relationships: of study. The results of the customer surGränges’ customers, 85 per cent have veys are reviewed internally and results engaged the company for more than in an action list, for Gränges’ internal 10 years. processes and to develop specific About half of Gränges’ sales volume is ­c ustomer relationships. per cent of Gränges’ to tier one suppliers in the automotive The customer surveys are managed customers have industry. Gränges customers demand by the operations in Sweden and China. high performance and cost efficiency, The surveys that have been conducted engaged the company and the company works continually to in 2016 show great results. Gränges for more than 10 years. develop products that result in lower Europe scored 71 per cent in its Cusprocess costs and reduced use of tomer Satisfaction Index with customers materials at customer applications. praising Gränges for its competent staff, delivery quality and documentation. In CUSTOMER SATISFACTION: Asia, 86 per cent of the clients are satisA SHARED RESPONSIBILITY fied or extremely satisfied with Gränges. Gränges is permeated by a focus on cusCustomers are highlighting Gränges’ tomer needs, leading technologies and product quality, research capability and industrial craftsmanship. The ultimate technical support as some of the key responsibility of ensuring customer reasons for choosing Gränges over its ­satisfaction lies with each respective competitors. The studies are not compaPresident in Asia, Europe and Americas. rable as different tools have been used Responsibility is delegated to respective for the two operations. In 2016, a new operating companies, and Gränges’ tool for measuring customer satisfacsales organisations have daily contact tion was developed. From the next fiscal with customers, and work continuously year it will be used on a group-wide to meet customer expectations and basis, thus enabling comparison across deliver products of high and consistent the Gränges group. quality. During the year, a new role was also introduced with responsibility for global customers and production development at company level. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53 SUSTAINABILITY GRI-INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Description Page ­reference STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the 6–7 organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation. Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. 4–5 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. 62 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates. 4, 24–25 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 62 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 4–5 G4-9 The scale of the organisation, including total number of employees, total number of operations, net sales, total 43, 58-59 capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity and quantity of products or services provided. G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender. 44, 48, 86 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 43 G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain. 34–35, 50–51 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, 32 or its supply chain. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. 32 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 32, 46 organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organisations. 32 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 List of all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 32, 78 Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent ­documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Explanation of the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. 37 G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 37 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation, for each material aspect. 37 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation, for each material aspect. 37 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. N/A G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. N/A STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 36 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 36 G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 36 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has 36 responded to those key topics and concerns REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 32 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. N/A G4-30 Reporting cycle. 32 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 32 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option chosen and the GRI Content Index. 32, 54 G4-33 The organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 32 GOVERNANCE G4-34 The governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. 33 Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct. 43–44, 49 54 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Description Page reference/ Indicators Omissions CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 39 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 39 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 40 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. 40 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. 40 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 41 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 41 Only reporting CO2. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. 41 Only reporting Scope 1. MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. No new suppliers were added in 2016. CATEGORY: SOCIAL IMPACT SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 46 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work 46 related fatalities, by region and by gender. No breakdown by gender. MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 48 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, 48 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria. No new suppliers were added in 2016. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. No new suppliers were added in 2016. SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 49 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 49 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 49 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 50 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. No new suppliers were added in 2016. SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 53 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 53 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 55 SUSTAINABILITY GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Principle Description Page ­reference HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 50 human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 50 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 43 of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 50 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 50 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 43, 50 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 32 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 39 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 39 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 49 56 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING PRINCIPLES SUSTAINABILITY Gränges’ sustainability reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines with the objective that the reporting shall be both relevant and transparent. REPORTING PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT example an amputated finger or lost The reporting covers Gränges’ oper­ Environmental data is reported on proeyesight, or a reversible injury causing ations in Sweden and China during the duction facility level and aggregated prolonged periods of pain or suffering 2016 financial year. Gränges’ newly annually using common definitions and for the employee. First-aid level injuries acquired operations in the US are not principles. Carbon dioxide emissions are not included. included in the report unless otherwise are calculated using the group-wide indicated. Gränges has limited its emission factors for different fossil REPORTING TO UN GLOBAL COMPACT reporting to the areas in which the comfuels. Other emissions, for example dust This report also constitutes Communipany has full control over data collection and nitrogen oxides are calculated based cation on Progress (CoP) reporting to and information quality. on regular measurements extrapolated UN’s Global Compact, where activities Environmental and social data is conto the total production volume. The data and results related to Global Compact´s solidated according to financial reportquality of the nitrogen oxide emissions principles are reported, see page 32 for ing principles described in Note 2 in the is currently not sufficient enough, and additional information. consolidated group accounts. The conmore regular measurements will be solidation includes subsidiaries in which ­conducted during 2017 to ensure more Gränges owns shares corresponding to reliable reporting in the future. more than 50 per cent of the voting rights, or in some other way has manSOCIAL IMPACT agement control. Limitations and deviaThe reported employee data is based tions from these reporting principles are on verified information from Gränges’ described in the respective sections or annual accounts. Serious injury is in comments to diagrams and tables. defined as an irreversible injury for GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Gränges AB MARKET DEVELOPMENT (publ), corporate identity number 556001-6122, hereby submit the Demand for aluminium products for automotive heat exchangers, annual accounts and consolidated accounts for the financial year which is Gränges’ largest market and accounts for about half 1 January–31 December 2016. of the sales volume, is strongly correlated with the market for light vehicles. Due to lead times in the supply chain there is, however, a time lag between growth in demand for Gränges’ products and growth in vehicle production. OPERATIONS Global production of light vehicles increased by 4.4 per cent in 2016 Gränges is a global leader in aluminium engineering, manufacturing compared with 2015, according to the international research and and innovation. Focus is on rolled aluminium products for heat analysis firm, IHS. Production of light vehicles in Asia increased by 6.6 exchangers and selected niche applications. In materials for brazed per cent in 2016 and in China the increase isolated was 12.8 per cent. heat exchangers, Gränges is the global leader with a market share of In Europe production of light vehicles increased by 2.6 per cent in approximately 20 per cent. 2016. In the Americas production of light vehicles increased by 0.1 per Demand for automotive heat exchanger strips is closely tied to the cent in 2016 where growth in North America was counteracted by a global automotive industry as well as the number of heat exchangers weaker market in South America. installed per vehicle. A number of unique heat exchangers are develRegarding Gränges newly acquired operations in the US, materials oped for every new vehicle platform. Advanced requirements for prodfor stationary heat exchangers represents about half of the total sales uct performance, especially in terms of energy efficiency, mean that volume. The growth of this market is to a large extent correlated with brazed aluminium heat exchangers are currently the prevalent techthe development of the US economy as a whole. Further, product nology in this industry. development is driven by needs for more energy efficient devices and A large number of manufacturers, end-users and applications fraguse of less harmful refrigerants. ment the market for stationary heat exchangers. Applications include commercial and residential property, data centres, and manufacturSALES ing. Together, these markets account for a considerable share of During 2016 sales volume reached 239.1 ktonnes (163.9), an increase energy consumption in many countries. Demand for reduced energy of 45.9 per cent compared with the previous year. Net sales amounted use and limits to the amount of, and choice of, refrigerants is driving to SEK 7,207 million (5,494). The net effect of changes in exchange demand for smaller and lighter heat exchangers, and is speeding up rates was positive and amounted to SEK 32 million (625) during 2016 . the shift to brazed aluminium heat exchangers, which currently account for a small percentage of the total market. Asia Gränges has its headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden. Operations During 2016, sales volume in Asia increased to 80.8 ktonnes (75.5), are divided organisationally into three regions: Asia, Europe and the which represents an increase of 7.1 per cent compared to previous Americas. Its production facilities are located in Sweden, China and year. the United States, and have a combined annual capacity of 400,000 metric tonnes. Europe Gränges has long-term customer relationships with global sup­ During the 2016, sales volume in Europe reached 63.7 ktonnes (62.7), pliers of heat exchangers to the automotive industry. During 2016, representing an increase of 1.6 per cent compared to previous year. the company’s seven largest customers accounted for 46 per cent of the net sales. Americas During 2016, sales volume in the Americas reached 94.6 ktonnes ACQUISITION (25.8), an increase of 266.7 per cent compared to previous year. Gränges completed its acquisition of Noranda’s rolled aluminium business in the US on 22 August 2016. The acquisition implies that OPERATING PROFIT Gränges now has its own manufacturing capacity in North America During 2016, operating profit amounted to SEK 559 million (538) and expanded its presence in stationary heat exchangers, food Adjusted operating profit totalled SEK 687 (541), corresponding to an packaging, transformers and a number of other niche markets. In adjusted operating margin of 9.5 per cent (9.8). Changes in foreign terms of sales volume, Gränges has doubled in size following the exchange rates had a positive effect of SEK 79 million. The positive acquisition. Further, the acquisition is strategically important and in effect from higher sales volume was partly offset by lower average line with Gränges’ target of being market leading in all geographical conversion price. regions by 2020. For further information about the acquisition see note 29. PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD AND EARNINGS PER SHARE Following the acquisition in US, Gränges will coordinate the distriIn 2016, net financial items amounted to SEK –61 million (–19). Profit bution in North America through the new company Gränges Americas before tax amounted to SEK 500 million (521), including profits from Inc. The agreement with the current sales company in US, Norca Heat joint ventures of SEK 2 million (2). Income tax for the full year 2016 was Transfer LLC. is set to expire 31 December 2017. SEK –2 million (–143). This includes the release of a provision for corporate income tax in China with a positive effect of SEK 139 million, SEASONAL VARIATIONS as well as withholding tax of SEK –38 million paid on dividends from Gränges’ business is subject to seasonal variations. Following the the Chinese subsidiary. Effective tax rate was 0 per cent (27), but if acquisition in North America which was completed in August 2016, excluding the released tax provision and withholding tax, the effective the second quarter of the year is the strongest and the fourth quarter tax rate was 21 per cent. Profit for the year increased to SEK 498 million the weakest (379) in 2016 and earnings per share diluted, increased to SEK 6.64 (5.07). 58 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT CASH FLOW route. This approach enables the planning of efficient production During 2016, cash flow from operating activities amounted to SEK 686 ­processes with a great deal of accuracy. million (725). Compared to the previous year the cash flow was negaAt 31 December 2016, Gränges’ research and development has tively impacted by paid income tax related to withholding tax of SEK resulted in 52 patent families and 168 patents; a further 100 patent –38 million on dividends from the Chinese subsidiary. applications are under review. An important research project, which During the year, cash flow from investing activities amounted to Gränges also offers to commercial customers, is TRILLIUM®. SEK –2 732 million (–125), whereof SEK–2,581 million relates to the acquisition purchase price for the US operation. Cash flow before ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT financing activities amounted to SEK –2, 046 million (600) during 2016. Gränges’ environmental responsibility is based on minimising the During 2016, cash flow from financing activities amounted to SEK environmental impact of its operations and the prevailing risks, in 2,245 million (–647), mainly due to increased external bank financing relation to both products and processes. Gränges conducts oper­ in connection with the acquisition of the US operations. Dividend paid ations that require permits both in Finspång and in Shanghai. during 2016 had a negative impact of SEK –149 million (–112) on cash Increased energy efficiency is an important aspect of Gränges’ flow. Proceeds from rights issue related to the employee stock option ­environmental strategy, as well as maximum metal yield and greater program from 2014 has positively impacted the cash flow with SEK 34 use of recycled aluminium in production. Gränges’ environmental million. impact mainly consists of energy and water usage. Cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 851 million at Health and safety are prioritised areas for sustainable development. 31 December 2016 (SEK 634 million at 31 December 2015). Gränges has a holistic view in relation to health and safety, which is based on communication, training, review and reward. More informaFINANCIAL POSITION tion about Gränges’ environmental and safety work is to be found is to Gränges’ total assets amounted to SEK 7,950 million at 31 December be found in the Sustainability section. 2016 (SEK 4,402 million at 31 December 2015). The equity to assets ratio was 37.0 per cent at 31 December 2016 (56.8 per cent at 31 CHANGE IN GROUP MANAGEMENT December 2015). Consolidated net debt including pension liabilities Patrick Lawlor was appointed President Americas of Gränges was SEK 2,722 million at 31 December 2016 (SEK 275 million at 31 22 August 2016, and replaced Dan Daoust in group management. December 2015). EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE YEAR EMPLOYEES From 1 January 2017 Torbjörn Sternsjö, SVP Technology & Business The average number of employees in the Gränges Group amounted Development, replace Paul Neutjens in Gränges’ group management. to 1 154 (964) during 2016. The marked increase in the number of Furthermore, CFO Oskar Hellström has been appointed Deputy CEO of employees compared to the previous year is in large part due to the Gränges. acquisition of rolled aluminium business in the US, which was comDue to exercise of 20,000 warrants within Gränges employee stock pleted during the year. option program (LTI 2014), the Board of Directors have decided to issue Gränges seeks to offer good working conditions and interesting 20,000 new shares during March 2017. opportunities to develop with the aim of attracting and retaining competent personnel, something that is of the utmost importance for OUTLOOK Gränges’ long-term competitiveness. The market for heat exchanger materials to the automotive industry All managerial groups should be a good blend in terms of age, genis expected to continue to grow in 2017. According to IHS, global light der and ethnicity. Gränges’ long-term objective is that the percentage vehicle production is expected to increase by 1 per cent during the full of women shall amount to 20 per cent, and this includes managerial year 2017. For Gränges’ other products, mainly materials to the stationpositions. ary heat exchangers, the markets are expected to continue to develop All employees are entitled to join unions and other organisations. positively and show growth. Increased requirements for energy effiEmployees in Gränges’ business in Sweden are covered by collective ciency and reduced environmental impact are all factors that contribagreements. ute positively to the demand. In Asia, price reductions are expected at Gränges has zero tolerance of injuries and accidents. Gränges has the same rate as in the previous years, while the price levels in Europe strict safety routines and constantly invests in different types of safety and the Americas are expected to develop steadily. Gränges has a measures to prevent accidents at Gränges’ production facilities. strong market position and our ambition is to strengthen it further More information on Gränges’ equality, diversity and safety work is ­during the coming year. to be found in the Sustainability section. PARENT COMPANY RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Gränges AB is the parent company of the Gränges Group. Operations Gränges conducts world-class strategic research and customer driven include Group Management and joint corporate functions such as product development are based on extensive knowledge of material strategic R&I, accounting, treasury, legal, communication and leasing properties and characteristics, and into our own and customer proof properties. The parent company has six directly or indirectly whollyduction processes. This strategic research work is managed globally, owned Group companies and one indirect branch office, and is a partwhile the customer-driven development is carried out locally, in close ner in two joint ventures via subsidiaries. coordination with customers and production plants. During 2016, net sales in the parent company amounted to SEK 119 Gränges’ R&I is conducted by some 60 specialists, many of whom million (128). These sales consisted primarily of invoicing of services to have doctorates and collaborate with universities and colleges on a the subsidiaries and leasing of properties. regular basis. New products are in most cases firstly developed in Operating profit amounted to SEK –77 million (–47) in 2016 and the small-scale in the laboratory. Prior to full-scale production of new decrease is primarily due to increased costs for expanded operation products, Gränges uses computer simulations to design the process due to the acquisition in US. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Profit for the year in 2016 amounted to SEK 718 million (254) and Long-term incentive programme (LTI 2016) The long-term incentive this includes dividend of SEK 757 million received from a subsidiary. program (LTI 2016) is offered to senior executives and certain key individuals. LTI 2016 will run for three years and is structured as follows: THE GRÄNGES SHARE AND OWNERSHIP An amount equivalent to the payout from STI 2016 for each participant The share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK 101 million, divided into will be reserved in a special so-called LTI bank. Provided that the 75,155,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. Gränges ­participants remain in the employ of the Gränges Group, the payout only has one class of shares. will be made at the rate of one third per year during the years 2018, There are no pre-emption clauses, refusal clauses or other restric2019 and 2020, adjusted for the Gränges Group’s total return. The total tions on the transfer of shares in the company by law , the company’s payout from LTI 2016 and STI 2016 payable in one year is maxi­mised at articles of association or any agreement or other document in which 1.5 times an annual salary. the company is a party. Other benefits Benefits that are not directly related to fixed and At 31 December 2015 Gränges had no shareholder that owned more variable pay, such as car allowance, should facilitate the execution of than 10 per cent of Gränges’ capital and votes. duties and be in line with standard practices in the market for this Ahead of the IPO in 2014, an employee stock option programme was ­target group. established for senior executives and other key people in the comPension Pension benefits are to comply with Swedish laws and pany. 516,000 employee stock options have been exercised during ­relevant collective agreements, and be limited to the ITP plan (supple­ 2016 and the number of outstanding employee stock options per 31 mentary pension for salaried employees in industry and commerce). December 2016 amounts to 397,000, all have been vested for. In the Gränges thus has both defined contribution and defined benefit comevent of full exercise of the remaining employee stock options it would mitments based on individual circumstances. Pension terms are to be result in a dilution of 0.5 per cent of the total number of shares in in line with market norms. The retirement age for the Chief Executive Gränges. Officer is 65. The retirement age for other senior executives is 60–65, depending on in which country they are employed. OPERATING RISKS AND UNCERTAINTY FACTORS Period of notice of termination The contract between the company As a global business with operations in different parts of the and Chief Executive Officer stipulates a mutual twelve-month period world, Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties such of notice. Additionally, in the case of termination by the company, as raw material prices, market risk, operational and legal risk, as ­severance pay is payable without deduction for an additional twelve well as financial risk related to foreign exchange, interest rates, months. The contracts between the company and other senior exe­ liquidity and funding opportunities. In its risk management, cutives stipulate a mutual six-month period of notice. Additionally, in Gränges seeks to identify, evaluate, and reduce risk related to the the case of termination by the company, severance pay is payable of Group’s business and operations. In section, risk management, on an additional twelve months, without deduction for the first six page 27 Gränges’ risks and risk management is further described. months. For a more comprehensive description of the financial risks, see Information on previously agreed remuneration not yet due for Note 25. payment According to the decision taken at the Extraordinary General Meeting 2 September 2014, a long-term, shared-based incentive GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION TO THE MANAGEMENT TEAM programme (LTI 2014) was introduced. The programme has a term of General Gränges will offer remuneration levels and employment two years, and matured in the autumn of 2016, but can thereafter be terms necessary in order to recruit, develop and retain senior execuexercised for a further year. It includes senior executives and certain tives. These individuals must have the expertise, motivation and key individuals. According to the decision taken at the Annual General capacity to be able to uphold, develop and implement comprehensive, Meeting 4 May 2015 to stimulate long-term engagement, leading value-creating strategic objectives for the Gränges Group. ­Senior executives and selected key employees were offered a long-term, executives refers to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and members share-based incentive programme (LTI 2015) in 2015. The programme of the Management Team. Remuneration to the Management Team is runs for three years and is designed as follows: an amount equivalent to be determined by the Board of Directors, but must follow the guideto the outcome from STI 2015 for each participant is set aside in a spelines adopted by the General Meeting. The basic principle is that cial so-called LTI bank. Provided participants continue to be employed remuneration is to be competitive and consist of a fixed salary and a by Gränges, a third of the amount will be paid in 2017, 2018 and 2019 variable component in the form of various incentive programmes. respectively, adjusted for the total return of the Gränges share. The Applicable laws and other relevant regulations – both Swedish and total outcome from LTI 2015, together with STI for payment in a single foreign – in the sector should always be observed. year, is limited to 1.5 times an annual salary. Fixed salary The fixed salary is to consist of normal basic pay. The Other Insofar as elected board members conduct work on behalf of salary is based on responsibility, performance, skills and the comthe company, in addition to board assignments, consultancy fees and plexity and scope of the duties. other compensation for such work shall be paid. The board may deviVariable pay Variable pay consists of an annual short-term incenate from these guidelines in individual cases if there are specific reative programme (STI 2016) and a long-term incentive programme (LTI sons for doing so. However, such reasons shall imply limited scope to 2016). Both STI 2016 and the proposed LTI 2016 programme will prodeviate from these guidelines. vide cash payouts. There is no guaranteed variable remuneration. The Board of Directors is expected to make a decision during March Annual short-term incentive programme (STI 2016) The outcome of 2017 regarding the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives the STI is determined by a number of parameters consisting of financial that the Board will propose to the AGM. key ratios for the Group, such as EBITA/adjusted operating profit and cash conversion, and individual predetermined targets. Remuneration under STI 2016 are not to exceed 60 per cent of basic pay. 60 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2016 DEAR SHAREHOLDER, In the past year, the Gränges’ Board has continued to focus on measures designed to improve earnings in existing businesses and look at opportunities related to growth. One of the most important challenges that the Board had to address during the year was the acquisition of Noranda’s rolled aluminium business in the US, which was completed in August 2016. A foothold in North America has long been on our agenda to improve Gränges’ opportunities for long-term growth, and to strengthen the position globally. The presence in North America means that Gränges has manufacturing capacity in Europe, China and North America. Furthermore, Gränges has added new market niches. The business we acquired is well run and ­s­table, and will make a substantial contribution to Gränges’ earnings and cash flow from 2017. Together with a strong balance sheet, and given last year’s acquisition, the Board is of the opinion that a dividend increase of 20 per cent to SEK 2.40 per share is reasonable. Sound corporate governance for a sustainable future The global market for heat exchanger materials, which is Gränges’ largest market, grew in 2016. Gränges continues to see excellent opportunities to take market share in all regions, especially so in Asia and Americas. It is encouraging that the Group has maintained focus on the business despite carrying out a major acquisition. During the past year, the Board has discussed topics such as governance, market position and production capacity; and early in 2017, the Board visited one of our new plants in Tennessee in “IN THE PAST YEAR, THE the US. A review is currently being conducted into a potential expansion of US operaGRÄNGES’ BOARD HAS tions to meet increased demand in the region. CONTINUED TO FOCUS ON Gränges’ 2016 annual report contains the Group’s first sustainability report compiled according to GRI guidelines. Environmental considerations such as energy consumption, MEASURES DESIGNED TO recycling and emissions, along with equality, are highly important areas for Gränges. IMPROVE EARNINGS IN From the Board’s perspective, work in these areas is about strengthening the company’s EXISTING BUSINESSES AND position and business opportunities in the longer term, while also reducing sustainaLOOK AT OPPORTUNITIES bility-related risks. I would also like to take this opportunity to express the Board’s appreciation of Gränges RELATED TO GROWTH.” management and employees for their purposeful and well executed work in the past twelve months. Under the leadership of CEO Johan Menckel, Gränges has continued to improve business performance, completed an acquisition in North America, and at the same time strengthened our position on existing markets. Today, Gränges is a significantly larger company with a more balanced product portfolio. Stockholm, February 2017 Anders G. Carlberg Chairman of the Board GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Gränges AB has been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm since October Finspång, Sweden, and in Shanghai, in China. The Chinese subsidiary 2014. Gränges’ corporate governance is based on Swedish regulations also owns fifty per cent of another company based in Shanghai, which and Swedish legislation, primarily the Swedish Companies’ Act, but also is engaged in metal stamping. The Group’s parent company, Gränges Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory structure for issuers, the Swedish AB, is a Swedish public listed company. Its organisation number is Corporate Governance Code (“the Code”), the Articles of Association, 556001-6122, and its registered office is in Stockholm with its head and other relevant internal and external regulations and policies. office on Humlegårdsgatan 19 A. Good corporate governance is about ensuring that the company is run in a sustainable, responsible and effective manner with the interTHE CODE ests of its owners as guiding principles. Good corporate governance All companies with shares or receipts listed for trading on the Nasdaq contributes to increased confidence among existing and potential Stockholm or other regulated market in Sweden, irrespective of marowners, customers, legislators, the public and other stakeholders. ­­ ket value, are required to apply the Code. The Code is based on the In this way, industry’s freedom to develop is ensured, as is the supply principle of “comply or explain”, which means that a company may of risk capital and competence. The aim of the Code is to strengthen deviate from the Code’s provisions, if, in certain circumstances, doing the confidence in Swedish listed companies by promoting the positive so results in improved corporate governance, without this constituting development of corporate governance in such enterprises. a breach of the Code. However, a company that fails to apply a proviThis Corporate Governance Report has been prepared as part sion of the Code is required to provide an acceptable explanation as to of Gränges’ application of the Code. The company’s auditors have why it has chosen to do so. Effective corporate governance at Gränges reviewed this Report, and have not made any comments regarding its may be summarised as several complementary components, as contents. described below. Gränges has not reported any infringements of the Code in 2016. SHAREHOLDERS ORGANISATION Share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK 101 million, distributed The Group’s operations in 2016 consisted of three geographical among 75,155,386 shares that give the right to an equal number of regions: Asia, Europe, and Americas. On 22 August 2016, three provotes and an equal share in the company’s assets and profits. On duction facilities in the US were acquired. These are in Huntingdon, 31 December 2016, the number of shareholders amounted to 7,757. Tennessee, in Salisbury, North Carolina and in Newport, Arkansas. Fjärde AP-fonden was the largest shareholder, followed by AFA The company already had two other production facilities located in Försäkring. Of the shareholders, 66.2 per cent held 500 shares or CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholders Nomination ­ Annual General Meeting Committee External Board of Directors Auditor Remuneration Committee Audit Committee CEO Internal Audit Group Management 62 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT fewer, and the ten largest shareholders held 35.0 per cent of the total and fees for the author. The Nomination Committee also proposes a number of shares. Foreign-based share ownership amounted to 56.5 new nomination committee or criteria for its composition. per cent. A detailed table showing share ownership as at 31 December The Nomination Committee for the 2017 AGM was appointed in line 2016 can be found on page 31. Shareholdings of Board members and with the resolution agreed pertaining to the Nomination Committee at Group management are shown on pages 68–71. the AGM on 4 May 2015. Under this resolution, which was not subject No shareholders own a shareholding amounting to more than 10 per to change at the 2016 AGM, the Gränges’ Nomination Committee shall, cent of the total number of shares or the total number of votes. This prior to the 2017 AGM, comprise representatives from the company’s should be compared with the situation on 31 December 2015, when three largest shareholders as at August 31 2016, and the Chairman of Orkla Industriinvesteringar AB and Lannebo Fonder AB both owned the Board. If one of these shareholders is no longer one of the three more than 10 per cent of shares in the company. largest shareholders, its representatives shall step down from his/her There are no limitations regarding how many votes each sharepost, and the shareholder who has become one of the three largest holder may cast at a general meeting of shareholders. shareholders shall be offered a seat on the Nomination Committee, if The Annual General Meeting (AGM), held on 28 April 2016, autho­ the Nomination Committee deems this necessary. The Chairman of rised the Board, on one or more occasions prior to the 2017 AGM, to the Nomination Committee shall be the committee member who have the option of deciding to issue new shares and/or convertible ­represents the largest shareholder, unless otherwise agreed by the instruments equivalent to 10 per cent of the total number of shares ­Nomination Committee. outstanding in the company at the time of the resolution adopted by As at 31 August 2016, Gränges’ three largest shareholders were the AGM, i.e.: 7,463,938 shares. Fjärde AP-fonden, AFA Försäkring and JP Morgan Asset Management, which have been invited to nominate candidates for the nomination ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Committee. JP Morgan Asset Management chose to give up its place The company’s highest decision making body is the AGM, during which on the Nomination Committee, as did fourth largest shareholder, Old shareholders exercise their influence over the company. Mutual plc, and fifth largest shareholder, Catella Fonder. The sixth largest shareholder, SEB Fonder, was then offered a place on the Annual General Meeting 2016 Nomination Committee. As shown on the table on page 31, 31 DecemThe AGM was held on 28 April 2016. At the meeting, 30.9 per cent of ber 2016, Fjärde AP-fonden, AFA Försäkring and SEB Fonder, were the the shares in the company were represented. company’s largest, second largest and fourth largest shareholders At the AGM, Anders G. Carlberg was re-elected as Chairman of the respectively. On 24 September 2016, it was announced on the compaBoard. In addition, Terje Andersen, Ragnhild Wiborg and Carina ny’s website that the Nomination Committee ahead of the 2017 AGM Andersson were re-elected as Board members; and Katarina Lindhad the following composition: Jannis Kitsakis (Fjärde AP-fonden), ström, Hans Porat and Peter Carlsson were elected as Board memAnders Algotsson (AFA Försäkring), Rikard Andersson (SEB Fonder) bers. This means that the Board has a relatively even gender balance, and Anders G Carlberg (Gränges’ Chairman). The Chairman of the with three of seven Board members being women. Ernst & Young AB Nomination Committee is Jannis Kitsakis. were again appointed as the company’s auditors, and authorised ­public accountant Erik Sandström was appointed by Ernst & Young AB Nomination Committee for the 2017 AGM as chief auditor. Per cent of votes as Other resolutions taken during the AGM included: Appointed by/name at 31 December 2016 • To pay a dividend of SEK 2.00 per share. Fjärde AP-fonden/Jannis Kitsakis 8.7 • To authorise the Board – as indicated above – to issue a maximum AFA Försäkring/Anders Algotsson 5.6 of 10 per cent of the number of shares at the time of the AGM via a new issue of shares and/or issue of convertibles. SEB Fonder/Rikard Andersson 4.5 • To adopt a short-term annual incentive programme for senior execChairman of the Board of Gränges AB/ Anders G. Carlberg 0.0 utives and other key people in the company. The programme is to be determined by several parameters consisting of key financial performance indicators of the company, such as adjusted operating Shareholders had until 31 January 2017 to submit proposals and comprofit and capital employed, and by predetermined individual ments to the Nomination Committee. The Nomination Committee’s objectives. Under the resolution, remuneration (STI) for 2016 may proposals are published with the notice convening the AGM. In conamount to a maximum of 60 per cent of basic annual salary. junction with the publication of this notice, the Nomination Committee • To adopt a long-term incentive programme for senior executives has published a statement on granges.com that supports its proposand key people in the Group whereby an amount corresponding to als to the Board and a report on how the Nomination Committee’s the outcome of STI 2016 for each respective participant is set aside work has been conducted. in a so-called LTI bank, and, provided the person continues to be employed by Gränges, a third of the amount will be paid in each of Work of the Nomination Committee prior to the 2017 AGM the years 2018, 2019 and 2020 adjusted for Gränges’ total return, Since the Nomination Committee was formed in the autumn of 2016, it including reference to the share price until respective payments. has met on one occasion. The Chairman of the Board presented an • To approve Board members’ and auditors’ fees. evaluation of the Board’s work that was conducted in September 2016 at the Nomination Committee’s first meeting on 28 September 2016 NOMINATION COMMITTEE and thereafter also notified the Board of the results of its evaluation The duties of the Nomination Committee prior to the AGM consist of at the meeting held on 21 October. The result of this evaluation was proposing nominations for the Chairman of the Board, Board membroadly positive, and differed marginally from the evaluation conbers, the auditor, AGM chairman, Board fees, fees for committee work ducted in the autumn of 2015. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Prior to the 2017 AGM, the Nomination Committee has assessed Composition of the Board of Directors whether the composition of the current Board is sufficiently broad, Under the Articles of Association, the Board shall be composed of at diverse and gender equal, and whether it meets the demands placed least four and no more than eight members elected by a general meeton the Board given the company’s current and future circumstances. ing of shareholders, with no more than four deputy members. The According to the review carried out by the Nomination Committee, the Board constitutes a quorum when more than half of all Board memBoard has strong breadth, is diverse in terms of backgrounds and skill bers (including members appointed by employees) are present. The sets, and has an excellent gender balance. The annual evaluation of composition of the Board should be broad and diverse in terms of the Board has formed part of the basis of this assessment. The NomiBoard members’ competence, experience and background, reflecting nation Committee works continuously to identify and evaluate potenthe nature of the company’s operations, phase of development, and tial new Board members. general circumstances. Pursuant to the law regarding Board repPursuant to the instructions for the Nomination Committee, no fees resentation of private sector employees, employees are entitled to shall be paid to the Nomination Committee. appoint two Board members and two deputy Board members. The employee organisations have exercised this right in 2016. THE BOARD The primary responsibility of the Board is to manage the affairs of the The Board’s work in 2016 company in the best interests of the company and all shareholders. Fourteen minuted Board meetings were held in 2016, of which two were The Board shall assess the financial position of the company and the so-called per capsulam meetings, and five were telephone meetings. Group on a continuous basis, and ensure that the company’s financial The remaining seven meetings, were conventional meetings, one of position can be satisfactorily verified. The Board shall also evaluate which was held at Gränges’ plant in Finspång, while the others were Group management. The Board decides on issues related to the held in Stockholm. The Board formed a quorum at all these meetings. At Group’s strategic direction and organisation, and decides on key the meetings held on 3 February and 13 September, the Board held sesacquisitions, investments and disposals. Prior to every AGM, and sions in the absence of Group management. The CEO and CFO particibased on proposals made by the Remuneration Committee, the Board pated in all meetings. The Secretary of the Board is Gränges General shall prepare proposals for guidelines for the determination of remuCounsel, Niclas Nelson, who is not a Board member. neration for the CEO and other members of Group management. One of the most important issues that the Board worked on in 2016 Adopting a systematic and structured process, and on an annual was the acquisition in the US, which was formally concluded on 22 basis, the Board shall evaluate the work of the Board with the aim of August. Additional Board meetings in the spring and summer of 2016 developing the Board’s procedures and efficiency. In 2016 this was dealt almost exclusively with this complex issue, and outstanding conducted under the leadership of the Chairman of the Board who points relating to the acquisition and its financing were reviewed and asked all Board members to grade given aspects of the Board’s work, approved by Board members on a continuous basis. The Board and and gave Board members the opportunity to submit proposals for Group Management have devoted considerable amount of time and improvements. The results of the evaluation, which are presented in effort to the acquisition. In February 2017, the Board visited Gränges’ the Nomination Committee section (above), were strongly positive production plant in Huntingdon, Tennessee and held its board meeting throughout. at the company’s US headquarters in Franklin, Tennessee. Board of Director’s formal work plan Remuneration Committee Each year, the Board adopts a formal work plan that includes instrucTogether with the Chairman of the Board, the Remuneration Committions for the CEO, which, among other aspects, governs the division of tee shall consist of one or more Board members elected at a general work between the Board and the CEO. meeting of shareholders, who shall be independent in relation to the The formal work plan governs how the Board’s work is to be distribcompany and Group management. Members of the Remuneration uted among Board members, how often the Board should meet, and Committee should have the required knowledge and experience of how work should be divided between the Board’s various committees. issues relating to senior executive remuneration. The duties of the Furthermore, the formal work plan states that there shall be a RemuRemuneration Committee are set out in the Board’s formal work plan. neration Committee and an Audit Committee. Prior to every Board The CEO is co-opted to the Committee in a rapporteur capacity, but meeting, Board members receive an agenda and data on which to does not participate in the discussions relating to his or her own salbase decisions. Each Board meeting includes a review of current ary or terms of employment. Gränges’ General Counsel is the Commit­business conditions, Group results and financial position and outlook. tee’s secretary. Other issues that are considered include competition and general During 2016 the Remuneration Committee’s work included preparmarket conditions. The Board regularly reviews the overall risk situaing shortand long-term incentive programmes for senior executives tion from a variety of aspects, and the Group’s work on health and and other key people. This work was more complex in 2016 than previsafety, including accident statistics. The Board also has a system ous years due to the acquisition of the business in the US, because for continuous follow-up of decision making and unresolved issues. norms relating to incentive programmes in the US differ from those that prevail in Sweden. During its meetings, the Committee has Chairman of the Board ­analysed many models for shortand long-term remuneration and The Chairman organises and leads the Board’s work, represents the thereby the Committee also conducted a thorough analysis of praxis company in ownership matters, and is responsible for the evaluation in the Swedish market. The aim of the Committee’s work was to ensure of the Board’s work. The Chairman is also responsible for day-to-day that a connection with shareholders exists with the long-term procontact with the CEO and for ensuring that the Board fulfils its duties gramme. The Committee also discussed and prepared decisions and obligations effectively. regarding remuneration for the CEO in connection with the annual audit and the acquisition of the US business. 64 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Audit Committee The audit was carried out on a rolling schedule and was conducted According to the formal work plan of the Board, the Audit Committee by the company’s group accounting function with support from the should consist of at least three Board members elected at a general accounting functions of subsidiaries with the exception of the busimeeting of shareholders. The majority of its members should be indeness that was the subject of the audit. pendent of the company and Group management. The Committee The Committee also analyses and highlights the key auditing issues elects a chairman from among its members who may not be the Chairthat affected the company, and assists the Nomination Committee to man of the Board. The duties of the Audit Committee are described in prepare proposals for auditors as well the determination of their fees. Board’s formal work plan. An additional responsibility was added to Finally, during 2016, the Audit Committee reviewed processes related the Committee’s remit in 2016: the Committee will examine the Audito the preparation of quarterly reports to always ensure the quality of tor’s independence in relation to the other services purchased by the financial reporting. The Group’s auditor, Erik Sandström, attended all company. The Committee’s rapporteur is the company’s CFO. The Committee meetings and reported on controls and audit planning company’s General Counsel acted as the Committee’s secretary until throughout the year. the AGM in April 2016, from when the role was filled by the company’s Director Group Accounting, Carolin Thysell. AUDITOR An established risk management process exists within the comThe company’s internal auditing is reported to the Board and shall pany that is based on operational and process flows. The Audit Comensure that the company has sufficient internal control systems in mittee reviews risk areas that are identified, (business risk and risk place for financial reporting. The external auditor is responsible for associated with errors in financial reporting), in these processes. reviewing the company’s annual accounts and bookkeeping, and to Based on the outcome, the focus and scope of the audit are analysed examine the Board and CEO’s management of the company. together with the company’s auditors. According to the Articles of Association, Gränges AB shall have at The Audit Committee adopts an annual internal audit plan, which least one and at most two auditors. Registered auditing firms may be amongst other things is based on the risks that have emerged in the risk appointed as auditors. Ernst & Young AB were appointed auditors at management process. The audit plan is discussed with external audithe AGM. Ernst & Young AB has informed the company that authorised tors to streamline and improve the quality of ongoing auditing work. auditor Erik Sandström will be chief auditor until the 2017 AGM. In May 2016, an internal audit was conducted of joint venture comThe external audit of the parent company and Group accounts, and pany Norca Heat Transfer LLC’s operations in North America. of the administration of the Board and CEO is conducted in accordAn internal audit was also commissioned of Gränges Sweden AB’s ance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and in accordoperations in November. ance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The company’s chief auditor participates in all Audit Committee meetings. For information regarding auditor fees, please refer to Note 9. Board attendance and remuneration Independent in Attendance relation to the Attendance Attendance Remuneration Remuneration company/ Board Audit CommitCommittee Directors’ Audit CommitCommittee Total Name owners meetings tee meetings meetings fees, SEK tee fees, SEK fees, SEK fees, SEK Anders G. Carlberg x 14/14 n/a 3/3 500,000 – 50,000 550,500 Terje Andersen (independent since 17 March 2016) x 14/14 6/6 1/1 275,000 40,000 8,333 323,333 Ragnhild Wiborg x 13/14 6/6 n/a 275,000 80,000 – 355,000 Hans Porat (from 28 April 2016) x 9/10 n/a 2/2 183,333 – 16,666 200,000 Carina Andersson x 14/14 n/a 2/2 275,000 – 16,666 291,666 Peter Carlsson (from 28 April 2016) x 10/10 n/a n/a 183,333 – – 183,333 Katarina Lindström (from 28 April 2016 x 10/10 3/3 n/a 183,333 26,666 – 210,000 Bertil Villard (until 28 April 2016) x 4/4 3/3 1/1 91,666 13,333 8,333 113,333 Konny Svensson 14/14 6/6 n/a 40,000 – 40,000 Öystein Larsen 14/14 n/a 3/3 40,000 – – 40,000 Tommy Andersson 13/13 n/a n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Claudi Martin Callizo (until 1 July 2016) 7/7 n/a n/a 20,000 – – 20,000 Elin Lindfors (from 1 July 2016) 6/6 n/a n/a 20,000 – – 20,000 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT GROUP MANAGEMENT The Board’s description of internal control and risk management Group management is responsible for developing and implementing regarding financial reporting the Group’s overall strategies that relate to issues such as product Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Gränges AB and customer strategies, and acquisitions and divestments. These Board is responsible for ensuring that the company has good internal issues, and larger investments, are prepared by Group management control. Internal control shall ensure that the company’s financial to be decided upon by the Board. reporting is reliable and prepared in accordance with laws, applicable The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of the accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. company in accordance with the Board’s instructions and guidelines. ­ On 1 January 2017, Group management consisted of eight people: the Framework for internal control and risk management regarding CEO, President Europe, President Asia, President Americas, the CFO, SVP financial reporting Technology & Business Development, General Counsel, and SVP ComGränges complies with the established international framework, munications & Investor Relations. The SVP Human Resources Magnus Internal Control Integrated Framework, published by the Committee ­ Carlström and the SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In Paul Neutjens are part of the extended Group Management. accordance with COSO, Gränges’ process for internal control of finanDuring autumn 2016, the Board appointed the Group’s CFO to cial reporting is based on five components. These five are: control Deputy CEO of Gränges AB with effect from 1 January 2017. environment, risk assessment, control activities, information and Group management holds monthly meetings to review the results communication and monitoring. Gränges’ internal control process is and financial position of the Group and subsidiaries. Other questions designed to ensure with reasonable certainty the quality and accuracy dealt with at these meetings include strategy issues and follow-up of of financial reporting, and ensure that reporting is prepared in accor­ budgets and forecasts. Subsidiaries are also monitored more closely dance with applicable laws and regulations, accounting standards due to the CEO being Chairman of the three subsidiaries in Sweden, and other requirements for listed companies in Sweden. This is China and the US. Other members of Group management and dependent on a healthy control environment, reliable risk assessment employee representatives also serve on these companies’ Boards. The and established control activities; and that information, communicasubsidiaries’ Boards monitor day-to-day operations, and approve the tion and monitoring work satisfactorily. strategy and budget of each subsidiary. In 2016, due to the acquisition of the business in the US, an American subsidiary based in the state Control environment of Delaware was formed. This Board consists of the CEO, CFO and The control environment is defined by the Group’s organisational General Counsel. structure, Group management’s working methods and values, and other roles and responsibilities within the organisation. The Audit Remuneration of Group Management Committee assists the Board with essential accounting issues that Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives have been analysed the Group applies, and monitors the internal control of financial and developed by the Remuneration Committee at the end of 2016 and reporting. To maintain an effective control environment and robust beginning of 2017. The proposition regarding new guidelines will be internal controls, the Board has delegated the day-to-day responsibil­presented in their entirety in the decision data for the AGM to be held ity to the CEO, who in turn has assigned this responsibility to other on 4 May 2017. members of Group management. GROUP MANAGEMENT CEO Johan Menckel SVP Commu­nications SVP Technology & CFO and Deputy CEO General Counsel & Investor Relations Business Development Oskar Hellström Niclas Nelson Pernilla Grennfelt Torbjörn Sternsjö President Asia President Europe President Americas Colin Xu Kent Schölin Patrick Lawlor From 1 January, 2017. 66 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Quality in financial reporting is ensured through several measures Control activities are performed at all levels of the Group. One such and routines. Continual work is ongoing to further develop common example is the established controller function that analyses and monGroup policies and manuals. These include the Financial Management itors deviations and reports its findings to other parts of the Group. Policy, the Metal Management Policy, the Group Accounting Manual Monitoring by Group management occurs, for example, through reguand the Instruction for Financial Reporting. In addition to the above, lar meetings with subsidiary managing directors to discuss operathere are important Group-wide steering documents such as the tions, financial position and results, as well as key financial and operInformation Policy, the Authorization Policy and the Code of Conduct ating indicators. The Board continually analyses reports on operations (rules on business ethics). In 2016, a large number of Group employees in which Group management describes the previous period, and comhave taken a web-based training course following the Group’s decision ments on the Group’s financial position and results. Significant fluctuto join the UN Global Compact. All employees required to take this ations and deviations are thus monitored, which limits the risks of course have done so. Since 2015 the company has had a whistle errors in financial reporting. blower function that is described in detail on the Group’s intranet. The The closing of the books and work on the annual accounts are prowhistle blower function makes it possible to anonymously report sericesses where there is further risk that errors arise in financial reportous abuse and violations of Group rules regarding business ethics. ing. Naturally, this work is less repetitive and often includes several One of the aims of the function is to guarantee safety in the workinstances where estimates are made. Important control activities place, to maintain good business ethics and curb financial irregulariinclude ensuring that there is a well-functioning reporting structure ties, and thereby further improve the quality of Gränges’ financial where subsidiaries report per standardised models, and that imporreporting to benefit the company’s shareholders, employees, customtant income and balance sheet items are specified and commented ers and suppliers. One whistle blower complaint was brought in 2016. upon. This has not resulted in any further action by the Board. Information and communication Risk assessment Gränges’ financial reporting follows Group guidelines and policies, Gränges’ organisation is exposed to internal and external risks. To reaand is updated and communicated regularly by Group management to sonably ensure good internal control, risks that may affect financial all relevant employees. The accounting function has operational reporting are identified, measured and managed. This is an integral responsibility for day-to-day financial reporting, and works to ensure part of day-to-day reporting to Group management and the Board, that the Group’s guidelines, policies and instructions are applied in a which forms the basis for the assessment of risks of errors in financial uniform manner across the Group. The accounting function is also reporting. Gränges’ operations are characterised by processes with tasked with identifying and communicating deficiencies in financial established routines and systems. Risk assessment thus largely reporting. All communication shall occur in accordance with the Nasoccurs within the framework of these processes. At Group level, only daq’s rules for issuers, and conform to other applicable regulations. general risk assessments are conducted. Managers in the Group idenFinancial information should provide capital and stock markets with a tify, monitor and follow-up on these risks. This creates the basis for clear and comprehensive view of the company, its financial position, taking well-rounded and correct business decisions at all levels. As a development and strategy. All financial reports and press releases rule, financial risk such as currency, commodity, refinancing and published on the company’s website are simultaneously released to counterparty risk, and interest rate and credit risk are mainly handled the Nasdaq and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Board. by the parent company’s accounting and finance functions per the As indicated above, due to the MAR Directive, the Board adopted a Financial Management Policy, the Metal Management Policy, the new Insider policy on 29 June to meet demands now placed on the Group Accounting Manual and the Instruction for Financial Reporting. company and insiders. Furthermore, a system for managing insider issues was procured during the autumn. Control measures and activities The main purpose of control activities is to prevent and discover mateMonitoring rial errors in financial reporting at an early stage so that such errors The Board’s monitoring of the internal control of financial reporting can be managed and resolved. Control activities are conducted at a occurs primarily through the Audit Committee, including the monitorgeneral level and at more detailed levels throughout the Group, and ing of the internal audit and through contact with external auditors are both manual and automated in nature. Routines and activities and their work and reports. External auditors monitor selected areas have been designed to manage and resolve material risks related to of internal control on an annual basis within the framework of the financial reporting, and that are identified in risk assessments. group audit. External auditors report the outcome of their audit to the Depending on the character and type of control activity, corrective Audit Committee and Group management. Material observations are action, implementation, documentation and quality assurance occur also reported directly to the Board. In terms of the 2016 audit, the at a Group or subsidiary level. As is the case for other processes, each auditors have monitored the internal controls in selected key promanager is responsible for the completeness and accuracy of the concesses, and have reported their findings to the Audit Committee and trol activities. Group management. The Group has a common consolidation system, where the legal entities report, which provides good internal control of financial reporting. Most controls and processes are automated and authorisation to access IT systems is limited. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1. ANDERS G. CARLBERG 4. PETER CARLSSON Chairman Board member Born: 1943 Born: 1970 M.Sc. Business Administration. B. Sc. Economics. Chairman of Herenco. Board CEO and president of Northvolt. member of Erik Penser, InvestBoard member of Metso, Orbital mentbolaget Latour, Sweco, Systems and Ketra Lightning. AxFast, Recipharm and B ­ eijer Previous positions: Vice PresiAlma. dent Supply Chain and Chief ProPrevious positions: Board memcurement Officer at Tesla Motors, ber of Sapa 2002–2013. CEO of J.S. Senior Vice President and Chief Saba, CEO of Nobel Industrier, Procurement Officer at NXP CEO of Axel Johnson International, ­Semiconductors, Head of 1 2 Deputy CEO of SSAB and other ­Sourcing at Sony Ericsson. management positions. Elected to the Board, 2016. Elected to the Board, 2014. Shareholding: 0 shares. Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Shareholding: 35,294 shares. 5. KATARINA LINDSTRÖM Board member Born: 1965 2. TERJE ANDERSEN M. Sc. Material ­Science. Board member Senior Vice President, Operations Born: 1958 and Supply Chain Management, M.Sc. Business Administration. Volvo Group Trucks Operation. CEO of Orkla Investments, Orkla Elected member of the Swedish ASA. Chairman of Orkla Energi, Royal Engineering Academy. 3 4 Orkla Industriinvesteringar and Previous positions: Various Sarpsfoss. Board member of management positions at Volvo ­Borregaard, Jotun and Sapa. since 1988; led the Maintenance Previous positions: CFO of Orkla. Department in the Skövde Engine Various management positions plant, Program Manager for enat Orkla since 1989. Prior to that gines at Volvo Powertrain, Senior worked at Nevi Finans and as a Vice President, Global Manufac­consultant at Deloitte Touche. turing of Volvo Powertrain. Elected to the Board, 2009. Elected to the Board, 2016. Member of the Audit Committee. Member of the Audit Committee. Shareholding: 2,352 shares. Shareholding: 0 shares. 5 6 3. CARINA ANDERSSON Board member Born: 1964 M.Sc. Engineering, Material Science. Board member of Beijer Alma, ­SinterCast and Systemair. Previous positions: General ­Manager Powder Technology, Sandvik Materials Technology, CEO of Ramnäs Bruk and CEO of Scana Ramnäs. Board member of Mälar­dalens ­Högskola , Sandvik Riser Technology and chairman of Sandvik Powdermet and 7 Auditor ­S andvik Osprey. Elected to the Board, 2014. Shareholding: 2,352 shares. 68 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 6. HANS PORAT Board member EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Born: 1955 M.Sc. Engineering, Material ­Science Board member of Cloetta, Ecolean, Diab, Lindab Internation­al, and chairman of the board at Autoropa. Previous positions: President and CEO of Nolato, various ­executive positions at ABB, Vice President of Trelleborg, President of Gadelius Japan. Elected to the Board, 2016. Member of the Remuneration Committee. 1 2 Shareholding: 0 shares. 7. RAGNHILD WIBORG Board member Born: 1961 M.Sc. Business Administration. Board member of Kistefos, REC Silicon, Borregaard, IM Skaugen and EAM Solar. Previous positions: Fund man­ agement oper­ations at Odin Fonder and at Wiborg Kapital­förvaltning. Worked at several investment 3 4 banks, including Pareto, ABG ­Sundal Collier, First Chicago and ­Scandinavian Bank. 1. ÖYSTEIN LARSEN 2. KONNY SVENSSON Elected to the Board, 2014. Employee representative Employee representative Born: 1957 Born: 1954 Chairman of the Audit Committee. Has been an employee represenUpper secondary school Shareholding: 1,176 shares. education. tative on the Board since 2010. Employed at Gränges since 1979. Has been an employee representative on the Board since 2013. IT architect. Employed at Gränges since 2008. AUDITOR Employee representative of ­Unionen. Chairman of blue collar union IF Metall. ERIK SANDSTRÖM Shareholding: 470 shares. Employee representative of Auditor in charge IF Metall. Born: 1975 Authorized public accountant and 3. TOMMY ANDERSSON Shareholding: 235 shares. Deputy employee representative member of FAR. Born: 1980 Other assignments: Södra Skogs4. ELIN LINDFORS Has been an employee represenägarna, Rottneros, Munters, Deputy employee representative tative on the Board since 2014. ­Tradedoubler, Mycronic. Born: 1988 Employed at Gränges since 1999. B.Sc. Material Science. Production technician. Has been an employee represenEmployee representative of tative on the Board since 2016. IF Metall. Employed at Gränges since 2013. Shareholding: 276 shares. Production technician. Representative of the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers and the Union for Professionals. Shareholding: 420 shares. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 GROUP MANAGEMENT Oskar Hellström, Colin Xu, Kent Schölin and Torbjörn Sternsjö GROUP MANAGEMENT OSKAR HELLSTRÖM Member of the Management TORBJÖRN STERNSJÖ Strategic Project Director at Sapa CFO & Deputy CEO Team since 2013. SVP Technology & Business Heat T­ ransfer, 2011–2013. Director Born: 1979 Shareholding: 0 shares Development of Lean Production at Sapa Pro­ M.Sc. Engineering and B.Sc. Born: 1962 files Europe, 2007–2010. Several Economics. M.Sc. Engineering. management positions at Alcoa, CFO of Gränges since 2013 and KENT SCHÖLIN SVP Technology & Business 1994–2007. Several management Deputy CEO of Gränges since 2017. President Europe positions at Hoogovens AlumiDevelopment since 2017. Director CFO of Sapa Heat Transfer, 2011– Born: 1964 nium, 1986–1994. Business Development at Gränges 2013. D­ irector Group Development M.Sc. Engineering, Material 2015–2017. President of the joint Member of Extended Manage& Control at Sapa Group, 2009– Science. venture Sapa Chalco Aluminium ment Team since 2017. 2011. ­S trategy Manager at Sapa President for Gränges Europe Products Chongqing 2011–2015. Shareholding: 4,000 shares. Group, 2008–2009. Consultant at since 2013. MD for Sapa Heat President of Sapa Profiles in Asia Booz Allen Hamilton, 2005–2008. Transfer Finspång, 2012–2013. MD 2007–2010. Managing Director of Member of the Management Team of Gunnebo Gateway, 2005–2012. Gränges Shanghai 1999–2007. PERNILLA GRENNFELT since 2013. Several management positions at Various senior positions within SVP Communications & Sapa Heat Transfer, 1994–2004. Gränges and Sapa since 1994. Investor Relations Shareholding: 15,000 shares, Born: 1970 Research engineer at Gränges Member of the Management Team 50 000 employee stock options. B.Sc. Economics. Technology 1989–1994. since 2017. Member of the Management Shareholding: 10,000 shares SVP Communications & Investor COLIN XU Board since 2013. Relations at Gränges since 2014. President Asia IR Manager at ICA Gruppen, 2013– Shareholding: 4,705 shares, Born: 1976 100,000 employee stock options. PAUL NEUTJENS 2014. Head of Investor ­Relations M.Sc. Economics and Business SVP Process Engineering & at Hakon Invest, 2005–2013. JourAdministration, MBA. ­Operational Development nalist and Editor at News Agency President for Gränges Asia since Born: 1959 Direkt, 1999–2005. Advisor at Mat2013. MD for Sapa Heat Transfer M.Sc. Engineering, Metallurgy teus Fondkommission, 1996–1999. ­Shanghai, 2011–2013. At Sapa and Applied Material Science. Member of the Management Team Heat Transfer Shanghai, 2001– SVP Process Engineering & Operasince 2014. 2010, with several leading man­ tional Development since 2017. Shareholding: 4,905 shares, agement positions since 2003. CTO at Gränges and member of the 20,000 employee stock options. Management Team, 2013–2017. 70 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GROUP MANAGEMENT Paul Neutjens, Pernilla Grennfelt, Niclas Nelson and Johan Menckel NICLAS NELSON JOHAN MENCKEL General Counsel CEO Born: 1964 Born: 1971 LL.M. M.Sc. Engineering. General Counsel at Gränges since CEO of Gränges since 2013. CEO of 2014. Associate General Counsel Sapa Heat Transfer, 2012–2013. at Autoliv, 2002–2014. Legal CounBusiness Area President of Sapa sel at ABB, 1998–2002. Attorney at Profiles Asia, 2011–2012. MD of Hökerberg & Söderqvist AdvokatSapa Heat Transfer Shanghai, byrå, 1993–1998. Associate at 2007–2010. Management posiVinge, 1992–1993. Law Clerk at tions at Sapa Heat Transfer, 2004– City Court of Malmö, 1990–1992. 2006. Consultant at Accenture, PATRICK LAWLOR MAGNUS CARLSTRÖM Member of the Management Team 1996–2004. President Americas SVP Human Resources since 2014. Member of the Management Born: 1964 Born: 1966 Other assignments: Chairman of Team since 2013. B.Sc. Economics. LL.M., Executive MBA, Behavioral the Board of Directors of SWERMA Other assignments: Member of President Americas of Gränges Sciences (3.5 Y). (Swedish Risk Management the Board of Directors in Svenska since 2016. President Americas SVP Human Resources of ­Association). Postkodföreningen AB and Nederof Sapa Extrusions during 2010Gränges since 2017. Director HR Shareholding: 5,000 shares, man Holding. 2015. CFO at Sapa Extrusion & Communiations of Gränges AB 20,000 employee stock options. Shareholding: 38,000 shares, North America, 2009–2010. and Gränges Europe 2012–2016. 100,000 employee stock options. CFO at Indalex, Inc., 2007–2009. VP HR at Strabag Scandinavia Several managerial positions at 2009–2012. Head of Strategic Norsk Hydro, 1997–2007. Leadership & Training at Peab Member of the Management Group 2006–2009. Head of HR Team since 2016. at Peab Sverige 2000–2006. Shareholding: 0 shares. Member of Extended Management Team since 2017. Shareholding: 0 shares. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT GROUP NOTES GROUP NOTES PARENT COMPANY Consolidated income statement 73 Note 1 General information 78 Note 1 Accounting principles 106 Consolidated statement of 74 Note 2 Basis of preparation of 78 Note 2 Financial risk management 106 comprehensive income consolidated financial Note 3 Breakdown of net sales by 106 Consolidated balance sheet 75 ­statements area of operation Consolidated statement of changes 76 Note 3 New accounting standards 79 Note 4 Other operating expenses 106 in equity Note 4 Accounting standards 79 Note 5 Operating lease payments 106 Consolidated cash flow statement 77 Note 5 Use of estimates and 82 Note 6 Remuneration to auditors 107 Alternative performance measures 100 assumptions in preparing the consolidated financial Note 7 Payroll expenses 107 Definitions and glossary 111 statements Note 8 Financial income 107 Five-year summary 112 Note 6 Investments accounted for 83 Note 9 Financial costs 107 Proposed appropriation of retained 114 using the equity method Note 10 Taxes 107 earnings Note 7 Geographic breakdown of 83 Note 11 Property, plant and 108 Auditor’s report 115 net sales, non-current ­equipment assets and average Note 12 Intangible assets 108 number of employees PARENT COMPANY Note 13 Participations in Group 109 Note 8 Payroll expenses 84 Parent company income statement 101 companies Note 9 Remuneration to auditors 86 Parent company balance sheet 102 Note 14 Provision for pension and 109 Note 10 Pensions 86 similar obligations Parent company statements of 104 Note 11 Other operating expenses 87 Note 15 Bank loan 109 changes in equity Note 12 Items affecting 87 Note 16 Accrued expenses and 109 Parent company cash flow statement 105 comparability deferred income Note 13 Financial income and costs 87 Note 17 Pledged assets 109 Note 14 Taxes 87 Note 18 Contingent liabilities 110 Note 15 Earnings per share 88 Note 19 Related party ­transactions 110 Note 16 Intangible assets 89 Note 20 Proposed appropriation 110 Note 17 Property, plant and 89 of retained earnings equipment Note 18 Inventories 90 Note 19 Overview of financial 90 ­instruments Note 20 Current receivables 92 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 92 Note 22 Other liabilities 92 Note 23 Capital management 92 Note 24 Financing and interest92 bearing liabilities Note 25 Financial risk 93 Note 26 Derivatives and hedging 96 Note 27 Share capital 97 Note 28 Leasing 97 Note 29 Acquisition 98 Note 30 Pledged assets, guarantees 99 and contingent liabilities Note 31 Related-party transactions 99 Note 32 Events after the balance 99 sheet date 72 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME ­STATEMENT SEK million Note 2016 2015 Sales revenues 31 7,199 5,485 Other operating revenues 9 9 Net sales 7 7,207 5,494 Cost of materials –4,374 –3,280 Payroll expenses 8, 10 –727 –501 Other operating expenses 11 –1,155 –965 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 16, 17 –265 –208 Items affecting comparability 12 –128 –3 Operating profit 559 538 Profit from joint ventures 6 2 2 Financial income 13 5 5 Financial costs 13 –66 –24 Profit before taxes 500 521 Income Tax 14 –2 –143 Profit for the year 498 379 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 498 379 Adjusted operating profit1) 687 541 1) Operating profit before items affecting comparability, see note 12. EARNINGS PER SHARE SEK Note 2016 2015 Earnings per share, basic 15 6.66 5.07 Earnings per share, diluted 15 6.64 5.07 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK million Note 2016 2015 Profit for the year 498 379 Items not to be reclassified to profit/loss in subsequent years Remeasurement of pensions before tax 10 29 13 Tax on above –13 –3 Items to be reclassified to profit/loss in subsequent years Change in hedging reserve before tax 26 –33 29 Tax on above 7 –6 Translation differences 69 62 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company 557 474 74 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2016 2015 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 17 3,347 1,669 Intangible assets 16 584 9 Deferred tax assets 14 64 54 Interests in joint ventures 6 30 30 Interest-bearing receivables 19, 24, 31 36 34 Other non-current receivables 26 10 4 Total non-current assets 4,071 1,800 Inventories 18 1,428 888 Receivables 20, 31 1,600 1,080 Cash and cash equivalents 21 851 634 Total current assets 3,878 2,601 TOTAL ASSETS 7,950 4,402 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 27 101 100 Other paid in capital 27 33 – Reserves 512 453 Retained earnings 2,296 1,947 Total equity 2,942 2,499 Deferred tax liabilities 14 24 45 Pension liabilities 10 288 138 Interest-bearing liabilities 19, 24 2,888 804 Other non-current liabilities 26 9 1 Total non-current liabilities 3,209 989 Interest-bearing liabilities 19, 24 436 0 Current tax liabilities 14 34 185 Other current liabilities 22 1,329 728 Total current liabilities 1,799 914 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 7,950 4,402 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Other paid Hedging Defined benefit Translation Retained Total SEK million Note capital in equity reserve pension plans differences ­earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2015 100 0 –26 –46 430 1,679 2,137 Profit for the year – – – – – 379 379 Items in comprehensive income – – 23 10 62 – 95 Group comprehensive income – – 23 10 62 379 474 Employee stock option scheme – – – – – 1 1 Dividend – – – – – –112 –112 Closing balance, 31 December 2015 100 0 –3 –36 492 1,947 2,499 Opening balance, 1 January 2016 100 0 –3 –36 492 1,947 2,499 Profit for the year – – – – – 498 498 Items in comprehensive income – – –26 16 69 – 59 Group comprehensive income – – –26 16 69 498 557 Employee stock option scheme – – – – – 1 1 Dividend1) – – – – – –149 –149 Rights issue 27 1 33 – – – – 34 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 101 33 –29 –20 561 2,296 2,942 1) Dividend per share was amounted to SEK 2.00 (1.50) during 2016. 76 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2016 2015 Operating profit 559 538 Depreciation and impairment charges 265 217 Change in net working capital etc. 43 100 Income taxes paid –181 –130 Cash flow from operating activities 686 725 Acquisition 29 –2,581 – Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 16, 17 –155 –134 Divestment of property, plant and equipment 0 5 Other capital transactions 4 4 Cash flow from investing activities –2,732 -125 Dividend –149 –112 Rights issue 27 34 – Interest paid and received 13 –35 –15 New loans 3,620 – Amortisations –1,224 –520 Cash flow from financing activities 2,245 –647 Cash flow for the year 198 –47 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 634 644 Cash flow for the year 198 –47 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents 19 37 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 851 634 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION dated accounts as of the date when the control is transferred to the Group and are consolidated up to the date when the controlling influence ceases. Gränges AB (the parent company) and its subsidiaries (together called Business combinations are accounted for in accordance with the the Group) develops, manufactures and markets rolled aluminium acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition material for the production of heat exchangers and selected niche of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, liaapplications. The Groups’ geographical markets are Europe, Asia and bilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business and the Americas. Its production facilities are located in Sweden, China and equity interests issued by the group. The consideration also includes the USA and serves the global market through sales offices in India, fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent considJapan and South Korea. The parent company is registered in Sweden eration arrangement. and has its head office at Humlegårdsgatan 19A, SE-114 85 Stockholm. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities This document was approved for publication by the Board of Direcassumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, tors of Gränges AB on 8 March 2017. measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity either at fair value or at the non-­controlling interest’s proportionate share of 2 B  ASIS OF PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on BASIS OF PREPARATION transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised The Gränges Group includes, in addition to the parent company losses are also eliminated. When necessary, amounts reported by Gränges AB, directly and indirectly held subsidiaries of Gränges AB. subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the group’s accountSignificant accounting principles applied in preparing these ing policies. ­consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless ­otherwise stated, these principles have been applied consistently for Joint arrangements all the years presented. The consolidated financial statements have Shares in companies in which the Group exercises a controlling influbeen prepared and presented in compliance with the Inter­national ence are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures dependFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, the ing on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Gränges Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting has made a judgement of its joint arrangements and determined they Rules for Groups. should be classified as a joint ventures. Interests in joint ventures are The financial statements have been prepared by applying the cost accounted for using the equity method. method, with the exception of financial assets and liabilities (includUnder the equity method, investments in joint ventures are initially ing derivatives), which are measured at fair value. Preparing financial carried at cost in the consolidated statement of financial position. The statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of important carrying amount is then increased or decreased to take account of the accounting estimates. Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income Management is also required to make certain judgements in applyfrom its joint ventures after the date of acquisition. The Group’s share ing the Group’s accounting principles. Areas which involve a high of the profit or loss is presented in the line “Profit from joint ventures” degree of judgement, are complex or where assumptions and estiin the income statement and the line “Interests in joint ventures” in mates have a material impact on the consolidated accounts are the balance sheet. The principal company in this category is Norca described in Note 5. Heat Transfer LLC, in which Gränges has a 50 per cent stake. The An asset or liability is classified as current when it is a part of an remaining 50 per cent is owned by Kirchain Inc. (see Note 6). entity’s normal operations, is primarily held for trading, matures within 12 months and consists of cash and cash equivalents at the FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION balance sheet date. Other items are classified as non-current. A Functional currency and presentation currency ­dividend is classified as a liability only upon formal approval by a genItems included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entieral meeting of shareholders. ties are measured using the currency of the primary economic enviUnless otherwise stated, all amounts are stated in SEK million. ronment in which the operates (’the functional currency’). The consoliNegative amounts refer to expenses or outgoing payments (cash flow). dated financial statements are presented in Swedish krona (SEK), which is the Group’s presentation currency. ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Items affecting comparability are presented in a separate line and Transactions and balance sheet items refer to non-recurring income and expenses. Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional curThe primary purpose of this is to present significant non-recurring rency at the exchange rates applying on the transaction date or the items separately in order to ensure that changes and the comparability date when the items were re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and of items presented in adjusted operating profit are more relevant for losses arising from such transactions and upon translation of monecomparative purposes. Income and expenses that are carried in this tary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at closing day rates are line and specified and commented on in Note 12. recognised in the income statement. The exception is when the transactions constitute hedges and meet the criteria for hedge CONSOLIDATION accounting of cash flows or net investments, in which case any gains Subsidiaries and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. All companies over which the Group exercises a controlling influence Financial receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are stated at are classified as subsidiaries. The Group controls a company when it the closing rate and any gain or loss is recognised in financial items in is exposed to or has the right to a variable return from its involvement the income statement. Other monetary items in foreign ­currency are with the company and has the ability to affect those returns through carried at the closing rate and any gain or loss is ­recognised in operatits power over the company. Subsidiaries are included in the consoli­ ing items in the income statement. 78 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Step 1: identify contracts with customers Step 2: identify the separate performance obligation Step 3: determine the transaction price of the contract NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ADOPTED BY THE GROUP IN 2016 Step 4: allocate the transaction price to each of the separate No standards, amendments and interpretations which became effecperformance obligations, and tive for financial years beginning on 1 January 2016 have had a mateStep 5: recognise revenue as each performance obligation is rial impact on the consolidated financial statements. satisfied. NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS WHICH Key changes to current practice are: HAVE NOT YET BECOME EFFECTIVE BUT WILL BE APPLIED IN • Any bundled goods or services that are distinct must be separately FUTURE PERIODS recognised, and any discounts or rebates on the contract price A number of new standards and interpretations are effective for finanmust generally be allocated to the separate elements. cial years beginning after 1 January 2017 and have not been applied in • Revenue may be recognised earlier than under current standards if preparing these financial statements. None of these are expected to the consideration varies for any reasons (such as for incentives, have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements, with the rebates, performance fees, royalties, success of an outcome etc) – following exceptions: minimum amounts must be recognised if they are not at significant risk of reversal. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments • The point at which revenue is able to be recognised may shift: some IFRS 9 will enter into force on 1 January 2018 and replaces IAS 39 revenue which is currently recognised at a point in time at the end Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement. Various parts of a contract may have to be recognised over the contract term and of IFRS 9 have been revised, and one part relates to the classification vice versa. and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. Classification of • There are new specific rules on licenses, warranties, non-refund­ financial assets is determined on initial recognition based on the cash able upfront fees and, consignment arrangements, to name a few. flow characteristics of the asset and the company’s business model. • As with any new standard, there are also increased disclosures. Dependent on classification the financial assets will be measured at amortised cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income Entities will have a choice of full retrospective application, or prospec(OCI) or at fair value through profit or loss. For financial liabilities there tive application with additional disclosures. The Group has not yet are no changes that will impact the Group. fully evaluated the effects of introducing the standard but does not Further the hedge accounting principles have been revised in IFRS expect any material impact. 9. The new principles give companies better opportunities to present the financial risk management strategies in the financial statements. IFRS 16 Leases As a general rule, it will be easier to apply hedge accounting, as more In January 2016, IASB issued a new lease standard that will replace risk components can qualify as hedged item. The new standard also IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SICintroduces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in pre­ 27. The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, sentation. with some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This IFRS 9 also introduces a new impairment model based on expected model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right credit losses. The new expected credit loss (ECL) model involves a to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for three-stage approach whereby financial assets move through the that right. The accounting for lessors will in all material aspects be three stages as their credit quality changes. A simplified approach is unchanged. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on to be used for financial assets that do not have a significant financing or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. EU has not yet component (eg accounts and lease receivables), which means impairadopted the standard. The Group has not yet assessed the impact of ment will be recognised based on lifetime ECL and there is no need to IFRS 16. track the changes in credit quality. The Group believes that mainly hedge accounting and impairment will impact the financial statements. Classification and measurement of financial assets is not expected to affect the way the assets are val4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ued, but the process of how the classification is done will need to be reviewed. Investigations of the effects from IFRS 9 will have on the REVENUE RECOGNITION consolidated financial statements are in progress. The Group has not Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is likely that the economic yet fully evaluated the effects of introducing the standard but does benefits will accrue to the company and the revenue can be reliably not expect any material impact. measured, irrespective of when payment is made. Revenue is stated at the fair value of the compensation which has been or will be IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers received, having regard to contractual terms governing payment IFRS 15 is the new standard for recognition of revenue. IFRS 15 excluding taxes and duties. replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and their Sales of goods. The Gränges Group sells goods in different markets, associated interpretations (IFRIC and SIC). Revenue is recognised and revenues from the sale of goods are recognised in the income when control of a goods or service transfers to a customer – so the statement when the material risks and benefits associated with notion of control replaces the existing notion of risks and rewards. The ­ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. basic principle in IFRS 15 ist that a company recognise revenue in the Sales of services. Revenues from the sale of services are limited way that best reflects the transfer of the goods or service to the cusfor the Gränges Group and primarily refer to rental income from proptomer. A new five-step process must be applied before revenue can be erties owned by Gränges AB. Rental income is allocated to accounting recognised: periods in accordance with the lease and is recognised in the income statement in the period to which the lease refers. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 4 Gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment are accounted Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents for as “Other income” and are included in the income statement. with maturities of up to three months. Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method and accounted for under “Financial income”. PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Pensions. Gränges group has a pension system in Sweden and US STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME that p ­ rimarily consists of defined contribution plans as well as some The statement of comprehensive income includes items which are unfunded defined benefit plans. recognised in equity but which are not included in the regular profit or For defined contribution pension plans the company has a responsiloss for the period. The items in the statement are actuarial gains and bility to make contractual payments for its employees’ future losses on pensions, changes in the hedging reserve in hedging trans­pensions. Future pensions are determined by the size of contributions actions and currency translation effects. and the return on the plan assets. After the contributions have been paid the company has no further payment obligations under the ASSETS defined contribution plan. No provisions are therefore made in the Property, plant and equipment are tangible, long-lived assets which balance sheet. are intended for the production or delivery of goods or for administraThe company’s pension costs for its defined contribution plans tive purposes. They are stated at cost in the balance sheet less accu­consist of payments to employees’ pension plans during the reporting mulated depreciation and impairment. Maintenance of assets is period and are accounted for as payroll expenses. ­recognised in operating expenses when the maintenance is carried Defined benefit pension plans are based on a promise from the out while more significant periodic maintenance and expenses for company to the employees that they will receive a certain pension replacements and improvements are accounted for as an investment upon retirement, normally defined as a percentage of their final and added to the cost of the assets. ­salary. The company is responsible for the size of the future pension To distribute the cost down to the estimated residual value, items of benefit and the economic value of this obligation are recognised in property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line the income statement and balance sheet. basis, divided into different components, over their useful lives using The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect the following percentage rates: of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined • buildings and land improvements 2.5–10 per cent, benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value • machinery and installations 5–20 per cent, of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by • fixtures and vehicles 5–20 per cent, independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The • IT equipment and software 10–20 per cent. present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of Useful lives and residual values of assets are reviewed each year and high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in adjusted where required. which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms approximating to If the residual value exceeds the carrying amount no further deprethe terms of the related obligation. ciation charges are recognised. This applies especially to buildings. If The cost relating to service during the current period is accounted there are indications of impairment of an asset, the asset is written for as payroll expenses. The net interest cost is calculated by applying down to its recoverable amount if this is lower than the carrying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of net realisable value and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee and value in use. benefit expense in the income statement. Loan expenses in connection with the production of the Group’s Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustown property, plant and equipment are recognised as part of the cost ments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the of the asset. period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. Intangible assets. The Group has expenses for research and develProvisions are recognised for potential loss-making contracts and opment. Expenditure for research is carried as an expense immedifor restructuring when the decision to restructure is made. Provisions ately while expenditure for development is recognised as an intangible do not cover any potential future operating losses. As regards restrucasset if the underlying economic factors are identifiable and repreturing reserves, there must exist a detailed plan identifying which sent future economic benefits controlled by the Group. operations will be restructured as well as a well-founded expectation The Group is running a large number of development projects but among those affected by the restructuring. It must also be possible to the criteria for recognising the projects as intangible assets are reliably estimate the cost of the restructuring. ­currently not met (see Note 16). The provision is calculated based on the best estimate of expected Capitalised expenditure for internally generated or specially costs. If the effect is significant, expected future cash flows will be adapted software is recognised as intangible assets. These are deprediscounted. ciated on a straight-line basis over 5–10 years. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets. A contingent liability Expenditure for internally generated intangible assets is expensed or contingent asset is a potential obligation or potential asset whose immediately, as the future economic benefits for the company cannot existence is uncertain and which will be confirmed by the occurrence be identified and because it is not possible to obtain any degree of or non-occurrence of a specific future event, such as the out-come of certainty during the development phase of the intangible assets. The legal proceedings or the final settlement of an insurance claim. If the fair value of intangible assets acquired by the company through acquiprobability that the liability has been incurred exceeds 50 per cent a sitions is capitalised. provision is recognised in the balance sheet. If the probability is lower The customer relationships were acquired as part of a business a contingent liability is shown as an additional disclosure in the financombination (see note 29 for details). They are recognised at their fair cial statements, unless the probability of an outgoing payment is value at the date of acquisition and are subsequently amortised on a remote. An asset is only recognised in the balance sheet if it is highly straight-line bases over their estimated useful lives of 20 years. probable that the Group will receive the asset. Disclosures regarding Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the contingent assets are given where an inflow of resources is probable. excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identiTax. Income tax is the sum of current tax and changes in deferred fiable net assets acquired. Goodwill impairment reviews are undertax. Tax is recognised in profit and loss, except to the extent that it taken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumrelates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or stances indicate a potential impairment. Any impairment is recognised directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other immediately as an expense and is not sub-sequently reversed. ­comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Current tax Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable is ­recognised at the amount that is expected to be paid to the tax value. Purchased goods are measured at cost in accordance with the authorities based on the taxable income that is reported for the units FIFO principle while own-produced finished goods and products in included in the consolidated financial statements. The income tax is progress are measured at production cost. A deduction is made for determined using tax rates that have been enacted on the ­balance obsolescence. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price sheet date. less selling costs. For a description of inventories as hedged item in a fair value hedge see “Fair value hedging” page 81. 80 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax in the balance sheet has been calculated at the reduced in a subsequent period and this can objectively be attributed ­ ominal tax rate based on temporary differences for assets and n to an event occurring after recognition of the impairment loss (such as ­liabilities at the balance sheet date. an improvement in a debtor’s creditworthiness), the reversal of the A provision for deferred tax on retained earnings in foreign subsidipreviously recognised impairment loss is recognised in the consoliaries is recognised to the extent that it is likely that the dividend will dated income statement. be distributed in a near future. Accounts payable are obligations to pay for goods or services Deferred tax assets are reviewed continually and recognised in the which have been acquired from suppliers or service provides in the balance sheet only to the extent that it is likely that future t­ axable course of the company’s operating activities. Accounts payable are profits can be used. classified as current liabilities. Accounts payable are measured at Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are offset insofar as amortised cost. this is possible under local tax laws and regulations. Borrowings (loans) are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs. Subsequently loans are carried at amortised cost FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS and any difference between the amount received (net of transaction The Group’s financial assets comprise loans and accounts receiv­able costs) and the amount repayable is recognised in the income stateas well as derivatives. Purchases and sales of financial assets are ment over the term of the loan by applying the effective interest ­recognised at the transaction date, which is the date when the Group method. undertakes to buy or sell the asset. Accounts receivable are recogHedge accounting. The Group uses the following criteria for clasnised when the invoice has been sent. Financial assets are removed sifying a derivative or other financial instrument as a hedging instrufrom the balance sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the ment: (1) the hedging instrument is expected to be very effective in instrument has expired or been transferred and the Group has transoffsetting changes in the fair value of or cash flows for an identifi­able ferred essentially all risks and benefits associated with ownership to item (hedged item), with an expected hedge efficiency of 80–125 per another party. cent, (2) the hedge efficiency can be reliably measured, (3) satisfacThe Group’s financial liabilities comprise borrowings and accounts tory documentation is drawn up before the hedging instrument is payable as well as derivatives. Financial liabilities are recognised in acquired showing, in particular, that the hedge relationship is effecthe balance sheet when the counterparty has performed and a contive, (4) in case of the use of cash flow hedges, that the future trans­ tractual obligation to pay exists. Accounts payable are recognised action is deemed to be highly probable, and (5) the hedge relationship when the invoice has been received. Financial liabilities are derecogis reviewed on a regular basis and has proved to be effective, i.e. nised from the balance sheet when the contractual o ­ bligation has between 80–125 per cent. been fulfilled or in some other way is extinguished. Gains and losses on the hedging instrument are recognised in the Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus income statement at the same time as gains and losses from the transaction costs, which applies to all financial assets and liabilities hedged item. that are not measured at fair value through profit and loss. These are Fair value hedging. Changes in the fair values of derivatives desiginitially recognised at fair value excluding transaction costs. nated as hedging instruments are recognised immediately in the Financial assets and liabilities are in general not netted even when income statement. Changes in the fair value of the hedged item there is a legal right of netting the carrying amounts and an intention (inventory) relating to the hedged risk are recognised in the income to settle them by a net amount or to simultaneously realise the asset statement in the same way and are recognised as an adjustment on and settle the liability. The legal right must not depend on future the hedged item’s carrying amount. Hedge accounting is discontinued events and must be legally binding for the company and the counterif: (a) the hedge instrument has expired, been terminated, exercised or party both in case of normal business activities and in the event of sold, (b) the hedge no longer meets the aforementioned criteria for default, insolvency or bankruptcy. hedging, or (c) the Group for some reason chooses not to continue to Derivatives are classified either as measured at fair value through hedge fair value. In the case of a discontinued hedge, changes in the profit and loss in the subcategory that is called held for trading or as fair value of the hedged item are recognised in the balance sheet until hedging instrument for which hedge accounting is applied. Derivatives the hedged item (inventory) is recognised as cost of materials in the are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and accounted income statement. for as assets or liabilities. Gains and losses on changes in fair value Cash flow hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value are recognised in profit or loss when the derivative is not part of a of the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive hedge relationship which meets the criteria for hedge accounting. income and accumulated in the hedging reserve until the hedged Embedded derivatives in contracts are identified and measured sepatransaction is executed. At that time the accumulated gains or losses rately. Gränges currently has no embedded derivatives. Purchases on the hedging instrument will be reclassified to the income stateand sales of derivatives are recognised at the transaction date. ment. The ineffective portion of the hedging instrument is recognised Loans and receivables are financial assets which are non-derivaimmediately in the income statement. When a hedging instrument has tives, have fixed or determinable payments, and are not listed on an expired, been sold, exercised or terminated, or the Group has disconactive market. They are included in current assets, with the exceptinued the hedge relationship, the accumulated gains or losses will tion of items maturing later than twelve months from the end of the remain in the hedging reserve and will be recognised in the income reporting period, which are classified as non-current assets. statement upon execution of the hedged transaction. If the hedged Accounts receivable are always classified as current assets. The transaction is no longer expected to occur, the accumulated gain or Group’s loans and receivables comprise accounts receivable and loss on the hedging instrument will be recognised immediately in the other receivable as well as cash and cash equivalents. These are carincome statement. ried at amortised cost in the balance sheet applying the effective interest rate method. Accounts receivable are measured at the SEGMENTS amount expected to be paid, i.e. after deducting bad debts. At the end Gränges mainly develops, produces and distributes aluminium of each reporting period the Group assesses whether there is objecmaterial for heat exchanger applications. The heat exchanger tive evidence of impairment of financial assets. Objective evidence of industry is global and relatively consolidated, with a small number impairment includes, for example, indications of significant financial of global customers accounting for about half of Gränges’ sales difficulties of a debtor, non-payment of interest or principal and volume. A single Key Account organisation handles all Gränges’ observable information pointing to a measurable decrease in estiglobal key customers. The operations are governed through a mated future cash flows. matrix structure which combines key customers with regional Impairment loss is calculated as the difference between the carrymarkets and production units. ing amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future Due to the global character of the operations Gränges reports a cash flows (excluding future credit losses which have not occurred), ­single global segment in line with IFRS 8. discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The For information on the geographic distribution of non-current assets, asset’s carrying amount is written down and the impairment loss is sales revenue and the average number of employees (see Note 7). recognised in the consolidated income statement. If the impairment is GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 4 OTHER PRINCIPLES USE OF ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN Cash flow. The cash flow statement, which has been prepared using the indirect method, shows cash flows from operating activities, 5 P ­ REPARING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS investing activities and financing activities, and explains changes in “Cash and cash equivalents” for the reporting period. In preparing Gränges’ consolidated accounts, it is necessary to make Acquisitions. The acquisition method is used to account for the a number of estimates and assumptions which can influence the caracquisitions of subsidiaries and operations. All payments to acquire a rying amounts of assets and liabilities. When preparing the financial business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess statements, management makes its best judgements in areas of sigof the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net nificant importance. Areas where estimates and judgements are of assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. significant importance for the consolidated financial statements are: Leasing. Leases are classified based on the extent to which the economic risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased Accounting item Note Estimate/assumptions asset are held by the lessor or lessee. A lease is classified as a financial lease if it essentially transfers all risks and benefits associated Property, plant and Recoverable amount and estimate with ownership of an asset. Finance leases are capitalised at the equipment 17 of correct remaining useful life lease’s inception at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, Determination of tax rate for profits the present value of the minimum lease payments. The property, plant Income tax 14 in China and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the Economic and demographic asset’s useful life or over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the Pension liability 10 assumptions lease term. Other leases are classified as operating leases. Expenses Property, plant and Assumptions and methods for related to such leases are accounted for as operating expenses. equipment and determining the fair value of Share-based payments. The Group operates a share-based Intangible assets 16, 17 acquired business ­compensation plan under which payments are made in the form of shares and the company receives services from employees as The value of property, plant and equipment is based on cost and is ­compensation for the Group’s equity instruments (employee stock depreciated over the estimated useful life. For several of Gränges’ options). The fair value of the employee services received in exchange items of property, plant and equipment changes in assumptions can for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense along with a have a significant impact on the value. corresponding increase in equity. The total amount recognised as an Gränges has applied for a qualification as a high technology comexpense is based on the fair value of the granted employee stock pany in China for the period 2016 to 2018. This qualification would options as determined on the grant date. mean that Gränges in China can avail of an income tax rate of 15 per The Group also has a share-based remuneration plan based on cent instead of the ordinary rate of 25 per cent. However, in order to cash settlement. The fair value of employee services received in obtain the classification special requirements established needs to be exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense met and local authorities will subsequently review that Gränges has along with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The cost of met these requirements. Since no pre-approval has been received and cash-settled instruments is based on the fair value of the granted in view of the difficulties to currently estimate whether these special employee stock options, as determined at each closing date until final requirements will be met for the classification, income tax in the settlement. ­Chinese operation has been based on ordinary tax of 25 per cent for At the end of each reporting period the Group reviews its estimates 2016. Further information is provided in Note 14. of how many shares are expected to be vested based on the service Gränges has a number of defined benefit pension plans. The present condition. Any deviations from the original estimates identified in value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors which such reviews are recognised in the income statement with correare determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. sponding adjustments in equity for equity-settled instruments and The assumptions used in determining the net pension expense liabilities for cash-settled instruments. (income) include the discount rate. Each change in these assumptions When options are exercised, the company issues new shares. The has an impact on the carrying amount of the pension obligation. Furproceeds received, net after any directly attributable transaction ther information on sensitivity analyses etc. for changes in material costs, are credited to the share capital (quotient value) and other paid assumptions is provided in Note 10. in equity. Future events and changes in operating parameters may make it Social security contributions payable in connection with the grant necessary to make other estimates and assumptions. of stock options are considered as an integral part of the grant itself, The financial statements can also be affected by the choice of and the charge will be treated as cash-settled transaction that is accounting principles and judgements made in applying the principles. remeasured at each closing date until settlement is made. This applies, for example, to certain items which are accounted for as Government grants are recognised in the financial statements “Items affecting comparability” in a separate line. Gränges has also chowhen it is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received. The sen to present earnings from joint ventures after the operating profit. grants are accounted for either as income or a reduction of expenses, The valuation of identifiable assets and liabilities in connection with and are in the latter case matched with the expenses which they are the business combination in the US is performed by revaluing items intended to compensate for. Government grants attributable to assets already recorded in the balance sheet, as well as items which have not are accounted for as a reduction of the cost of the asset. The grant previously been recorded in the balance sheet, such as customer relareduces the depreciation of the asset. tionships, to fair value. Inventories, which primarily consists of aluminium, have been valued according to listed market prices. The valuation of acquired buildings has been performed using external valuation data. The valuation is based on property transactions performed for similar objects in the relevant regions as well as certain other assumptions regarding the properties. For other fixed tangible assets a method based on replacement cost, where Gränges has made assumptions and judgments regarding the present state of those assets and the cost of replacing them, has been used. Intangible assets, which primarily consists of customer relationships, have been valued based on the expected future cash flows from the acquired business’ present customer portfolio. The US business combination was completed 22 of August 2016. The process of determining values of acquired assets and liabilities in accordance with the description above has been ongoing throughout the fall and the purchase price allocation per 31 December 2016 is still preliminary. No events subsequent to the business combination which indicate impairment for the allocated values of acquired assets and liabilities have occurred. 82 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD Gränges reports two joint ventures, in which Gränges has a share of Norca Heat Transfer (100 per cent) 50 per cent based on the equity method. Items in the income statement and statement of financial position Norca Heat Transfer LLC is a sales and distribution company which (100 per cent). Norca Heat Transfer acts as distributor for Gränges’ products in the North American market. Sales to Norca were SEK 961 million (801) in 2016 . USD million 2016 2015 Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd provides stamping Operating revenue 115 99 capacity for Gränges’ customers in China. Operating profit 2 2 The company does not deem that any significant capital injections will be required in the joint ventures in which Gränges participates. Profit after tax 1 1 Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method Current assets 41 46 Shanghai Non-current assets – – Norca Gränges Heat Moriyasu Total assets 41 46 SEK million Transfer A ­ luminium Total Current liabilities 8 13 Carrying amount 1 January 2016 24 6 30 Non-current liabilities 25 25 Acquisitions/sales – – – Total liabilities 33 38 Share of profit/loss 2 0 2 Dividend –4 – –4 Translation differences 2 0 2 Carrying amount 31 December 2016 24 7 30 Carrying amount 1 January 2015 24 6 30 Acquisitions/sales – – – Share of profit/loss 2 0 2 Dividend –4 – –4 Translation differences 2 0 2 Carrying amount 31 December 2015 24 6 30 7 GEOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN OF NET SALES, NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Net sales are distributed regionally based on where the customers are located. Non-current assets and the average number of employees are based on where Gränges is located. Net sales Non-current assets1) Average no. of employees SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Asia 2,623 2,637 1,039 1,108 528 541 Sweden 265 226 548 576 434 423 Rest of Europe 1,668 1,752 – – – – Americas 2,651 880 2,373 24 192 – Total 7,207 5,494 3,960 1,708 1,154 964 1) Excluding deferred tax assets, interest-bearing receivables and other non-current receivables. The seven largest customers accounted for 46 per cent (57) of sales. No customers accounted for more then 10 per cent of total sales in 2016, while in 2015 two customers represented more than 10 per cent each of total sales. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 PAYROLL EXPENSES Average number of employees 2016 2015 Average no. of employees Of which, women Average no. of employees Of which, women Gränges AB Sweden 24 8 41 16 Subsidiaries Sweden 410 77 382 56 China 516 53 528 51 US 192 23 – – Other countries 12 3 13 4 Group total 1,154 164 964 127 Board members and other senior executives 2016 2015 No. at balance sheet date Of which, women No. at balance sheet date Of which, women Gränges AB Board members 9 3 7 2 CEO and other senior executives 8 1 8 1 Salaries, other remuneration and social security contributions 2016 2015 Salaries and Salaries and remuneration remuneration (of which, Social sec. (of which, Social sec. SEK million variable portion) contrib. Pension variable portion) contrib. Pension Gränges AB Board, CEO and other senior ­executives 21 (10) 10 4 19 (9) 7 4 Other employees 17 6 4 21 7 3 Subsidiaries Board, CEO and other senior ­executives 17 (7) 2 1 14 (6) 4 1 Other employees 499 118 26 305 98 17 Group total 555 136 35 360 117 24 SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD MEMBERS, components, short-term incentive programme (STI) and long-term CEO AND OTHER SENIOR EXECUTIVES incentive programme (LTI). Several long-term incentive programmes Board members can run in parallel. The remuneration from the short-term incentive Until the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016 the Board of Direcprogramme can amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic saltors consisted of five members, elected by the Annual General Meetary for the CEO and for the other senior executives. ing in 2015. Following the Annual General Meeting in 2016 the Board of A basic salary of SEK 4.5 million (4.0) and short term incentive of SEK Directors consisted of seven members, elected by said Annual Gen2.7 million (1.8) was paid to the CEO during the year. A provision for long eral Meeting. The Chairman and other members of the Board receive term incentive (LTI) was done by SEK 1.9 million (2.2). A basic salary of Directors’ fees in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the SEK 14.4 million (12.9) and short term incentive (STI) of SEK 6.7 million annual general meeting. The Chairman of the Board receives 500 kSEK (4.6) was paid to other senior executives during the year. A provision for and the other members of the Board 275 kSEK in remuneration. The long term incentive (LTI) was done by SEK 6.0 million (6.2). chairman of the Audit Committee receives an additional remuneration The contract between the company and CEO is subject to twelve of 80 kSEK and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee an addimonths’ notice by either party without deduction. In case of terminational remuneration of 50 kSEK. Employee representatives receive a tion by the company the CEO is also entitled to severance pay of a furremuneration of 40 kSEK which also is applied for the deputies. ther twelve monthly salaries, which is set off against income from new Remuneration to the Board members are in some cases done employment. The contracts between the company and other senior through invoicing from their own companies. In addition to the direcexecutives are subject to six months’ notice by either party without tors fee, social security contributions are then charged as a cost, deduction. In case of termination by the company the executive is which is considered to be cost neutral for Gränges. entitled to severance pay of a further twelve monthly salaries, which is set-off against income from new employment. CEO and other senior executives The remuneration paid to the CEO and other senior executives consists PENSION of a basic salary, variable remuneration, other benefits and pension. The retirement age for the CEO is 65 years. In addition to ordinary Senior executives refer to the members of the Group management defined-benefit pension in accordance with the ITP-plan, the CEO team. During 2016 the Group management team consisted of eight has a direct pension in form of a company-owned endowment insurpersons, including the CEO. ance. The premiums to the endowment insurance amounts to 35 per The salary is deliberated in the Remuneration Committee and cent of the basic salary, reduced with what is being payed to ITP. For adopted by the Board of Directors. For all other senior executives the other senior executives the retire­ment age is 60–65 years depending salaries are deliberated and decided by the CEO with the support of on the country of employment and both premium-based and the Chairman of the Board. The variable remuneration is based on defined-benefit-based obligations exist. results achieved in relation to the set targets and is made up of two 84 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration and other benefits in 2016 Short-term Employee Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive prostock option programmes Total variable Other Directors’ fee gramme (STI) ¹) programme (LTI 2014) (LTI 2016 and 2015) remuneration benefits Pension Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg 0.6 – – – – – – 0.6 Terje Andersen 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Ragnhild Wiborg 0.4 – – – – – – 0.4 Hans Porat 0.2 – – – – – 0.2 Carina Andersson 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Peter Carlsson 0.2 – – – – – – 0.2 Katarina Lindström 0.2 – – – – – – 0.2 Bertil Villard 0.1 – – – – – – 0.1 Management CEO Johan Menckel 4.5 2.7 0.33) 1.6 4.6 0.1 1.6 10.8 Other senior executives (7 individuals) 14.4 6.7 2.64) 3.5 12.7 0.9 2.7 30.8 Total 21.1 9.4 2.9 5.0 17.3 1.0 4.3 43.8 Remuneration and other benefits in 2015 Short-term Employee Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive prostock option programme Total variable Other Directors’ fee gramme (STI) 2) programme (LTI 2014) (LTI 2015) remuneration benefits Pension Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg 0.6 – – – – – – 0.6 Terje Andersen 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Carina Andersson 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Bertil Villard 0.3 – – – – – – 0.3 Ragnhild Wiborg 0.4 – – – – – – 0.4 Management CEO Johan Menckel 4.0 1.8 0.4 1.8 4.0 0.0 1.4 9.5 Other senior executives (7 individuals) 12.9 4.6 1.5 4.6 10.8 0.2 2.7 26.6 Total 18.8 6.5 1.9 6.5 14.8 0.2 4.1 37.9 1) The amounts are attributable to 2016 but will be disbursed in 2017. 2) The amounts are attributable to 2015 but were disbursed in 2016. 3) Vested employee stock options is settled with equity (shares) which means that the expense is based on the fair value of the option at grant date, i.e. 10 October 2014 which was 3.82 SEK per option. However, the benefit value (current fair value per option) at 31 December 2016 for the employee amounts to 36.91 SEK per option (19.08). A total of 77,534 (100,000) ­number of options have been vested for during the year. 100,000 options have been executed during 2016 for a benefit value of 38,72 SEK per option. 4) Vested employee stock options for four employees is settled with equity (shares), se above footnote 3, while vested employee options for one employee is settled with cash. The expense for cash-settled options is based on fair value of the option at each reporting period, 36.91 SEK per option (19.08), which is equivalent to the benefit value. A total of 118,240 (152,500) number of equity-settled options and 38,867 (50,000) number of cash-settled options have been vested. 215,000 options has been executed during the year to a benefit value of 38,72 SEK per option. VARIABLE REMUNERATION Employee stock option programme (LTI 2014) Short-term incentive programme (STI) On 10 October 2014 employee stock options were granted free of The remuneration from the short-term incentive programme can charge to senior executives and other key individuals in the Group. The amount to a maximum of 60 per cent of the basic salary for the CEO granted stock options have a term of two years from the grantdate and for the other senior executives. (vesting period) followed by an exercise period of one year. The exerThe outcome of the short-term incentive programme is determined cise price is SEK 51.00 equivalent to 120 per cent of the price in the by a number of parameters consisting of key financial indicators for offering in connection with the stock market listing less dividends the Group, such as adjusted operating profit and cash flow, and by until all options have either been exercised or lapsed which will be no performance against predetermined individual objectives. later than 9 November 2017. 516,000 employee stock options have been exercised during 2016 and the number of outstanding employee Long-term incentive programmes (LTI 2015 and LTI 2016) stock options per 31 December 2016 amounts to 397,000, all have Gränges’ long-term incentive programmes comprise the company’s been vested for. In the event of full exercise of the remaining employee senior executives and certain selected key persons. The incentive prostock options it would result in a dilution of 0.5 per cent of the total grammes aim to ­promote and encourage loyalty to the company by number of shares in Gränges. aligning personal objectives and interests with the shareholders’ The total expense recognised in the income statement for the interest of strong share price performance and a good dividend. employee stock options, including expenses for social security The programmes are designed so that an amount corresponding to ­contributions, in 2016 was SEK 10.6 million (8.6). Equity has increased the outcome from STI for each year and participant is set aside in a by SEK 1.0 million (1.0) while cash-settled employee stock options and ­so-­called LTI bank. The costs are provided for during the performance expenses for social security contributions have led to an increase in years and the provision for LTI for each year are shown in the table liabilities of SEK 9.6 million (7.5). Remuneration and other benefits. Provided that the participant is still employed at Gränges, one third of the amount for LTI 2015 is paid per OTHER BENEFITS year during 2017, 2018 and 2019, and for LTI 2016 during the years 2018, Other benefits mainly consist of company cars and medical benefits. 2019 and 2020. The payments are adjusted for total return of Gränges share. The total payment of LTI and STI in any one year shall be a maximum of 1.5 times an annual salary. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 US plans are partially funded. To secure unfunded accrued pension REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS rights of their employees in Sweden, companies need to take out a credit insurance policy with Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti. SEK million 2016 2015 PRI Pensionsgaranti also administers and calculates the Group’s unfunded pension obligations. The Group’s pensions in Sweden are EY regulated by the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act. The Group Audit engagement 6.6 2.9 also has a pension obligation, which is covered by transfer of funds to Audit services in addition a pension trust, amounting to SEK 1 million. to audit engagement 0.5 0.3 Special payroll tax has been taken into account in calculating penTax advisory services 0.8 0.9 sion obligations. Other services 8.2 4.2 ASSUMPTIONS FOR DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Total remuneration to auditors 16.1 8.3 The assumptions are defined in consultation with professional actuaries. Assumptions on future salary adjustments and sales are specific to Audit engagement refers to the examination of the annual report and the Group. The discount rate is determined by reference to high-qualaccounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ ity corporate bonds traded in a well functioning market, which reflect ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s audit­or the duration of the pension obligation. In Sweden the discount rate is as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations based on secured mortgage bonds. made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement is mainly Assumptions for defined benefit plans, Sweden related to review of interim reports. Tax advisory services include advice on tax, including transfer pric2016 2015 ing issues, as well as value-added tax. Discount rate 2.5 % 3.2 % Other services refer to advice that is not attributable to any of the Future salary adjustments 2.6 % 2.6 % aforementioned categor­ies of services. In 2016 other services consisted mainly of services related to the acquisition activities. Income base amount 2.5 % 2.5 % Inflation 1.5 % 1.5 % Employee turnover 4.0 % 4.0 % 10 PENSIONS Weighted average remaining duration, years 19.0 18.0 The assumptions for life expectancy are based on PRI’s life expecGränges has pension plans in Sweden and the US. Approximately 74 tancy tables as of 30 June 2011. per cent (71) of the employees in Sweden are covered by defined contribution pension plans, with the remainder covered by defined benefit Assumptions for defined benefit plans, US plans. All permanent full time employees in the US are eligible for the defined contribution plan. Approximately 27 per cent of permanent full 2016 2015 time employees in the US are eligible for the defined benefit pension Discount rate 2.5 %–4.2 % – plan. Future salary adjustments 4.0 % – DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS Income base amount N/A – Employees of Gränges in the Swedish operation are mainly covered by Inflation N/A – pension plans classified as defined contribution plans. Defined conEmployee turnover 3.5 %–20.0 % – tribution plans are arrangements in which the company pays annual Weighted average remaining duration, contributions to its employees’ pension plans and where future penyears 10.9 – sions are determined by the amount of contributions paid and the return on the pension assets. In Sweden employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement have defined contribution ­pension The mortality assumption is based on the RP-2014 mortality tables. plans, as do salaried employees born after 1979 under the ITP1 supDistribution of pension costs plementary pension plan. SEK million 2016 2015 DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS Defined contribution plans –26 –19 The defined benefit pension plan in Sweden applies for salaried employees covered by the ITP2 supplementary pension plan, based on Current service cost –9 –5 a collective agreement between the Confederation of Swedish EnterPension cost recognised as operating expense –35 –24 prise and the trade unions for salaried employees in the private sector. Interest on net pension liabilities recognised The pension plan is a net plan under which the pension obligation is as a financial expense –6 –4 not linked to changes in Swedish social insurance schemes. Under the Pensions costs recognised in the income applicable collective agreement, all salaried employees born in 1979 statement –42 –28 or after are covered by a defined contribution plan. This means that Actuarial gains and losses recognised in the scope of the defined benefit plan will be reduced over time. The the statement of comprehensive income 27 13 group also operates defined benefit pension plans in the US under Return on plan assets greater than discount broadly similar regulatory frameworks. All of the plans are final salary rate 2 – pension plans, which provide benefit to members in the form of a Total pension costs –12 –16 guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of benefits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in the Distribution of pension liabilities at 31 December final years leading up to retirement. In the Swedish plans, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with the retail price index, SEK million 2016 2015 whereas in the US plans, pensions generally do not receive inflationPresent value of unfunded pension obligations –169 –138 ary increases once in payment. With the exception of this inflationary risk in Sweden, the plans face broadly similar risks, including the risk Present value of funded and partially funded pension obligations –429 –1 of increased life expectancy and sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Funded plan assets 310 1 Both the Swedish and US defined benefit plans are accounted for Total pension liabilities –288 –138 as a provision in the balance sheet. Swedish plans are unfunded and 86 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in the present value of pension obligations during the year SEK million 2016 2015 12 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY Pension obligations 1 January –138 –146 SEK million 2016 2015 Business combinations –448 – Mergers and Acquisition costs –70 – Current service cost –9 –5 Realisation of fair value inventory step-up Interest on pension provision –9 –4 on acquired business –48 – Actuarial gains and losses recognised in Closure costs for US sales company –10 – the statement of comprehensive income: Restructuring costs – –15 – due to changes in financial assumptions 13 15 Insurance settlement – 21 – due to changes in demographic assumptions 15 – Write-down of machinery – –8 – due to experienced-based adjustments 1 –3 Total items affecting comparability –128 –3 Benefits paid during the year 13 5 Translation differences –34 – Items affecting comparability include non-recurring income and Pension obligations 31 December –597 –138 expenses. Disclosure is made to improve the comparability between different periods. Changes in the present value of plan assets during the year In 2016 Gränges conducted acquisition activities in North America to a total cost of SEK –70 million, and on 22 August 2016 the acquisiSEK million 2016 2015 tion of Noranda Aluminum Holding Corporation’s downstream aluminBusiness combinations 293 – ium rolling business in the US was completed. The acquired inventory Interest on plan assets 3 – was measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS. The realisation Return on plan assets greater than discount cost of the difference between the inventory valued at fair value and rate 2 – at cost, the so called step-up amounted to SEK –48 million and has Employer contributions 0 – been considered as an item affecting comparability for the year 2016. Following the acquisition in US, Gränges will coordinate the distriBenefits paid during the year –8 – bution in North America through the new company Gränges Americas Translation differences 19 – Inc. The costs for closing the current sales company, Norca Heat Plan assets 31 December 310 – Transfer LLC, are estimated to SEK –10 million and is included in items affecting comparability. Net pension liabilities –288 –138 For further information about the US acquisition, see note 29. Items affecting comparability for 2015, mainly relates to a settleDistribution of plan assets ment amounting to SEK 21 million with Gränges’ insurance company for an embezzlement of metal scrap performed by a former employee SEK million 2016 2015 in Finspång. Additional item 2015 comprise of personnel reductions Equity 204 – due to restructuring of the Swedish operation at a cost of SEK –15 million. During 2015 write down of machinery no longer used in the operaFixed income 101 – tion was done with SEK –8 million Cash 3 – Total plan assets 310 – Sensitivity analysis 13 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS The sensitivity for the material assumption on applied discount rate is calculated as follows: SEK million 2016 2015 • a decrease in discount rate by 0.5 per cent increases pension Interest income 5 5 ­obligation by 9.9 per cent in Sweden and by 5.8 per cent in the US • an increase in discount rate by 0.5 per cent decreases pension Other interest income 0 0 ­obligation by 8.7 per cent in Sweden and by 5.3 per cent in the US Total financial income 5 5 Interest expense –44 –14 An increase or decrease in life expectancy by one year increases or Interest expense, pensions –6 –4 decreases the pension obligation by 4.0 per cent in Sweden and by 3.7 Net foreign exchange losses 0 –1 per cent in the US. Other financial expenses –15 –6 The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an individual actuarial assumption while other assumptions remain unchanged. This method Total financial costs –66 –24 shows the obligation’s sensitivity to a single assumption. This is a simpliTotal financial income and costs –61 –19 fied method, as actuarial assumptions are normally correlated. Contributions to plans for post-employment remuneration are Financial income in 2016 mainly consists of interest income from bank estimated at SEK 30 million for the financial year 2017. deposits in China. Financial expenses primarily refers to interest on borrowings. Other financial expenses mainly can be referred to costs for financing of the acquisition in the US. 11 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES SEK million 2016 2015 14 TAXES Energy expenses –287 –254 Tax expense Freight expenses –199 –149 Repair and maintenance expenses –200 –128 SEK million 2016 2015 Consultants, legal advisors, temporary staff –95 –56 Profit before taxes 500 521 Insurance –36 –28 Current tax –29 –153 Rental/leasing –26 –18 Deferred tax 27 10 Vehicle operating expenses –21 –14 Total tax –2 –143 Operating expenses for office equipment –8 –8 Other –284 –309 Tax as % of profit before taxes 0 27 Total other operating expenses –1,155 –965 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 87 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 14 Reconciliation of the Group’s tax rate approval for beeing classified as a high technology company for the The following table shows a reconciliation of reported tax and tax calperiod 2013 to 2015. This means that Gränges is entitled to an income culated on Swedish tax rate of 22 per cent. The main tax components tax rate of 15 per cent in China instead of the ordinary 25 per cent for are shown below. the three year period. The company has applied for an additional three-year period, SEK million 2016 2015 2016–2018, being classified for as a High Technology Enterprise. HowEarnings before tax multiplied by nominal tax ever, in order to obtain the classification special requirements needs to rate in Sweden –110 –115 be met and local authorities will subsequently review that Gränges has Effect of foreign operations with tax rates other met these requirements. Since no pre-approval has been received and than 22 % –8 –17 in view of the difficulties to currently estimate whether the special Profit/loss from joint ventures 1 1 requirements will be met for the classification, income tax in the ­Chinese operation has been based on the ordinary tax of 25 per cent Non-deductible expenses –3 –1 for 2016. Non-taxable income 2 2 Income tax paid abroad mainly consists of paid income tax of SEK Tax subsidies abroad 15 4 –38 million in China on dividends from the subsidiary in Shanghai to Other income tax paid abroad –43 –19 Gränges AB. Adjustment of tax in respect of prior years 3 2 DEFERRED TAX Release on tax provision in China 139 – Deferred tax consists of the Group’s tax items, which are settled in the Total tax –2 –143 future. The table below specifies deferred tax assets and tax ­liabilities relating to temporary differences between the carrying amounts and A positive tax effect of SEK 139 million has been reported for 2016 due tax bases of assets and liabilities. to release of provision for current tax for previous years for Gränge’s The table shows the breakdown of the Group’s deferred taxes. Chines subsidiary. The subsidiary has during the year received a final Deferred tax on temporary differences 2016 2015 Deferred Deferred Net deferred Deferred Deferred Net deferred SEK million tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax Property, plant and equipment 1 –56 –54 – –47 –47 Intangible assets – –13 –13 – – – Hedging reserve in equity 9 – 9 2 –1 1 Net pension provision 14 –14 0 10 – 10 Other non-current items 12 – 12 0 – 0 Total non-current items 35 –82 –47 13 –48 –36 Current receivables 8 – 8 11 – 11 Inventories 6 – 6 4 – 4 Other current items 52 –3 49 30 –4 26 Total current items 66 –3 63 45 –4 41 Tax losses 24 – 24 11 – 11 Set-off –61 61 0 –14 14 0 Net deferred tax assets (+) / liabilities (–) 64 –24 40 54 –37 17 Deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses have been taken into account in full since the company is of the opinion that sufficient income will be generated in the future to be utilised against the tax losses. Change in deferred tax in the income statement SEK million 2016 2015 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Change in deferred tax in balance sheet 23 4 Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year Change in deferred tax, hedging reserve in other by the weighted average number of outstanding shares. For further comprehensive income –7 6 information of Gränges shares see Note 27 Share capital. Change in deferred tax, actuarial gains and losses on 2016 2015 pensions in other comprehensive income 13 3 Translation effects in other comprehensive income –2 –3 Profit for the year (SEK million) 498 379 Change in deferred tax in the income statement 27 10 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, basic 74,703,886 74,639,386 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, diluted 74,913,949 74,728,482 Earnings per share, basic, SEK 6.66 5.07 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 6.64 5.07 In connection with the stock market listing of Gränges an employee stock option programme for senior executives and key individuals of the company was introduced (for more information, see Note 8 Payroll expenses). The employee stock option programme has resulted in a dilution effect of 210,063 (89,096) shares. 88 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Customer SEK million IT Goodwill relationships Total SEK million IT Goodwill relationships Total Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 3 6 – 9 Carrying amount, 1 January 2015 6 5 – 11 Acquisitions 16 – – 16 Acquisitions – – – – Business combinations – 331 196 527 Business combinations – – – – Amortisation –2 – –3 –6 Amortisation –3 – – –3 Translation differences – 22 14 37 Translation differences – 0 – 0 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 17 359 207 584 Carrying amount, 31 December 2015 3 6 – 9 Cost, 31 December 2016 42 359 210 612 Cost, 31 December 2015 26 6 – 32 Accumulated amortisation and Accumulated amortisation and impairment –25 – –3 –29 impairment –23 – – –23 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 17 359 207 584 Carrying amount, 31 December 2015 3 6 – 9 Impairment testing Customer relationships For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are identified at the The customer relationships arose in conjunction with the US acqui­ lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows sition at 22 August 2016. The acquired business has a number of large (Cash Generating Unit), that is within Gränges per country. Impairment customers that they have had long relationships with. The customer tests for goodwill are carried out yearly or throughout the year if an relationships are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisiavent occurs that may result in an impairment requirement. tion and are subsequently amortised on a straight-line bases over their estimated useful lives of 20 years. Goodwill The goodwill primary arose in conjunction with the US acquisition (se Other note 29 for further information) at 22 August 2016. The process of IT mainly refers to implementation of a new ERP system within the determining values of acquired assets and liabilities has been ongoing Group. throughout the fall and the purchase price allocation per 31 December The Group expensed SEK 73 million (57) during 2016 for research 2016 is still preliminary. No events subsequent to the business combiand development. nation which indicate impairment for the allocated values of acquired assets and liabilities have occurred. 17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improvements Machinery and equipFixed assets under Fixtures, SEK million and buildings1) ment construction vehicles, etc. Total Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 451 1,071 105 42 1,669 Acquisitions 0 39 87 12 139 Business combinations 261 1,392 13 7 1,673 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 12 34 –47 0 0 Impairment – –1 – – –1 Depreciation –31 –212 – –15 –258 Translation differences 19 104 1 1 125 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 713 2,428 159 46 3,347 Cost, 31 December 2016 1,041 4,479 159 192 5,871 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –329 –2,050 – –145 –2,524 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 713 2,428 159 46 3,347 Carrying amount, 1 January 2015 463 1,065 144 41 1,713 Acquisitions 12 79 31 12 134 Sales –1 –1 – – –2 Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction –5 75 –75 5 0 Impairment – –8 – – –8 Depreciation –27 –162 – –16 –205 Translation differences 9 24 5 0 37 Carrying amount, 31 December 2015 451 1,071 105 42 1,669 Cost, 31 December 2015 749 2,910 105 173 3,937 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –298 –1,838 – –130 –2,266 Carrying amount, 31 December 2015 451 1,071 105 42 1,669 1) The carrying amount relating to land was less than SEK 1 million in all presented periods. For information on lease costs regarding leased property, plant and equipment, see Note 28. For information on collateral and mortgages related to property, plant and equipment, see Note 30. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 INVENTORIES SEK million 2016 2015 Raw materials 407 339 Work in progress 510 242 Finished goods and merchandise 532 323 Provision for obsolescence –22 –16 Total inventories 1,428 888 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and fair value after deduction of selling costs. 19 OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial fair value included in ­liabilities Of which 2016 Measurement through profit hedge ­measured at Loans and interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortised cost ­receivables Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 24, 31 – – – – 36 36 36 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 1 – – 1 – Total – 1 – 36 37 36 Current assets Accounts receivable 20 – – – – 1,392 1,392 – Other current receivables 20 – – – – 103 103 – Current derivatives 20, 24, 26 2 27 4 – – 31 2 Cash and cash equivalents 21 – – – – 851 851 851 Total 27 4 – 2,346 2,377 853 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 24 – – – 2,888 – 2,888 2,888 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 8 – – 8 – Total – 8 2,888 – 2,895 2,888 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 24 – – – 433 – 433 433 Accounts payable 22 – – – 832 – 832 – Other current liabilities 22 – – – 44 – 44 – Current derivatives 22, 24, 26 2 56 35 – – 91 3 Total 56 35 1 ,309 – 1,400 436 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) –29 –38 –4,197 2,382 1,881 –2,434 90 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial fair value included in ­liabilities Of which 2015 Measurement through profit hedge ­ easured at m Loans and interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortised cost r­ eceivables Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 24, 31 – – – – 34 34 34 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 4 – – 4 – Total – 4 – 34 38 34 Current assets Accounts receivable 20 – – – – 870 870 – Other current receivables 20 – – – – 106 106 – Current derivatives 20, 26 2 30 12 – – 42 0 Cash and cash equivalents 21 – – – – 634 634 634 Total 30 12 – 1,610 1,652 634 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 24 – – – 804 – 804 804 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 1 – – 1 – Total – 1 804 – 805 804 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 24 – – – – – – – Accounts payable 22 – – – 443 – 443 – Other current liabilities 22 – – – 13 – 13 – Current derivatives 22, 26 2 31 20 – – 51 0 Total 31 20 456 – 507 0 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) –1 –5 –1,260 1,644 378 –136 MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Interest-bearing receivables and liabilities The Group uses the following hierarchy to determine the fair values of The fair value of interest-bearing assets and liabilities is provided for financial instruments: disclosure purposes and is estimated by discounting the future cash Level 1: Quoted, unadjusted prices in active markets for identical flows of principal and interest discounted at the current market rate. instruments. In the fair value measurement of borrowings the credit spread has Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are remained constant unless there is clear evidence that a change in directly or indirectly observable for the instrument. the Group’s creditworthiness has resulted in an observable change Level 3: N  on-observable inputs that have significant impact on the fair in the credit spread. The fair value of borrowings amounted in 2016 value of the instrument. to SEK 3,339 million (810). Currency forwards Other receivables and liabilities Fair value of currency forward contracts is calculated by discounting For other receivables and liabilities, which are short-term, the ­carrying the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward amount is considered to reflect the fair value. rate that can be contracted on the balance sheet date for the remaining contract period. No transfers from one level to another in the valuation hierarchy were made in 2016 and 2015. Aluminium futures Aluminium futures are measured at observable quoted prices on LME (London Metal Exchange) and SHFE (Shanghai Futures Exchange) for similar assets and liabilities. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 CURRENT RECEIVABLES 23 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT SEK million 2016 2015 Gränges’ capital management is governed by principles adopted by the Board of Directors. The capital structure is also adapted to legal Accounts receivable 1,392 870 and tax considerations. The company’s financial objective for capital Derivatives 31 42 management is a net debt of one to two times EBITDA over the past Other current receivables 103 106 twelve months. A further description of Gränges’ management of Total financial receivables 1,526 1,018 financing is given in Notes 24 and 25. Gränges does not currently have an official credit rating. Advances to suppliers/accrued income 33 22 Tax receivables 41 39 SEK million 2016 2015 Total current receivables 1,600 1,080 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,324 804 Total interest-bearing receivables 38 34 Change in provisions for bad debts Cash and cash equivalents 851 634 SEK million 2016 2015 Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,434 137 Provisions for bad debts, 1 January –46 –37 Provision for pensions 288 138 Bad debts recognised in income statement 15 –13 Net debt 2,722 275 Used during the year –1 5 Adjusted EBITDA 1,274 749 Translation differences 0 –1 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 2.1 0.4 Provisions for bad debts, 31 December –32 –46 Adjusted EBITDA for 2016 includes estimated adjusted EBITDA for the Accounts receivables maturity structure acquired business in the US as if part of the Gränges group for the full year. SEK million 2016 2015 Not yet due 1,114 616 Overdue 1–30 days 121 144 24 FINANCING LIABILITIES AND INTEREST-BEARING Overdue 31–60 days 63 48 Overdue 61–90 days 45 32 FINANCING Overdue more than 90 days 80 76 Gränges’ interest bearing debt consists mainly of a USD term loan of USD 210 million and SEK term loans of SEK 900 million. The duration Accounts receivable, carrying amount of the interest bearing debt portfolio was approximately two months 31 December 1,423 916 at 31 December 2016. Gränges also have a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,200 million, available in several currencies. Gränges has the The maturity structure of overdue receivables has been relatively staright to choose among maturities and fixed interest terms of one, two, ble over time and reflects the fact that Gränges operates in certain three or six months. At 31 December 2016 SEK 470 million (810) had regions and markets where payments from customers are generally been drawn with an average fixed interest term of one month. The loan somewhat slow. Overdue accounts receivable are allocated across the facilities are subject to covenants, which are Net Debt/EBITDA and whole customer base. Interest coverage ratio. The covenants were fulfilled at 31 December Bad debts have historically been relatively small and stable. Five 2016. customers accounted for 34 per cent of total outstanding accounts receiv­able at 31 December 2016 (five customers accounted for 25 per Carrying amount cent of the total in 2015). SEK million 2016 2015 A more detailed description of the customer base is given in Note 4 (under section Segments) and in Note 7. Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing loans 2,888 804 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2,888 804 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Current interest-bearing liabilities Interest-bearing loans 433 – SEK million 2016 2015 Interest-bearing derivatives 3 0 Cash and bank balances 851 634 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 436 0 Total cash and cash equivalents 851 634 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,324 804 Interest-bearing receivables Non-current interest-bearing receivables 36 34 22 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Current interest-bearing derivatives Cash and cash equivalents 851 2 – 634 SEK million 2016 2015 Total interest-bearing receivables 889 667 Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,434 137 Accounts payable 832 443 Derivatives 88 51 Under the current loan agreements Gränges has entered into customNon-interest-bearing liabilities 44 13 ary undertakings not to pledge assets or in a similar manner use its Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 964 507 property to give creditors a better right than the banks providing the Value-added tax, employee withholding tax etc. 37 29 credit facilities. Accrued expenses 113 85 Employee-related liabilities 186 91 Other current liabilities 29 17 Total other current liabilities 1,329 728 92 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The selling price for Gränges’ products is divided into a metal price 25 FINANCIAL RISK component for the raw aluminium and a conversion price component covering Gränges’ processing costs and margin. The cost of the aluFINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT minium is passed on to the customer through metal price clauses. The Gränges operates on a global basis and is exposed to financial risks aluminium price is generally set in connection with delivery. As both such as market risk in the form of currency risk, commodity price risk purchase and selling price for the metal component in general are and interest rate risk, and also to liquidity risk and credit risk. Gränges based on the London Metal Exchange (LME) price for aluminium, which uses derivatives and other financial instruments to reduce the risks in is expressed in US dollars, no material currency exposures arise on the accordance with the Group’s financial policy. metal price component. Unlike the metal price, the conversion price is Some of Gränges treasury department’s most important tasks are subject to contracts covering a longer period of time, thus creating a to secure the Group’s shortand long-term financial flexibility and to greater currency risk. monitor and manage financial risks in cooperation with the operating The largest portion of Gränges’ cost base for processing is in USD, companies. CNY and SEK while the conversion price is set primarily in USD, CNY Financial risk refers to risk pertaining to financial instruments. and EUR. The Group’s sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuations before These can either be hedging instruments for the underlying risk or be currency hedges, i.e. excluding the impact of currency derivatives, is viewed as a source of risk in themselves. Gränges manages financial shown in the table below. risks in a non-­speculative manner, which means that all transactions 2016 Change, % Effect on operating profit, SEK million in financial instruments are adapted to limit financial risks in the operations. USD/CNY ±10% ±78 USD/SEK ±10% ±26 CURRENCY RISK EUR/SEK ±10% ±56 Transaction exposure Gränges conducts operations globally and is thereby exposed to currency risk. The main exposure derives from the Group’s sales and purThe transaction risk is hedged according to the financial policy. The chases in different currencies. The currency risks consist partly of the objective for Gränges’ currency hedging activities, is to minimize the risk of fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, i.e. debt exposure to rapid changes in currency rates in the short and medium instruments, accounts receivable and accounts payable, and partly of term by hedging a carefully considered portion of the Group’s foreign the ­currency risk in expected and contracted payment flows. In 2016, currency exposure. Exposures relating to ­customer orders without sales to countries outside Sweden accounted for 98 per cent (97) of firm commitments are hedged up to 24 months out in time based on a Gränges’ total sales volume while net revenues in foreign currencies rolling forecast in which a portion of the forecast currency exposure is totalled SEK 6,942 million (5,268). The largest currencies were USD, hedged. In 2016, 50–70 per cent of the forecast currency exposure of CNY and EUR. the coming 12 months was hedged. The Group’s total outstanding currency hedges of future trans­actions at the balance sheet date are shown in the tables below. Currency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY 31 Dec 2016 Sold volumes, EUR Sold volumes, USD Sold volumes, USD Maturity million net Price million net Price million net Price Q1 2017 21 9.41 14 8.57 20 6.72 Q2 2017 18 9.45 9 8.63 17 6.71 Q3 2017 13 9.39 5 8.31 12 6.73 Q4 2017 10 9.52 5 8.46 9 6.73 FY 2018 17 9.50 7 8.44 10 6.83 Total 79 9.45 41 8.51 67 6.74 31 Dec 2015 Q1–4 2016 and Q1 2017 87 9.33 30 8.29 79 6.44 Metal related currency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY 31 Dec 2016 Sold volumes, EUR Sold volumes, USD Sold volumes, USD Maturity million net Price million net Price million net Price Q1–2 2017 –3 9.61 26 8.55 9 6.72 31 Dec 2015 Q1–2 2016 –1 8.28 27 8.35 6 6.41 1) In currency pairs where the net hedged position exceeds SEK 20 million. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 25 Gränges applies hedge accounting for most hedges of future INTEREST RATE RISK ­transactions, either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges of firm comGränges’ interest rate risk is primarily related to the Group’s interest­ mitments. The various types of hedging are described in Note 26. bearing liabilities and assets. Gränges’ primary sources of funding allows for borrowing with interest terms of one, two, three or six Translation exposure months. The average matu­rity at 31 December 2016 was two months As SEK is the presentation currency for the Group, Gränges is exposed (two months). Gränges’ loans have variable interest rates. The interest to currency risk upon translation of net investments in foreign operarate risk was not hedged with financial instruments during 2016. tions. This refers mainly to CNY and USD, for which the trans­lation exposure was SEK 2,755 million (2,241) at 31 December 2015. Gränges LIQUIDITY RISK does not hedge this exposure. Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will be unable to fulfil its pay­ ment obligations. Gränges financial policy stipulates measures that to COMMODITY PRICE RISK ensure adequate liquidity in the Group. Cash flow from operating Aluminium is traded mainly on the London Metal Exchange (LME) but activities is managed centrally in the Gränges Group and Gränges also on the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). For Gränges, prices of monitors short­and long-term liquidity flows through reporting. metal purchases are influenced by fluctuations in the market price of The table below shows the maturity structure for the Gränges aluminium on LME and SHFE. The guiding principle is that Gränges Group’s contractual financial liabilities. The amounts refer to non-­ should, where possible, avoid exposures to changes in the LME price discounted future cash flows and may therefore differ from the recor other benchmark prices, such as the SHFE price. Gränges reduces ognised ­figures. All variable interest cash flows have been calculated this risk primarily by linking prices from metal ­suppliers to the prices at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date and all future cash it offers its customers. In addition, futures contracts for aluminium flows in foreign currency are translated to SEK using the closing rate on LME and SHFE are concluded subject to defined limits in order to at year-end. The table also includes derivatives which are recognised reduce the price risk in connection with orders and the value of unsold as assets at the balance sheet date, as derivatives can include both metal in stock. positive and negative cash flows, and the fair value var­ies over time. Gränges normally has a certain level of stock for which the price to Financial liabilities are managed using operating cash flow, liquid the customers has not been fixed. The part of the stock where the and interest-­bearing assets and, where necessary, undrawn credit price has not been fixed with the customers are hedged using finanfacilities. cial instruments. At 31 December 2016 Gränges had sold a net 15,875 tonnes (15,800) of aluminium for hedging on LME and 7,000 tonnes (7,500) for hedging on SHFE. 2016 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 3–4 years > 4 years Other interest-bearing liabilities 3,321 3,652 535 918 2,200 – Accounts payable 832 832 832 – – – Other current liabilities 44 44 44 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives 0 – – – – – Inflow – –15 –15 – – – Outflow – 15 15 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives 66 – – – – – Inflow – –3,356 –3,045 –311 – – Outflow – 3,423 3,105 318 – – Total 4,263 4,595 1,470 924 2,200 – 2015 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 3–4 years > 4 years Other interest-bearing liabilities 804 849 11 21 817 – Accounts payable 443 443 443 – – – Other current liabilities 13 13 13 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives 4 – – – – – Inflow – –13 –13 – – – Outflow – 17 17 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives 2 – – – – – Inflow – –2,979 –2,815 –164 – – Outflow – 2,977 2,813 164 – – Total 1,266 1,307 469 21 817 – 1) Including derivatives recognised as assets. 94 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CREDIT RISK • For currency hedges of concluded contracts changes in the fair The management of credit risks related to accounts receivable and value of the hedging instrument will affect the income statement other current assets is handled as part of the commercial risk and while changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged contract monitored continuously by the operating units. Gränges customers are that is offset by the hedging instrument will not be shown, as this is also spread over various countries and geographic markets. Credit not a financial instrument. losses have historically been low due to the relatively strong financial • If one of the parameters changes the analysis will not take account position of Gränges’ customers as well as strict credit pro­c edures. of any correlations with other parameters. Gränges’ credit risks related to other financial instruments are • Financial instruments issued in the functional currency of individ­managed by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating and ual units do not create a currency risk and are therefore not by minimising the risk per counterparty. Gränges also enters into included in this analysis. For the same reason the currency expocustomary agreements with financial counterparties, as for example sure is not included upon translation of such financial instruments ISDA-agreements. into the presentation currency. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Generally, the effect on the income statement and other comprehenFinancial instruments in the Gränges Group are exposed to different sive income of financial instruments shown in the table below is types of market risk which can affect the income statement or equity. expected to offset the effects of the hedged items in cases where the Financial instruments, especially derivatives, are used as a means of financial instruments are included in a hedging relation­ship. hedging financial and operational exposures. Accounting effects of changes in market risk are classified to the The table below shows a partial analysis of the sensitivity of finanincome statement and other comprehensive income depending on cial instruments, where the isolated effect of each type of risk on the where the effect of changes in fair value should be recognised initially. income statement and other comprehensive income is calculated. Effects which are accounted for in the income statement also affect This is done on the basis of a chosen hypothetical change in market other comprehensive income in addition to the figures presented in prices or prices in the balance sheet at 31 December. In accordance the table. with IFRS, the analysis only covers financial instruments and is not intended to provide a full overview of the Group’s market risk, for example: Accounting before tax effects on Income statement Other comprehensive income SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Interest rate risk: 100 bp parallel shift in yield curves, all currencies –/+25 –/+2 – – Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, USD/SEK –/+2 –/+2 –/+28 –/+21 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, EUR/SEK –/+3 –/+6 –/+60 –/+60 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, CNY/USD 0 0 –/+47 –/+52 Price risk: +/–20 % change in LME prices –/+81 –/+76 +/-9 +/–13 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING The table below shows the fair value of all outstanding derivatives grouped by their treatment in the financial statements. Derivatives and hedging 2016 2015 SEK million Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Cash flow hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 4 –43 16 –18 Aluminium futures 1 0 0 –4 Total 5 –43 16 –21 Fair value hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 4 –17 5 –4 Aluminium futures 12 –14 13 –12 Total 15 –31 17 –16 Other derivatives – changes in fair value recognised in income statement Currency forwards, currency swaps 11 –24 13 –13 Aluminium futures 1 0 – –1 Total 12 –24 13 –14 Total derivatives 32 –99 47 –52 CASH FLOW HEDGES FAIR VALUE HEDGING Gränges’ purchases of futures contracts for aluminium on LME as well Gränges sells aluminium futures contracts to hedge the value of as currency forwards are identified as hedging instruments in cash inventory. Where there is also a currency risk exposure related curflow hedges. All derivatives are classified as hedging instruments in rency derivatives are entered into. Metal and currency derivatives are cash flow hedges accounted for at fair value in the balance sheet. then together designated as hedging instrument in fair value hedges. Changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income Gains and losses on hedged items as well as the hedging instrument and accumulated in the hedging reserve in equity and reclassified to are accounted for as cur­rency gains and losses in the income statethe income statement when the hedged cash flows are recognised in ment and the value of inventory is adjusted by changes in the fair value the income statement. of the hedged risk. Losses on the hedging instrument amounted to No gain or loss has been recognised in the income statement as a SEK –17 million in 2016 (–7) and gains on the hedged item attributable result of ineffective hedging in 2016 and 2015. All expected cash flows to the hedged risk amounted to SEK 17 million in 2016 (7). that were hedged in 2016 still qualify for hedge accounting. OFFSETTING Change in hedging reserve Financial assets and liabilities subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement relate only to the Group’s SEK million 2016 2015 derivatives. Gränges has entered into ISDA-agreements with relevant Opening hedging reserve before tax –5 –32 financial counterparties. Reclassified to income statement 8 32 Change in value during the year –41 –5 DerivaNet tives not CollaterClosing hedging reserve before tax –38 –5 amounts in intended als SEK Gross balance to be setreceived/ Net Deferred tax, hedging reserve 9 1 ­million amounts Offset sheet tled net pledged amounts Closing hedging reserve after tax –29 –3 2016 Derivative A negative hedging reserve will result in negative figures in the income assets 32 – 32 26 – 6 statement in the future. Accumulated hedging gains and losses from Derivative cash flow hedges which were recognised in the hedging reserve as at liabilities –99 – –99 –26 – –72 31 December 2016 and are expected to be recognised in the income statement (before tax) are SEK –31 million for 2017 and SEK -7 million 2015 after 2017. Derivative assets 47 – 47 30 – 17 Derivative liabilities –52 – –52 –30 – –23 96 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 SHARE CAPITAL Other contributed SEK million Event No. of shares Share capital capital Total 31 December 2014 – 74,639,386 100 – 100 31 December 2015 – 74,639,386 100 – 100 18 November 2016 Rights issue 516,000 1 33 34 31 December 2016 – 75,155,386 101 33 134 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share SEK 34 million and number of shares with 516,000 due to the rights ­c apital shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than issued. SEK 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than The share capital in Gränges at 31 December 2016 amounts to 32,000,000 and not more than 128,000,000. SEK 101 million, divided into 75,155,386 shares, each with a quota value Due to the exercise of 516,000 options within the group’s incenof SEK 1.339775. The share capital comprises a single class of share. tive program LTI 2014 (see note 8 for more information) new shares For earnings per share and dilutive effect see Note 15 Earnings per have been issued during the year. Equity has in total increased by share. 28 LEASING The reported expenses relating to operating leases reflect the minimum lease payment during the period of notice. Gränges has no significant financial leases. Operating leases – lessees Leased property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Fixtures and vehicles Other assets Total SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Costs, current year –6 –2 –2 – –17 –16 – – –26 –18 Costs, next year –6 –2 –7 – –14 –10 – – –27 –12 Total costs, 2–5 years –19 –6 –19 – –26 –5 – – –64 –11 Total costs after 5 years –9 –6 –5 – –4 – – – –17 –6 Total future lease costs –34 –14 –31 – –44 –15 – – –108 –29 Operating leases – lessor Leased property, plant and equipment Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Fixtures and vehicles Other assets Total SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Income, current year 29 20 – – – – – – 29 20 Income, next year 29 21 – – – – – – 29 21 Total income, 2–5 years 62 55 – – – – – – 62 55 Total income after 5 years 0 0 – – – – – – 0 0 Total future lease income 91 75 – – – – – – 91 75 Gränges lets industrial premises in Finspång, Sweden. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contingent liabilities of SEK 7 million related to a guarantee for 29 ACQUISITION worker’s compensation have been added in connection with the acquisition. The effect of the acquisition on the Group’s consolidated income On August 22, 2016 Gränges successfully completed the acquisition of statement for 22 August to 31 December 2016 is presented below. Noranda Aluminum Holding Corporation’s downstream aluminium rolling business in the US. The acquisition is in line with Gränges goal to be a global supplier with a more balanced footprint by firmly estab22 Aug– SEK million 31 Dec 2016 lishing the company in North America and as US market leader in the strategic stationary heat exchanger market. In addition, the acquisiNet Sales 1 577 tion expands Gränges’ offering into attractive adjacent aluminium Cost of materials –1 032 rolled product areas. Through the transaction, Gränges more than Payroll and other operating expenses –394 doubled the sales volume and the significantly strengthened business is a very good basis for continued profitable growth. Depreciation and amortisation –63 The transaction is an asset deal conducted by Gränges Americas Items affecting comparability –89 Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary to Gränges AB. The acquired business Operating profit –2 is consolidated from 22 August, 2016. The preliminary acquisition balance is presented below. Items affecting comparability consists of realisation of step-up value on the inventories due to fair value measurement of SEK –48 MSEK Preliminary purchase price allocation and M&A costs of SEK –41 million. USD SEK Transaction costs for the acquisition has affected the Group’s conmillion million solidated income statement for 2016 with SEK –58 million. If the acquisition had been consolidated as from 1 January 2016, it Property, plant and equipment 197 1,673 is assessed that the Group’s consolidated income statement for the Intangible assets 23 196 full year would have been presented as below. Other non-current receivables 2 14 Inventories 52 437 SEK million 2016 Receivables 40 337 Net sales 9 965 Provision and other liabilities –18 –155 Cost of materials –6 053 Other liabilities –30 –253 Payroll and other operating expenses –2 669 Net identifiable assets and liabilities 265 2,250 Depreciation and amortisation –398 Goodwill 39 331 Items affecting comparability –128 Cash consideration 305 2,581 Operating profit 718 Cash consideration paid for acquisition –305 –2,581 Profit from joint ventures 2 Cash and Cash equivalents in acquired operation – – Finance income and costs –117 Effect on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents –305 –2,581 Profit before taxes 603 The purchase price allocation is preliminary and can be subject for Income Tax –38 change if additional information of fair value is obtained. Profit for the period 565 Gross amounts for acquired receivables do not significantly deviate from the book value. In the consolidated income statement above, the acquired business in Goodwill is mainly justified by market access into Americas and the US has been included based on the assessed cost structure of the synergies from shared distribution in North America for the Gränges operations as a part of the Gränges Group. Finance income and costs group companies. The goodwill is tax deductible in the acquiring legal includes estimated financing costs for the period calculated based entity. on the Group’s interest rate levels and financing structure as per 30 September 2016. 98 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 P  LEDGED ASSETS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Pledged assets Orkla ASA (through Industriinvesteringer AS and Orkla Industriinves­ teringar AB) owned up until the18 March 2016, 16 per cent of the SEK million 2016 2015 shares in Gränges AB (publ). Orkla then sold all its shares in Gränges and transactions with Orkla group (including Sapa group) are after the Property mortgages 15 15 18 March 2016 no longer considered to be related party transactions. Own liabilities covered by property mortgages 1 1 Gränges has a share of 50 per cent in two joint ventures, Norca Heat Transfer LLC and Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd. Contingent liabilities Gränges reports these two joint ventures based on the equity method (see Note 6) and transactions with them are specified in the table SEK million 2016 2015 below. Guarantee commitment PRI Pensionsgaranti 2 2 Guarantee for worker’s compensation 7 – SEK million 2016 2015 Transactions with joint ventures Gränges has, in connection with signing the credit facilities described Sales 961 801 in Note 24, has entered into a customary undertaking to not pledge Costs –53 –47 assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a better right than the banks that are providing the credit facilities. Interest-bearing receivables (non current) 36 34 Accounts receivable 179 110 Disputes Non-interest-bearing liabilities 4 7 From time to time disputes with counterparties arise in the ongoing operations. The Group regularly makes assessments and provisions if Internal trades in the Group are executed in accordance with ­specific necessary in the accounts. Currently, the Group is not involved in any arrangements at arm’s length and shared costs in Gränges are allomajor litigation that is expected to substantially affect the accounts cated among the companies in the Group using allocation formulas negatively. depending on the types of expenditure. There are no other transactions with related parties. For information on remuneration and beneEnvironmental issues fits to key individuals in senior positions, see Note 8. The Group has conducted industrial production for a long time at facilities in Finspång, Västerås and Upplands Väsby. In light of the public review of potentially polluted areas in Sweden that is being conducted by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and country administrative boards, Gränges may be involved in reviews and investiga32 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE tions relating to facilities where industrial production has historically From 1 January 2017 Torbjörn Sternsjö, Senior Vice President taken place. For instance, industrial production has been conducted Technology & Business Development, replace Paul Neutjens in by various operators at Gränges’ facility in Finspång since the 16th Gränges’ group management. Furthermore, CFO Oskar Hellström has century. There are currently no ongoing cases relating to responsibility in this respect. been appointed Deputy CEO of Gränges Due to exercise of 20,000 warrants within Gränges employee stock Joint venture Norca option program (LTI 2014), the Board of Directors have decided to issue Gränges has a contractual undertaking to the jointly-owned US com20,000 new shares during March 2017. pany Norca Heat Transfer LLC to compensate Norca in the event of inventory obsolescence. In addition, Gränges has an obligation to bear any bad debt losses in Norca that are not covered by credit insurance. Historically, Gränges has not incurred significant costs for these undertakings. In 2016, Gränges had costs amounting to SEK –5 million (–7) for inventory obsolescence at Norca. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gränges makes use of the alternative performance measures Return on capital employed, Net debt and Equity to assets ratio. Gränges believes that these performance measures are useful for readers of the financial reports as a complement to other performance measures when assessing the possibility of dividends, the implementation of strategic investments, and the Group’s ability to meet financial commitments. Further, Gränges uses the alternative performance measures Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted EBITDA, which are measures that Gränges considers to be r­ elevant for investors who want to understand the profit generation excluding items affecting comparability. For definitions of the measures see page 111. SEK million 2016 2015 Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 559 538 Items affecting comparability 128 3 Adjusted operating profit 687 541 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted operating profit 687 541 Depreciation and amortisation 265 208 Adjusted EBITDA 952 749 Adjusted EBITDA including estimated adjusted EBITDA for the acquired business in the US as if part of the Gränges group for the full year Adjusted EBITDA 952 749 Estimated adjusted EBITDA for the acquired business in the US as if part of the Gränges group 1 January–21 August 2016 322 – Adjusted EBITDA including estimated adjusted EBITDA for the acquired business in the US as if part of the Gränges group for the full year 1,274 749 Return on capital employed Total assets less cash and cash equivalents and interest–bearing receivables 5,054 3,957 Non–interest bearing liabilities, excluding pensions –1,123 –976 Capital employed 3,930 2,982 Adjusted operating profit 687 541 Return on capital employed, % 17.5 18.1 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA Cash and cash equivalents and interest–bearing receivables –889 –667 Interest bearing liabilities, including pensions 3,611 942 Net debt 2,722 275 Adjusted EBITDA including estimated adjusted EBITDA for the acquired business in the US as if part of the Gränges group for the full year 1,274 749 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 2.1 0.4 Equity to assets Equity 2,942 2,499 Total assets 7,950 4,402 Equity to assets, % 37.0 56.8 100 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT SEK million Note 2016 2015 Net sales 3 119 128 Payroll expenses 7 –63 –60 Other operating expenses 4, 5, 6 –115 –99 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 11, 12 –18 –15 Operating loss –77 –47 Profit/loss from financial items Dividends from subsidiaries 757 306 Financial income 8 54 6 Financial costs 9 –59 –16 Financial items 751 296 Profit after financial items 674 249 Appropriations Change in accelerated depreciation –46 1 Group contributions 132 15 Tax on profit for the year 10 –42 –10 Profit for the year 718 254 The parent company has no items which are accounted for as other comprehensive income. Total comprehensive income is therefore the same as profit for the year. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2016 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 11 214 223 Intangible assets 12 170 – Participations in Group companies 13 1,093 426 Receivables from Group companies 2,204 303 Interest-bearing receivables 36 34 Other non-current receivables 10 11 14 Total non-current assets 3,728 999 Current receivables Accounts receivable 4 3 Receivables from Group companies 573 187 Other receivables 65 70 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 4 5 Total 647 265 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances 182 106 Total current assets 828 371 TOTAL ASSETS 4,557 1,371 102 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEK million Note 2016 2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Restricted equity Share capital 101 100 Statutory reserve 6 – Total 106 100 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 33 – Retained earnings 195 95 Profit for the year 718 254 Total 946 349 Total equity 1,052 449 Untaxed reserves Accelerated depreciation 55 9 Provisions Provisions for pensions 14 22 22 Total 22 22 Non-current liabilities Bank loans 15 2,888 804 Other non-current liabilities 5 1 Total 2,893 805 Current liabilities Bank loans 15 372 – Accounts payable 13 14 Other liabilities 86 49 Accrued expenses and deferred income 16 64 23 Total 536 86 Total liabilities 3,505 921 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,557 1,371 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Statutory Share premium Other non-reTotal SEK million capital reserve reserve stricted equity equity Opening balance, 1 January 2015 100 – – 205 305 Profit for the year – – – 254 254 Employee stock options – – – 1 1 Dividend – – – –112 –112 Closing balance, 31 December 2015 100 – – 349 449 Opening balance, 1 January 2016 100 – – 349 449 Profit for the year – – – 718 718 Employee stock options – – – 1 1 Dividend – – – –149 –149 Statutory reserve for internally generated intangible assets – 6 – –6 – Rights issue 1 – 33 – 34 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 101 6 33 913 1,052 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capital shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 and not more than 128,000,000. Due to the exercise of 516,000 warrants within the group’s incentive program LTI 2014 (see note 8 for more information) new shares have been issued during the year. Equity has in total increased by SEK 34 million and number of shares with 516,000 due to the rights issued. The share capital in Gränges at 31 December 2016 amounts to SEK 101 million, divided into 75,155,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. The share capital comprises a single class of share. Dividend per share amounted to SEK 2.00 (1.50) during 2016. 104 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2016 2015 Operating loss –77 –47 Depreciation and impairment charges 18 15 Items without cash flow effect – 4 Change in net working capital etc. 2 –27 Taxes paid –5 –27 Cash flow from operating activities –63 –82 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 11, 12 –179 –10 Sale of property, plant and equipment – 4 Investments in subsidiaries 13 –671 – Cash flow from investing activities –850 –6 Dividend paid to shareholders –149 –112 Rights issue 34 – Dividend received from subsidiary 719 291 Interest paid/received 2 –10 Loans 3,277 – Amortisation –1,224 –520 Financial intra-group transactions –1,670 524 Cash flow from financing activities 989 173 Cash flow for the year 75 85 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 106 21 Cash flow for the year 75 85 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 182 106 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 3 BOFREAKDOWN OPERATION OF NET SALES BY AREA The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in SEK million 2016 2015 accordance to the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Intra-group service charges 73 66 Entities. Application of RFR 2 entails that the Parent Company is to apply all IFRS and interpretations approved by the EU as far as possiRental income 30 30 ble within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Research and development 16 27 Pension Obligation Vesting Act and in regard to the connection Other 1 5 between accounting and taxation. The changes in RFR 2 applicable for Total breakdown of net sales by area of financial years beginning on 1 January 2016 has not had a material operation 119 128 impact on the financial reports of the parent company. An account of the Gränges Group’s accounting policies are described in Note 4 Accounting standards in the consolidated financial statements. The main deviations between the accounting policies applied by the Gränges Group and the parent company are described below. 4 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Gränges Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits in the consoliSEK million 2016 2015 dated financial statements. The Parent Company applies the principles of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Consequently there are M&A costs –22 – differences between the Gränges Group and the Parent Company in Restructuring costs – –4 the accounting of defined benefit pension plans. Total other operating revenue and operating Regarding machinery and equipment, the Parent Company recogexpenses –22 –4 nises the difference between depreciation according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional depreciation, included in untaxed reserves. Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognised as financial revenues. 5 OPERATING LEASE PAYMENTS Gränges Group applies IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition Distribution of lease payments and measurement and measure derivatives at fair value. During 2016 Machinery and Buildings the Parent Company has changed its accounting principle to also ­equipment and land apply IAS 39, which has resulted in the derivatives being measured at SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 fair value instead of at cost. The change in accounting policy to fair value is deemed to provide more relevant information. The change in Payments made accounting policy is applied retrospectively in the Parent company. ­during the year 0 0 2 4 The change in measuring derivatives from cost to fair value has Contractual payments resulted in an effect on derivative assets of SEK 25 million at 31 to be made December 2016 (SEK 40 million at 31 December 2015) and on deriva– next year  0 0 2 2 tive liabilities of SEK 71 million at 31 December 2016 (SEK 27 million at – between two and 31 December 2015). The Parent Company has a hedging strategy five years 0 1 3 5 where group internal and group external derivatives are entered into – later than five years – – – – back to back. The change in accounting policy has therefore had a Total future lease gross up effect on the balance sheet but the effect on profit or loss costs 1 1 5 7 has been zero and the effect on the opening balance of equity as of 1 January 2016 amounts to zero Distribution of lease income The change in accounting principle for the Parent Company has no impact on Gränges Group’s financial statements. Machinery and Buildings ­equipment and land SEK million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Payments received ­during the year – – 29 30 Contractual payments Gränges’ financial risks are monitored centrally in the Group, to be received see the notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 25 – next year  – 29 31 Financial risk. – between two and The Parent Company applies hedge accounting for the risk expofive years – – 62 82 sure arising from the derivative transactions with Gränges Sweden AB – later than five years – – 0 4 by entering into offsetting derivatives. As hedge accounting is applied Total future lease and the relationships are expected to be highly effective no unrealised income – – 91 117 gains or losses are recognised on the derivatives. In addition, the Parent Company holds a few derivates to an insignificant value at the closing date. 106 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 10 TAXES SEK million 2016 2015 Tax expense for the year Ernst & Young AB SEK million 2016 2015 – Audit engagement 1.3 1.3 Current tax –42 –20 –A udit services in addition Deferred tax attributable to to audit engagement 0.4 0.1 Changes in temporary differences for the year 0 11 – Tax advisory services 0.5 0.9 Total tax –42 –10 – Other services 8.2 2.9 Total remuneration to auditors 10.4 5.2 Reconciliation of effective tax SEK million 2016 % 2015 % Audit engagement refers to the review of the annual report and accounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ Profit before tax 760 – 264 – ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s auditor Tax at applicable tax as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations rate –167 –22.0 –58 –22.0 made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such Tax effects of: other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement consisted Non-deductible in 2016 and in 2015 primarily of review of interim reports. Tax advisory expenses –1 –0.1 0 –0.2 services include advice on tax, including transfer pricing issues, as Non-taxable income 167 22.0 69 26.2 well as value-added tax. Other services refer to advice that is not attributable to any of the aforementioned categories of services. In Correction/Change 2016 other services consisted mainly of services related to acquisition of previous year’s taxation 0 0.0 –1 –0.4 activities. Foreign taxes –42 5.5 –19 –7.4 Total tax –42 –5.5 –10 –3.7 7 PAYROLL EXPENSES The company’s effective tax rate of 5.5 per cent (3.7) in 2016 differs from the nominal tax rate in Sweden, which is primarily an effect of a Salaries and remuneration totalled 39.5 (40.0), and social security ­dividends received from Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd. This contributions were 16.1 (14.3), and 7.8 (4.8) refers to pension costs. Penincome is also included in the basis for non-taxable income. Foreign sion costs of 1.6 (1.4) refer to the CEO. The company’s outstanding taxes mainly relates to paid tax in China on the received dividend. pension obligations for the CEO are kSEK 53 (44). Read more about the average number of employees, salaries and Deferred tax remuneration, including incentive schemes, in Note 8 to the consoliSEK million 2016 2015 dated financial statements. Buildings and land improvements –1 0 Tax loss carry forwards 10 11 8 FINANCIAL INCOME Total deferred tax asset (+) / liability (–) 10 11 SEK million 2016 2015 The company assesses that the tax loss carry forwards of SEK 10 million will be ­utilised during 2017. Interest income from Group companies 52 6 External interest income 1 1 Foreign exchange differences – –1 Total financial income 54 6 9 FINANCIAL COSTS SEK million 2016 2015 External interest expense –56 –15 Estimated financial expense related to ­pension liability –1 –1 Foreign exchange differences –1 – Total financial costs –59 –16 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improveMachinery and Fixtures, Assets under Total property, plant SEK million ments and buildings equipment vehicles, etc. ­construction and ­equipment Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 204 3 10 7 223 Acquisitions – – – 5 5 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under ­construction 5 2 – –7 – Depreciations and impairment charges –12 –1 –2 – –15 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 197 4 8 5 214 Cost, 31 December 2016 417 116 19 5 558 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –220 –113 –11 – –344 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 197 4 8 5 214 Carrying amount, 1 January 2015 212 8 10 2 234 Acquisitions 0 1 1 5 7 Sales – –5 – – –5 Transferred assets, fixed assets under ­construction 4 – – – 4 Depreciations and impairment charges –12 –1 –2 0 –15 Carrying amount, 31 December 2015 203 3 10 7 223 Cost, 31 December 2015 412 114 19 7 552 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –208 –112 –9 0 –329 Carrying amount, 31 December 2015 204 3 10 7 223 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Total Intellectual intangible SEK million property IT assets Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 – – – Acquisitions 168 6 174 Amortisation –4 – –4 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 164 6 170 Cost, 31 December 2016 168 6 174 Accumulated amortisation and impairment charges –4 – –4 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 164 6 170 During the year the company has acquired intellectual property related to production technic used in Gränges Americas Inc. IT mainly relates to capital development expenses for an ongoing ERP implementation. 108 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Share of capital Carrying amount, SEK million Reg. no Registered office No. of shares and votes, % SEK million Swedish Group companies Gränges Sweden AB 556002-6113 Finspång 300,000 100/100 164 Gränges Skultuna AB 556913-7358 Skultuna 50,000 100/100 0 Total 164 Foreign Group companies Gränges Americas Inc. Delaware, USA – 100/100 671 Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd Shanghai, China – 100/100 256 Gränges Japan Ltd Tokyo, Japan – 100/100 3 Total 930 Total participations in Group companies 1,093 When cash and cash equivalents in China shall be made available for the parent company, this is done through dividend payments which today is being taxed with 5 per cent. Cash and cash equivalents per 31 December 2016 for the Chinese subsidiary amounts to SEK 475 million. 14 P­OROVISION BLIGATIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR 15 BANK LOANS Defined benefit pensions Gränges’ interest bearing debt consists mainly of a USD term loan of USD 210 million and SEK term loans of SEK 900 million. The duration SEK million 2016 2015 of the interest bearing debt portfolio was approximately two months Provision under Pension Obligations Vesting Act at 31 December 2016. Gränges also have a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,200 million, available in several currencies. Gränges has the – FPG/PRI pensions 21 21 right to choose among maturities and fixed interest terms of one, Pension obligation secured through two, three or six months. At 31 December 2016 SEK 470 million (810) transfer of funds to pension trust 1 1 had been drawn with an average fixed interest term of two months. Total provision for pensions and similar The loan facilities are subject to covenants and they were fulfilled at obligations 22 22 31 December 2016. Specification of change in pension liability ­recognised in the ­balance 16 ACCRUED sheet. EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME SEK million 2016 2015 SEK million 2016 2015 Liability at beginning of year related to p ­ ension obligations 22 22 Accrued salaries, holiday pay Cost recognised in income statement 1 2 and social-security contributions 27 19 Pension payments –1 –2 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 37 5 Liability at the end of year related to pension obligations 22 22 Total accrued expenses and deferred income 64 23 Actuarial bases for calculating the capital value pursuant to the Pension Obligations Vesting Act are defined by the Swedish Financial Regulatory Authority. Application of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act is 17 PLEDGED ASSETS a condition for the right to make tax deductions. Excluding cost for pension premiums, fees paid to PRI and premiums paid to FPG, the SEK million 2016 2015 pension cost for the year is distributed as follows: For own liabilities and provisions: SEK million 2016 2015 Related to provisions for pensions and similar obligations Pensions paid during the year –1 –2 – Property mortgages 15 15 Increase/decrease in capital value 0 0 Total pledged assets 15 15 Less interest portion in PRI 1 1 Total operating expense 0 –1 Gränges has, in connection with signing the new credit facility Interest expense –1 –1 described in Note 15, entered into a customary undertaking to not Total –1 –2 pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a better right than the banks that are providing the credit facility GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES SEK million 2016 2015 DISPUTES The company is not a party to any dispute. As long as the company Other contingent liabilities 105 93 does not have any legal or formal obligation as a result of a past event, – of which, for subsidiaries 102 92 and it is uncertain whether an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle a future obligation, nothing is recognised in the income statement or balance sheet. 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related-party transactions are specified in the table below. Gränges any direct involvement in a business transaction concluded by Gränges AB has a controlling influence over its subsidiaries, see Note 13 ParAB that was or is of an unusual character or subject to u ­ nusual terms ticipations in Group ­companies. and conditions and that occurred in 2016. For information on remuneraNo board member or senior executive of Gränges AB or its subsid­i­ tion to senior executives see Note 7. aries has independently or through a company or related party had Receivable from Liability to Sales to Purchases from related related parties at related parties at SEK million Year related parties parties 31 December 31 December Subsidiaries 2016 141 7 36 0 Subsidiaries 2015 90 5 37 0 Associates 2016 0 0 0 0 Associates 2015 1 0 0 0 20 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of SEK 945,806,794 The proposed dividend amount to SEK 180 million, or SEK 2.40 per ­share. In be appropriated as follows: preparing its dividend p­ roposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s financial position, cash flow and outlook. SEK 2016 Dividend to shareholders 180,372,926 Carried forward 765,433,868 Total 945,806,794 110 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY DEFINITIONS Adjusted EBITDA Equity to Assets Return on capital employed Adjusted operating profit before Equity divided by total assets. Adjusted operating profit divided by ­depreciation and impairment. ­average capital employed ­during the past Items affecting comparability 12-month period. Adjusted operating profit Non-recurring income and expenses. Operating excluding items affecting Return on equity ­comparability. ktonnes Profit for the period divided by average Volume expressed in thousands of metric equity ­during the past 12-month period. Average number of employees tonnes. The average number of employees Sales volume ­converted to full-time positions. Net cash flow before financing activities Volumes sold in metric tonnes. Cash flow from ­operating activities plus Capital employed cash flow from investing activities. SEK Total assets less cash and cash equivaSwedish kronor. lents and interest-bearing receivables, Net debt minus non-interest bearing ­liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents and interest-­ bearing ­receivables minus interest-bearing Earnings per share liabilities, including pensions. Profit for the period divided by the total ­number of shares. Operating profit Profit before net financial items and tax. GLOSSARY Alloy Heat exchanger Rolled aluminium Material consisting of several metals. A device for transferring heat from one Aluminium that has been down gauged, medium to another. ­passing through two or more rollers. Aluminium strip Rolled aluminium in coils. HVAC Scrap Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning Residual aluminium that can be Brazing and Refrigeration. re-melted. Joining of metals through melting. LME SHFE Cladding London Metal Exchange. Shanghai Futures Exchange. Surface layer. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY SEK million 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Sales volume, ktonnes 239.1 163.9 160.0 158.6 151.7 Income statement Net sales 7,207 5,494 4,748 4,642 4,946 Adjusted EBITDA1) 952 749 664 558 526 Adjusted operating profit1) 687 541 463 371 362 Operating profit 559 538 422 456 392 Profit for the year 498 379 319 309 316 Adjusted EBITDA margin 13.2 13.6 14.0 12.0 10.6 Adjusted operating margin 9.5 9.8 9.7 8.0 7.3 Operating margin 7.8 9.8 8.9 9.8 7.9 Net margin 6.9 6.9 6.7 6.7 6.4 Balance sheet Non-current assets 4,071 1,800 1,829 1,759 1,776 Current assets 3,878 2,601 2,631 2,867 2,520 Equity 2,942 2,499 2,137 3,098 2,208 Non-current liabilities 3,209 989 1,071 400 959 Current liabilities 1,799 914 1,253 1,128 1,129 Cash flow Operating activities 686 725 678 601 649 Investing activities –2,732 –125 –81 –151 –248 Cash flow before financing activities –2,046 600 597 450 401 Financing activities 2,245 –647 –941 –88 –301 Cash flow for the year 198 –47 –344 362 100 1) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated accounts). Capital structure, return indicators and employees Capital employed 5,664 2,775 2,901 2,972 3,075 Net debt 2,722 275 765 –126 867 Equity/assets ratio, % 37.0 56.8 47.9 67.0 51.4 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA, multiple 2.1x2) 0.4x 1.2x –0.2x 1.6x Capital employed (rolling 12 month average) 3,930 2,982 2,837 3,082 3,163 Return on capital employed, % 17.5 18.1 16.3 12.0 11.4 Equity (rolling 12 month average) 2,636 2,385 2,755 2,685 2,243 Return on equity, % 18.9 15.9 11.6 11.5 – Average number of employees 1,154 964 952 964 947 2) Calculated on a rolling 12-month basis, including estimated adjusted EBITDA on a stand alone basis for the acquired business in the US. 112 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Data per share, SEK Earnings per share, basic 6.66 5.07 4.27 4.14 4.24 Earnings per share, diluted 6.64 5.07 4.27 4.14 4.24 Equity1) 39.27 33.45 28.63 41.51 29.58 Cash flow from operating activities1) 9.15 9.70 9.08 8.05 8.69 Dividend2) 2.40 2.00 1.50 – – Dividend yield, % 2.79 2.86 2.94 – – Share price at year-end 86.00 70.00 51.00 – – Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, basic in thousands 74,703.9 74,639.4 74,639.4 74,639.4 74,639.4 Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted in thousands 74,913.9 74,719.4 74,639.4 74,639.4 74,639.4 Sales volume by region, ktonnes Asia 80.8 75.5 78.3 75.0 70.4 Europe 63.7 62.7 58.6 59.5 55.9 Americas 94.6 25.8 23.1 24.0 25.3 Total 239.1 163.9 160.0 158.6 151.7 Net sales by region, SEK million Asia 2,623 2,637 2,378 2,271 2,416 Europe 1,933 1,978 1,679 1,673 1,757 Americas 2,651 880 691 698 772 Total 7,207 5,494 4,748 4,642 4,946 1) Calculated on weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) Cash dividend for 2017 as proposed. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of The proposed dividend of SEK 180 million, or SEK 2.40 per ­share, SEK 945,806,794 be appropriated as follows: represents 36 per cent of the profit for 2016. In preparing its dividend ­proposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s SEK 2016 financial position, cash flow and outlook. The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the Dividend to shareholders 180,372,926 annual report have been prepared in accordance with the InternaCarried forward 765,433,868 tional Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted for use in Total 945,806,794 the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles respectively, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Stockholm 8 March 2017 The Board of Directors of Gränges AB (publ) Anders G. Carlberg Chairman of the Board Carina Andersson Terje Andersen Ragnhild Wiborg Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Katarina Lindström Öystein Larsen Konny Svensson Member of the Board Employee representative Employee representative Peter Carlsson Johan Menckel Hans Porat Member of te Board Chief Executive Officer Member of the Board We submitted our audit report on 10 March 2017 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorised Public Accountant This information is such that Gränges must disclose pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on Tuesday, 14 March 2017. 114 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE GENERAL MEETING OF THE SHAREHOLDERS OF GRÄNGES AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER 556001-6122 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS In our audit we have assessed the company’s process for allocating AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS the purchase price to acquired assets and liabilities. We have, with the Opinions assistance of valuation specialists, assessed the utilized valuation We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of methods and calculation models, and have assessed the reasonableGränges AB (publ) except for the corporate governance statement on ness of assumptions made. We have also reviewed the disclosures pages 61–71 for the year 2016. The annual accounts and consolidated provided in the annual report. accounts of the company are included on pages 58–114 in this document. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in Valuation of finished goods and work-in-process products accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all As described in Note 18 for the consolidated financial statements, material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of inventories of finished goods and work-in-process products are 31 December 2016 and its financial performance and cash flow for recorded at 1,020 MSEK in the consolidated balance sheet per the the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The 31st of December 2016. Inventories are valued at acquisition cost less consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the obsolescence write-downs, if applicable. The valuation at production Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the cost is performed using inventory valuation models where direct and financial position of the group as of 31 December 2016 and their finanindirect production-related costs are allocated to products. Incorrect cial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance assumptions and calculations related to direct and indirect producwith International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted tion costs affect the valuation of goods produced which affects by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the recorded inventory and the cost of goods sold. For this reason we have corporate governance statement on pages 61–71.The statutory determined that this is a key audit matter. A description of the Compaadministration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual ny’s inventory valuation method for finished goods and work-in-proaccounts and consolidated accounts. cess products is presented in the accounting principles in Note 4 We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders under the notes to the consolidated financial statements. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent comIn our audit we have assessed whether the company’s accounting pany and the group. principles for inventory is compliant with applicable standards. We have also performed procedures to verify calculation models and Basis for Opinions assessed the reasonableness of applied prices, consumption rates We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and assumptions regarding the allocation of indirect production costs. on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual report. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parProperty, plant and equipment ent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics The Company’s property, plant and equipment is recorded at 3,347 for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical MSEK in the consolidated balance sheet, equivalent to 42 per cent of the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Company’s total assets. Property, plant and equipment is recorded at We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient acquisition cost net of accumulated depreciation and write-downs, if and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. applicable. Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful life of components. Accounting principles for property, plant and equipment Key Audit Matters is presented in Note 4, significant estimates and judgments are pres­ Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our pro­ ented in Note 5 and disclosures regarding property, plant and equipfessional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the ment is presented in Note 17. The valuation and accounting treatment annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. of property, plant and equipment is a key audit matter due to the sigThese matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in nificance of the recorded amounts in relation to the total assets in the forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated consolidated balance sheet. accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these ­matters. Depreciation Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful life of compoAcquisition in the United States nents. A change in the estimated useful life of components would During the financial year 2016 the company made a significant acquiresult in different recorded values. In our audit we have assessed the sition in the USA. The acquisition was an asset deal performed by reasonableness of assumptions made regarding the estimated useful Gränges Americas Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary to Gränges AB. The life of components through comparisons to historical actuals, busitotal purchase price was 2,581 MSEK. In connection with the acquisiness plans and the estimated useful lives used by other comparable tion the company allocated values based on the purchase price to companies. We have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the acquired assets and liabilities for the purpose of the consolidated annual report. financial statements. The identification and valuation of acquired assets and liabilities requires assumptions regarding future financial Impairment developments and valuation-technical parameters. Since a change in In case an indicator of impairment is identified, the recorded value is an assumption affects the allocated values we have determined that tested through comparison to the estimated recoverable amount for this is a key audit matter. A description of the acquisition and the allothe asset. Based on current and expected future financial developcated values on acquired assets is included in Note 29 under the notes ment the Company has determined that there was no indication of to the consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates and impairment for the financial year 2016. In our audit we have analyzed judgments are presented in Note 5. and assessed the assumptions and estimates made by the Company GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 AUDITOR’S REPORT regarding potential indicators of impairment compared to current expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the and expected future cash flows from affected assets. basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profesreport. sional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: Other Information than the annual accounts • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the and consolidated accounts annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud This document also contains other information than the annual or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–57. The risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material other information. misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omisdoes not cover this other information and we do not express any form sions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolito our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinabove and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent ion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proce• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be made by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. materially misstated. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informapreparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to this regard. whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a and the Managing Director material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordaccounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence ance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual continue as a going concern. accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the ­misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discloIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a achieves fair presentation. going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going financial information of the entities or business activities within the concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of ­Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the oversee the company’s financial reporting process. planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficienAuditor’s responsibility cies in internal control that we identified. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indematerial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted and where applicable, related safeguards. in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered matethe annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most rial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are there116 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AUDITOR’S REPORT fore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is should not be communicated in the auditor’s report because the in accordance with the Companies Act. adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the Opinions ­proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accordance with the Companies Act. accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Directors and the Managing Director of Gränges AB (publ) for the year standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and main2016 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. tain professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statuprofit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additory administration report and that the members of the Board of tional audit procedures performed are based on our professional Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that the financial year. we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violaBasis for Opinions tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeconcerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with proBoard of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement Responsibilities of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governand the Managing Director ance statement on pages 61–71 has been prepared in accordance The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriawith the Annual Accounts Act. tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conincludes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The audiering the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of tor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s that our examination of the corporate governance statement is differand the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and ent and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accord­position in general. ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaauditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organizain accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points tion is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassurparagraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the ing manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing adminisannual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance tration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instrucwith the Annual Accounts Act. tions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle Stockholm 10 March 2017 the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Ernst & Young AB Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of Erik Sandström the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Authorized Public Accountant • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2017 Gränges’ Annual General Meeting 2017 will number, address and daytime telephone on the company’s website. Printed informabe held on Thursday, 4 May, 2017, at 4 p.m. number. The registration procedure also tion can be ordered via info@granges.com. CET at Näringslivets Hus in Stockholm. applies to registration for any advisors. Registration begins at 3 p.m CET. Dividend Nominee-registered shares The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of Participation Shareholders whose shares are registered SEK 2.40 (2.00) per share for the 2016 fiscal Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual with a nominee must, to have the right to year, in total SEK 180 million (149) million. General Meeting must be registered as attend the Annual General Meeting, have The proposed record date for the dividend is shareholders in the share register maintheir shares temporarily reregistered Monday, 8 May 2017. Íf the Annual General tained by Euroclear Sweden as of Thursday, with Euroclear Sweden AB. A request for Meeting resolves in accordance with the 27 April 2017, and notify the company of reregistration should be submitted to the proposal, the dividend is expected to be their intention to attend no later than nominee well in advance of the Annual ­distributed through Euroclear Sweden AB Thursday, 27 April, 2017. ­General Meeting. on Thursday, 11 May 2017. Registration of participation must be provided in writing to Gränges AB, Juridik, Box Notice convening the Annual For further information, please contact: 5505, 114 85 Stockholm, Sweden, or by General Meeting Pernilla Grennfelt, telephone at +46 732 07 42 52 on weekdays Gränges’ notice convening the Annual GenSVP Communications and Investor Relations between 9 a.m and 4 p.m. CET or at the comeral Meeting for 2017 will be published on or pernilla.grennfelt@granges.com, pany’s website, www.granges.com. When about 28 March 2017 by a press release and tel: +46 702 90 99 55. registering, shareholders must state their on the company’s website. Information name, personal ID or company registration about other decision points will be available GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT Gränges’ annual report is available on the company’s website, www.granges.com, in Swedish and English. The annual report is also available in printed format and can be ordered at r ­ eports@granges.com. GRÄNGES FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2017 Interim report, January–March 2017 27 April 2017 Annual General Meeting 2017 04 May 2017 Half-year report, January–June 2017 20 July 2017 Interim report, January–September 2017 26 October 2017 118 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 HISTORY HISTORY The foundation for today’s Gränges was After the Gränges Group was acquired In 2005 Sapa was acquired and delisted laid in 1896 in Grängesberg. Thereafter, by Electrolux in 1980 a number of strucafter Orkla of Norway made a bid for the several different industrial enterprises tural changes were implemented, resulting company. At that time Sapa had two lines became part of the Group, including in the sale of most of Gränges’ businesses. of business: rolled aluminium products Grängesberg mines, the TGOJ rail busiWhat remained was the production of aluand extruded aluminium profiles. In 2013 ness, Oxelösund ironworks and a shipping minium products. the rolled products business took back the business. In 1969 the Group acquired A key milestone came in 1996, when name of Gränges and in 2014 Orkla decided Svenska Metallverken, which included an Gränges established a global presence by to list Gränges on the Nasdaq Stockholm aluminium ­products business, an operaopening a production plant in Shanghai. In Stock Exchange. tion that would later evolve into Gränges 1997 Gränges was listed on the Stock and Sapa. In 1972 work began on the develExchange in Stockholm and in 2000 opment and ­production of aluminium heat Gränges changed name to Sapa. exchanger strips in Finspång. 1896 1972 1997 2013 2016 The industrial Group is Production of materials Gränges is listed on the Gränges becomes a standGränges acquires formed in Grängesberg. for brazed aluminium Stock Exchange in alone company and takes Noranda’s downstream heat exchangers begins. Stockholm. back its old name. business in the US. The name is changed to Gränges Americas Inc. 1922 1996 2005 2014 Manufacturing of aluminGränges establishes Orkla buys Sapa (Gränges) The new Gränges is listed ium products begins in a production plant in through a public bid and on the Nasdaq Stockholm Finspång. Shanghai. delists the company. Stock Exchange. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 ADDRESSES ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE GRÄNGES EUROPE GRÄNGES ASIA GRÄNGES AMERICAS Gränges AB (publ) Gränges Sweden AB Gränges Aluminium Gränges Americas Inc Box 5505 SE-612 81 Finspång (Shangahai) Ltd 501 Corporate Centre Drive, SE-114 85 Stockholm Sweden 1111 Jiatang Highway Suite 280 Sweden 201807 Shanghai Franklin, Tennessee 37067 China USA VISITING ADDRESS Phone: +86 215 954 1111 Phone: +1 615 778 2000 VISITING ADDRESS Slottsvägen 1 Humlegårdsgatan 19A SE-612 31 Finspång SE-114 85 Stockholm Sweden Phone: +46 8 459 59 00 Phone: +46 122 838 00 www.granges.com Corp. Identity No. 556001-6122 120 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AVSNITT Concept, text and production: Solberg in co-operation with Gränges. Photographers: Dan Coleman, David Einar, Dean Dixon, Elliot Elliot/Johner, Hans Berggren/Johner, Marcos Romano, Ten Film, Volvo Cars among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet 2017. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 A GLOBAL LEADER IN ALUMINIUM ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING AND INNOVATION
