Little Helps Plan Working together to make a big difference October 2017 Welcome to our Little Helps Plan. 2 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Contents Group Chief Executive’s statement 4 Introducing our plan 5 People 6 Products 8 Sourcing 10 Health 12 Food waste 14 Places 16 Foundations 18 Targets and actions 20 UN Global Compact and 23 Sustainable Development Goals Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 3 Group Chief Executive’s statement Our purpose and our values. What has been clear to me from us they value long-term the very start is that serving partnerships and want to work customers is at the heart of Tesco. together to offer customers truly For many years, our customer sustainable products now and in the proposition, “Every Little Helps”, future. has been iconic and helped to Our places guide everything we do. Finally, it’s about the impact we To help deliver this proposition, have on the thousands of Dave Lewis over the last three years we have communities we are part of all over Group Chief Executive worked hard to rearticulate our the world. We want to continue to purpose and values, reflecting in make a positive difference to the particular the ideas and suggestions things that matter in the local of Tesco colleagues. Through this communities in which we serve. “Over the last three process we developed a new We have identified targets and years we have spent a lot purpose for our business – ‘serving actions in each of these three of time listening – to our Britain’s shoppers a little better pillars and, in turn, the pillars are every day’. colleagues, our underpinned by a clear In support of our purpose, we also commitment to minimise the customers, our suppliers developed a new core value for our environmental impact in our own and our stakeholders – business: ‘Every little help makes a operations. big difference’. It’s a philosophy for to understand what they how small actions can add up to We can’t make progress alone. Progress requires partnership and think makes Tesco make a big difference running the that’s why in 2015 we joined the UN unique, where we need business in a way that makes a Global Compact, an initiative that positive contribution to our to do better and where colleagues, customers and encourages businesses worldwide to work together to adopt we have an opportunity communities. sustainable and socially responsible to make the biggest The Little Helps Plan builds on the policies. Today, as we outline our progress we have made so far. It is new plan, we recommit to that difference. Much of what driving us further to make Tesco a Compact. As a business, we are also we’ve done in the past place where colleagues can get on, particularly proud to chair three years has been whatever their background; to help Champions 12.3, a coalition of our customers make healthier leaders dedicated to helping the driven by their insight.” choices and enjoy good quality, world reach the UN Sustainable sustainable products at affordable Development Goal target of halving prices; to help tackle food waste global food waste by 2030. from farm to fork. It spans three We will share our progress and areas core to our operating model learnings along the way, because and the long-term success of our being open and transparent will business: help us make a big difference more Our people quickly. Above all, we want to keep It all starts and finishes with our listening and to work with all our colleagues, who work together to stakeholders to understand how serve our shoppers every day in Tesco can make the biggest 6,809 stores around the world. We difference. want to be a great place to work and to get on. Our products As a leading food retailer, the food Dave Lewis we produce and sell and the way we Group Chief Executive source it matters. Our suppliers tell dave.lewis@uk.tesco.com 4 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Introducing our plan Our Little Helps Plan. In embarking on the development The result is a plan made up of Communications Director, and at of the Little Helps Plan we began a three pillars; our people, our the Board level by Dave Lewis, listening programme. As well as products and our places, and Group Chief Executive. Our engaging our colleagues, underpinned by our foundation Corporate Responsibility customers, supplier partners and activity. These areas are core to our Committee, chaired by Lindsey stakeholders across the business, business model and the delivery of Pownall, Non-Executive Director, we worked with YouGov to the Plan will be embedded in our governs the plan. understand the views of leading day to day business operations. campaigners, opinion formers and Accountability is led at an Executive policy experts both in the UK and level by Jane Lawrie, Group our international markets. Every little help makes a big difference. Products People Sourcing Places Health Food waste Foundations: Climate change | Cyber security | Governance and ethics Health and safety | Packaging | Product safety Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 5 Our people Getting on at Tesco. “Tesco understand that It is only possible to serve our as well as conducting unconscious shoppers a little better every day bias training. As part of the Little working flexibly is through our colleagues’ hard work Helps Plan we will continue to important for many and skills. We employ over 450,000 report against gender diversity and people around the world and we pay as well as take actions to ensure colleagues. I am a recognise that we have a clear role everyone has the opportunity to get gymnastics coach and to support them. That’s why our on. the new colleague app target is to help our colleagues We are investing in training for our succeed by providing them with means I can fit shifts the flexibility, skills and reward to colleagues so they can develop their skills and have access to a around my coaching ‘get on’ within Tesco, but also to greater number of roles. This year fulfil their ambitions outside of schedule.” work. we have introduced a new apprenticeship scheme, which Carolle Kay We want to encourage everyone in offers UK colleagues across stores, Tesco Caterham our business to be themselves and distribution and the office 2,500 reach their potential – whoever new apprenticeship places in areas they are, wherever they work, such as HGV driving, project whatever they do. Inclusivity, and management and technology. As creating a culture where everyone technology transforms society and feels welcome, is integral to our the workplace, digital skills will be business. We have monitored particularly important, so we’re gender pay since 2002 and earlier responding with a dedicated this year published an analysis in programme to ensure that all our line with the UK Government’s new colleagues, no matter what their reporting requirements, but role, have the digital competence covering the period from April 2015 and confidence to thrive in the to April 2016. While our gender pay workplace. gap is significantly below the UK We recognise the importance of a average of 18.1%, we know there is fair and sustainable reward policy more to do to close the gap. that helps to attract, retain and Additionally, 27% of the Board and motivate the best people. In June, 36% of our senior managers we made our biggest investment in (directors and managers) are UK store pay for a decade, women. Some of the actions we increasing pay by 10.5% over two have taken have been to relaunch years for hourly paid store our Women in Business network, colleagues. that brings together female leaders, Our target: To help our colleagues succeed by providing them with the flexibility, skills and reward to ‘get on’ For more information visit www.tescoplc.com/people 6 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our people Providing colleagues with the flexibility to ‘get on’. Technological change can be In time the app will also give Helen Knight, Manager of the perceived as a challenge. Crucially, colleagues the option to swap Gatwick store, says “Tesco is it’s also a significant opportunity. shifts, request shift changes and listening to colleagues and looking An opportunity for us to give our even take shifts in different stores for opportunities to help give colleagues the chance to manage providing them with genuine greater flexibility. The new app really their work around their lifestyles. flexibility and control over their helps managers to see everyone At the same time it can help the hours so that they can better juggle who is available for shifts and business ensure the right people competing priorities in their lives. distribute any overtime more fairly.” are in the right places at the right Those colleagues with flexible We have committed to rolling out times, so that customers benefit contracts, all of which guarantee a this app across the UK first and from the best possible shopping minimum number of hours, can then introducing it to all experience. request more hours, how many, and international markets. In fact, we‘ve As part of our commitment to during which weeks and days. made a head start in our Asian flexible working, we have started to Importantly, it will also allow stores where we have already trial a new app in the UK that allows colleagues to track how much they started to introduce a simplified colleagues to see their shifts, have earnt at any given point rather version of the app with similar manage overtime, request holiday than having to wait until pay day to functionality. and see how much they will be paid. check. Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 7 Our products Quality, healthy and sustainable products. We work in partnership with industry in the drive for truly Together we are taking steps to 15,000 suppliers and producers to sustainable fisheries and reducing reduce food waste in the supply offer great quality, healthy and marine pollution. chain as well as innovating to help sustainable products to our customers reduce waste in their Through the products we sell and customers at affordable prices. homes. the way we sell them, we can help That requires playing a leading role to make it easier to live healthily These challenges are too big for any in tackling some of the key and promote wellbeing for all, individual organisation to solve challenges facing food production in line with UN Sustainable alone and require genuine and consumption. We are working Development Goal 3. collaboration. Our ability to keep with our suppliers and a number of delivering more sustainable We have worked with suppliers to partners to ensure there is no place products to customers is reliant on reduce the salt, sugar and fat in for human rights abuses, including building trusted, open and fair many of our products as well as modern slavery, in our supply chain. partnerships with suppliers as well promoting Helpful Little Swaps to We are also taking steps to protect as NGOs and other organisations colleagues and customers. and sustain natural environments across the wider industry. for the long-term with our We have also announced a joint commitments on zero net commitment with 24 of our largest deforestation, sustainable food suppliers to adopt the agriculture and addressing climate Sustainable Development Goal change. And we are leading the target to halve food waste by 2030. Our targets: To help make sustainable products accessible and affordable for all To support all of our colleagues to live healthier lives and help our customers make healthier food choices every time they shop with us To help halve global food waste, farm to fork, by 2030 For more information visit www.tescoplc.com/ littlehelpsplan 8 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our products From farm to fork. Sourcing We are committed to sourcing all our bananas for the UK and Ireland from Rainforest Alliance CertifiedTM farms. We work closely with them to ensure decent working conditions, wages and environmental management. Nearly 80% of our bananas are from producers in Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador and West Africa – who we have been doing business with for more than five years. These long relationships help them to plan ahead and effectively invest in their farms and workforces. Health In May we held our first ever health event for colleagues and customers. For colleagues this included: free fruit, mental health awareness training and raising £1 million pounds for our National Charity Partners. For customers it included ‘Helpful Little Swaps’ in stores and online, highlighting products lower in sugar, fat or salt compared to the regular alternatives; lower prices on over 200 healthier products; and free blood pressure and Type 2 diabetes risk assessments through our in-store pharmacies in partnership with Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation. Food waste In 2016/17, 11,424 tonnes of surplus food donations, equivalent to 28.5 million meals, helped community organisations cook food and support their community. The Bo’ness Academy pupils run a Community Café and their delicious ‘Nothing Wasted Banana Bread’ featured in our Food Love Stories advert. Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 9 Our products Sourcing with care. “Tesco understands that overcoming challenges in the supply chain cannot be done alone. Their commitment to MSC certified seafood is helping to ensure the future health of the world’s oceans. They are helping customers to choose certified sustainable Credit: World Cocoa Foundation seafood and recognise sustainable fishing, which Building strong, trusted approach, rooted in understanding, will help ensure healthy partnerships is essential in trust, shared risk and mutual fish stocks, and healthy addressing some of the challenges benefit, is being applied to other we face in our supply chain. producer groups, including pork, oceans for generations beef, chicken and potatoes. The global population is expected to to come.” grow from around 7 billion now to Beyond our direct supply chains, we 9.7 billion by 2050, placing further are helping drive efforts to address Rupert Howes strain on our natural resources. entrenched social and Chief Executive, environmental issues. Our 45 Marine Stewardship Council Inequality continues to grow in responsible sourcing managers, many countries and customers want based across 11 key sourcing to know more than ever that the countries, work with multipeople who have made their stakeholder organisations such as products have been treated fairly. the Ethical Trading Initiative, the We need to work with our partners Sustainable Agriculture Initiative and those who are leading efforts to and the World Banana Forum. deliver the UN Sustainable Whether it’s the empowerment of Development Goals if we are to women workers in the South African succeed in building a truly fruit industry, water use in Spanish sustainable world. salad production or poor conditions in the cotton industry, we are Our commitment to sustainable actively working towards solutions. sourcing and working in partnership is not new. This year we are We continue to build open and celebrating 10 years of the Tesco engaging relationships with NGOs, Sustainable Dairy Group, which trade unions and other civil society since being established has paid groups. These relationships are £270million above the cost of integral to our human rights and production to farmers. By working environmental due diligence, closely with its 720 farmers, we helping us to identify areas of have also improved animal welfare greatest risk, and take action to standards and reduced greenhouse address them. gas emissions. This unique 10 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our products Starting with our most important products and ingredients. One of the commitments in the our own label chocolate but also Palm Oil (RSPO). As members of the Little Helps Plan is to lead the cocoa used in other Tesco UK CGF we have committed to mobilise industry in addressing the products, such as biscuits, cakes, our resources to help achieve zero sustainability challenges in our desserts and cereals. To reach this net deforestation by 2020. supply chains. We want to give our commitment we will source through Often we will need to work with the customers peace of mind that the a combination of responsible cocoa wider industry to address specific products they regularly buy from programmes: Rainforest Alliance entrenched issues. For example, in us are sourced with respect for the Certified, Cocoa Horizons, Fairtrade our tea supply chains, we are environment and people, while and UTZ. working in Malawi with Oxfam, the remaining affordable. In the UK, we Notably, 100% of palm oil in our UK Malawian tea industry and leading are prioritising the environmental own label food products already tea brands to improve wages and and social risks associated with 20 comes from sources certified to the working conditions across the products and ingredients. These Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil industry. In Assam, India, we are have been selected either because standards. However, significant working with UNICEF to help they are bought regularly by challenges remain for the palm oil prevent the trafficking of children customers or because they have industry. Developing the right into domestic slavery and sexual the biggest sustainability impacts. conditions for a sustainable palm oil exploitation. We have already made significant market is not something that we can More examples of our work within progress. For example, we are on achieve alone, which is why we are the supply chains of our top track with our roadmap to reach working with the Consumer Goods products can be found at www. 100% responsibly sourced cocoa by Forum (CGF), with other retailers tescoplc.com/top20. the end of 2018. This not only covers and the Roundtable on Sustainable Addressing the sustainability challenges in our top 20 products and ingredients. • Bananas • Coffee • Salads (e.g. fresh tomatoes • Corned beef • Cocoa and cucumbers) (Amazon origin) • Cotton • Fresh beef • Sugar • Milk • Berries • Tea • Palm oil • Chicken and eggs • Tuna • Potatoes (using soy feed) • Wild fish • Prawns • Citrus fruits • Wood and paper • Rice Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 11 Our products A healthier place to work and shop. “It’s so confusing; I’ve heard frozen vegetables are healthier, is that true? And when it comes to pre-prepared food it’s even harder to work out what’s good for you and what isn’t. We want to make it easier for Swap’ saw a 30% greater uplift in Supermarkets could do colleagues and customers to eat sales versus other unhealthier well and lead a healthier life by versions. more to help: better offering a range of Little Helps. This Our Healthy Little Differences labelling, better means simple, realistic and Tracker reports the nutrient directions, more fresh practical actions to help profiling score (as defined by the colleagues and customers make foods and smoothies, sustainable changes. Food Standards Agency) of the products we sell, and through this group organic and Little Helps like reformulating all our we have been able to measure the healthy ranges together, own brand soft drinks to contain impact of interventions on shopping less than 5g of sugar per 100ml behaviours. During the period of the bring back more local below the threshold for the UK soft health event we saw a significant foods into the drinks levy. In fact, we have already improvement in the score of the supermarket.” reduced calories and removed over average shopping basket at Tesco: 8,000 tonnes of sugar, fat and salt the biggest increase we have seen Mum across a range of 2,000 products outside of seasonal changes. Liverpool including breakfast cereals, We are also committed to the yoghurts and ready meals through health and wellbeing of our the ongoing recipe change of our colleagues. This year we have own label products. launched regular health events for In May we held our first ever ‘Little colleagues. We gave away over 13 Helps to Healthier Living’ event for million pieces of fruit to colleagues, colleagues and customers. For provided opportunties to get active, customers this included ‘Helpful offered free mini health checks in Little Swaps’ in store and online, partnership with Nuffield and raised highlighting products lower in sugar, awareness around mental wellbeing, fat or salt compared to the regular highlighting the tools and assistance alternatives. Products with signage available to support healthy minds. suggesting them as a ‘Helpful Little In local communities, we are helping families overcome barriers to healthier eating though our National Charity Partnership with Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation. One example is the Make, Move & Munch Clubs that supports parents to eat better and access practical and helpful exercise advice. The programme features free sessions held in six areas with high levels of health inequality across the UK. The clubs provide recipes, skills and support to help families cook quick, healthy and affordable meals from scratch. The percentage reporting that they were eating at least 5 portions of fruit and vegetables per day increased from 49% at the start of the programme to 78% at the end. 12 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our products Overcoming barriers to healthy eating. Colleagues and customers tell us that even with the best intentions, eating more healthily can be difficult. Through customer research we have identified five main barriers to eating healthily. Finding opportunities to overcome these forms the basis of our work to support colleagues and customers to make healthier food choices every time they shop with us. 1. Taste Every time we change our food and drink recipes, we will make them healthier as long as there is no impact on taste or quality. We have removed over 11 million calories in all of Tesco own brand soft drinks and were the first supermarket to reformulate all of our range below the threshold for the sugar levy (5g per 100ml). We also help colleagues and customers with specialist dietary needs to enjoy the food they love. 2. Cost As part of our May 2017 health event, we identified over 200 products with no red traffic lights and reduced their prices. We also reduced the price of seasonal fresh vegetables and fruit, offering 49p deals on bananas, apples and nectarines. We are committed to ensuring that colleagues and customers always pay the same price or less for the healthier version. 3. Information In 2005 we were the first retailer in the UK to put nutrition information on the front of packs, based on Guideline Daily Amounts. More recently, through 13 new online filters, we are helping customers quickly and easily search for healthy, dietary and lifestyle options, including low fat, gluten free and lactose free. 4. Time We are inspiring colleagues and customers with simple, cook from scratch recipe ideas, such as Nana’s ‘Magic’ Soup and Ali’s ‘Tricked You’ Citrus Salmon, which we have featured as two of our Food Love Stories. 5. Access and We want to make healthier choices more visible and easy to find in our stores. This is why in 2015 we removed all sweets from checkouts, including visibility convenience stores, replacing them with snacks that meet specific nutritional guidelines. We were also the first retailer in the UK to give children free fruit in our large stores and have given out over 24 million pieces of fruit in 2017/18 so far, helping embed healthy eating habits. Tesco PLC Tesco PLC corporate corporate responsibility and sustainability responsibility and sustainability report report 2017 2017 13 13 Our products Tackling food waste. “We have been challenging Tesco and other supermarkets on transparent reporting of food waste for years now. The commitment to ensure that supply chain waste is measured and reported makes Tesco the world-leading supermarket on transparent food waste reporting, and represents a significant At Tesco, we have no time for largest suppliers to halve food step towards meeting the waste. We think it’s simply not waste by 2030, publish food waste right that good food goes to waste. data for their own operations within global goal to halve food We’re not the only ones. Food 12 months and work with us to waste by 2030. waste is recognised as a key reduce food waste both in the sustainability challenge in the UN supply chain and also in the homes It’s time for other Sustainable Development Goals of customers. (SDGs). businesses to follow suit, We believe partnership breeds That’s why in 2013 we were the first innovation. Our Perfectly Imperfect and for Tesco, along with UK retailer to measure and publish range is a great example wonky the rest of the world’s food waste data for our UK fruit and vegetables are offered to supermarkets, to operations. We were also proud to customers at lower prices. This become members of Champions initiative helps prevent food waste demonstrate, if they can, 12.3, a coalition of leaders chaired on farms and in production, and that their businesses are by our CEO Dave Lewis. This group is also provides customers with great dedicated to accelerating progress value. In the last 12 months, we have not inherently wasteful.” towards achieving the UN sold over 10,000 tonnes of Perfectly Sustainable Development Goal Imperfect produce in the UK and Tristram Stuart target 12.3 to halve global food Central Europe. The range includes Food waste campaigner waste by 2030. cucumbers, strawberries, courgettes, pears and many other As part of the Little Helps Plan we popular fruits and vegetables. have set out an ambitious target to help halve food waste from farm to Helping customers to reduce waste fork by 2030 – aligning to the SDG in the home is also vital. Salads are 12.3. This new target demonstrates one of the UK’s most wasted foods that we are not just tackling food by households with around 37,000 waste in our own operations, but tonnes thrown away from homes have a shared responsibility to each year, equivalent to 178 million tackle food waste in our supply bags of salad. That’s why we have chains and in our customers’ introduced new re-sealable bags on homes. selected lines of fresh leaf salad, which will keep food fresher for In September 2017, we announced a longer and help customers reduce joint commitment with 24 of our food waste. 14 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our products 2016/17 food surplus data. Measuring food surplus and waste in our UK operations has helped us identify hotspots and understand the root causes. We have now 2016/17 food surplus: progress against our target UK applied the same methodology (tonnes) across our five European markets. 25,109 The food waste data on the right gives a picture of how much food Food surplus safe for safe for human consumption went human consumption 7,373 to waste in Tesco stores and Damages 5,700 distribution centres in 2016/17. 16,605 In our UK operations we sold Not safe to donate Donated 9,957,374 tonnes of food to 16,391 customers. This generated just 38,696 tonnes of food surplus that Animal was fit for human consumption and feed of this, 16,391 tonnes were sent to Anaerobic digestion energy recovery. and energy recovery In our Central European operations we sold 3,352,692 tonnes of food to customers in 2016/17. This resulted 2016/17 food surplus: progress against our target Central Europe in 27,143 tonnes of food surplus that (tonnes) was fit for human consumption, of which 19,000 tonnes were 32,142 disposed of. Food surplus safe for human consumption In the Republic of Ireland, 544,128 tonnes of food was sold to customers generating 3,481 tonnes 1,633 5,136 of food surplus fit for human consumption, with 2,892 tonnes of 3,007 Damages Not safe 19,000 this going to anaerobic digestion. to donate Donated Animal We are sharing learnings across our feed markets to help minimise these levels of waste. One example is Disposal through our food surplus donation programmes, which in 2016/17 saw us donate 11,424 tonnes of surplus 2016/17 food surplus: progress against our target food to help feed people in need. Republic of Ireland (tonnes) We will continue to publish data on Food surplus safe for our food waste annually in order to 1,619 human consumption measure progress towards our targets. Full details of our food 1,422 waste data can be found at www. tescoplc.com/foodwaste. Damages 588 2,892 Not safe to donate Donated Anaerobic Digestion * Not safe to donate refers to foods that legally cannot be donated by retailers according to guidelines from the Food Safety Authority of Ireland. Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 15 Our places Local communities. “The biggest advantage of ‘You choose, we help’ is the close relationship we develop with local communities. Local people decide which of the nominated projects should receive grants. I’m pleased to be part of the programme. It is a source of financial support for organisations, but is also We are proud to be a valued part We have established programmes in of over 6,000 communities around all our markets across the UK, an opportunity to show the world. We recognise that when Republic of Ireland and Central local people how we can our communities are thriving, it Europe, which put the power in the helps our business to thrive too. hands of our customers to choose, make a positive impact.” The benefits we bring to through regular in-store voting, the Urszula Wiśniewska communities around the world are local projects that Tesco supports Manager of Możesz więcej Poland social as well as economic: through financially. Through these the local people we employ, the programmes we have already (An organisation helping children local businesses we work with and distributed over £39 million and with disabilities) the local causes we support. supported more than 18,000 projects to date. We believe in acting locally to make a real difference to the issues that Wherever we operate, we also work matter to our customers and closely with food banks and local colleagues. Our stores often act as charities to help feed people in neighbourhood hubs for local need in local communities. In people and community groups to 2016/17 we have donated the meet. We now have 56 community equivalent of 28.5 million meals to rooms across the UK, which we help feed people in need across the make available for classes and UK, Republic of Ireland and Central activities, from mother and baby Europe. Our food redistribution groups to dance classes or digital programmes in the UK and Republic literacy classes. In addition there of Ireland use an innovative app to are many thousands of community connect our stores with local groups our stores have a organisations that can make best relationship with through our use of our surplus food. In Central community programmes. Europe we have developed longterm strategic partnerships with Our colleagues really care about national food banks, and in Asia we their communities and are often work with a range of partners to catalysts for action. We’ve ensure that our surplus food recognised this formally through reaches people in need. our Community Champions programme. While we have over 320 We will continue to support the official Community Champions in local causes that our colleagues and the UK, there are many more customers around the world care colleagues making a big difference about, and be a good neighbour in their local community. wherever we operate. 16 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our places Good neighbours. “Oldham has a number of charitable projects. One of the organisations Oldham stores support is the UK Education social and economic We’ve cleaned up a canal & Faith Foundation (UKEFF), which issues, but its sense of towpath close to one of was set up to help vulnerable people in struggling communities. community is one of the the stores, helped to One of the most popular projects is best I’ve ever felt. When clear some allotments the food hub, which was created we run a campaign, such and volunteered to do about three years ago to help people in Oldham who weren’t as a Neighbourhood Food litter picks in the street. getting the support they needed. Collection, we find that The food hub gets up to 130 people it’s people with the least “We meet with the other arriving every Monday for breakfast who give the most. stores every four weeks or a cup of coffee, and gives out food parcels to those who need and share ideas for them. Tesco’s Community Food “Tesco is an important upcoming projects. We Connection has allowed them to part of the town, with listen to what the offer a larger variety of items as well as grow the hub. The food hub is not four large and seven community needs to only about the provision of food but convenience stores in build a stronger also the social support that the food hub brings. and around the area. connection with them.” We’re one of the biggest Marie Toora In Oldham there are also 14 community groups that have employers in Oldham and Store Manager, received financial support through have become an integral Oldham Chadderton, Superstore our Bags of Help initiative in the UK. These groups have been specially part of the community by chosen by customers who voted in taking part in many our Oldham stores. Our target: To help our local communities thrive by positively contributing both socially and economically. For more information visit www.tescoplc.com/places Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 17 Our foundations The policies that underpin our plan. Underpinning the three key pillars of the Little Helps Plan are a number of areas where we remain committed to doing the right thing. For example, it’s right to make sure we tread lightly, minimising our impact on the environment through reducing our carbon emissions and packaging. Other areas such as maintaining product safety and quality, ensuring a culture of health and safety, and safeguarding the personal information of our customers are equally important. These represent core expectations of our stakeholders and are embedded in the way we do business. Climate change This approach is evident in our order to achieve our goal of investment of £8 million in solar long-term commitment to tackling becoming a zero carbon business. generation in Thailand. climate change. Ten years ago we We have therefore worked with Our aim is to expand our renewable set out ambitious targets to halve experts to set tough new scienceelectricity mix across the Group to our carbon emissions per square based targets aligned with the Paris include over 50% from grid power foot from our stores and Climate Accord’s 1.5 degree purchase agreements and on-site distribution centres by 2020 and aspiration. generation by 2030. become a zero carbon business by We are already well under way with 2050. our work to achieve this. In 2017 we Investments of over £700 million in switched to 100% renewable energy energy and refrigeration efficiency in the UK, supported by renewable have helped us achieve a 41% energy certificates, and we are reduction so far, but we recognise expanding on-site generation across that there is more we need to do in the Tesco Group from an initial Our targets: Reduce absolute carbon emissions from our operations from 2015 levels: 35% by 2020, 60% by 2025 and 100% by 2050 Source 65% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2020 and 100% by 2030 18 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Our foundations Packaging Packaging plays a crucial role in avoiding 653 tonnes of polystyrene address systemic recycling ensuring the safety and quality of being used. Another example, is our challenges such as black plastic the products we sell. However, it meat trays where we have replaced food trays and plastic films. also has a significant a two layer plastic tray with a single We have made considerable environmental impact, which is layer plastic, thereby making 84 progress but we recognise there is why we are committed to finding million trays easier to recycle and more to do. As part of the Little more sustainable packaging removing 96 tonnes of plastic. Helps Plan, we are setting out new solutions. Overall, over 78% of the packaging commitments to ensure that our For example, we have removed on all our own brand products is packaging is always proportionate, polystyrene from our fish packaging recyclable, but this is dependent on sourced sustainably and recyclable and replaced with a more the local authority collecting it. We or compostable. environmentally friendly plastic, are working with the industry to Our targets: Our packaging will be fully recyclable or compostable by 2025 All paper and board used will be 100% sustainable by 2025 We will halve packaging weight by 2025 (2007 baseline) Governance Our Code of Business Conduct describes our most important legal obligations and the and ethics policies that guide our conduct in order to protect our reputation and ensure that we live our purpose and values. Our Code is regularly updated to reflect emerging risks and new legislation. All colleagues across the Tesco Group are required to complete annual refresher training on the Code of Business Conduct and ongoing in-depth e-learning on newly updated policies and key risk areas. Our Group Compliance Committee monitors the implementation of the Code of Business Conduct. Health We want Tesco to be a safe place to work and shop. We promote a culture in which and safety safety is everyone’s responsibility and colleagues are encouraged to speak up if they have any concerns. All colleagues undertake health and safety training specific to their role and the particular risks involved. Product We work closely with our suppliers to ensure our products meet the highest safety and safety legal requirements. We have a range of manufacturing and farming standards for both food and non-food products (including clothing, home, household, toys and electrical products) and cover the lifecycle of all products from raw materials through to the shelf edge and online. Our highly trained technical team guide and upskill our suppliers on delivering these standards and carry out extensive tests to ensure compliance. Cyber We take the integrity and privacy of our customers’ and colleagues’ data seriously. security We have a clear data security governance plan and undertake regular third party penetration testing. We have active monitoring and processes in place to identify and deal with IT security incidents, and have recently rolled out enhanced Information Security Awareness Training for our colleagues. Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 19 Measuring our progress Our targets and actions. For each pillar of our plan we have defined a number of priority Targets and Actions. Targets have been developed to apply to all our retail businesses across the Tesco Group, including Republic of Ireland, Central Europe and Asia. With the majority of our customers being in the UK, implementation will begin with the UK business operations. The social, political and economic landscape in our other international markets does differ and we need to recognise this as we implement our plan. That’s why we will take learnings from the UK and consult with expert stakeholders within each of our international markets to develop appropriate plans and country specific timelines. Nevertheless, we are committed to making progress on all areas of the Little Helps Plan in all of our markets. In the coming months we will set out the measures and KPIs against our targets and actions. We will regularly report progress against each of these actions on our PLC website as well as publishing an annual update on our Little Helps Plan. Our people Target To help our colleagues succeed by providing them with the flexibility, skills and reward to ‘get on’ Action 1 To have a competitive total reward package that colleagues value Action 2 Invest in training for our colleagues so they can increase their skills and digital confidence in order to have access to a greater number of roles and develop their careers for the longerterm Action 3 Provide opportunities to help young people develop their employability skills and start their careers Action 4 Introduce a new suite of contracts and new technology to give colleagues both certainty, greater flexibility and control over their own work schedules Action 5 Continue to build an inclusive culture where everyone has the opportunity to get on Action 6 Help colleagues look after their physical and mental wellbeing so they can be at their best at work and home 20 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Measuring our progress Our products – sourcing Target To help make sustainable products accessible and affordable for all Action 1 Lead the industry in addressing the sustainability challenges in our supply chains starting with our most important products and ingredients Action 2 Build trusted partnerships with our suppliers Action 3 Ensure international human rights standards are respected at all our suppliers’ sites Action 4 Focus on the most serious risks to workers throughout our supply chains, working transparently with NGOs, unions and others to identify and address them Action 5 Support sourcing communities facing complex social and environmental challenges Action 6 Reduce supply chain carbon emissions by 7% by 2020 Action 7 Achieve zero net deforestation in our sourcing of raw materials by 2020 Action 8 Sustainably source all our wild fish Action 9 Improve water quality and biodiversity in vulnerable agricultural regions Action 10 Treat all animals in our supply chain humanely at all life stages Our products – health Target To support all of our colleagues to live healthier lives and help our customers make healthier food choices every time they shop with us Action 1 Help colleagues look after their physical and mental wellbeing so they can be at their best at work and home Action 2 To partner with leading health charities to align and amplify our collective expertise and help colleagues and customers make healthier choices Action 3 To help increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables to encourage colleagues and customers and to adopt healthier eating habits and improve their diets Action 4 To help remove cost barriers to healthy eating by ensuring that customers always pay the same price or less for the healthier version Action 5 Every time we change the recipes across our own label food and drink we always make them healthier as long as there is no impact on taste or quality Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 21 Measuring our progress Our products – food waste Target To help halve global food waste, farm to fork, by 2030 Action 1 No food that is safe for human consumption will be wasted inside the UK operation by the end of 2017 Action 2 Halve food waste in our own operations by 2030 Action 3 Work in partnership with our suppliers to halve food waste in our supply chains by 2030 Action 4 Help halve household food waste in the markets where we have retail operations by 2030 Our places Target To help our local communities thrive by positively contributing both socially and economically Action 1 To facilitate food surplus donation programmes in all our stores in order to provide meals to those in need By the end of 2017 (UK and Republic of Ireland) By the end of 2017/18 (Malaysia) By the end of 2018 (Thailand: hypermarkets in Bangkok) By the end of 2020 (Central Europe) Action 2 Support the projects and causes that matter to the local communities in every community where we operate Our foundations Climate change Action 1 Reduce absolute carbon emissions from our operations from 2015 levels: 35% by 2020, 60% by 2025 and 100% by 2050 Action 2 Source 65% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2020 and 100% by 2030 Packaging Action 1 Our packaging will be fully recyclable or compostable by 2025 Action 2 All paper and board used will be 100% sustainable by 2025 Action 3 Halve packaging weight by 2025 (2007 baseline) 22 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 Measuring our progress UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. As members of the UN Global Compact, we have demonstrated throughout this report our progress against many of the business principles. The table below acts as an index to where further information on our progress can be found. Our Little Helps Plan has also been developed to demonstrate and report against the action we take to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. At www.tescoplc.com/sdgs we have outlined how our work supports and aligns with these goals. Areas Principles Links to progress information Human 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection www.tescoplc.com/humanrights rights of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit www.tescoplc.com/humanrightspolicy in human rights abuses. www.tescoplc.com/ethicaltrading Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association www.tescoplc.com/ethicaltrading and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. www.tescoplc.com/codeofbusinessconduct www.tescoplc.com/unions www.tescoplc.com/ukgarmentindustry 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of www.tescoplc.com/humanrightspolicy forced and compulsory labour. www.tescoplc.com/ethicaltrading www.tescoplc.com/forced-labour-cotton-industry 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child www.tescoplc.com/ethicaltrading labour. www.tescoplc.com/children-in-tea-communities www.tescoplc.com/sourcing-cocoa-responsibly 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of www.tescoplc.com/inclusion discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. www.tescoplc.com/ethicaltrading Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to www.tescoplc.com/environment environmental challenges. 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote www.tescoplc.com/foodwaste greater environmental responsibility. www.tescoplc.com/palmoil 9 Businesses should encourage the development and www.tescoplc.com/energy-efficient-stores diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. www.tesco.com/community-food-connection Anti10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its www.tescoplc.com/whistleblowing corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. www.tescoplc.com/anti-bribery Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017 23 Tesco PLC Tesco House, Shire Park, Kestrel Way, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1GA = 24 Tesco PLC corporate responsibility and sustainability report 2017
