Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 Table of Contents Statement from the Managing Director ............................................................................................................. 2 Acronyms ........................................................................................................................................................... 3 Background………………………………………………………………………………………….................4 Social Reporting: Sustainable Development Priorities ...................................................................................... 5 The UNGC 10 Principles: .................................................................................................................................. 6 Corporate issues in Fiduga Ltd Strategic Plan 2016-19..................................................................................... 7 Strategic Linkages to Sustainability Priorities at Fiduga Ltd. ........................................................................... 8 Photo Splash....................................................................................................................................................... 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN RELATION TO FL BASIC BUSINESS PRINCIPLES. ....... 10 1. HUMAN RIGHTS. ...................................................................................................................................... 10 2. LABOUR STANDARDS: ........................................................................................................................... 14 Staff Development Policy. ............................................................................................................................... 15 Maternity Policy ............................................................................................................................................. 16 Achievements:.................................................................................................................................................. 16 3. ENVIRONMENT. ....................................................................................................................................... 18 Achievements:.................................................................................................................................................. 18 4. CORPORATE INTEGRITY ....................................................................................................................... 21 Achievements:.................................................................................................................................................. 28 1 Statement from the Managing Director Our everyday actions make us who we are—and continually shape who we will become—as a business, a brand and a global example of kinder, wiser industry practices. For this reason, it is essential that we continue to be proactive in corporate sustainability and make excellent progress towards the achievement of the company‘s business agenda and our sustainability targets. We are actively ensuring that our stakeholders‘ interests are represented and paving a way for other individuals and companies that have a direct or indirect role in Fiduga operations to follow and also adopt more sustainable work practices. This Communication on Progress (COP) Report documents our respect for the impact of our company‘s actions on our own lives and on the lives of our employees, customers, partners and the communities we all share. It is a vital contract to which we hold each other and ourselves. No matter how complex a single moral or ethical question may be, the answer and the intent of this COP is straightforward: To do what is right! As Fiduga Ltd, we innately understand and honor the UN Global Compact Principles. We recognize the need to set down basic standards for embodying them in our day-to-day experiences. Our Code of Conduct shows us this vision. Therefore, we are progressing in adhering to the UNGC principles, some of which have been highlighted in this report. By listening closely to our customers and working collaboratively with our stakeholders, we will continue to drive positive change for our business, our community and our society. Nice reading, Jos Meulenberg, Managing Director – Fiduga Ltd 2 Acronyms CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility FL: Fiduga Limited ICT: Information Communication and Technology ILO: International Labour Organisation ISO: International Standards Organization MPS-GAP: Milieu Programma Sierteelt-Good Agricultural Practices MPSQ: Milieu Programma SierteeltSocially Qualified OSH: Occupational Safety and Health ROI: Return on Investment SOPs: Standard Operating Procedures UNGC: United Nations Global Compact VCT: Voluntary Counseling and Testing for HIV 3 Background Fiduga Limited operates under Dümmen Orange, Dutch Company that specializes in the breeding and propagation of Chrysanthemums. The Company was incorporated in Uganda on 29th October, 1998 with the objective of producing and exporting exclusive and environmentally friendly cuttings that qualify to international markets. Fiduga Limited employs over 800 workers, is an ISO 9001:2008, MPS-GAP Certified and has been qualified for Free Zone Certification in Uganda. Currently we have 19 hectares in full production and export over 500 million cuttings annually. This Corporate Sustainability Report 2017 informs stakeholders about the course of the financial year 2017 and summarizes the way the company handles corporate responsibility and sustainability. In the previous year, the company has intensified its dialogue with relevant stakeholder groups in preparation for this latest report. Our commitment to integrity has remained steadfast. Integrity means acting out of and in accordance with our basic principles: doing as we say, and saying as we do. We act honestly, responsibly and lawfully in all matters of business. We respect the universal rules of competition. We uphold our company name and reputations as well as those of our parent company—Dümmen Orange. Commitment to integrity is also about creating a climate for continued success. It is about creating an environment where people can make good decisions. It is about doing what is right in every business situation. The objective of this publication therefore, is to identify and promote good practices relating to the use of human rights obligations and commitments to inform, support and strengthen environmental policy making, especially in the areas of environmental protection and management. Simultaneously this COP should build up momentum to profile and contextualize our corporate sustainability strategy and help us make excellent progress towards the achievement of the company‘s business agenda and sustainable targets. 4 Social Reporting: Sustainable Development Priorities. Understanding our stakeholders and what is important to them. Stakeholder Their Expectations Fiduga’s Expectations Staff Remuneration, Welfare Performance, Creativity and Loyalty Shareholders ROI, Business Stability Resources and Continuity and CSR Clients Quality products, Constructive feedback, Long-term relationship Competitive pricing and and contractual fulfillment obligation reliable supplies Supplier Constructive feedback, Quality products, Competitive Pricing, Reliable Long term relationship supplies and Compliance to all applicable laws and contractual fulfillment obligation Involvement and participation of community Community Assistance and compliance to local members. laws Government Compliance to Fair trade practices, Conducive political environment applicable laws and and Good infrastructure provision of employment Umbrella Involvement and Fair and beneficial Representation Organizations compliance Financial Institutions Long term relationship Quality products, Competitive pricing and reliable and contractual supplies fulfillment obligations Union Good governance Good industrial relations 5 The UNGC 10 Principles: 1. Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not in complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10. Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Below is an index of our reporting against the UN Global Compact Principles with in the content of this 2017 Sustainability Report. 4 UNGC PILLARS Investment (USD) % HUMAN RIGHTS: 110,000 12.1 LABOUR STANDARDS: 305,952 33.7 ENVIRONMENT 271,866 29.9 CORPORATE INTEGRITY 220,375 24.3 GRAND TOTAL: 908,193 100.0 6 Corporate issues in Fiduga Ltd Strategic Plan 2016-19 In 2017, we invested USD 908,193 in our impact zones as follows: Employee (444,642, 49%), Product (138,652, 15%), Process (145,922, 16%) and Community (178,977, 20%). These corporate issues are extracted from the company Strategic Plan 2016-2019. As Fiduga seeks to consolidate her market leadership position, we are investing in transforming systems into an analytical competitor in the region with social analytics as follows: UNGC Pillars/ Issues 1.EMPLOYEE 2.PRODUCT 3.PROCESS 4. COMMUNITY 1. Human Rights 110,000 2. Labour Standards 305,952 3. Environment 2,718 138,652 130,496 4. Corporate Integrity 135,972 15,426 68,977 GRAND TOTAL: 444,642 138,652 145,922 178,977 Employee: This corporate issue arose from the need to increase workplace productivity and employee satisfaction. The employees are the competitive advantage that Fiduga has over its competitors. Product: As a farming business with very stringent quality needs from clients, Fiduga has sought to continuously improve the quality of its product. Process: Owing to the meticulous process of producing and handling the cuttings for export, we have invested in a process and systems as a way of guaranteeing our project sustainability. Community: As a good corporate citizen, ensuring achievement of the applicable and required certifications is key in securing our good corporate image. We have invested in the form of contribution to society as embedded in our Code of Conduct. 7 Strategic Linkages to Sustainability Priorities at Fiduga Ltd. Below are strategic linkages between Fiduga Ltd corporate issues (Personnel, Product, Process and Community) and the United Nations Global Compact issue areas namely Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Corporate Integrity on our road to becoming a Sustainability Leadership Company. Corporate Sustainability Priorities for 2016-2019 linked to UNGC Principles & Issues Initiatives 1.PERSONNEL Enhancing the knowledge, the skills and abilities of our employees internally. (Employees) Marching jobs with people for career development and management. Supervision and Performance Management. Cross functional mentoring program which may include peer to peer communication and Knowledge sharing. Star program to identify and develop potential, young academics. 2. PRODUCT Training in Product Management Fully functional Breeding Centre in Uganda. Maintain top quality leadership in the Chrysanthemum production. Continuous improvement in product quality. 3. PROCESS Skills training in line with standardized performance metrics : PAT System Achieve 100% compliance requirements as applicable in each context (Legal, HR, Finance /Tax, Safety, Environment and all acceptable SOPs). 4.PEOPLE Promote Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI). (Community) Promote Principles of Social Investment (PSI). Promote Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME). Participate in the Supply Chain Sustainability Initiative. 8 Photo Splash Annual Fiduga Community Health Fare Fiduga Green Houses 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES IN RELATION TO FL BASIC BUSINESS PRINCIPLES. The following are UN Global Compact Principles showing how our basic business principles translate into specific expectations and applications in the course of everyday business. These principles help us to visualize our values in action, and give us a deeper, real-world understanding of the standards to which all Fiduga Ltd employees are trusted to hold themselves and each other. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS. Recruitment Policy. In order to realize its goals and objectives, Fiduga Limited is committed to recruiting and retaining competent employees. All posts must be filled on merit. As a result it is necessary to provide guidelines to all staff who are involved in the recruitment process. These guidelines must be followed for all recruitment processes for all posts. Deviations from the guidelines should be agreed with the immediate supervisor and manager responsible. This should be documented so that it is clear what deviations were agreed, who agreed on them and why. This shall ensure transparent and fair recruitment practices. Fiduga Limited will recruit Ugandan nationals wherever possible and only recruit expatriates where recruitment of a Ugandan national has proven not possible. Fiduga Limited shall not employ children under the age of (14) years. The HR department is responsible for the recruitment of all employees at Fiduga Limited. Fiduga will be guided by the following recruitment Principles: a. Equal opportunity: Fiduga shall extend equal opportunity to all categories of persons and shall not make any recruitment decisions based on tribe, race, sex, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin except where the inherent requirements of the business favour the recruitment of a particular category of persons such as Ugandan Nationals. Fiduga may however employ non Ugandans subject to complying with immigration requirements. 10 b. Cost-effectiveness Fiduga shall endeavor to be cost effective in its recruitment. c. Compliance with the Law and Best Practices Fiduga shall comply with the existing Labour Laws in force and international recruitment best practices as they evolve from time to time. Harassment Policy. The Company recognizes that every employee is entitled to fair labour practices, has the right to his/her dignity and has the right to privacy and will not condone any form of harassment. This policy is to affirm the Company‘s commitment to recognizing an employee‘s rights and to provide procedures that protect such rights by reporting, investigating and correcting or disciplining incidents of bullying or harassment. This policy further gives credence to and recognizes the company‘s general commitment to provide and maintain a safe, supportive and healthy working environment. The Company is further committed to treating all colleagues with respect, dignity, and to providing a supportive working environment and to eliminating bullying and harassment in the workplace. Purpose and Scope Except in cases where the individual agrees that an informal approach is preferable to satisfactorily resolve a concern relating to harassment, they should have the opportunity to have such a complaint formally dealt with through the procedure below. Procedures for dealing with complaints of harassment need to be flexible enough to deal with the variety and complexity of many harassment complaints. While dealing with a complaint brought under this policy, the following principles shall be exhibited: a) Thoroughness b) Impartiality c) Timeliness d) Gender sensitivity e) Social dialogue f) Discretion g) Confidentiality h) The right to privacy of the complainant 11 The definition of harassment Harassment includes, but is not limited to: (a) Offensive behavior or bullying which is based on individual circumstances, which includes, but is not limited to their, gender, race, disability, physical appearance, ethnicity, nationality, age, religion, belief or status. (b) Forms of harassment can include, but are not limited to, physical contact, jokes, offensive language, slander, gossip, offensive songs and letters, posters, graffiti, obscene gestures, symbols, offensive screensavers or e-mail, isolation, non-co-operation or exclusion, coercion for sexual favors, pressure to participate in political/religious groups, intrusion by pestering, spying stalking. (c) Harassment will include any form of victimization and unfair discrimination. (d) Harassment is conduct that is unwelcome and can be insulting, degrading, exploitative, abusive or offensive to the recipient of such conduct. (e) Harassment need not to be directed to a specific person or persons, but may entail a general gesture, remark or some other form of offensive expression, made in the presence of others. (f) Differences of attitude and culture or misinterpretation of social signals can mean that what is perceived as harassment by one person may not seem so to another. The focus is firmly on how the recipient feels about the conduct / incident, rather than the intent of the alleged offender. (g) Harassment, of any nature, may occur as a single incident or as a series of repeated incidents. Sexual Harassment Sexual harassment shall be dealt with in accordance with the procedure set out in the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Racial Harassment Racial harassment may include but is not limited to, the following: (a) Unwelcome remarks, jokes, innuendoes or taunting about a person‘s racial or ethnic background (b) The displaying of racial graffiti or material (c) Refusing to interact or work with an employee because of his or her ethnic or racial background (d) Insulting gestures or practical jokes, and hate speech based on racial or ethnic grounds (e) Assault or attempted assault relating to racial or ethnic origins Bullying Bullying may include, but is not limited to, the following: (a) Shouting at an individual (b) Persistent, excessive, unfair and unjustified criticism (c) Public humiliation and/or insults (d) Persistent undervaluing of a person‘s effort (e) Constant ignoring of opinions (f) Withholding work related information that would be beneficial to an individual, without justification 12 (g) Setting someone up to fail, for example, a target/objective that simply cannot be achieved (h) Constant changing of targets for no justifiable reason (i) Aggressive verbal or written communications Bullying should not be confused with genuine justified management practices and techniques. For example, in some circumstances it is appropriate to supervise one individual more closely than others. The main considerations are whether this managerial behavior / practice are justifiable, legitimate and reasonable in the circumstances. Disability harassment Disability harassment is defined as ‗Derogatory remarks, mimicking, invasive personal questions, staring, ostracizing or patronizing behavior which is directed at any individual with a disability, or group of disabled people, which results in the individual(s) feeling dehumanized threatened or compromised. Disability harassment falls into three main categories; verbal, non-verbal and physical. Some examples are as follows: a) Verbal i. Making fun of a disability ii. Mimicking speech impairment iii. Inappropriate questions or comments regarding the disability iv. Patronizing comments or ‗nicknames‘. b) Non-Verbal I. Mimicking the physical disability II. Ostracizing and ignoring. Victimization The Company will not tolerate any victimization or retaliation against any employee who complains about, or furnishes information regarding bullying or harassment and, where appropriate disciplinary action will be taken against the alleged offender. Victimization may include the taking of disciplinary action, dismissal, demotion, transfer or any other action which adversely affects the employment, terms and conditions or the working environment of the employee. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES Fiduga limited encourages feedback from employees regarding any work related difficulties. In order to resolve such conflicts in a constructive manner, the employee should first confirm facts to avoid complaints based on rumors or gossip. All employees have the right to be heard by a neutral third party before any decision can be made regarding any case. The neutral third party may be the supervisor or the Human Resources Manager, depending on the level of the employees involved in the grievance. The third party must be an employee of the Company. 13 The Company is committed to providing a grievance procedure that is fair, equitable and usable by all its employees. Fiduga limited will follow and abide by the grievance handling procedures stated in the collective bargaining agreement. The company has also put in place organizational communication channels through which employees can speak out about their grievances. Such channels include the Joint consultative council that is made up of representatives from the various departments within Fiduga, open door policy where employees are encouraged to walk in the managing directors‘ office at any time to discuss any grievances. The company further created the office of the employee relationship clerk who is also a member of UHAWU. Her role is to talk to people listen to their grievances and take appropriate action. Employees are therefore encouraged to make use of all these channels to settle grievances or disputes. The human resource office will make every attempt to address grievances and settle disputes in a fair and open manner. 2. LABOUR STANDARDS: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH POLICY. The Company acknowledges that it can only realize and achieve its documented mission by primarily creating a safe workplace through a well-coordinated OSH management system. This is in line with the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2006 (OSHA) and underlying regulations. The Company is mandated by law to have an OSH policy aligned to its operations and developed with worker participation and communicated across the board. Fiduga Ltd has set forth an Occupational Health and Safety Policy that workers should be protected from sickness, disease and injury arising from their employment. The policy measures relate to machinery safety and ergonomics, handling and transport of materials, sound management of chemicals, and protection against biological risks, welfare and accommodation facilities. Management shall have overall responsibility for ensuring the safety and health of workers and the general public affected by the Company‘s operations. The OSH Management System shall be in accordance with the terms of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. 14 We will do our part to preserve and promote an environment in which we can all thrive. We are committed to knowing and complying with all current health and safety regulations and emergency plans. Freedom of Association. Fiduga Ltd promotes the Freedom of Association and ensures that workers and employers associate to efficiently negotiate work relations. Combined with strong freedom of association and sound collective bargaining practices Fiduga Ltd ensures that employers and workers have an equal voice in negotiations and that the outcome is fair and equitable. Equal Opportunity and Non Discrimination Policy. Fiduga is an equal opportunity employer. Therefore, Fiduga shall apply objective and fair criteria to ensure that staff members are selected, assessed, promoted and treated on the basis of their merit, abilities and experience relevant to their post. No suitable job applicant or staff member shall receive less favourable treatment than others in similar circumstances on grounds of tribe, race, colour, nationality, social or ethnic origin and language, gender, marital status, disability, class, age, political or religious belief or HIV status. The principle of equal opportunity shall form the fundamental framework for human resource development and shall be integrated into all policies and practices affecting Fiduga. Fiduga shall pay male and female employees equal remuneration for work of equal value. Social Security Policy. Fiduga Ltd provides security for its employees and protects them not only from disease, but also from the insecurities related to making a living through work. Social security systems provide for basic income in cases of unemployment, illness and injury, old age and retirement, family responsibilities such as pregnancy and childcare, and loss of the family breadwinner. Such benefits are important not only for individual workers and their families but also for their communities as a whole. By providing health care and income security, social security enhances productivity and contributes to the dignity and full realization of individual workers. Our social security policy also promotes gender equality through the adoption of measures to ensure that women who have children enjoy equal opportunities at our place. The policy has helped us to maintain a stable workforce adaptable to change. Staff Development Policy. Fiduga limited regards its staff as the most valuable resource. In order for Fiduga to carry out its work effectively, it needs to have skilled, committed and resourceful staff. The company further acknowledges that at times staff members may lack specific skills required to carry out their assigned tasks satisfactorily. The Company will make an effort to see that all Employees are provided with the necessary training that enables them to perform their duties effectively. 15 Fiduga also recognizes the value of staff development in terms of promoting motivation and commitment among staff. It can be a powerful motivator in the organization when staff members feel that they are able to carry out their work well and have opportunities for professional and personal development. Maternity Policy Female employees are entitled to pay maternity leave of 90 working days as a consequence of pregnancy or miscarriage. Female employees due for maternity leave shall inform their team leaders/supervisors. The employee and their supervisor shall then proceed to the human resource office to fill in the maternity leave form clearly indicating the start date and end date of the leave. Leave beyond 90 working days must be approved by the respective departmental head together with the human resource manager and will be treated as annual leave if the employee has any unused annual leave days or as leave without pay. During maternity leave, the employee shall continue to receive all benefits previously provided and shall be eligible for salary increases and bonuses. Eligibility for promotions shall not be affected in any way by the fact that an employee has been on maternity leave. A female employee who seeks to exercise any of the rights mentioned in this section shall, if requested by the Company, produce a certificate as to her medical condition from a Certified Medical Doctor or Midwife. Achievements:  Over 75% of the labour force has under gone in-house training on various topics conducted by the Human Resource Team.  4 senior supervisors are under going on job training (2 In Busitema Agricultural College and 2 at HAS University Netherlands).  Conducted 2 trainings for Fiduga Occupational Safety and Health Committee.  Zero tolerance for child labour: No children hired.  28 children aged (3-24 months) cared for in the daycare service.  30 Employee Meetings held by Managing Director‘s ,September, 2016  55% of the 850 employees are unionized.  2 health talk session held for pregnant and breastfeeding mothers on hygiene standards and child care.  26 PLHIVs (Persons living with HIV) supported with food supplements, school fees and scholastics for their children.  46 referrals made to major hospitals for specialist care.  3 study trips organized for managers to Germany, Kenya, Tanzania, and Netherlands.  10 paid interns hosted from local educational institutions; 3 Female, 7 Male. 16 Cold Room Employees at Work FL Managing Director with State Minister for Trade inspects the Flora Trial House. 17 3. ENVIRONMENT. Fiduga Ltd cares about the health of our planet and is committed to working sustainably. We strive to understand measure and improve the ecological impacts of our company‘s products, processes and practices. Dedication to sustainability also impacts our individual choices. Our ultimate goal is to protect our environment and also enhance the lives of our workers, as they are free from unhealthy and toxic pesticides. We will work together to build a better and more sustainable future and lighten our footsteps on the planet. Achievements:  We have recycled crop waste and weeds.  Installed a new pump for efficiency water usage and management; computerized irrigation system, Installed new water efficient fixtures, equipment and technology.  79 Employees trained in safe use and handling of pesticides. This has been provided to sprayers and stores employees; 77 Spray Men trained and 2 Stores staff. Instituted a Green Care Project. Greencare hygiene practices and our aim. Although we were working with procedures on the farm, the Green careproject has given us straight forward guidelines and understanding of the importance of Phytosanitary procedures. Training all people on the farm has enlightened and empowered every one with our focus on the same goals.  Aim: Our goal is to avoid spreading and entry of plant diseases. By implementing these GC hygiene minimum requirements in each greenhouse/entity the chance on disease outbreaks will decrease or be eliminated  At Fiduga we have got various areas which needed to be improved on hygiene for example; Elite increase (Stock House), Elite basic stock, Breeding house and Production at large.  Since implementation of GC, we managed to improve some of those areas and others are still in progress. Greencare implementation and progress.  Made a general hygiene and protocol poster for the whole production farm.  Tested one greenhouse with a fully functional double entry.  Designed new work wear and movement of materials for each greenhouse to enable each GH to be a Phytosanitary Entity.  Built a full – shower in shower out double entrance for our Elite increase.  Moved our Elite basic stock into the Elite increase. Same Green care status.  Built a double entry with basins for GH 10 – this house is the next increase level of our farm.  Built a proper wash bay for farm equipment to ensure only clean machinery enters the different entities.  Breeding House – up to a good standard for Green care. Huge success – after implementing strict Phytosanitary working methods 18 Managing Director and Production Manager following all chapters of Green Care specifically the Crop. Fiduga Man-made Lake, From Water Harvesting Project. 19 Newly installed irrigation pump New Steam Boiler in Use 20 4. CORPORATE INTEGRITY Our Code of Conduct Our Values PASSIONATE PURPOSE Passion lives in every moment and every detail of our work, uniting our mission, our people, and our planet in a vibrant circle that‘s both sustaining and sustainable. INSPIRING CONFIDENCE Trust – earned by doing business honestly, transparently, accountably and reliably – inspires confidence in our relationships and pride in our legacy. BOUNDLESS SOLUTIONS Serving the individual needs of our customers with sincerity and ingenuity fuels boundless floriculture solutions and business opportunities that advance mutual success. EVOLVING EXCELLENCE From products that outperform to leadership that outshines, continually evolving our standards of excellence feeds dynamic growth and deep-rooted success. EMPOWERING EXPRESSION Flowers speak to the best of our human nature – beauty, joy, love, life, and art – empowering us to connect, communicate and share every day. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The following are some principal examples showing how our basic principles translate into specific expectations and applications in the course of everyday business. These principles help us to visualize our values in action, and give us a deeper, real-world understanding of the standards to which all Fiduga Ltd employees are trusted to hold themselves and each other. 21 Integrity Integrity means acting out of and in accordance with our basic principles: doing as we say, and saying as we do. We act honestly, responsibly and lawfully in all matters of business. We respect the universal rules of competition. We uphold our own names and reputations as well as those of Fiduga Ltd —Dümmen Orange. Honesty We are truthful and trustworthy in all we say, write and do. We are forthcoming with our knowledge and feedback. We remain respectful and thoughtful of all those with whom we do business. Responsibility We understand our duties and are committed to performing them to the best of our abilities. We are accountable for our actions and decisions, and we hold others accountable in turn. Legal Compliance We understand, respect and comply with all local, state/provincial, national and international laws and regulations. These govern our business and the places in which we do business. We recognize that having knowledge of unlawful activity and not reporting it appropriately makes us complicit and culpable legally, morally and ethically. Gifts & Favors We understand that even gifts or favors given with purely good intentions may be inappropriate in context. We are sensitive to these complexities. We do not give or accept gifts, favors or hospitality, in any form, when the giver may—or may appear to— expect something in return. Conflicts of Interest We understand that personal and professional conflicts may arise in the course of doing business. For example, when an employee‘s interpersonal relationships interfere with their ability to lead fairly and objectively, or when an employee also works for other organizations. We are responsible for identifying, avoiding and reporting these conflicts or potential conflicts appropriately. Respect for People & Nature We respect our fellow humans and the resources we all share. This means placing the highest values on our universal rights to dignity, equality and safety, and our universal need for a healthy environment. Human Rights We honor and uphold the United Nations‘ Universal Declaration of Human Rights (www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/), respecting that all people, regardless of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status, are entitled to the same, inalienable rights as equal members of our human family. 22 Health & Safety We have the right to a healthy, safe and secure workplace. We will do our part to preserve and promote an environment in which we can all thrive. We are committed to knowing and complying with all current health and safety regulations and emergency plans. These measures will depend upon the unique circumstances of each location. Harassment & Violence We know that intolerance, intimidation and violence have no place at Dümmen Orange. We are all entitled to feel safe and respected at work. We are unified in our zero-tolerance approach to sexual harassment, intimidation/extortion, aggression and discrimination. We recognize that gossiping, bullying and teasing are harmful, and we choose to speak out rather than join in. Alcohol & Drugs We understand that smoking, alcohol and drugs can negatively affect our health, the health of those around us, and our ability to do our jobs well. While at work, we use such substances responsibly or not at all. If we smoke, we do so only in designated areas. If we drink alcohol, we do so with the express approval and oversight of leadership, such as when it is served during authorized company events. In such instances, we exercise moderation and good judgment. Sustainability We care about the health of our planet and are committed to working sustainably. We strive to understand measure and improve the ecological impacts of our company‘s products, processes and practices. Dedication to sustainability also impacts our individual choices. We will work together to systematically reduce the negative environmental effects of doing business. Confidentiality Transparency is essential to our business philosophy, as is earning and keeping the confidence of our colleagues, customers and partners. Doing both well means respecting the difference between information that is open, public or publishable, and information that is private, proprietary or protected. We treat all information, knowledge and intellectual property with care. Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) We recognize that, in our industry, IPR such as patents, plant breeders‘ rights and trademarks are vital assets that differentiate competitors from each other. We will protect Dümmen Orange‘s IPR to the best of our abilities. We also fully respect the IPR of others. Social Sharing We understand that we are free to share personal information, photographs, videos and other content via our personal social media accounts. We also understand that how we use such media can have positive and/or negative effects on our work, professional reputations, professional success, and that of Dümmen Orange. 23 We make clear distinctions between what constitutes personal and professional use of social media. We uphold the very simple rule at the basis of Dümmen Orange‘s social media policy: If it‘s inappropriate in normal social life, it‘s probably inappropriate on social media too. Nondisclosure We value the trust placed in Dümmen Orange as an employer, provider and business partner, and respect the role of nondisclosure in earning and keeping that trust. We understand that ―confidential information‖ means any information that is not currently public, such as strategic plans, sales figures, financial information, information regarding negotiations, agreements or dealings between Dümmen Orange and others, human resources information, trade secrets, patents, trademarks, and similar information from customers or partners . We protect such information, regardless of whether it belongs to Dümmen Orange, our customers or partners, or previous employers. We will share it only if we are legally required or authorized by Dümmen Orange to do so. We are responsible, when storing or transmitting confidential information, to prevent it from being obtained by unauthorized parties. 24 Fiduga Whistleblower Policy 1. INTRODUCTION The Company strives for high standards of transparency, decency and integrity. In order to ensure compliance with these standards, the Company expects Employees who suspect that serious issues exist within the Company to report them without needing to fear sanctions, repercussions and/or unfair treatment. This Policy is central to our effort to establish and sustain an ethical workplace environment and sound business practices. This Policy is however not intended to replace any existing internal procedures or rules for reporting issues. Alleged Irregularities should be reported as much as possible to an Employee‘s direct manager in line with normal reporting procedures. If the Employee feels this is not reasonably possible or feels this is inappropriate for whatever reason, the Employee can follow this Policy. 2. DEFINITIONS The words and expressions used in this Policy shall have the following meaning: Alleged Irregularity means an activity of a general, operational or financial nature which in the opinion of the Employee (i) is in violation of the law, any implementing regulation, any internal or external regulation that applies to the Company or any generally accepted practice within the Company and (ii) may have considerable negative consequences for the operations of the Company; Audit Committee means the audit committee of the Company consisting of 2 or more managers of the ultimate majority shareholder of the Company; Company means Dümmen Orange; Compliance Committee means the compliance committee of the Company consisting of the CEO, the CFO and the General Counsel and Company Secretary of Dümmen Orange based at the headquarters of Dümmen Orange at De Lier, the Netherlands; Confidential Advisor means the HR Manager of Dümmen Orange in De Lier, The Netherlands who acts as an official to whom Alleged Irregularities are reported; Employee means any person who works for the Company, whether or not under an employment contract and for whose work the Company is responsible, including directors, temporary employees, seconded employees and other employees who are on another employer‘s payroll but who are hired to undertake work for the Company; 25 Policy means this whistleblower policy of the Company; and Whistleblower mean an Employee who reasonably believes that certain conduct within the Company constitutes an Alleged Irregularity and who reports the Alleged Irregularity in good faith in accordance with this Policy, although minor defects in the procedure followed by the Whistleblower shall not prevent such person from the protection reflected herein or otherwise granted by law. 3. SCOPE 3.1. This Policy applies to all Employees and is aimed at enabling them, without jeopardizing their legal position, to report Alleged Irregularities. 3.2 This Policy is not intended for Employees wishing to make complaints of a personal nature. Such complaints must always be discussed with the Employee‘s direct manager. 3.3 The possibility to report under this Policy is restricted to reports about Alleged Irregularities. Reports about any other fact or issue will be set aside by the Company, except when the protection of the Company‘s vital interests or the safeguarding of the physical or moral integrity of the Employee is at stake. 4. PROCEDURE 4.1. If an Employee for whatever reason feels that it is inappropriate to report an Alleged Irregularity with his/her Direct Manager, he/she shall report the Alleged Irregularity to the Confidential Adviser at ConfidentialAdviser@DummenOrange.com. Reports of Alleged Irregularities may be disclosed in writing, telephonically or in person. However, all reports are encouraged to be made in writing, so as to assure a clear understanding of the Alleged Irregularities. Schedule 1 provides a format which may be used to report Alleged Irregularities. Whistleblowers are recommended to self-identify, though it is not a requirement of the Policy. 4.2. The Confidential Adviser confirms receipt of the report of an Alleged Irregularity to the Whistleblower in writing as soon as possible. 4.3. Immediately after the Whistleblower‘s report is received, the Confidential Adviser shall provide a copy of such report to the Compliance Committee with a copy of such report or, if the report relates to any member of the Compliance Committee, to the Audit Committee and perform an investigation into the Alleged Irregularity, or instruct others to do so on behalf of the Confidential Adviser as stipulated in clause 6 hereof. Anyone involved by the Confidential Adviser shall be specifically instructed and bound by specific security and confidentiality obligations. 4.4. Each Employee shall at all times cooperate with the investigation into the Alleged Irregularity carried out by or on behalf of the Confidential Advisor. 26 4.5. Within 4 (four) weeks of the date on which the Whistleblower reported the Alleged Irregularity, the Confidential Adviser shall prepare a written report on the position of the Confidential Adviser with regard to the Alleged Irregularity and the action taken as a consequence of the Whistleblower‘s report. The Confidential Adviser shall provide the Whistleblower with the written report prepared by it. A copy of such report shall also be provided to the Compliance Committee or, if the report relates to any member of the Compliance Committee, to the Audit Committee. 4.6. If no response can be given within 4 (four) weeks, the Confidential Adviser shall inform the Whistleblower of this in writing and must give an indication as to when they will be informed of the Confidential Adviser‘s position with regard to the Alleged Irregularity. 5. LEGAL PROTECTION A Whistleblower, who reports an Alleged Irregularity in good faith shall in no way be prejudiced, disadvantaged or harmed in his/her position as a consequence of or in relation to having done so. The Company shall not tolerate reprisals by fellow Employees against the Whistleblower due to its contents. Any such reprisals will, without exception, be penalized 6. EXPERTS AND ADVISORS 6.1. The Confidential Adviser may in its sole discretion consult and instruct internal and external experts and advisors, including the external legal advisors of the Company and the external auditors of the Company, as it deems necessary to properly carry out its duties under this Policy. Any costs and expenses with respect to the consultation and instruction of such experts and advisors shall be borne by the Company. 6.2. The external experts and advisors consulted and/or instructed in accordance with clause 6.1 may, on behalf of the Confidential Adviser, carry out any investigation as the Confidential Adviser may determine to be necessary or desirable. The Company and its Employees shall cooperate with any such investigation. 7. CONFIDENTIALITY 7.1. The Confidential Adviser, each member of the Compliance Committee and the Audit Committee shall treat all information and documents obtained as a result of this Policy as strictly confidential. 7.2. All information and documents regarding the report of an Alleged Irregularity, an investigation or the written report of the Confidential Adviser shall not be disclosed, unless if (i) required by law or (ii) reasonably necessary for the investigation of the Alleged Irregularity. Furthermore, the Compliance Committee (unless the report relates to any member of the Compliance Committee) and the Audit Committee are entitled to review such report and any related information and documents. Notwithstanding the 27 confidentiality obligation stipulated herein, the Company and/or its shareholders are entitled to use and publish high level information from the report of an Alleged Irregularity for purposes such as its annual reporting, as long as individual privacy of the Whistleblower or other Employees remains carefully protected at all times. 7.3. The Confidential Adviser shall ensure that the provisions in clauses 7.1. and 7.2 shall equally apply to the experts and/or advisors as referred to in clause 6.1. Achievements:  720 employees sensitized on the Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Policy.  2 Audits conducted; Internal (1), External (1) on Human Resource Policies and Procedures.  Hosted over 6,711 visitors to the Flower Farm including: Students on study tours / field studies, interns and other business partners.  Established a business case by linking our Core Values to our core business processes, procedures and protocols which we clearly understand and act on. We intend to make this Communication on Progress available to our stakeholders in various ways; by interpreting it in at least two local languages, explained to employees in departmental meetings, induction trainings, displayed on company notice boards and posted on the company‘s Local Area Network for all employees to read. This Communication on Progress will also be available to our stakeholders through the UN Global Compact website. We shall also have this COP communicated to employees in the Annual Fiduga Facts Magazine which we share with umbrella Organizations. FL Company Clinic Happy Baby = Happy Mother =Happy Employee 28
