Sustainability Report Part of Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2016 CO2 Everything that’s made with fossil-based materials today can be made from a tree tomorrow. Stora Enso is a leading provider of renewable solutions in packaging, biomaterials, wooden constructions, and paper on global markets. Our aim is to replace fossil-based materials by innovating and developing new products and services based on wood and other renewable materials. We employ some 25 000 people and our shares are listed on the Helsinki (STEAV, STERV) and Stockholm (STE A, STE R) stock exchanges. Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2016 consists of four reports: Progress Book, Sustainability Report, Financial Report, and Corporate Governance Report. The Progress Book explains Stora Enso’s The Sustainability Report strategy, how we create value, and how covers Stora Enso’s social, our work is progressing. The publication is environmental, and economic available in English, Finnish, and Swedish. sustainability performance. The Financial Report consists of The Corporate Stora Enso in capital markets, a summary Governance Report of our sustainability performance, covers Stora Enso’s governance the Report of the Board of Directors, policy, practices, and actions as and the financial statements. well as remuneration in 2016. You can find the highlights of the year and the online Financial Report at storaenso.com/annualreport, where all reports can be downloaded. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index 1 Governance Contents Social Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 agenda Strategy and governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Our targets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Environmental agenda Stakeholder relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Economic agenda Social agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Employees and wider workforce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Data and assurance Community . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Business ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Environmental agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Materials, water, and energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Renewable Carbon dioxide . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 materials are Forests, plantations, and land use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50 a solution for Economic agenda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 combatting Customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 global warming. Suppliers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Investors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64 Read more on page 44 External recognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Data and assurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 Reporting scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 Respect for human We help build Data by production unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 rights is a top resilient Assurance report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 priority across our communities. global operations. Read more on page 22 The report contents have been assured by an independent third-party assurance provider with a level of Limited Assurance. A level of Reasonable Read more on page 9 Assurance has been provided for our direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions. The GRI index is available at storaenso.com/gri Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index 2 Governance Promoting Sustainability highlights 2016 Respecting human rights 86% sustainable Social forestry 90% agenda Environmental agenda of all the actions in our Human Rights Economic Action Plan were completed. agenda of the lands we own or manage were covered by forest certification schemes. Data and External recognition assurance CDP included Stora Enso on its Climate A List, Supplier Climate A List, and Caring about our people Supplier Engagement Our lost-time Leaderboard. 6.4% Combatting global warming -39% accident rate decreased by 6.4%. Sourcing responsibly 92% Our target is to achieve a gender balance of 70% male and 30% female among Our CO2 emissions were 39% lower than the 2006 senior managers benchmark level. We also introduced a KPI measuring in 2018. the carbon intensity of the energy we use. of our spending on goods, materials, and services was covered by our Supplier Code of Conduct. 98% Minimising waste Resilient communities 170 Promoting ethical culture Transparency The utilisation rate for our We advanced our community investment We introduced an internal Ethics towards customers by-products and residuals was 98%. work globally. In Uruguay, 170 farmers used Ambassadors Programme with 26 of our mills were registered with the the company’s lands to graze their cattle. 170 employees from 24 countries. Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance 3 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Governance Strategy and governance 4 Our targets 6 Stakeholder relations 7 Human rights 9 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Strategy and governance 4 Governance Strategy and Social governance agenda In 2016 Stora Enso introduced a new framework for the company’s sustainability work, to build Environmental on all the work done over many years in this field. agenda The new framework is based on the classic Triple Economic Bottom Line model widely used in corporate agenda responsibility work. Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda encompasses the social, Data and environmental, and economic responsibility of our operations assurance throughout the value chain. The agenda addresses ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso: Employees and wider workforce; Community; Business ethics; Materials, water, and energy; Carbon dioxide; Forests, plantations, and land use; Customers; Suppliers; and Investors. Human rights are considered to be so integral to our long-term success that these topics are progressed as an overarching theme. In line with our Sustainability Agenda we have set ambitious targets and selected key performance indicators (KPIs) for our work. Progress is monitored in group-level and division-level business reviews. Consolidated results on all material sustainability indicators are reported annually in the Sustainability Report. Selected The everyday implementation of our Sustainability Agenda is the responsibility of line management supported by functional experts. sustainability indicators are also reported quarterly in our Interim Reports. Stora Enso acknowledges the United Nations’ Sustainable also guiding our employees in their everyday work. These The Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Ethics Committee Development Goals as part of a global ambition to end poverty, documents are available at storaenso.com/sustainability. oversees the implementation of our sustainability strategy protect our planet, and ensure prosperity for all. We are in the In order to ensure alignment with our Sustainability Agenda, and Ethics and Compliance Strategy. The committee met four process of assessing how best to reflect these long-term goals Stora Enso conducted a comprehensive review of the times in 2016. It has reviewed the disclosures in this report. in our Sustainability Agenda. company’s existing sustainability policies, guidelines, and The main focus areas of the committee in 2016 are described in statements in 2016. This alignment will continue in 2017. our Corporate Governance Report. Sustainability embedded in strategy Work on sustainability issues is led by the Executive Vice Stora Enso’s sustainability strategy is incorporated into the Sustainability governance President, Sustainability, who reports directly to the CEO. wider company business strategy. Sustainability is a key element of Stora Enso’s corporate Everyday sustainability topics are managed by our group Our Sustainability Policy describes our overall approach governance, promoted by the Board of Directors, the CEO, Sustainability function together with our Legal, Human and governance model. At the same time, our Code of and the Group Leadership Team (GLT). The CEO carries the Resources, Sourcing and Logistics, and Wood Supply Conduct and other policies, guidelines, and statements ultimate responsibility for the successful implementation of our functions, and our divisions (Consumer Board, Packaging on specific topics all further elaborate our approach, while sustainability strategy. Solutions, Biomaterials, Wood Products, and Paper). Each Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Strategy and governance 5 Stakeholder input Materiality to follow up on sustainability in the companies where we act Governance as owners. The Board of Directors of our equity-accounted minority investment in Pakistan, Bulleh Shah Packaging, has Social a Sustainability Committee formed by representatives of top Social agenda management and parent companies. agenda Employees and Community Business ethics wider workforce About this report Environmental This Sustainability Report is structured to reflect our Human rights agenda Sustainability Agenda, with the agenda’s ten elements addressed through a common four-level framework: Environmental Economic agenda Materials, water, Opportunities and challenges agenda Carbon Forests, plantations, and energy dioxide and land use These sections examine the external factors and global Data and trends currently affecting the topics included in our assurance Sustainability Agenda. Please note that our corporate risk Economic management assessment appears in the parallel Progress agenda Book and Financial Report. Customers Suppliers Investors Our policies These sections set out the relevant strategies and policies we Total Contribution use to address key opportunities and challenges. to Society (TCS) How we work Our Sustainability Agenda is based on the classic Triple Bottom Line model. It addresses the ten sustainability topics identified as material to Stora Enso. These sections describe the processes, procedures, and systems we deploy to realise our strategies and policies. of our business divisions has its own Head of Sustainability, informed of developments, as is the Board of Directors, when who reports directly to the Executive Vice President of the appropriate, via its Sustainability and Ethics Committee. Progress division. Other key units, such as Wood Supply, and Sourcing and Sustainability governance These sections report on our progress on related topics Logistics, each have sustainability organisations to support of joint ventures during 2016. their management teams. The everyday implementation of Our joint operations in Brazil (Veracel) and Uruguay (Montes Stora Enso’s Sustainability Agenda is the responsibility of line del Plata) and our equity-accounted minority investment in External assurance management supported by functional experts at all levels. Pakistan (Bulleh Shah Packaging) have their own sustainability The report contents have been assured by an independent thirdStora Enso’s sustainability work is steered by our teams, and sustainability topics are regularly discussed by party assurance provider with a level of Limited Assurance. For Sustainability Council, whose members come from our five their boards, which include representatives from their parent the second year running a level of Reasonable Assurance has divisions, our Sourcing and Logistics function, and the group companies. Sustainability topics are also regularly discussed been provided for our direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions Sustainability team. Chaired by the Executive Vice President, by Stora Enso’s joint venture steering committees for Veracel (scopes 1 and 2). Stora Enso is one of the few companies in Sustainability, the council met nine times in 2016. Their work and Montes del Plata. Stora Enso has a corresponding the world that assures its CO2 reporting for stakeholders at involves sharing good practices and identifying longer-term representation in the boards of the forestry companies Reasonable Level. The company is developing a roadmap to opportunities and challenges that may require a groupTornator and Bergvik Skog in Finland and Sweden, and help further improve the external assurance of our sustainability wide response. The Group Leadership Team is periodically one of the aims of our internal joint venture guidelines is reporting. For more information on assurance, see page 68. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Our targets 6 Our sustainability targets and key performance indicators (KPIs) Governance Key performance indicator (KPI) 2016 2015 Targets Progress Human rights Implementation of Human Rights 86% of the actions completed 100% of action plans in place To complete all remaining actions not involving regular review In progress Social Action Plan1 based on the assessment, and by the end of 2017. agenda 69% of the actions completed Employees and Lost-time accident (LTA) rate² 4.4 4.7 3.8 by the end of 2016 Not achieved Environmental wider workforce agenda The milestone for 2017 will be communicated in the Interim Report for Q1/2017. Leadership Index³ 80 79 80 by the end of 2018 Achieved Economic agenda Community Will be reviewed in 2017 n/a n/a To establish a group-wide KPI during 2017 In progress Data and assurance Business ethics Code of Conduct Index³ 81 804 Positive trend In progress Materials, Materials: KPI review will continue in 2017 n/a n/a To establish a group-wide KPI during 2017 In progress water, and energy Water: Reduction in the volume of process -3% -2% -6% from 2005 benchmark level by the end of 2015 Not achieved water discharges per saleable tonne of pulp, paper and board (m³/tonne)5 Water: Reduction in chemical oxygen -9% -3% -7% from 2007 benchmark level by the end of 2015 Achieved demand (COD) per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board (kg/tonne)5 Energy: Reduction in electricity and heat -4.5% -4.7% -15% from 2010 benchmark level by the end of 2020 In progress consumption per saleable tonne of pulp, paper, and board (kWh/tonne)5 Carbon dioxide Reduction in CO2 emissions per saleable -39% -38% -35% from 2006 benchmark level by the end of 2025 Achieved tonne of pulp, paper, and board (kg/tonne)5 Fossil CO2 emissions per total energy 62 67 Will be reviewed by the end of 2017 In progress consumed (Kg of CO2 /MWh)5 Forests, % of the lands owned and managed by the 90% 90% 96% by the end of 2017 In progress plantations, company covered by forest certification and land use 6 schemes Suppliers % of supplier spend covered by our Supplier 92% 90% 90% of total supplier spend covered by the end of 2016 Achieved Code of Conduct7 The target for 2017 will be communicated in the Interim Report for Q1/2017. 1 Stora Enso carried out a group-wide Human Rights Assessment during 2014. Action plans to address the 6 Until 2016, Stora Enso kept track of progress on land use efficiency with a group-level KPI that measured findings were defined during the first half of 2015. the increase in the average volume of fibre produced per hectare in certified tree plantations owned and 2 Number of lost-time accidents among our own employees per one million hours worked. managed by Stora Enso. In 2016, however, the company gave up following this consolidated summary 3 Measured in the annual employee survey. performance indicator. Instead, we plan to monitor the sustainable intensification of production separately 4 Restated (+1) at each plantation, taking into account different local operating conditions. 5 Recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. 7 Performance in 2015 excludes wood supply units. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Stakeholder relations 7 Governance Stakeholders at the Social core of our approach agenda In 2016 we initiated a review of our key stakeholders to ensure that our Sustainability Agenda continues Environmental to reflect their expectations and perceptions. agenda Economic Based on the well-established Triple Bottom Line (TBL) model, agenda the ten elements of our Sustainability Agenda (see page 5) can be considered as the company’s materiality matrix. The agenda covers the topics we must get right everywhere, all the Data and time. As the TBL is a dynamic model, we periodically need to assurance assess how well aligned we are with the evolving expectations and perceptions of our key stakeholders. Assessing priorities with stakeholders Having an open dialogue with our key stakeholders is crucial if we are to react successfully to global trends and market expectations. This allows us to keep working effectively on our Sustainability Agenda. Our stakeholder engagement work is based on both structured and ad hoc interactions, as well as surveys on topics such as customer and employee satisfaction, and investors’ expectations. We also obtain important information through formal grievance channels. During 2016 we reviewed the stakeholder and materiality work completed in 2012–2014 Having an open dialogue with stakeholders is crucial if we are to react successfully to global trends and market expectations. with the help of a globally recognised expert organisation. The process will continue during 2017 and provide us with an upto-date view of our key stakeholders’ priorities, which will then governmental organisations and industry associations where be fed into our Sustainability Agenda. we are members. Examples of our work can be found in the We consider anyone interested in our company Stora Enso joined the World Business Council for Sustainable respective sections of this report. During 2016 we enhanced as a stakeholder. Particularly significant stakeholder Development’s (WBCSD) Redefining Value Board (RV) in 2016. Stora Enso’s governance model regarding interactions with groups for Stora Enso include: The RV Board is made-up of eight WBCSD member company international and non-governmental organisations that have executives, who provide strategic guidance for the Redefining important relationships with the company group-wide. This • Consumers • Local communities Value programme. The programme’s actions involve aligning involved setting up dedicated global relationship managers • Customers • Media international reporting frameworks, addressing the corporate for each NGO, in order to facilitate more coordinated and • Employees • NGOs governance and risk management systems that shape corporate sustained engagement. • Forest-owners • Partners and suppliers decision-making, enhancing materiality assessment standards, • Governments • Trade unions and improving data assurance and valuation methodologies. Creating value for society • Investors Our stakeholder engagement work helps us to define We are continuing to explore ways to define and report on the priorities for our collaboration with international and nonmonetary value associated with Stora Enso’s non-financial Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Stakeholder relations 8 sustainability impacts and actions. This involves a focus on Governance external assurance for selected data. For more information, see pages 68 and 72. For more information about how we create value as a Social renewable materials company see our Progress Book. agenda Stora Enso annually reports on the company’s tax footprint in each of the countries where we operate. For details see our Environmental Progress Book. agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance In 2016, Stora Enso actively collaborated with several organisations. For more information, see the following pages: • BSR, pages 12, 20, 28, 46, 61, and 63 • International Finance Corporation (IFC), pages 15 and 24 • International Labour Organisation (ILO), page 14 • Save the Children and CCR CSR, pages 9, 12, and 28 • The Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders Group, page 46 • Transparency International, page 30 • UN Global Compact, page 68 • We Mean Business Coalition, page 45 • World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), pages 45 and 46 • WWF, pages 51 and 53 We periodically assess how well our Sustainability Agenda is aligned with the evolving expectations of our stakeholders. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 9 Governance Human rights Respect for human rights is a top priority for Social Stora Enso. We strive to align our work with the UN agenda Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Environmental agenda Opportunities and challenges Economic agenda A challenging operational environment When it comes to human rights, Stora Enso’s operations extend to challenging markets such as China, Pakistan, Laos, Data and and Brazil. Many of the human rights challenges we face are assurance deeply rooted in local society, and can only be effectively addressed through long-term commitment and close cooperation with global and local stakeholders. The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights emphasise that companies have an ongoing responsibility to respect human rights, even where government actions and regulatory frameworks are deficient. They encourage companies to implement human rights due diligence procedures that identify, assess, and address the human rights risks and impacts of their operations, products, and services. Our policies A deep commitment to human rights Stora Enso’s human rights commitment extends from our employees and on-site contractors, through external suppliers of materials and services and our other business partners, to communities living near our operations. In addition to our commitment to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights our Sustainability Agenda Stora Enso’s tree plantations in Laos are located in the vicinity of villages that are culturally and ethnically diverse. Read more on page 15. is aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, including its principles on human rights. Stora Enso also respects and follows the legal reporting requirements of • Supplier Code of Conduct, which imposes strict contractual »» ILO Convention no. 169 on the Rights of Indigenous the UK Modern Slavery Act. requirements regarding human rights on our suppliers Peoples, including the principle of Free, Prior, and • Human Rights Statement, which expresses our respect for Informed Consent and Participation Relevant Stora Enso policies and statements on human international and regional human rights instruments including »» The OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises rights include: »» The UN International Bill of Human Rights »» The Children’s Rights and Business Principles • Code of Conduct, which expresses our respect for »» The core labour rights conventions of the International developed by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact, and international human and labour rights Labour Organisation (ILO) Save the Children. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 10 How we work operations, our joint operations in Brazil and Uruguay, and our Governance equity-accounted minority investment in Pakistan. Due diligence on human rights As part of this process, Stora Enso and the Danish Institute Human rights risks are taken into account across our for Human Rights (DIHR) developed a customised Human Social operations from investment decisions onwards, including Rights Compliance Assessment tool covering 43 human agenda mergers, acquisitions, and divestments. Our investment rights issues. The resulting Human Rights Assessment report, guidelines stipulate that environmental and social risks and consolidated by DIHR, was published in February 2015. Environmental impacts, including those related to human rights, must be duly A Human Rights Action Plan was developed during agenda identified, assessed, and addressed prior to any investments 2015, based on the findings and recommendations of the in projects with business critical risks. Business ethics risks assessment report. The implementation of the action plan Economic and specific investments’ compliance with our Code of commenced in Q3 2015, and continued during 2016. agenda Conduct and Business Practice Policy are also assessed. The plan includes actions designed to: We are currently developing a human rights strategy • monitor compliance with labour rights and the working using a best practice methodology. The strategy will be conditions of third-party on-site staff Data and further refined during 2017. The strategy will define a set • promote diversity and inclusion among Stora Enso’s workforce assurance of prioritised human rights that are the most relevant for • improve overtime practices and entry-level wages at How are human rights integrated Stora Enso. certain units into our everyday work? • develop guidance and procedures for the protection of Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) employee privacy Human rights issues in a corporate context are often Significant new investments can entail environmental • ensure opportunities for supporting and facilitating only associated with severe human rights violations. and social impacts which may directly or indirectly cause collective bargaining In 2014 Stora Enso conducted a global human rights substantial changes in local conditions, also with regard to • improve occupational health and safety practices at assessment covering all units. Most of its findings human rights. To map and mitigate these impacts, we conduct certain units related to general management issues, involving dayESIAs for all new projects that could cause significant adverse • strengthen grievance mechanisms to-day occupational health and safety topics, human effects in local communities. Such projects include all board, • improve environmental and social impact assessment resources, and supply chain management. At Ostrołęka pulp, paper, or sawmills built on greenfield sites, industrialprocedures Mill this process has deepened dialogues between the scale plantation projects, and any large-scale expansions of • enhance policies and procedures for security management mill management, employees, and the local community. existing facilities. • continue to implement our Supplier Code of Conduct One important element of any ESIA involves assessing • ensure that human rights impacts are duly considered and Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability the operational context from a human rights perspective and addressed through responsible supply chain management. establishing dialogues with local residents, members of local organisations, experts, researchers, and other stakeholders. This is done through interviews, meetings, workshops, and public hearings. The results of ESIAs give us valuable information on how local communities may be affected by Progress on the implementation of preventive Grievance and remediation mechanisms changes in their socio-economic conditions and any impacts and remediation actions as of 31 Dec 2016 In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business on cultural heritage, while also setting out implications for and Human Rights and our own Human Rights Statement, community health, safety, and security. On Not on Regular Stora Enso is committed to remedy any situation where our Completed track track Closed1 review 2 activities have caused or contributed to adverse human rights Human Rights Assessment and action plans Implementation impacts. In circumstances where human rights violations are progress, Stora Enso conducted a comprehensive group-wide committed by third parties with links to Stora Enso through our % of all actions 86% 3% 1% 7% 3% Human Rights Assessment in 2014, consisting of separate operations, products or services, we strive to use our influence 1 Issues that were identified in the Human Rights Assessment but closed assessments for 93 operational entities in 22 countries, following reassessment of their validity in specific local contexts. together with relevant stakeholders to ensure that those including all of our production, wood supply, and forestry 2 Longer-term actions without a targeted end-date that require continuous review. impacts are remedied. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 11 A third-party-administered grievance channel is available Governance to all our employees, enabling them to report instances where their rights may have been infringed, or where they have observed violations of Stora Enso’s Code of Conduct. Social We have also established local grievance channels for agenda communities and other external stakeholders associated with our plantations and new mill in Guangxi, China. We Environmental encourage anyone with concerns to call an anonymous hotline agenda number, write to us, visit us, or talk to our field personnel. Stora Enso’s employees are trained to distribute information Economic about our operations in local villages, and to duly process agenda any grievances, even in villages not engaged in any kind of business relationship with the company. Similar local grievance channels exist for our project Data and in Laos, our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata assurance in Brazil and Uruguay, and our equity-accounted minority investment in Pakistan. For more information on the group’s formal grievance mechanism, which is also open to external stakeholders in countries where the law permits this, see page 31. Accountability through transparent reporting During 2016, details of our progress on implementing our Human Rights Action Plan were published in our quarterly Interim Reports, which also covered other human rightsrelated topics such as supply chain management. Stora Enso is additionally following the legal requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act to enhance our transparency Our human rights commitment extends from employees and on-site contractors through suppliers and business partners to local communities. and reporting. This act requires organisations conducting significant business in the UK to publish annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Reports setting out what they do to ensure By the end of 2016 a total of 86% (69% at the end of 2015) Danish Institute for Human Rights. By the end of the year a small that slavery and human trafficking do not take place in any of the preventive and remediation actions were completed. number of actions remained open. These will be progressed to an of their supply chains, or in any part of their own business. Actions were based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business appropriate conclusion during 2017 and the reporting on Human Stora Enso’s first such report will be published in 2017 at and Human Rights and criteria created in collaboration with the Rights Action Plan progress will be stopped. storaenso.com/sustainability. Certain country-specific actions that have been of special interest to our stakeholders in 2016 are described below. Progress Our achievements in human rights 86% of the actions in our Guangxi, China Stora Enso’s operations in Guangxi consist of tree plantations In 2016 our focus was on implementing the Human Rights Human Rights Action Plan in various parts of the province and a new consumer board Action Plan that resulted from our group-wide Human Rights Assessment conducted in 2014 and a related report were completed in 2016. mill in the municipality of Beihai. Stora Enso owns 83% of the project, the International Finance Corporation 5%, and the published in 2015. remainder is owned by two state-owned organisations: Guangxi Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 12 01 Advancing Free, Prior and During 2016 CCR CSR helped us to establish guidelines to Governance Informed Consent (FPIC) in ensure our employees can identify high risk areas with regard land leasing is a key element to child labour, and take action accordingly. of our human rights work in Guangxi. We also collaborated with the non-profit organisation Social BSR and the Netherlands Centre for Indigenous Peoples in 02 Stora Enso’s operations in agenda Guangxi consist of eucalyptus advancing Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) processes tree plantations and a new in land leasing, when applicable. This is a key element of our Environmental consumer board mill. human rights work in Guangxi. BSR helped us to design and agenda implement a strengthened FPIC process, and provided related training for our forestry employees. Together with BSR, the Economic Netherlands Centre for Indigenous Peoples also conducted agenda a gap analysis of our FPIC processes to ensure they address ethnic minorities properly. By the end of 2016 our new FPIC 02 programme, consisting of processes, documentation, and Data and training, was ready and tested, and its implementation will assurance continue in 2017. During the year we also continued to focus on sustainable land management in Guangxi (for more details see page 54). Pakistan Stora Enso has a 35%-owned equity-accounted minority investment in Bulleh Shah Packaging (Private) Limited in Pakistan. The majority owner is the Pakistani company Packages Limited. Bulleh Shah is Pakistan’s largest fibrebased packaging producer, and the country’s only liquid packaging board producer. The company’s offices and 01 production facilities are located in Lahore, Karachi, and Kasur, in Punjab Province. Bulleh Shah Packaging (BSP) sources various raw materials, such as fibre, chemicals, fillers, and agricultural Forestry Group Co Ltd and the Beihai Forestry Investment • Implementing and compliance monitoring of our Supplier by-products, mostly from Pakistani markets. The fibre used and Development Company. The construction of Beihai Mill Code of Conduct and Responsible Sourcing Programme. was completed in the second quarter of 2016, and production For more information about responsible sourcing at Beihai commenced in May 2016. Mill, see page 62. Our human rights work in Guangxi during 2016 focused on • Auditing and enforcing decent living standards in the implementation of our Human Rights Action Plan. contractors’ camps In China we work with Key actions taken in 2016: • Advancing children’s rights among migrant families working for Stora Enso’s forestry contractors, in cooperation with the the non-profit organisations • Human rights training for security service providers, with Centre for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility BSR, CCR CSR, and the additional training to be provided to new contractors during 2017 (CCR CSR), by conducting training for field personnel about children’s rights and how to support effective parenthood Netherlands Centre for • Developing a Transportation Impact Management Plan • Ensuring compliance with Stora Enso’s anti-corruption and Indigenous Peoples. including safety guidelines reviewed together with contractors, bribery policies and procedures in mill construction and land with a special focus on road safety in local villages contracting. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 13 Bulleh Shah Packaging’s direct suppliers of Governance domestic fibre and agricultural by-products 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Social Number of direct agenda active suppliers 276 335 Audit coverage year-to-date (%)1 15% 45% Environmental 1 The share of direct suppliers of old corrugated cardboard (OCC) and agenda agricultural by-products that are audited during the calendar year. Excluding institutional OCC suppliers identified as low risk. Economic agenda Systematically combatting child labour Child labour in supply chains in Pakistan remains a challenge Data and for BSP, and will continue to be a key element in the company’s assurance human rights due diligence work in 2017. Human rights violations including child labour are prevalent in the agricultural sector in Pakistan, and also exist in the recycled fibre collection business in urban areas. The root causes of child labour and other human rights violations in Pakistan include widespread poverty, the lack of formal employment opportunities, ineffective law enforcement, and a lack of awareness of human rights. BSP does not employ children in its own operations, and does not accept child labour in its suppliers’ operations. BSP has put processes in place to identify and eliminate child In Pakistan Bulleh Shah Packaging combats human rights violations through a rigorous supplier auditing programme. labour in the operations of its direct suppliers. BSP combats child labour through a rigorous supplier auditing programme, awareness-raising and sensitising for packaging production mainly consists of recycled paper by-products and 67% of all direct suppliers had signed the measures, and BSP’s Child Labour Remediation Policy. It also and board, and agricultural by-products, such as wheat straw. requirements. works with suppliers through its public-private partnership The recycled paper and board is largely sourced from post• Establishing a new whistleblowing channel as a grievance with the International Labour Organisation (ILO). For more consumer sources, i.e. vendors who procure it from suppliers, mechanism. In 2017 BSP will further publicise this channel information see page 14. who in turn typically source it from shops and households. in local communities, and enhance grievance remediation During 2016 BSP’s audit team conducted a total of 108 Wheat straw is an agricultural by-product sourced from procedures. supplier audits (395 during 2015). Out of these audits 56 (82) were vendors who collect it from farms. BSP’s human rights work • Providing training for employees on workplace harassment audits of suppliers of recycled paper products (old corrugated during 2016 focused on implementing Stora Enso’s Human and discrimination through an ethics training programme. cardboard). Out of all the audits 12 were follow-up audits. Rights Action Plan. BSP’s human resources handbook, which is given to all Due to a sufficient stockpile of biomass and less sourcing, employees, also covers harassment issues. suppliers of agricultural by-products were not audited during Key actions taken in 2016: • The revision of contractors’ wages and working conditions 2016. Mainly for this reason the audit coverage of the direct • Systematically addressing child labour in supply chains to ensure they exceed minimum levels. Contracts signed suppliers of domestic fibre and agricultural by-products was • The implementation of BSP’s Supplier Sustainability with suppliers require them to pay minimum salaries and lower in 2016 compared to the previous year. Requirements, which were revised in 2016 with all direct ensure decent and safe working conditions. Contractors’ In addition to the audits conducted by BSP’s in-house suppliers asked to sign the new version. By the end of employees working at BSP’s premises receive one free meal audit team, the external assurance provider SGS realised nine 2016 all direct suppliers of domestic fibre and agricultural per day as a guaranteed benefit, as do all BSP employees. further third-party audits during 2016 (30). Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 14 In addition to seeking out child labour, the audits look into Governance other human rights issues such as labour conditions and occupational safety. They also aim to increase awareness and sensitise suppliers to human rights. Social During 2016, five young workers (14–18 years1) employed agenda in contravention of ILO conventions were confirmed in the operations of BSP’s suppliers of wheat straw, corn stalk, spare Environmental parts and waste paper (14 young workers and three underage agenda workers below 14 years during 2015). All the cases were identified in BSP’s own audits. In audits run by SGS no cases Economic were identified during 2016. Underage labour is unacceptable agenda for Stora Enso and BSP. The hiring of underage workers violates suppliers’ contractual obligations under BSP’s Supplier Sustainability Requirements. The suppliers involved Data and were immediately instructed to take corrective action in assurance 02 accordance with BSP’s Child Labour Remediation Policy. This policy requires suppliers to find a long-term solution for the child and the family in the best interest of the child, including 01 In 2016, Veracel employed facilitating access to education. All of the suppliers involved in 755 people directly and 2 552 these cases were re-audited in 2016. people through contractors. 02 Veracel’s community Stora Enso supports six schools in cooperation with the engagement focuses on local Pakistani non-governmental organisation Idara-e-Taleem-oeconomic development and Aagahi, as well as a maternity and child health care clinic and sustainable land use. a mobile medical health care clinic. For more information about these community investment actions, see page 27. Public-private partnership with ILO 01 In April 2015 Stora Enso entered into a public-private partnership with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to strengthen our global policy, to promote decent work, and to combat child labour in the supply chain of BSP in Pakistan. were studied to provide a situational analysis in relation to child Veracel, Brazil The ILO is supporting BSP’s efforts to systematically labour and decent work deficits in supply chains. Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation, owned together with address the issue of child labour through research into root The final report by ILO on the formative ground research the Brazilian company Fibria, runs a pulp mill and eucalyptus causes, community-level awareness-raising measures, and on child labour and decent work deficits in Punjab Province, plantations in southern Bahia. Veracel’s community capacity building among suppliers, families and young workers. Pakistan is expected in early second quarter 2017. Due to engagement focuses on land ownership and land use, and During 2016 ILO commissioned a formative ground the time required for the field research work, the parties have local social development. Veracel’s large-scale land ownership research in the Punjab province. During the project’s first agreed to extend the partnership until the end of 2017. and the consequent rises in land prices have been a major phase, BSP’s waste paper and agricultural by-product supply ILO and its Pakistani partners also started to hold concern among some stakeholders. We strive to engage chains were mapped. During the second phase, communities community events in Punjab during 2016, bringing together actively with local stakeholders, to be an active member of local communities, BSP’s suppliers, and employees. The idea local communities, and to help address these challenges. behind these events is to increase awareness of why children During 2016 Veracel implemented various elements of 1 Cases involving workers below 14 years of age are referred to as child labour should not be working, and of the importance of education. Stora Enso’s Human Rights Action Plan. cases and workers between 14–18 years of age are referred to as young workers in accordance with Pakistan-specific implementation of the ILO Minimum Seven such events took place in 2016, attracting a total of Working Age Convention (ILO C138). approximately 200 participants. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Governance – Human rights 15 01 Veracel has a toll-free grievance Key actions taken in 2016: Governance hotline for employees and local • Improvements in environmental monitoring. An Environmental communities. and Social Management and Monitoring Plan was created 02 Veracel supports programmes based on the previous Environmental and Social Impact Social designed to strengthen the cultural identity of 27 Assessment (ESIA) largely carried out by the International Union agenda for Conservation (IUCN), the Swedish University of Agriculture Pataxó and three Tubinambá indigenous communities. (SLU), and the United Nations Development Programme Environmental (UNDP). The new plan also takes into account local legislation agenda and ISO 14001 standards. The implementation of the plan began in 2016 and it will be completed during 2017. Economic • The formalisation of local hire contracts, including measures agenda to prevent the employment of underage workers with the help of an age verification process. • Measures to enhance safety practices. Data and • Implementing Stora Enso’s Supplier Code of Conduct, assurance which was signed by suppliers in connection with supplier training and auditing. • The creation of new internal and external grievance mechanisms, with support from the International Finance Corporation (IFC). 01 02 • Measures to enhance stakeholder engagement and communications to ensure that Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) procedures are duly followed in Stora Enso’s land use and land leasing when applicable. This involved Key actions taken in 2016: villages, and also supports programmes designed to strengthen the incorporating FPIC elements in the land leasing process and • Further monitoring of compliance with Veracel’s Supplier cultural identity of 27 Pataxó and three Tupinambá communities. all other related procedures. Stora Enso also cooperated with Code of Conduct Local indigenous communities are calling for the expansion of IFC and the Laos-based NGO Village Focus International to • Human rights training for security personnel the Barra Velha Indian Reserve. The extension would encompass improve stakeholder dialogues and FPIC processes. • Improvements in the monitoring of on-site contractors hundreds of land properties, including 3 219 hectares of land • Measures to increase awareness of Veracel’s formal acquired by Veracel before the indigenous peoples first made claim Stora Enso’s tree plantations in Laos are located in the vicinity grievance mechanism, and the launch of a toll-free to the land. At the end of 2016 this case was still being processed of villages that are culturally and ethnically diverse. This makes grievance hotline in the regional federal court. Veracel remains committed to fully it essential for us to engage in community dialogues and follow • The continuing implementation of a Sustainable Settlements comply with the court’s eventual decision. For more information FPIC as part of our human rights due diligence work in Laos. Initiative for land disputes. about landless people’s social movements in Bahia and Veracel’s During 2016 IFC and Village Focus International provided training community engagement, see page 24. for Stora Enso employees on stakeholder engagement and By the end of 2016, all contracts with existing suppliers community consultation, especially considering the interests were updated to include Veracel’s revised Supplier Code of Laos of women and vulnerable groups. Stora Enso and Village Focus Conduct, which was launched in 2016. Stora Enso has continued to develop trial plantations in the International also jointly obtained a grant from Mekong Regional Additional human rights training is provided annually to Saravane and Savannakhet provinces of southern Laos in Land Governance to develop and test a set of community employees working as guards for Veracel’s security service areas totalling 3 900 hectares (3 900 in 2015), of which 2 995 consultation tools. These tools will be designed to improve provider. (2 332) are planted with eucalyptus. Stora Enso Laos has Stora Enso’s land acquisition processes by ensuring that Veracel has been criticised in the past on issues related to approximately 130 employees (140). Our human rights work in important information reaches villagers in a culturally appropriate landless people’s social movements and the rights of indigenous Laos during 2016 focused on completing the elements of the form. If proven successful, these tools can later be adopted by peoples. Veracel maintains good relations with local indigenous Human Rights Action Plan. other companies with land-based investments in Laos. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda 16 Social Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda agenda Economic agenda Employees and wider workforce 17 Data and Community 22 assurance Business ethics 29 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 17 Governance Employees and Social wider workforce agenda Stora Enso strives to provide a safe and rewarding workplace for employees and Environmental contractors, and to be an attractive employer agenda to potential recruits. This report section introduces Economic the occupational health and safety (OHS) and agenda human resources (HR) policies and practices that we apply to reach these goals. Data and assurance Opportunities and challenges Change through people As Stora Enso transforms from a traditional paper producing company into one that focuses more widely on renewable materials, the work that our employees do, and the skills they need, are also changing. Different demographics affect our workforce in different regions. In new markets where we are growing, we have a new, younger workforce, while in Europe our employees tend to be older on average. Carefully planned people management, starting with responsible leadership, is important wherever we operate. This is particularly true when it comes to safety management. At the same time, promoting diversity among our employees can help to make us more competitive and innovative. Differences in operating contexts, such as the availability of a suitable workforce, challenge our operations; but at the same time, the higher educational level of emerging middle classes We measure our employees’ perceptions of their leaders in our annual employee survey. We reached our target rating of 80/100 in 2016. in growing markets provides an expanding pool of potential employees. Increasing public awareness of health and well-being issues can help us to enhance our employees’ health and safety of Operation. These policies define how we manage OHS topics Other key policies applied in our people and safety globally. Digitalisation also offers opportunities to make working in practice and integrate them into annual planning and reporting. management include: conditions safer by using new applications and innovations. Stora Enso’s People Strategy guides our efforts to provide • Code of Conduct employees with a safe work environment where they are • Supplier Code of Conduct Our policies engaged and able to perform. The People Strategy focuses • Minimum requirements for labour conditions on five themes: leadership; workforce planning and employer • Diversity Policy. Leadership in the forefront branding; align and engage; HR Services; and occupational Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) function works to health and safety. Read more about our People Strategy in our realise Stora Enso’s Health and Safety Policy and our OHS Mode Progress Book. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 18 How we work Governance Everybody home safe, every day Can sustainability be a recruitment In occupational health and safety Stora Enso’s main goals are asset for companies? Social to have a workforce that is motivated, healthy and capable; and agenda to become a workplace free from accidents and work-related The ageing of the workforce, particularly in Europe, is a illness. While this work begins with our leaders, building challenge today for companies like Stora Enso as many Environmental up a company-wide safety culture means that everyone is older employees approach retirement. At the same agenda responsible for making every workday healthy and safe. time, getting a job that corresponds with your personal Safety management at Stora Enso is based on international values has become more important for millennials. Can a Economic standards such as OHSAS 18001, but our processes go company’s ambitious sustainability work be an asset in agenda beyond those requirements. Our Safety Toolbox is a set recruiting and motivating top talents? of tools designed to be used throughout the company. Responsibility for implementing each tool and programme in Data and Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability our units lies with line management, supported by local staff assurance and the group-level OHS function. Local OHS committees and working groups at our units provide forums for taking up safety-related topics and suggestions. Our country-level OHS networks in Finland, Promoting safety among contractors’ employees innovation. When we refer to diversity we mean various aspects of Sweden, Germany, and China also share good practices Stora Enso’s approach to safety extends also to contractors, diversity including gender, age, skills, educational levels, culture and organise training to enhance our safety procedures and suppliers, and on-site visitors. We encourage everyone to and personality. During 2016 Stora Enso set targets that intensify competencies. Our OHS Management Team, consisting of give feedback and provide ideas on how to further improve our focus on diversity. The first target is to achieve a gender division representatives, acts as a cross-functional body, our safety practices. We also cooperate closely with our joint balance of 70% male and 30% female among senior managers by developing and aligning group-wide OHS programmes. The ventures to improve safety. For more information about how we the end of 2018. At the end of 2016 the ratio was 79% male, 21% OHS Steering Group, established in 2015, directs strategic work with our suppliers and contractors see page 60. female. The second target is related to our employees’ perception long-term planning at the group level, and steers the of diversity, which we measure through our employee survey. Our implementation of our OHS roadmap. Leadership – the focal point target is that 80% of our employees should respond positively to Our units report monthly on safety performance data of our human resources work a question related to their management’s ability to create diverse including lost-time accident (LTA) rates, absenteeism Leadership on topics such as safety management is a top priority teams. statistics, and the numbers of safety observations. Stora Enso for Stora Enso, since it is the strongest driver behind company also follows up on the safety performance of on-site and performance and our winning culture. We measure our progress Hiring locally forestry contractors. in this area using an overall Leadership Index that measures It is important that our new investment projects are staffed employees’ perceptions of their leaders. Stora Enso’s approach with managers and employees who are well grounded in to leadership is described in more detail in our Progress Book. local cultures. While there is often an initial need for expatriate Improving our employee performance management and employees, we make every effort to hire locally wherever engagement is another priority for us. We set targets for both our possible, especially for senior management positions. Local We believe that a diverse business and our people, and follow up on them during annual hiring is usually initiated as early as possible during the performance appraisals. We provide training for our employees construction phase, bringing economic benefits to the local workforce combined with on compensation and benefits in order to be transparent about community right from the start. an inclusive culture is the the way we use compensation to reward performance. In Guangxi, we aim to increase the number of locally hired people. At the end of 2016, 77% of our employees in Guangxi key to driving innovation. Strength in diversity were local (77% at the end of 2015), while local management We believe that a diverse workforce combined with an inclusive teams included 14 managers of Chinese origin (four) and 12 culture is the key to winning in the marketplace and driving expatriates (nine). Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 19 In Uruguay, our joint operation Montes del Plata has a Governance local workforce development programme that focuses on recruiting from nearby communities for mill operations. By the end of 2016, 78% of Montes del Plata’s own personnel Social and contractors’ employees working at the mill site were from agenda the region where the mill is located. Environmental Fair working conditions agenda All Stora Enso units are expected to work systematically to ensure that employees are treated with respect and Economic fairness. All Stora Enso units should additionally comply agenda with a set of minimum requirements for labour conditions, to create an environment where workers are both willing and able to perform their tasks. We are continuously working to Data and make sure that all our units comply with these requirements. assurance Progress Enhancing performance on safety and leadership In our safety work, lost-time accident rates (LTA) function as our key performance indicator (KPI). Stora Enso’s short-term milestone for the LTA rate was 3.8 by the end of 2016. In 2016, the group-wide LTA rate declined further to 4.4 (4.7 in 2015). The milestone for 2017 will be communicated in the Q1 Interim Report. In 2016, our Total Recordable Incident (TRI) rate rose to 11.7 (11.0). With regard to occupational health, Stora Enso started to measure illness-related absenteeism in the beginning of 2016. This focus has been designed to encourage the units Lost-time accident rates (LTA) Total recordable incident rates (TRI) While safety begins with our to invest in proactive health management. In 2016 illnessNumber of lost-time accidents among our own Number of incidents among our own employees leaders, building up a companyemployees per one million hours worked per one million hours worked wide safety culture means that related absenteeism amounted to 2.9% (3.0%) of total everyone is responsible for theoretical working hours. 20 25 making every workday healthy By the end of the year, 73 Stora Enso units had appointed 16 20 and safe. joint safety committees (74), covering 77% (81%) of our total 12 15 workforce. The average number of safety observations reported 8 10 per employee was 8.9 (17.4). This figure decreased from 4 5 2015 because in 2016 our safety observations only included 0 0 observations related to safety behaviour, whereas earlier we 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 included all types of safety observations in this figure. Finland 14.7 10.5 9.3 7.8 5.0 Finland 24.3 19.9 21.7 16.6 19.0 Sweden 7.6 6.7 6.9 6.6 8.4 Sweden 22.8 19.9 19.2 17.4 19.4 Central Europe 6.0 5.4 6.4 5.0 4.0 Central Europe 16.0 15.0 13.3 11.8 8.7 China 1.6 2.0 0.9 0.8 0.9 China 4.2 3.7 2.9 2.4 2.8 Group 7.7 6.0 5.2 4.7 4.4 Group 16.7 14.0 12.5 11.0 11.7 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 20 Other focus areas in our OHS management work during 2016 Contractor accidents In 2016 we continued our efforts to further develop Governance • Continuation of our Safety Leadership training programme Stora Enso’s reporting practices concerning the scope of our leaders and high-performing teams through our own as part of the Lead Through People 2.0 programme, accidents involving contractors have changed in recent management training programme Lead Through People targeting managers at Stora Enso. This training aims to years. In 2016 Stora Enso decided to revert to reporting such 2.0. During the year this programme also focused on Social highlight the importance of leadership in enhancing the safety incidents in separate categories for on-site accidents practical ways to improve safety culture. During 2016 agenda company’s safety culture. and logistics incidents, to ensure better comparability with approximately 1 500 managers and team leaders took part • Launch of the new group OHS reporting tool in order to the statistics of other companies. Differentiating contractor in the programme. In 2016 many other human resources Environmental improve data quality and reliability. accidents helps us address the necessary improvements in the activities related to leadership continued. Read more in our agenda • Implementation of the updated Safety Toolbox. This is right forums with internal and external stakeholders. The new Progress Book. a collection of tools proven to make mills and units safer. reporting practice will apply from the beginning of 2017. Economic It was introduced in 2012 to establish consistent minimum In 2016, a fatal accident involving a contractor occurred Providing living wages agenda requirements for our units globally. The new version of the at our Fors Mill, when a contractor’s employee was hit by In 2015 we worked with the global non-profit sustainability Safety Toolbox further supports the implementation of a wheel loader in the mill yard. Safety improvements were organisation BSR to define and calculate living wages in best practices and cultural change with regard to safety. subsequently realised at the mill site, by separating heavy Brazil, India, China, Pakistan, Russia, Laos, and Uruguay. Data and traffic from other traffic, for instance. BSR defines a living wage as a level of earnings that best assurance All accidents are unacceptable to Stora Enso, and the corresponds to the actual costs of acquiring the goods and causes of any accidents will always be thoroughly investigated services that are necessary for a basic standard of living, in line by our units in collaboration with the authorities. with internationally accepted definitions. In beginning of 2016, our current minimum salary levels exceeded the living wage Enhancing contractor safety in Guangxi, China estimates in all of these seven countries. During 2016 safety has continued to be a top priority for our operations in Guangxi, and robust follow-ups of corrective actions were conducted, particularly in our plantations. Our Our lowest wages compared intense focus on safety issues has paid off, and during the to local minimum wages1 construction of Beihai Mill only one LTA case occurred during Ratio of our lowest wage to the local minimum wage a total of 18 million working hours. Out at harvesting sites, 2016 2015 moving from manual harvesting to mechanical harvesting has Brazil² 1.1 1.1 improved safety. China³ 1.4 1.4 Estonia 1.1 1.3 Taking care of human resources Stora Enso’s key performance indicator (KPI) for leadership, Laos 1.1 1.1 the Leadership Index, measures employees’ perceptions of Latvia 1.2 1.1 their leaders. The index is calculated based on our annual Pakistan4 1.3 1.1 employee survey. Our goal has been to reach an index of Poland 1.0 1.0 80/100 by 2018. In 2016 this target was reached ahead of Russia 1.0 1.0 schedule, with a Leadership Index of 80 (79 in 2015). In 2016 Uruguay5 1.1 1.6 the response rate to our employee survey was 90% (91%). Our target is that all Stora Enso employees should be 1 In material locations of operations, compared to minimum wage levels set at national, state, or provincial level as applicable. The ratio shows how many involved in at least one performance review meeting with times larger our lowest wage is compared to the local minimum wage. their manager annually. In 2016, 90% of our employee 2 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Veracel. 3 Due to variations in regional minimum wages the ratio is calculated as a survey respondents stated that they had taken part in a weighted average for Stora Enso’s units in China. The weighting is based on the performance review during the past 12 months (91%). When units’ total number of employees. 4 Including employees of our 35%-owned equity-accounted minority investment We measure illness-related absenteeism to encourage the units to invest asked about diversity, 78% (76%) of our employees reported Bulleh Shah Packaging. in proactive health management. that their management was able to create diverse teams. 5 Including employees of our 50%-owned joint operation Montes del Plata. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Employees and wider workforce 21 Share of female employees at Stora Enso Employee distribution by gender and employee turnover Governance 2016 2015 Americas Asia3 Europe Group total Total number of employees at year-end 1 24 723 25 011 Female Male Female Male Female Male Social Share of women among all employees (%) 26% 24% Employees by gender 35% 65% 48% 52% 19% 81% agenda Share of women among senior managers (%) 21% 21% Employee turnover 10% 18% 100% 81% 6% 5% 23% Women in the Group Leadership Team 4 out of 13 3 out of 13 Number of hires¹ <10 20 2 130 1 300 250 850 4 560 Environmental Women in the Board of Directors 2 out of 8 2 out of 8 Number of leavings² <10 20 2 480 2 180 220 760 5 670 agenda ¹ Excludes employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. ¹ Hires: numbers of permanent employees joining the company. Excludes hires due to acquisitions. Rounded to the nearest 10. ² Leavings: numbers of permanent employees leaving voluntarily or due to restructuring, retirement or death. Excludes leavings due to divestments. Rounded to the nearest 10. Economic ³ The high employee turnover in Asia is due to very high employee turnovers at our Inpac units in China, which employed 3 600 agenda employees at the end of the year. Data and Compensation and equal opportunity¹ assurance Ratio of highest individual salary to Female employees’ remuneration as a median salary 2 proportion of male employees’ ³ 2016 2015 2016 2015 China 57 52 100% 100% Finland 12 11 97% 95% Germany 6 14 96% 91% Poland 21 21 n/a n/a Russia 27 n/a n/a n/a Sweden 27 27 100% 99% 1 Figures for the six largest countries in terms of the total number of employees. 2 The ratio shows how many times larger the highest individual salary is compared to median salary. 3 Calculated using weighted averages based on gender comparisons within each country’s employee categories as applicable. Figures in Finland and Sweden are based on evaluations covering approximately 40% (Finland) and 70% (Sweden) of the total workforce. Employee distribution by country1 Employee distribution by age and region Finland 26% Group Age Americas Asia Europe by age Sweden 20% China 20% Up to 30 20% 49% 14% 22% Poland 8% 31–50 61% 48% 52% 51% Germany 4% 51 and over 20% 3% 34% 27% Russia 4% Group by region 1% 21% 78% Other Europe 15% Latin America and US 1% Other countries 1% When asked about diversity, 78% of our employees reported that their managers were able 1 Excludes employees of our 50%-owned joint operations to create diverse teams. Montes del Plata and Veracel. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 22 Governance Community Local communities living near our mills and Social forestry operations form one of our most important agenda stakeholder groups. We aim to promote economic, Environmental environmental, and social development in these agenda communities. Economic agenda Opportunities and challenges Partnering with local communities Data and In many localities Stora Enso is a major employer, tax-payer, assurance and partner for local entrepreneurs. To ensure that our production, raw material sourcing, and labour supply remain both sustainable and competitive, the communities which we depend on must be able to thrive economically, socially, and environmentally. Stora Enso’s mills are heavily dependent on energy and raw materials, and they generate emissions that may impact adjoining communities. Our tree plantations in China, Brazil, and Uruguay influence local land use, livelihoods, and ecosystems. Our socio-environmental impacts must be managed responsibly, in order to maximise their positive influence, maintain cooperative community relations, and ensure our long-term license to operate. Procuring wood as raw material for our mills creates value for everyone within the regional forestry cluster, including forestand landowners, wood supply intermediaries, local entrepreneurs, and logistics providers. In Continental Europe, where paper for recycling (PfR) is an important raw material for our mills, we strive to create We engage with the communities around our operations by supporting education and young people, social welfare and the environment. value by working in partnership with PfR suppliers, the public sector, and non-governmental organisations who promote recycling. Our policies • Stakeholder Guidelines Restructuring and closure of operations can create • Business Practice Policy difficulties not only for our employees and suppliers, A comprehensive approach • Human Rights Statement but often also for the affected communities as a whole. to community investment • Tax Policy Responsible restructuring practices realised in cooperation The policies that guide Stora Enso’s community relations • Sponsorship and Donations Policy. with the authorities can support these communities through include our the related changes, and create opportunities for new • Code of Conduct Our joint operations have each developed formal procedures business initiatives. • Social Responsibility Guidelines for their respective community investment work. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 23 How we work Governance Helping build resilient communities Stora Enso implements various precautionary management Social actions in response to the potential environmental and agenda social impacts that our activities may have on neighbouring communities. These include: Environmental • Environmental and social impact assessments (ESIAs) agenda conducted for all new projects that could cause significant adverse effects in local communities. For more information Economic see page 10. 02 agenda • Due diligence assessments, which are invariably realised as part of Stora Enso’s acquisition and investment processes prior to any decision. These assessments cover relevant 01 Our field staff speak regularly Data and factors related to environmental, social, and business with people living in areas assurance impacted by our plantations, practices. They play an important role in building our mill, and transportation routes. understanding of local operating environments, while 02 The Resettlement Action also helping us to build constructive relationships with Plan provided assistance to stakeholders such as governments, business partners, enhance local livelihoods in 01 local communities, and NGOs. Any subsequent investment Beihai, China. decision must take due account of our ability to mitigate and manage any identified adverse impacts. • Environmental management systems such as ISO 14001 for other key functions. The results were analysed with support and contribute ideas. Our aim is to understand social risks in our production units. from an external community investment expert and the London advance, so we can ensure proper mitigation and remediation. • Sustainable forest management certification of our own Benchmarking Group, a global leader in community investment We strive to promote gender inclusivity, and also consult forestry operations and suppliers. best practice. During 2017 we will implement the new corporate vulnerable groups and less vocal villagers. For this reason • Restructuring processes planned in cooperation with the community investment framework and related guidelines. during 2016 we conducted socio-economic profiling of local authorities. Community investment has also now been explicitly included in villages in order to better understand and address their gender our Sponsorship and Donations Policy, which was revised in late and ethnic structures, opportunities for development, and Contributing to the vitality of the communities around our 2016. other characteristics that can help us to optimise the positive operations is high on Stora Enso’s agenda. We do this through impacts of our operations, and mitigate any negative impacts. various actions, including investments in capacity building, Focus on communities in growth markets During the year we also advanced Free, Prior, and local nature conservation, agroforestry programmes, and During 2016 we engaged with the communities around our Informed Consent (FPIC) processes in land leasing. For more socio-economic development projects. operations in various ways. Details of our progress in the information see page 12. locations that have most interested our stakeholders during 2016 Progress are presented below. Resettlement Action Plan completed in 2016 As a result of the development of the industrial zone in Beihai Developing a strategic framework Guangxi, China where Stora Enso’s mill is located, approximately 6 000 people Building on the local community investment work Stora Enso Engagement with local communities is a key element of were relocated from their previous homes to nearby locations, has done over the years, we have put in place a new group-level our everyday field operations. Our field staff and social with new housing and compensation offered by the authorities. framework for our community investments. The framework engagement officers speak regularly with people living in Of these people, 1 236 were displaced from Stora Enso’s mill site. incorporates systematic monitoring and later careful evaluation areas impacted by our plantations and mill, as well as along Including people relocated from adjoining areas acquired by the of outcomes of our activities. This work started in 2016 with our transportation routes, to inform them about Stora Enso’s authorities for road-building, this number rises to 1 530 people global baseline mapping, covering all our production units and operations and to enable them to express their concerns classified as Relocated People. On top of the compensation Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 24 received from the authorities, these people also received support includes people who have lost part of their land but still have The actions taken under the RAP included: Governance through Stora Enso’s three-year Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), more than 0.3 mus of land. • Educational support for local children and young people, which was completed in March 2016. Based on indicators identified by the International Finance including financial support for a nursery school and the Stora Enso also supported and monitored the well-being Corporation (IFC), the RAP met its objectives: to minimise education of schoolchildren and students aged 6–21 Social of people who have lost part of their land and are left with less the impact of the project on local residents; to compensate • Assistance designed to help people improve their agenda than 0.3 mus of land (a “mu” is a local unit of area equal to 0.02 those affected by the resettlement and land acquisition livelihoods, including job training, local hiring, and support hectares). This means the company supported a total of 2 332 activities; and to pay special attention to safeguard the rights for local business development Environmental people classed as Affected People, including the Relocated and interests of vulnerable groups, taking special measures • Support provided for Relocated People to help them obtain agenda People. On top of this Stora Enso has also maintained to settle them in a reasonable manner to ensure that that their land tenure documentation such as housing certificates. continuous dialogues with Impacted People, a category that livelihood is not lower than that of local residents. Economic Veracel, Brazil agenda In 2016 Veracel continued its long-term efforts to enhance the livelihoods of local communities. This work also involved Guangxi in numbers dialogue with the landless people’s social movement. Data and assurance Stora Enso’s operations in Guangxi consist of a consumer board mill in the municipality of Beihai and 83 600 hectares of tree Veracel supports local Supporting family farming plantations. The mill commenced operations in May 2016. livelihoods by making Since 2012 Veracel has been involved in a major initiative Direct employment 2016 2015 some of its land available together with the state government, known as the Pact for the Development of the Discovery Coast. Under this agreement Stora Enso employees1 1 088 1 176 for family farmers. the government has committed to reimburse Veracel ICMS tax Total remuneration for Stora Enso employees credits paid by the company between 2011 and 2015, in return (EUR million) 34.0 31.9 for the company’s commitment to invest in local development Lost-time accident rate for Stora Enso programmes. employees2 1.9 2.0 By the end of 2016 this pact had resulted in investments Contract management in forestry operations benefiting local communities amounting to EUR 660 000 Number of contractors 74 121 (EUR 490 000 by the end of 2015). The pact’s projects contribute to the sustainable development of family farming Number of contractor employees3 3 576 2 499 by forming associations for small producers and indigenous Lost-time accident rate for contractor workers in communities. forestry operations4 3.2 4.8 Veracel is also supporting local livelihoods by making Contractor management in mill construction some of its land available for family farmers, and by Number of contractors 12 22 providing training and technical support. The Agrovida Contractor employees5 2 383 5 801 farming programme aims to produce food for the local Lost-time accident rate affecting contractor community and to trade surplus production in regional workers in mill construction 0 0 markets, especially for use in school lunches and municipal 1 At year-end the new board mill directly employed 426 employees institutions. The Roça do Povo project supports local and forestry operations had 662 employees. families cultivating cassava and other crops. By the end of 2 Number of lost-time accidents per one million hours worked. 3 Working hours estimates converted to full-time equivalents. Forestry 2016 the Agrovida initiative involved 150 farmers cultivating contractors’ employees worked an estimated 4 917 065 hours 208 hectares, while the Roça do Povo scheme assisted 79 during 2015. farmers cultivating 80 hectares. 4 Number of accidents per one million hours worked based on the working hours estimate. Veracel also enables local beekeepers to keep their hives 5 Working hours estimates converted to full-time equivalents. Contractors’ on the company’s land, and financially supports local honey employees worked an estimated 4 689 736 hours during 2016. Veracel’s Sustainable Settlement Initiative provides farming land and technical and educational support to help hundreds of local families production. In 2016, a total of 136 honey producers, mostly improve their income. working through local cooperatives, benefitted from this Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 25 support, producing approximately 87 tonnes of honey and Governance 400 kg of pollen. Veracel in numbers Veracel, our 50/50 joint operation with the Brazilian company Fibria, runs a pulp mill and eucalyptus plantations in southern Investing in social welfare Bahia, Brazil. Veracel owns 215 000 hectares of land, of which Social Veracel takes actions to strengthen the labour market in the approximately half is dedicated to rainforest preservation, and agenda surrounding communities by providing training within its leases 12 000 hectares of land. industrial and forestry operations. These courses give young 2016 2015 Environmental people opportunities for valuable work experience as well as Employment agenda knowhow, preparing them for the labour market. Training varies Veracel’s own employees 755 700 from a comprehensive 12-month programme to awarenessContractors’ employees 2 552 2 244 Economic building events lasting one day. Since 2013 Veracel has been cooperating with the NGO Remuneration, Veracel employees agenda (EUR million) 15 14 Instituto Mãe Terra on a project designed to train local young people to act as agents for local development in their Tax payments (EUR million)¹ 28 22 Data and communities. The training has covered topics such as citizenship, Local sourcing (EUR million) 2 137 143 assurance human rights, education, environment, community development, Agroforestry activities drugs, violence, sexuality, family issues, and information Partner farmers in the Forest Producer technology. It also helps participants to network and gain support Programme 96 93 from partners and public policies. Most participants have Partner farmers with certified tree plantations 71 79 also been trained to act as volunteers in mapping investment Honey producers on the company’s land 136 128 opportunities related to local infrastructure. Veracel continues to engage actively with local indigenous ¹ Including federal, state and municipal taxes and pension and social security payments. communities, while also working closely with the NGO 2 Sourcing from suppliers in the state of Bahia. Tribo Jovens to improve the living conditions of indigenous 01 people. For more information on Veracel’s engagement with indigenous communities see page 14. Continuous dialogue with the landless people’s movement and educational support to help hundreds of local families Dialogue with landless people is important for Veracel, improve their incomes. This initiative is facilitated by the particularly since certain groups have occupied some of the Government of the State of Bahia through the Secretariat of company’s land since 2008. During 2016 Veracel continued to Rural Development (SDR), and conducted in cooperation with engage in dialogue with the Government of the State of Bahia, landless people’s social movements and INCRA. the National Institute of Colonisation and Agrarian Reform Through this initiative the social movements have pledged (INCRA), and the representatives of six officially recognised to leave areas occupied since July 2011, while Veracel has landless people’s social movements: agreed not to seek to repossess areas occupied before that • The Movement of Landless Workers (MST) date. The initiative relates to a total area of 16 500 hectares • The Federation of Agricultural Workers (Fetag) of Veracel’s lands designated for the settlements, of which • The Movement for the Struggle for Land (MLT) INCRA has inspected and evaluated some 13 500 hectares to • The Peasant Resistance Movement (MRC) be purchased from the company. Compensation for the land • The Front of Free Workers (FTL) transfers will be paid to Veracel by INCRA in line with Brazilian 02 • The Association Unidos Venceremos (Aprunve). legislation. In terms of the number of people assisted and its 01 In 2016 Veracel continued its long-term efforts to enhance the Work continued on a related Sustainable Settlement Initiative geographical scope, this will be one of the most significant livelihoods of local communities. launched in 2012 to provide farming land and technical land reform projects realised in Brazil over the last 25 years. 02 The Roça do Povo scheme has assisted 79 farmers who cultivate 80 hectares. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 26 . Montes del Plata runs the Bioparque M’Bopicuá in Fray Governance Bentos, which includes a visitor centre and 150 hectares of land used to breed endangered species and other animals for eventual return to their wild natural habitats. The centre Social promotes environmental education, enabling visitors to agenda experience native wildlife at first hand, and learn how ecosystems function. Environmental Montes del Plata also finances local projects targeting agenda increased cohesion, social participation and local development in nearby communities. During 2016, Montes Economic del Plata supported 22 projects (19 in 2015) focusing on agenda heritage conservation, sports, social integration, health, and education. Montes del Plata also made various donations to local community work, including emergency relief following Data and local flooding. assurance Mitigating negative impacts of logistics Since 2014 Montes del Plata has been developing a longHow can tree plantations term strategy for the sustainable transportation of wood, help support local livelihoods? Uruguay has relied on small-scale farming for centuries, and the country’s extensive plains are home to more Montes del Plata in numbers cows than people. However, local farmers are now Montes del Plata, our 50/50 joint operation with the Chilean benefitting from the Alianzas forestry and land use company Arauco, runs a state-of-the art 1.3 million tonne pulp mill at Punta Pereira in southwestern Uruguay, together with initiative, realised in partnership with Montes del associated eucalyptus plantations. Montes del Plata owns Plata pulp mill, which involves integrating eucalyptus 190 000 hectares of land and leases 55 000 hectares of land. plantations into their farms. 2016 2015 Employment Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Montes del Plata’s own employees 687 668 Contractors’ employees 3 542 3 137 Number of local suppliers¹ 162 188 Agroforestry activities 170 farmers kept cattle Partner farmers in the Forest Producer Programme 350 308 on Montes del Plata’s Honey producers on the company’s land 31 31 lands while 31 beekeepers Cattle farmers on the company’s land 170 180 Hectares of company land used for produced honey in cattle grazing 131 916 135 386 some 4 900 beehives. ¹ Local suppliers in the Department of Colonia, where Montes del Plata pulp mill is situated. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 27 01 Montes del Plata’s strategy for Bulleh Shah Packaging, Pakistan Governance the sustainable transportation Stora Enso supports six local schools in cooperation with of wood covers road safety the Pakistani non-governmental organisation Idaraeand shipping. Taleem-o-Aagahi. Since 2015 these schools have been Social 02 Montes del Plata has created strategic alliances with local providing education for children previously identified as agenda child workers in Bulleh Shah Packaging’s (BSP) supply farmers. chain. The schools have the capacity to educate up to 640 Environmental children. The pupils also receive free school uniforms and agenda medical checks. BSP is additionally providing vocational training for the children’s parents, to improve their life skills Economic and ability to find work. agenda BSP runs a maternity and child healthcare clinic near its mill in Kasur. Other community investment actions taken in 2016 included the commissioning of a mobile medical Data and health care clinic, created together with the Yunus Center of assurance the Asian Institute of Technology and Shalamar Hospital, in order to provide basic services to local communities linked to the supply of agricultural by-products used by BSP. The pilot phase of the medical mobile clinic in BSP’s operational 01 02 Bulleh Shah Packaging in numbers Stora Enso has a 35% shareholding in Bulleh Shah Packaging (Private) Limited, which we own together with the Pakistani including annual action plans involving truck drivers, transport Active dialogue with neighbouring villages company Packages Limited. Bulleh Shah Packaging is Pakistan’s largest fibre-based packaging producer, and the companies, and local communities. Montes del Plata carefully Montes del Plata’s continuous cooperation with local country’s only liquid packaging board producer. The company’s trains all drivers before they start to work for the company, with stakeholders aims to ensure that communities near the operations are located in Lahore, Karachi, and Kasur, in high quality support from the Roadway Safety and Education mill and its forestry operations become better acquainted Punjab Province. Institute (ISEV). Quarterly workshops on safety and social with Montes del Plata, and build a positive relationship with 31 Dec 31 Dec responsibility are organised for approximately 700 truck the company. This will encourage them to approach the 2016 2015 drivers, and regular meetings are held with the owners of the company with any possible concerns or complaints. Employment transport companies serving Montes del Plata to follow up Stakeholder engagement work realised in 2016 included Bulleh Shah Packaging’s own employees 1 070 1 121 on safety indicators and emphasise the need for permanent several educational visits to the mill site, Montes del Plata’s Contractors’ employees¹ 1 552 2 005 improvement. tree nursery, the main port, and Bioparque M’Bopicuá. Methodology for identifying vulnerable locations has Altogether 1 720 people visited our operations, including School support initiative been developed to help address the most serious impacts employees’ family members as well as many other Number of schools 6 6 of the traffic generated by Montes del Plata. Based on these local residents. Total capacity of the schools to educate findings, the company, its contractors and their truck drivers Montes del Plata’s anonymous Ethics Channel grievance children 640 640 have together run workshops in selected communities to mechanism, available on the company’s website, enables the ¹ Contractors’ employees working onsite at production facilities in Kasur build awareness of traffic safety issues. During 2016 Montes company’s own employees, the employees of contractors and and Karachi, and at collection sites for agricultural by-products. del Plata helped to arrange such awareness-building suppliers, and members of local communities to bring up topics sessions at eight local schools. related to Montes del Plata’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Community 28 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda How can tree plantations be combined Data and with food production in Laos? assurance For Stora Enso, operating in Laos has required a completely new approach to tree-growing. Together with local farmers the company has developed a land use model that benefits the farmers as well as our business. Stora Enso has particularly worked to make the land safe by removing unexploded bomblets. Between 1964 and 1973 more ordnance was dropped on Laos than was dropped during the whole of World War II. Read the blog post at forestsolutions.panda.org In Laos, our village development fund has supported electricity and water supply projects, road upgrades, and purchases of livestock to enhance food security. area is expected to start during the first quarter of 2017 and security. These projects have been designed together with the provided support during 2015–2016 for Save the Children’s continue until the end of the year. villagers according to their needs and requirements. All the local work. This aims to improve children’s quality of life, For information on our human rights related work in projects are also approved by the local authorities. enhance the life skills of adolescents, make communities and Pakistan, see page 12. For more information about our human rights work in Lao caregivers more sensitive to children’s needs, and improve communities, see page 15. water sanitation and hygiene. Laos Our plantations in Laos have been established to enable local Chennai, India The project included the following actions: farmers to grow rice and cash crops between the trees. The In June 2015 Stora Enso announced the permanent closure • Improving the personal hygiene of 3 000 children integration of agriculture and tree growing continued to further of the group’s corrugated packaging converting unit in • Providing access to safe drinking water in five child protection engage communities in our operations during 2016. Chennai, India, due to its long-term unprofitability and centres and four schools In Laos we have also established a village development declining customer demand. The non-profit organisation • Raising awareness of proper sanitation, including the fund to share benefits among local villagers, and to further BSR provided advice on a responsible closure plan. construction of a public toilet and provision of waste bins support local development and livelihoods. Most of the Chennai is one of the fastest growing metropolitan cities • Encouraging people to use biodegradable waste for making funding allocated during 2016 was directed to infrastructure in India. Its growth has triggered large-scale migration, and compost projects such as electricity and water supply connections, many children live in the city’s slums or on its streets. To • Building the capacity of adolescents to advocate for road upgrading, and purchases of livestock to enhance food make a positive contribution on our departure, Stora Enso their rights. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Business ethics 29 Governance Business ethics For Stora Enso, business ethics means much Social more than merely complying with regulations. We agenda strive to promote ethical behaviour, and we openly Environmental discuss any ethical dilemmas that arise in relation agenda to our work. We believe this approach will help us succeed in business, foster accountability, and Economic enhance our good reputation. agenda Opportunities and challenges Data and assurance Ensuring compliance in a complex global environment For a global industrial company, compliance with laws and regulations is always of the utmost importance. However, as a value-driven organisation we believe that adopting a wider ethical approach is also a priority. Stora Enso operates in locations including high-risk emerging markets which offer good business opportunities, but may also entail exposure to serious risks relating to corruption or fraud, for instance. Joint venture agreements may also expose a company to risks related to competition law. Various governments and authorities have shaped effective legislation to combat corruption, such as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These laws place high demands on companies’ controlling mechanisms, but they also help to build accountability and trust among employees, partners, and other stakeholders. In the era of digitalisation, privacy issues are becoming increasingly important. Stora Enso takes measures designed Our employees receive Code of Conduct training either through an e-learning tool or during face-to-face training sessions. Top level commitment to ensure the privacy of our customers, suppliers, employees, Our policies plays a key role in making and other stakeholders. New legislation such as the EU Data Protection Regulation additionally sets requirements Streamlined policies on ethics and compliance Stora Enso a more valueconcerning the processing of personal data, with heavy fines The Stora Enso Code of Conduct is a single set of values driven organisation. imposed for infringements. In this context we also increasingly need to acknowledge and address the emerging threat of defined for all our employees, to provide guidance on our approach to ethical business practices, environmental values, cybercrime. and human and labour rights. These same values are applied Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Business ethics 30 Bribery, where we actively participate in the network’s efforts Governance to combat corruption globally. Top level commitment Social In our efforts to make Stora Enso a more value-driven agenda organisation, we highlight the significance of top level commitment. All managers in key positions are required to Environmental make a personal commitment to our Code of Conduct and our agenda Business Practice Policy, and to provide related training and information for employees within their respective organisations. Economic agenda Communications and training Our communication strategy for ethics and compliance aims to ensure that Stora Enso’s employees and business partners Data and all understand what ethical behaviour is, and how they should assurance respond to any ethical dilemmas that arise. Our employees receive Code of Conduct training, either through an e-learning tool, or through face-to-face training provided for those who do not have direct access to computers. We aim to ensure that our new employees receive such training within their first month with us. In addition, an in-depth e-learning course on anti-trust and anti-corruption is mandatory for all members of our Group Leadership Team, for divisional and mill management teams, and for employees dealing with competitor contacts, purchasing, marketing, and sales. This course has been run since 2013. During 2016 all employees within these categories underwent mandatory refresher training. All managers in key positions are required to make a personal commitment to our Code of Conduct and our Business Practice Policy. Intensified efforts in risk areas Operating in high-risk emerging markets and entering into wherever we operate. Other policies relevant to ethics and conduct by following up on our Ethics and Compliance Action joint ventures can entail serious risk exposures. Our risk compliance include our: List. The Board met four times during 2016. assessment procedures on compliance cover all our units. • Business Practice Policy Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance Strategy forms the The most significant compliance risks in our global operations • Data Privacy Policy basis for annual action plans. The strategy has five focus relate to corruption and anti-trust. • Supplier Code of Conduct. areas: The management and employees of our totally or jointly • Top level commitment owned operations in Brazil, Russia, and China, and our How we work • Improved communication and training equity-accounted minority investment in Pakistan receive • Intensified efforts in countries with heightened extensive face-to-face training on our Business Practice Combatting misconduct on all fronts concerns Policy. Employees in Pakistan and in our joint operations Stora Enso’s Ethics and Compliance function is a sub-function • Developing our grievance channels in Brazil and Uruguay additionally receive training on these operating under our Legal team, headed by our General • Ethics and compliance as a competitive edge. operations’ respective Codes of Conduct and Business Counsel, who reports directly to the CEO. Our Ethics and Practice Principles. Training sessions cover topics such as Compliance Board, a governance body appointed by the CEO, Stora Enso is represented in Transparency International’s human rights, environmental impacts, safety, and ethical monitors Stora Enso’s legal compliance and ethical business Steering Committee for Business Principles for Countering practices. Anti-trust guidelines designed for our joint Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Business ethics 31 based on employees’ responses to related questions in our Governance annual employee survey. In 2016 this index improved to 81 (801 in 2015). Our goal is to maintain this positive trend. By the end of 2016, 19 374 Stora Enso employees had Social received training on our Code of Conduct. Furthermore, 2 509 agenda employees in managerial positions completed an in-depth e-learning refreshment course on anti-trust and anti-corruption Environmental during 2016. agenda A Compliance Forum for Group Functions was established in 2016, following on from the creation of Division Compliance Economic Forums in 2015. These forums bring together the heads of key agenda functions and divisions to assess risks and monitor compliance. Our Ethics and Compliance Self-Assessment Tool (T.E.S.T.), 02 introduced in 2015, was run twice in 2016, and extended to Data and cover group functions. This tool has been designed to give our assurance 01 Our data privacy policy divisions and functions a better overview of the progress their ensures that the rights of our units are making on implementing our policies and compliance employees, business partners measures, while also identifying possible gaps and risks and other stakeholders are related to compliance. The results were addressed through duly protected. the Compliance Forums, with action plans subsequently 02 The “Do What’s Right“ developed, implemented, and monitored as necessary. mobile app makes it easy for 01 employees to find and share information about compliance. Making ethics and compliance more visible Our internal communications concept “Ethical Spotlight of the month” has continued to be used throughout the company. ventures are implemented with the help of related training in external stakeholders, can anonymously report potential Each month, a specific topic related to ethics and compliance Uruguay, Brazil, Pakistan, and China. non-compliance cases by phone, mail, or online. This service, is presented for discussion, with the help of related material During 2016 our Ethics and Compliance team completed which covers all of our units, is available 24/7. and communications kits. a set of road shows organised in risk areas in China, Poland, All potential non-compliance cases are duly investigated. In order to restructure, clarify, and simplify our various and Russia. These road shows were held to meet with local The consequent findings are recorded and reviewed by the heads internal policies and guidelines on ethics and compliance, employees and managers face to face, to gain a better of our Internal Audit and Ethics and Compliance functions, and eight related policies were merged into a single Business understanding of local ethical dilemmas, and to train local reported both to our Ethics and Compliance Board, and to our Practice Policy (BPP) in 2016. personnel on key topics. Board of Directors’ Financial and Audit Committee. Proven cases 1 Restated (+1) of non-compliance can lead to disciplinary or legal actions. Formal grievance mechanisms Our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata, and our Our employees are encouraged to report any suspected cases equity-accounted minority investment Bulleh Shah Packaging of misconduct or unethical behaviour to their own supervisor, or to our Human Resources or Legal functions. Employees each have their own local grievance channels. By the end of 2016, may also report their concerns in confidentiality to the Head Progress 19 374 employees had of Internal Audit. Our Supplier Code of Conduct also obliges our suppliers to report any non-compliance with the Code to Enhanced training and monitoring received training on Stora Enso’s Head of Internal Audit. We have developed an index that enables us to monitor our Code of Conduct. Stora Enso uses an additional external service through and evaluate our employees’ perceptions of our work which our employees globally, and in certain locations also on topics covered by our Code of Conduct. The index is Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Social agenda – Business ethics 32 During the year 170 employees from 24 countries and More ways to speak up Governance different backgrounds volunteered to take part in our In 2016 we opened up a new internal grievance channel Ethics Ambassadors Programme. Ethics Ambassadors for the United States. Such reporting is now possible in 38 are employees selected to informally assist our Ethics and countries. Our external grievance channel is meanwhile Social Compliance function by promoting and implementing ethical available to stakeholders in China, India, Russia, Laos, and agenda values in their own locations. Brazil. The mobile app “Do What’s Right” continues to make it easy for employees to find and share information related Environmental Data privacy in focus to compliance, or to report possible violations, using their agenda To protect personal data throughout our operations and ensure mobile devices. that we comply with all applicable laws, the new Stora Enso Data In 2016 a total of 58 reports received through Stora Enso’s Economic Privacy Policy was launched in April 2016. The policy aims to various grievance channels were identified as potential nonagenda protect the company against risks related to breaches of data compliance cases (67 in 2015). Proven misconduct leading privacy, to let our employees know how Stora Enso collects and to disciplinary and/or legal actions was identified in 18 of the uses their personal data, and to ensure that the privacy rights of completed investigations (10), while five further complaints Data and our employees, business partners and other stakeholders are were found to be valid without involving misconduct. None assurance protected. The Data Privacy Policy and related practical guidance of the proven misconduct cases were related to child labour, have been rolled out through an e-learning tool. forced labour, or discrimination. Can I pay for a customer’s dinner? Stora Enso is committed to ensuring compliance and fostering a culture of ethical behaviour. But how can we ensure that these commitments are realised whenever our 25 000 employees around the globe make decisions in their everyday work? This is where the work of Stora Enso’s new Ethics Ambassadors starts. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Breakdown of potential non-compliance cases 2016 2015 Fraud 5 8 Corruption 20 26 Anti-trust 2 2 Conflict of interest 7 6 General human resources 13 17 Health and safety 0 0 Miscellaneous 11 8 Total 58 67 In the era of digitalisation, privacy issues are becoming increasingly important. The new Stora Enso Data Privacy Policy was launched in 2016. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda 33 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance Environmental agenda Materials, water, and energy 34 Carbon dioxide 44 Forests, plantations, and land use 50 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 34 Governance Materials, Social water, and energy agenda Stora Enso works hard to improve resource efficiency. This benefits our business as well as Environmental the environment and society. Stora Enso and agenda the forest industry are pioneering a transition to a bioeconomy. Economic agenda Opportunities and challenges Data and assurance Making more with less Global warming, population growth, and urbanisation are global megatrends that are bringing about significant longterm changes around the world. At Stora Enso we strive to respond proactively to these trends by developing products and technologies based on renewable, recyclable, and biodegradable materials. Materials Replacing the use of fossil-based resources with renewable raw materials is the foundation for a sustainable bioeconomy. Our products also contribute to a low-carbon circular economy, in which materials are reused and recycled, while waste is minimised, to maximise environmental and financial added value. We use high-performing wastewater treatment systems to ensure all discharged water is ecologically safe for the local environment. The European Commission (EC) has adopted a Circular Economy Package containing proposals for legislation designed to reduce waste, as well as an action plan aiming to optimise product life cycles through recycling and reuse. abundant, global water scarcity may still impact our operations The benefits of sustainably sourced renewable materials are in the long term through our supply chains, and as controls on recognised by the EC, providing great business opportunities for Stora Enso. pollution, recycling, and water pricing are toughened. At the same time, such developments give us opportunities to reduce Water plays a central costs by using water more efficiently. role in our production, Water Water plays a central role in Stora Enso’s production, heating, Energy heating, cooling, and cooling and cleaning processes, and in the generation of the renewable hydroelectricity that we purchase. Our forests The EU’s 2020 Climate and Energy Package and 2030 Climate and Energy Framework, currently under revision, map out the cleaning processes. and plantations also need rainwater. Though most of our way forward for industrial energy. The forthcoming revisions production units are located in regions where water is relatively may include changes in the Emissions Trading System (for Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 35 more information see page 44) and tougher requirements on Governance industrial energy efficiency. An increase in the global demand for biomass can additionally be expected. Most of our mills use substantial amounts of biomass Social in their internal energy production. This renewable energy agenda is generated from by-products and residuals from our own production processes, harvesting residues, recovered wood, Environmental and wastes. agenda The EU’s Renewable Energy Directive sets member states a binding collective target to realise 20% of their final energy Economic consumption from renewable sources by 2020. With its high agenda proportion of biomass-based energy, the forest industry can help the EU reach its renewable energy targets. Data and Our policies assurance Steering our use of natural resources 02 Stora Enso’s policies relevant to our usage of materials, water, and energy include: 01 All our production units are certified or in • Code of Conduct – guidance on issues related to resource the process of being certified to the ISO 14001 usage environmental management system standard. • Supplier Code of Conduct, Practical Instructions for 02 Stora Enso is one of the largest consumers of 01 paper for recycling in Europe. Stora Enso’s Suppliers, and Purchasers’ Instructions – guidance on responsible sourcing and issues related to water and materials in our supply chain • Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land The environmental work realised at our mills, including authorities. For details of all significant incidents and Management – measures to ensure our work on forestry, water and energy management and resource efficiency, violations of environmental permits occurring in 2016, land use, sourcing and water is well integrated into our is supported by third-party-certified environmental see page 42. sustainable forest management and the land use practices management systems. All our board, pulp, and paper mills Environmental improvements at our production units we follow in plantations and forests are certified to the ISO 14001 environmental management are driven by local circumstances. The EU’s Best Available • Statement on Water and Water Use – setting out the system standard. All our sawmills and corrugated packaging Techniques (BAT) Reference Documents – which include company’s position and activities facilities are certified or are in the process of being certified BAT conclusions with limits for effluents and emissions to • Energy Guidelines – to steer our long-term energy under ISO 14001. By the end of 2016, 33 of our production air, as well as BAT conclusions for large combustion plants – procurement and energy generation choices, and units were certified to the ISO 50001 energy efficiency will apply to our board, pulp, and paper mills in Europe. The promote a wider corporate culture of responsible energy management system standard (36 in 2015), corresponding related investment needs are proactively planned as part of management. to 92% of our total energy consumption in 2016 (90%). group investment processes. These investments fit into the In addition, seven units are expected to be certified to company’s normal CAPEX framework and policy. How we work the ISO 50001 standard in early 2017. For unit-specific information on certificates, see page 69. Paper for recycling used at seven mills Striving for continuous improvement The emissions generated by each of our mills are Wood is the primary raw material in Stora Enso’s production Stora Enso continuously works to improve resource efficiency regulated by the relevant authorities, with limits set through processes. Primary fibre is used for materials used for by driving material, waste, water, and energy efficiency, and environmental permit processes taking into account local products with special safety requirements such as food by developing new business opportunities from residuals and conditions and legislation. Our mills monitor their compliance packaging, toys, and pharmaceuticals. For more information by-products. with these permits, as do the relevant environmental about our wood procurement see page 50. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 36 Europe’s PfR collection rate has been high for many years Governance (72% in 2015). This is a noteworthy achievement, particularly since The Confederation of European Paper Industries (CEPI) How can a mill benefit local farmers estimates that 22% of all paper is of grades that cannot be Social while protecting the sea? recycled, such as tissue paper. This nevertheless means that agenda 6% more could still be recovered for recycling. Stora Enso and Agriculture is among the main polluters of the Baltic Sea, the paper industry are actively collaborating to find ways to Environmental especially due to the use of phosphorus-rich fertilisers. access this unrecycled paper. agenda Stora Enso’s Imatra Mills are among the pioneers recycling residual materials to create soil improvement products that Beneficial use of residuals and waste Economic can reduce the need for artificial fertilisers. These residuals Stora Enso’s production processes generate various residuals agenda contain only limited amounts of easily soluble nutrients that and wastes, including ash, black liquor, sawdust, bark, and may leach into water, while they are rich in a wide range of wastewater treatment sludge. Many of these materials are used organic, slowly soluble nutrients. in our internal bioenergy generation and pulp production, or Data and supplied to partners for use in agriculture, brick manufacturing, assurance or road construction, for instance. We are constantly looking for innovative ways to beneficially use materials that would otherwise end up as waste. We ensure that hazardous waste is safely processed Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability at suitable facilities or incinerators, and we report on hazardous waste disposal in accordance with the relevant regulations. Our mills’ third-party-certified ISO 14001 systems form part of the on-site management procedures for handling chemicals and waste. Knowhow and best practices related to Stora Enso’s water withdrawal and consumption Stora Enso is also a significant user of paper for recycling optimising material flows are shared within the company by (PfR). We use PfR wherever this makes good sense expert networks focusing on environment and efficiency, PfR, environmentally and economically. Seven of Stora Enso’s chemical safety, and product safety. mills currently use PfR. Recycled newspapers and magazines are used to produce certain paper grades at Langerbrugge Water efficiency and wastewater management Mill in Belgium (where they account for 100% of sourced While Stora Enso handles relatively large amounts of fibre), Sachsen Mill (100%) and Maxau Mill (approximately water, of this water only around 4% is consumed in our 75%) in Germany, Dawang Mill in China (95%), and Hylte Mill production processes and almost 96% is returned to the local in Sweden (50%). Recovered board is used to make certain environment. Process water is purified by our treatment plants containerboard grades at Ostrołęka Mill in Poland (85%) and and then discharged, whereas cooling and other non-process at Varkaus Mill in Finland. water can be safely released without treatment. Through contracts with local authorities and waste Stora Enso uses high-performing wastewater treatment Almost 96% of the water we withdraw is management companies, and by managing our own collection systems to ensure that discharged water is ecologically safe recycled back to the local environment after facilities, we secure a sufficient supply of used paper and and meets all regulatory requirements. Our systems recycle being carefully purified. board for reuse. In some regions we use PfR from industrial water within our mills whenever possible, to reduce the need and commercial sources such as printers and retailers, in for water intake. Reducing our water demand also helps us to Some 4% of the water we withdraw is addition to material originating from households. In Poland we improve the energy and material efficiency of our production, consumed in our production. run a network of 21 depots where board is collected and baled and makes the purification of the remaining wastewater for transportation to our Ostrołęka Mill. more efficient. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 37 In 2016 our SO 2 emissions amounted to x.x thousand Utilisation of process waste and residual materials¹ Governance tonnes (3.7 thousand tonnes in 2015, NOx emissions How can renewable energy Energy generation 48% totalled x.x thousand tonnes (11.0 thousand tonnes), be generated from wastewater? Pulp manufacturing 22% and emissions of fine particles amounted to x.x thousand Wood pellet and chipboard manufacturing 13% Social tonnes (1.8 thousand tonnes). Untreated wastewater from any board or paper mill has Landscaping, landfill, and road construction 6% agenda high concentrations of organic compounds, measured as Other 6% chemical oxygen demand (COD). If left untreated, such Bricks 2% Environmental effluent can worsen environmental problems such as Process waste to landfill 2% agenda toxic algal blooms in natural waters. Heinola Fluting Mill in Agricultural use 1% Covers all Stora Enso production units, as dry tonnes. Finland has introduced a bioreactor that converts the COD 1 Economic in its wastewater into bio-based methane that can be used agenda to generate renewable energy. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Process waste to landfill¹ Data and 71 938 tonnes assurance Fly ash 53% Green liquor dregs 21% Bottom ash 18% We have applied the Global Water Tool devised by the managing the sales of emission rights, consulting the mills in Wood handling waste 2% Lime mud 1% World Business Council for Sustainable Development to relation to energy procurement, trading in green certificates, Other process related wastes 5% assess related risks at our production units, and we actively following our carbon dioxide allowance balance, and Sludge and other materials containing fibre 0% follow the latest water footprint methodology developed by monitoring energy legislation. researchers and standardisation bodies. The biofuels used within Stora Enso are mainly purchased 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. In addition to process waste to landfill Stora Enso’s by our Wood Supply organisation, whereas each mill is production units created a total of 3 274 tonnes of non-process waste while 74 054 tonnes of process waste was sent to on-site storage facilities. Energy supply based on long-term contracts individually responsible for the procurement of other fuels. The most energy intensive phases in Stora Enso’s value chain Mills are also responsible for optimising their energy efficiency are our board, pulp, and paper production processes. It is using internal tools and certified environmental and energy therefore essential that our mills have access to a reliable management systems, with support from our energy efficiency energy supply at a reasonable cost. Stora Enso’s energy teams. Paper for recycling: procurement by origin supply is managed under long-term contracts, direct market Nine of Stora Enso’s board and paper mills in Europe, and Thousand tonnes1 access through energy exchanges, efficient combined heat all of our Nordic sawmills, monitor energy efficiency online in Western Europe 1 305 (54%) and power production, and shareholdings in power generation real time. All of Stora Enso’s board, pulp, and paper mills are Central Europe 630 (26%) companies such as Pohjolan Voima Oy and Teollisuuden Voima part of an energy efficiency best practice network. Nordic Countries 375 (15%) Oy in Finland. For more information on these partnerships, see Other countries 126 (5%) our Financial Report (Note 31). Progress Stora Enso is committed to continuous improvements in energy efficiency and energy self-sufficiency. Opportunities to New targets and KPIs use biomass fuels or other low-carbon options are assessed in During 2016, a review of Stora Enso’s sustainability strategy connection with energy investments. involved reassessing how we manage materials, water, and 1 As delivered to our mills. energy. Carefully structured energy management Stora Enso’s Energy Services team is responsible for procuring Materials energy and ensuring that our energy efficiency strategy is duly After reviewing our approach to material efficiency during implemented. This work involves hedging of energy prices, 2016, we have outlined a set of key performance indicators Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 38 focusing on internal operational efficiency and external Water withdrawal and consumption1 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Trend 12–16 Governance factors such as beneficial use and revenues derived from Total water withdrawal (million m3) by-products and residuals. Related work will continue Process water 290 287 287 306 297 2% in 2017 with the goal of measuring our progress and Cooling water 319 333 323 283 301 -6% Social contributions towards a low-carbon and resource efficient Total 609 620 610 590 598 -2% agenda circular bioeconomy. In 2016, the group’s revenues derived from residuals and Process water withdrawal efficiency Environmental by-products, including tall oil, amounted to EUR 70 million m3/tonne 26.8 27.1 28.6 30.0 28.3 6% agenda (EUR 83 million in 2015). The utilisation rate for residuals and by-products across the group was 98% (98%), covering Total water consumption Economic internal and external use. million m3 23.9 25.7 24.8 22.8 23.0 -4% During 2016 Stora Enso’s production units generated a total m3/tonne 2.2 2.4 2.5 2.2 2.2 0% agenda of 3 489 tonnes of hazardous waste, slightly down from 3 574 tonnes in 2015. These materials include oils, solvents, paints, Process water discharges Data and million m3 277 272 266 272 280 1% laboratory chemicals, and batteries. In addition, 23 247 tonnes assurance m3/tonne 25.5 25.7 26.5 26.7 26.7 5% of sludge classified as hazardous waste was generated at the disused Falun Copper Mine in Sweden (9 517 tonnes). ¹ Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. Stora Enso used 1.9 million tonnes of paper for recycling (PfR) in 2016 (2.1 million tonnes), making us one of the largest PfR consumers in Europe. The PfR utilisation rate in our paper environmental safety, and product safety aspects related to Water and board production was 20% (23%). our purchasing, use, and manufacturing of chemicals. The Stora Enso has intensified its work on efficiency at the mill level, working group will also focus on areas such as chemical safety with a focus on comprehensive local approaches to water Intensified focus on chemical safety in innovation, R&D, operations, and supply chain interaction, management. Our target to reduce chemical oxygen demand An internal working group was set up in 2016 to coordinate when bringing new products to the market. (COD) levels in discharged water per saleable tonne of pulp, and support activities designed to enhance chemical safety. paper, and board by 7% from the 2007 benchmark level was This involves working with occupational health and safety, Phosphorus1 2 Nitrogen1 2 Adsorbable organic halogen Chemical oxygen demand (COD)1 2 compounds (AOX)1 2 135 14 1.4 130 110 11 120 12 1.3 120 600 80 100 9 105 10 1.2 110 500 70 90 7 90 8 1.1 100 400 60 80 5 75 6 1.0 90 300 50 70 3 60 4 0.9 80 200 40 60 1 Trend Trend Trend 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12–16 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12–16 100 30 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12–16 tonnes 118 103 108 124 109 -8% 1 000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Trend 12–16 1 000 g/ tonnes 1.19 1.27 1.19 1.13 1.09 -8% tonnes 101 91 93 96 92 -8.9% tonnes 453 389 302 312 282 -38% tonne 10.9 9.7 10.7 12.1 10.4 -5% g/ kg/ tonne 110 120 118 111 104 -5% g/ tonne 9.3 8.6 9.3 9.4 8.8 -5.4% tonne 78 67 54 54 48 -38% ¹ Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. ¹ Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. ¹ Figures from pulp, paper and board production units. ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. ¹ Figures from bleached chemical pulp production units only. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. following divestments or accuracy improvements. ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline Normalised figures are reported per unit of bleached chemical ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. pulp production. following divestments or accuracy improvements. ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 39 achieved and completed in 2016, following a reduction of 9% Governance during the year (3% in 2015). Stora Enso’s target to reduce normalised process water discharges by 6% from the 2005 benchmark level was not Social achieved in 2016. In 2016 the reduction was 3% (2% in 2015). agenda We will continue to follow this key performance indicator (KPI) as part of our new approach to water and energy efficiency. We Environmental will also introduce total water use at our board, pulp, and paper agenda mills as a new KPI in 2017. A pilot project on water and energy stewardship was Economic carried out at Skutskär Mill in 2016 to assess a new approach agenda to water efficiency for wider use across Stora Enso. The project resulted in a number of actions including the development of a Water Management Tool Box containing a model for the Data and calculation of water costs and energy savings, which will be assurance further developed and applied in 2017. Local water initiatives Stora Enso actively supports and participates in international and local initiatives related to water in our operations and in the surrounding communities. In 2016, Stora Enso’s Ostrołęka Mill in Poland worked with a group of residents to clean up the local River Omulew. We are striving to further increase the share of biomass in our energy production. Fuels¹ Electricity¹ Heat consumption1 2 3 Electricity consumption1 2 Biomass 82% Purchased: nuclear 44% 100 10.0 15 1.35 Gas 6% Internally generated 41% 95 9.5 14 1.30 Coal 5% Purchased: fossil 7% 90 9.0 13 1.25 Peat 3% Purchased: hydro 4% 85 8.5 12 1.20 Oil 2% Purchased: other Other fossil 2% renewable 4% 80 8.0 11 1.15 75 7.5 10 1.10 Trend Trend 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12–16 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12–16 During 2016 we generated and purchased 12.6 terawatt hours (TWh) Our total annual fuel consumption was 152 098 terajoules (TJ) of electricity and consumed 12.2 TWh (12.4 and 12.0 during 2015).2 PJ* 93.8 94.2 91.2 90.2 94.0 0.2% TWh 14.0 13.2 12.2 12.1 12.3 -13% in 2016 (145 754 TJ in 2015).2 1 TJ = 10¹² joules 0.4 TWh was sold (0.4). GJ/ MWh/ 1 Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. TWh (terawatt hour) = 109 kilowatt hours tonne 8.65 8.90 9.07 8.83 8.96 4% tonne 1.29 1.25 1.22 1.18 1.17 -9% Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline 1 Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. ¹ Figures cover pulp, paper and board production units. following divestments or accuracy improvements. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline ² Excluding heat used for electricity generation. Power plants’ own ² Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. heat consumption and non-process heat consumption included following divestments or accuracy improvements. in 2016 reporting. 3 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. * 1 PJ = 1015 joules. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 40 In 2016 our SO 2 emissions amounted to x.x thousand Governance tonnes (3.7 thousand tonnes in 2015, NOx emissions How is Stora Enso helping Uruguay totalled x.x thousand tonnes (11.0 thousand tonnes), to lead the way on renewable energy? and emissions of fine particles amounted to x.x thousand Social tonnes (1.8 thousand tonnes). Uruguay is showing the way for the rest of the world, with agenda the majority of the country’s energy production based on renewable sources. The Montes del Plata pulp mill, which is Environmental 50%-owned by Stora Enso, contributes by producing five agenda percent of Uruguay’s electricity from biomass. Economic Read the full article on storaenso.com/sustainability agenda Data and assurance Energy in Austria, Impilahti Sawmill and Nebolchi Sawmill in Russia, During 2016 we introduced a new KPI on Stora Enso’s carbon and Ala Sawmill and Gruvön Sawmill in Sweden. Our online intensity, focusing on fossil CO 2 emissions in relation to total energy efficiency tool was adopted at our Finnish and Swedish In 2016, our specific electricity and heat consumption per tonne of pulp, energy consumption. For more information see page 45. sawmills. paper, and board production was 4.5% lower than the 2010 benchmark level. Our group-wide target is to reduce specific electricity We prolonged our voluntary commitment to the and heat consumption per tonne of pulp, paper, and board Energy Intensive Industries Agreement managed by the production by 15% by 2020, compared with the baseline year Confederation of Finnish Industries, whereby we aim to When in full effect, the projects financed in 2016 should of 2010. In 2016 this indicator was 4.5% lower than the 2010 reduce energy use at our Finnish production units by 4% generate reductions in energy consumption of at least 275 GWh benchmark level (4.7% in 2015). over the period 2017–2020, and by 3.5% (cumulative, in per year (54 GWh electricity and 221 GWh heat). These figures In 2016 our total energy self-sufficiency figure was 63% MWh) for 2021–2025. are equivalent to 0.4% of our annual electricity consumption (64%). The share of biomass in internal energy production was and 0.7% of our annual heat consumption. 82% (82%). Energy fuel optimisation In 2016 our electricity self-sufficiency level was 43% (42%). We actively look for different means to optimise fuel use and Emissions to air Some 89% (81%) of our purchased electricity was generated increase the share of biomass in our energy production. During Our atmospheric emissions mainly result from the combustion from low-carbon sources including nuclear and renewable 2016 our Ostrołęka Mill in Poland, for instance, increased the of fuels used to generate energy. These emissions include energy. Existing contracts and our internal electricity use of biomass. Read more about the climate effects of these carbon dioxide (CO 2), sulphur dioxide (SO 2), nitrogen oxides generation capacity are estimated to cover around 81% of our changes on page 46. (NOx), and fine particles. needs for the next five years (80% in 2015). We are working to reduce our emissions to air by using Energy accounted for 10% of Stora Enso’s variable costs in Stora Enso’s energy efficiency fund more renewable energy and by improving our energy 2016 (10% in 2015). One cornerstone of our work is a central energy efficiency efficiency. SO2 and NOx emissions, which affect air quality investment fund. In 2016 this fund of EUR 15 million (EUR 11 million and cause acid rain and soil acidification, are also controlled Continuous improvement in energy efficiency in 2015) was earmarked for use in our mills’ energy efficiency work. through advanced technologies such as scrubbers and boiler During 2016 Stora Enso continued to enhance energy It supported 52 (32) projects during the year, including: efficiency process control systems. efficiency throughout the group’s operations. improvement projects for drying sections at Heinola Fluting, In 2016 our SO2 emissions amounted to 3.6 thousand tonnes The Wood Products division implemented ISO 50001 Oulu, Imatra, and Ingerois mills; a low-energy concept for pulp (3.7 thousand tonnes in 2015), NOx emissions totalled 10.8 energy management systems at seven mills: Varkaus LVL unit production at Langerbrugge Mill; and energy saving projects in thousand tonnes (11.0 thousand tonnes), and emissions of fine in Finland, Planá Sawmill in Czech Republic, Brand Sawmill vacuum systems at Ostrołęka and Veitsiluoto mills. particles amounted to 1.9 thousand tonnes (1.7 thousand tonnes). Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 41 Material use in 2016¹ Governance Externally delivered Social electricity / heat / steam agenda 1.2 TWh Environmental agenda Wood Water 33.1 million m³ 599 million m³, of Economic which 96% is returned agenda back to the local Paper and board environment Data and 9.3 million tonnes assurance Purchased pulp and Pigments, ﬁllers Wood products paper for recycling and starch 5.7 million m³ 2.6 million tonnes 1.8 million tonnes Market pulp 1.8 million tonnes Fossil fuels External biomass energy 28.3 PJ 19.0 PJ Residuals for beneficial use2 2.2 million tonnes ¹ Covers all Stora Enso production units. ² By-products, residuals and wastes utilised by external stakeholders. The illustration shows the key materials used in our processes, together with our production figures for 2016. For a comprehensive illustration on how we create value for society see our Progress Book. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 42 Environmental incidents in 2016 Governance The list below gives details of environmental incidents that occurred at our production units during 2016. Joint venture operations are excluded from the list. During 2016 Stora Enso continued to develop new group-wide reporting and management processes for environmental incidents at production units. These procedures will be fully implemented in early 2017. Due to improvements in Social reporting, this list of unit-level environmental incidents in 2016 is not fully comparable with corresponding reports from previous years. agenda Environmental Unit Incident Corrective actions agenda Anjala Mill, Finland Annual average permit limits for emissions of dioxins and furans applying to one of the The related sulphur feeding process has been modified, and new measurements are being compiled. mill’s boilers were slightly exceeded. Economic agenda Enocell Mill, Finland The mill’s permit level for phosphorus emissions to water was exceeded slightly in July Taking into account the mill’s long-term efforts to minimise phosphorus discharges, the authorities and August due to a nutrient imbalance. have granted the mill a new permit limit for phosphorus. Investigations have been conducted to help Data and improve the control of phosphorus discharges. assurance Fors Mill, Sweden In February the mill exceeded its monthly limit for total phosphorus emissions. The monitoring of the mill’s flotation step has been improved, and enhanced chemical treatment and a new nutrient additive have been introduced at the wastewater treatment plant. The authorities have ordered the mill to continue monitoring pH levels and to find ways to prevent similar incidents in In July the mill exceeded its monthly limits for emissions of total phosphorus and future. suspended solids due to a leakage of sodium hydroxide. In December the mill exceeded its monthly limit for suspended solids in discharges due to a disturbance in the wastewater treatment plant. Leakages in a vault and inside a heat pipe’s vessel resulted in the leakage of sodium All water from affected areas has been pumped back to the wastewater treatment plant. hydroxide into the mill’s wastewater treatment plant and into the ground in June and No contaminated water entered the River Forsån. The pH levels in affected ground areas are being July. monitored. No further requirements were imposed by the authorities. Heinola Fluting Mill, Finland The mill’s monthly limit for phosphorus emissions was exceeded in January due to Actions have been taken to identify the source of the excess phosphorus and to improve controls releases of higher phosphorus loads into the effluent treatment plant. over phosphorus loads. A written notification was received from the environmental authorities. Up to 100 litres of oil leaked from the mill’s power plant into a nearby bay during April. Additional oil spill prevention actions were taken immediately. The local fire brigade installed a new oil The leakage was caused by a broken oil pipe between the mill’s heavy oil tank and the boom in the lake, and collected the spilt oil. Oil collection trucks were employed to ensure that no power plant. A permanent oil boom located in the bay failed to function properly during more oil was leaked. After these immediate corrective measures, new oil booms were installed in the the leakage. bay, the faulty pipe was taken out of use, oil was cleared from channels, and a new oil pipe was built above ground. The mill’s monthly chemical oxygen demand (COD) limit was exceeded in October due A new measurement point has been added to improve control of the nutrient dosage of the effluent to difficulties encountered during the start-up after the annual maintenance shutdown. treatment plant. A further one-year optimisation period, during which conditions in the wastewater treatment plant and the anaerobic process will be improved, started in the beginning of November. Written notification from the authorities was received approving the continuation of the optimisation process. Hylte Mill, Sweden The mill’s daily average limit for carbon monoxide emissions was exceeded in January A new rotary valve has been installed in the fuel feeding system, and procedures for boiler start-ups and February, due to problems with the fuel feed of a boiler after its start-up. have been updated. An investigation report was submitted to the authorities, and no further requirements were imposed. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Materials, water, and energy 43 Unit Incident Corrective actions Governance Imatra Mills, Finland 300m3 of white liquor leaked from the air bleed valve of a pipeline during September A mitigation and follow-up plan required by the authorities has been duly implemented. New and October, due to a mechanical failure. This leakage caused slight soil contamination preventive actions including frequent pipeline inspections have been initiated. The air bleed and in the vicinity of the leakage area. emptying valves with actuators and limit switches will be renewed during the next major maintenance Social shutdown in 2017. Instructions for pipeline inspection routines have been updated and added to the agenda mills’ management system. Ostrołęka Mill, Poland From January to the end of April the mill used surface water in line with the conditions of The mill has requested an interpretation from the environmental authorities, and requirements are still Environmental an outdated permit, due to delays in the prolonged assessment of a permit application pending. filed with the authorities. agenda The mill’s permit limits for emissions of dust, nitrogen dioxide and total organic carbon The measurement system has been repaired, and the damaged filters have been replaced. A possible Economic were exceeded in the power plant’s flue gases between May and September due to fiscal fee is still pending from the environmental authorities. damaged bag filters and a measurement system failure. agenda In June the mill operated a biological effluent treatment plant under an outdated permit, The mill has requested an interpretation from the environmental authorities, and requirements are still Data and due to delays in the prolonged assessment of a permit application filed with the pending. authorities. assurance In June the mill experienced odour problems caused by the accumulation and Key stakeholders including local media were informed about the cause of the problem. fermentation of sewage in the retention water tank after a maintenance break. No requirements were imposed by the authorities. Oulu Mill, Finland The mill experienced odour problems during the first quarter of 2016, due to the As requested by the authorities, the mill has developed an action plan and already taken several defective functioning of the pulp mill’s odorous gas collection and treatment system measures to rectify gas collection and treatment conditions. These measures have included following a maintenance stop and the rebuilding of a chip silo at the end of 2015. adjustments to the process and the automation system, updates of operating procedures, and further personnel training. Sunila Mill, Finland The mill’s permit level for phosphorus emissions to water was exceeded in June, July Actions were taken to increase nitrogen content and to start removing phosphorus by inducing a and August, due to a nutrient imbalance. precipitation reaction in the wastewater treatment plant. The authorities were duly informed, and the mill’s actions have been accepted. The mill’s permit level for total reduced sulphur (TRS) emissions was exceeded during The use of lignin as fuel in the mill’s lime kiln was stabilised in February, effectively reducing TRS January, February, June and August at the mill’s lime kilns, due to operational emissions. The distribution of weak gases between the gas boiler and the recovery boiler has been inconsistency in the burning of lignin and in the combustion of large volumes of weak optimised, with more gases now burnt in the recovery boiler to ensure compliance with the mill’s TRS odorous gases in the gas boiler. limits. The authorities were duly informed, and the mill’s actions have been accepted. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 44 Governance Carbon dioxide We believe that the key to combatting global Social warming involves the use of renewable materials, agenda resource and energy efficient production processes, and sustainable forest management Environmental agenda practices. We are working to reduce fossil carbon dioxide emissions within our operations, by Economic improving energy efficiency, and by increasing agenda the share of biomass and other non-fossil fuels in our internal energy generation, which is Data and already as high as 82%. assurance Opportunities and challenges Creating value with renewable materials The use of renewable materials enables us to contribute to the development of a low-carbon economy. Trees in sustainably managed forests absorb carbon dioxide (CO 2) from the atmosphere and together with wood-based products act as carbon sinks. Our products help our customers and society at large to reduce CO 2 emissions by providing low-carbon alternatives to solutions based on fossil fuels and other non-renewable materials. The first truly global climate agreement was approved at the Paris Climate Conference (COP21) in December 2015, Our use of renewable materials enables us to contribute to a low-carbon economy. We are currently developing renewable alternatives for fossil-based entering into force in November 2016. Stora Enso welcomes materials and aluminium, which may be used in bicycles or automotives, for instance. Read more about our innovation activities in our Progress Book. this agreement as an important milestone in sustainable global development. The EU’s Emissions Trading System (ETS) is the biggest Our policies How we work mandatory international system for trading greenhouse gas emission allowances, and a major element of the EU’s . Improving our energy efficiency efforts to combat global warming. The ETS grants “carbon Greenhouse gases emitted by our operations include carbon leakage” status to industries where it is considered that dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide – with carbon dioxide costs related to climate policies might cause businesses being the most significant. The most effective ways to reduce to transfer production to countries with less demanding our direct fossil CO 2 emissions are to further improve our requirements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The energy efficiency, and to keep increasing our usage of biomass forest industry currently has carbon leakage status for the fuels. Significant investments in previous years, particularly in period 2015–2019. Plans for the period beyond 2020 are multi-fuel boilers, successfully generated large reductions in under consideration within the EU, with possible implications our fossil CO 2 intensity. for the forest industry. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 45 Focusing on carbon intensity through a new KPI Governance For over a decade we have been actively reducing the The carbon intensity of Stora Enso’s operations energy intensity of our operations – and in many places also our dependency on fossil fuels. A new key performance Our related KPI measures our fossil CO2 emissions in relation to our total energy consumption Social indicator (KPI) focusing on the carbon intensity of the energy agenda (kg of CO2 per MWh). In 2016, our carbon intensity level decreased to 62 kg/MWh. used by all Stora Enso’s production units was launched in 2016. Starting from 2017 we will measure our progress Environmental based on fossil CO 2 emissions (kg) in relation to energy agenda consumption (MWh). For related data see page 48. Systematic work supported Fossil CO2 Economic by management systems emissions agenda Stora Enso evaluates risks and opportunities related to global warming through the annual Enterprise Risk Management Data and (ERM) process, which forms an integral part of the group’s assurance management approach (for more details see our Progress Book). We also routinely calculate the financial impacts of potential cost increases in relation to emission allowances, including the financial impacts on our business of possible Purchased Purchased fuels consequent increases in energy prices. electricity e.g. biomass, coal, Our production units systematically work to meet their and heat oil, gas environmental regulatory requirements and to improve their energy efficiency. Their work is supported by international third-party-certified systems such as the environmental management standard ISO 14001 and the energy management standard ISO 50001. For unit-specific information on u Stora Enso mill gy certification see page 69. We er en se in sa s Detailed carbon reporting te rn al b u al We publicly report on our greenhouse gas emissions in three iom sid a s sba s e d r e Stora Enso sells part of the heat and categories electricity that it produces to other companies and households. This heat and • Fossil CO2 emissions from operations we directly own or electricity is not included in calculations of control, including on-site energy generation facilities and Stora Enso’s carbon intensity level, in line our own processes, power boilers, lime kilns and on-site with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. vehicles (scope 1). • Fossil CO2 emissions related to the electricity and heat we purchase externally for use in our operations (scope 2). • Estimated fossil CO 2 emissions from other indirect sources footprint accounting is based on guidelines provided by the In 2016 a new internal reporting tool was adopted for the along our value chain (scope 3). Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Resource Institute and the group’s sustainability data. World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Our board, pulp, and paper mills report quarterly on carbon In 2016 we continued to have our direct and indirect fossil CO2 Partnering for climate action emissions for scopes 1 and 2, while sawmills and converting emissions (scopes 1 and 2) externally assured to Reasonable Ahead of COP21 Stora Enso joined the We Mean Business facilities report their carbon emissions annually. A group-level Level, as one of the few companies in the world to do so. For more coalition, and signed a pledge to combat global warming by estimate for scope 3 emissions is updated biannually. Our carbon details see page 68. committing to a science-based emission reduction target. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 46 This made Stora Enso the first company in Finland to make such In 2016 our SO 2 emissions amounted to x.x thousand Governance a commitment . The coalition brings together non-profit tonnes (3.7 thousand tonnes in 2015, NOx emissions totalled What does the Paris Agreement organisations, businesses, and investors who all recognise that x.x thousand tonnes (11.0 thousand tonnes), and emissions of mean for companies? transitioning to a low-carbon economy is the only way to secure fine particles amounted to x.x thousand tonnes (1.8 thousand Social sustainable economic growth . tonnes). In November 2016 the historic Paris Climate Agreement agenda As part of our work with the non-profit organisation BSR, entered into force, aiming to strengthen the global response Stora Enso, BSR and the Finnish Climate Leadership Council to the threat of global warming so as to limit average global Environmental co-hosted a major collaborative networking event “We Mean temperature rises to below 2 degrees Celsius compared to agenda Business – Accelerating Climate Action” in Helsinki in October pre-industrial levels. “We have entered into an era of a new 2016 . The event focused on topics including science-based business-as-usual,” says Edward Cameron, managing Economic emission reduction targets and the goal of shifting to 100% director of the global non-profit organisation BSR. agenda renewable energy . During 2016 Stora Enso also worked with the Prince of Wales’s Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Corporate Leaders Group (CLG) on a Low Carbon Business Data and Compendium for EU officials, which demonstrates the ambitions assurance and achievements that leading European businesses have defined and realised in moving towards a low-carbon economy . In 2016, Stora Enso continued to support the WBCSD’s Low Carbon Technology Partnership Initiative (LCTPi), and in particular the implementation of the LCTPi – Forests in China and the divestment of Kabel paper mill in Germany. renewable energy instead of light fuel oil for heating resulted in Action Plan, by scaling up sustainable forest management and The updated, more accurate market-based CO 2 factor and estimated emission reductions amounting to 0.28 million tonnes replacing energy-intensive products with fibre-based grid energy-mix information obtained from the authorities for of CO2 (0.28 million tonnes). alternatives . electricity purchased in Finland also reduced the emissions We continously strive to increase the share of biomass in figure for 2015, by approximately 0.25 million tonnes. our internal energy generation. At Ostrołęka Mill in Poland, for Progress The total direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions from example, the increased use of biomass in the mill’s boiler has Stora Enso’s board, pulp and paper mills amounted to 3.08 enabled a 7% reduction in the mill’s direct and indirect CO 2 Reducing our carbon dioxide intensity million tonnes in 2016 (3.03 million tonnes). Direct fossil CO2 emissions compared to 2015, corresponding to approximately Since 2007, our target has been to reduce our fossil CO2 emissions decreased both in absolute terms and per unit of 40 kilotonnes. emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, and paper by 35% sales production. Direct fossil CO 2 emissions per unit of sales from 2006 levels by the end of 2025 . This target is periodically production were 12% lower than in 2006. In absolute terms, our Recognition by the CDP adjusted to take into account the changing shape of the direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions were 51% lower than In 2016, CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) company . This CO2 intensity target covers both emissions in 2006. included Stora Enso on its Climate A List and Supplier Climate generated directly by our own facilities (scope 1), and indirect The fossil CO 2 emissions resulting from the generation of A List, in recognition of the company’s long-term actions and emissions produced during the generation of the electricity and the electricity we purchased during 2016 were 69% lower than heat we purchase (scope 2) . in 2006 per unit of sales production. The CO 2 factors we use In 2016 our CO2 emissions per saleable tonne of board, pulp, for purchased energy (scope 2) largely follow market-based and paper were 39% lower than the 2006 benchmark level (38% methodology, meaning that almost all of our units apply CO 2 In 2016, 80% of the total factors provided by their energy suppliers, instead of average lower in 2015) . We have thus reached our target, but the group’s CO2 intensity will in the future be adversely affected by the use factors for the countries of operation. CO2 emissions from of coal for energy production at our Beihai Mill in China . For more information see page 62 . Thirteen of Stora Enso’s mills are currently linked to local district heating systems. In most cases the heat supplied from our our own operations During 2016 the group’s fossil CO2 emissions per saleable production units directly reduces the use of oil and other fossil were carbon neutral. tonne were reduced by applying more accurate CO2 factors for fuels in these localities. In 2016 a total of 3.7 PJ of heat was sold energy suppliers, and due to the closure of Suzhou paper mill to these district heating systems (3.7 PJ). Using this amount of Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 47 strategy to reduce emissions. Stora Enso was also the only Governance Nordic company to be included in CDP’s Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for driving change in its supply chain. Our full response to CDP’s annual climate questionnaire is Social available on CDP’s website. agenda Finding ways to use non-fossil fuels in Beihai Environmental At our new Beihai Mill in China, coal is currently the only feasible agenda energy source for an industrial project of this scale, as there are no sustainable supply chains for non-fossil fuels in southern Economic China at present. We have begun to investigate long-term agenda options to gradually move away from coal to biomass and other non-fossil fuels. The mill’s boiler is technically able to use a variety of fuel mixes, and in late 2016 already started to use Data and modest amounts of wastewater sludge, forest residuals and assurance other side streams from our production processes. For more information about our coal sourcing see page 62. Carbon neutral emissions Carbon neutral CO 2 emissions are fossil-free emissions generated during the combustion of biomass-based fuels coming from sustainably managed forests1. Stora Enso’s operations utilise renewable biomass-based fuels to a large extent, so the share of carbon neutral CO 2 emissions in our total emissions is high. In 2016 80% (79%) of the total CO 2 emissions from our own operations were carbon neutral. Our carbon footprint Direct emissions from our operations account for 23% (21% Sustainably managed forests play a crucial role in combatting global warming. in 2015) of our carbon footprint, while emissions related to the electricity and heat we purchase for use in our operations account for 9% (15%) of our total carbon emissions. The implementing methodologies for calculating the quantities environmental impacts associated with our logistical operations, majority of the emissions in our carbon footprint – 68% (64%) of carbon sequestered in forests and plantations owned and are mainly produced by external logistics service providers. – are according to our estimates generated elsewhere along managed by Stora Enso and our associate companies. It is Transportation accounts for 24% of our CO 2 emissions. the value chain: in the sourcing and manufacturing of our raw our intention to also work with external experts to identify a In order to reduce our scope 3 emissions we have reduced the materials and services (41% of the total scope 3 emissions); credible methodology to calculate the positive substitution environmental footprint of our wood transportation in Sweden, in the further processing of our products by customers (34%); effect our wood fibre-based products have when compared to for instance. During 2016 one of our major wood transportation and in the transportation of raw materials to our mills and our alternatives produced from fossil CO 2. suppliers switched to minimum 50% renewable diesel fuel, final products to our customers (25%). reducing the fossil CO2 emissions generated by their wood trucks During 2016 we strengthened our internal steering Emissions along the value chain by approximately 40%. processes to identify potential for further reducing During 2016 we enhanced our work to estimate our scope 3 Transportation by sea accounts for approximately 89% our emissions in scopes 1, 2 and 3. We also continued emissions with the help of improved methodology. The of all our product transportation by weight and distance, CO 2 emissions generated during the transportation of our while road and rail transportation constitute 9% and 2% 1 Recommendations on Biomass Carbon Neutrality, WBCSD 2015. raw materials and products, which are the most significant respectively. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 48 Our fossil CO2 emissions¹ Governance Million tonnes kg/tonne 7.0 490 6.0 430 Social agenda 5.0 370 4.0 310 Environmental 3.0 250 agenda 2.0 190 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Trend 06–16 Million tonnes 6.32 5.57 4.64 3.66 4.17 3.47 3.37 3.50 3.38 3.03 3.08 -51% Economic kg/tonne 479 432 389 371 374 318 311 331 336 297 294 -39% agenda 1 Covering direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) from pulp, paper, and board production units. Normalised figures are reported per unit of sales production. Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. Data and assurance Fossil CO2 emissions in relation to our energy consumption¹ Fossil CO2 emissions (kg) per unit of energy consumption (MWh) kg/MWh 120 100 80 60 40 20 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Trend 06–16 kg/MWh 104 94 85 83 83 72 70 74 73 67 62 -40% 1 Covering direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2) and energy consumption from all production units. How can companies combat global Total carbon footprint 2012–20161 2 warming through partnerships? Fossil CO2 equivalent (million tonnes) In 2016 Stora Enso and Volvo Cars jointly opened a four-kilometre Emission source 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 pipeline carrying hot water between the two companies’ manufacturing Stationary and mobile combustion sources sites in Ghent, Belgium. This unique partnership helps to combat global (direct)3 Scope 1 2.39 2.24 2.39 2.47 2.37 warming by enabling Volvo Cars to use substantially lower amounts of Purchased electricity and heat (indirect) Scope 2 1.00 1.23 1.45 1.50 1.48 fossil fuels for heating. Other sources (indirect) Scope 3 7.07 6.92 6.83 7.22 7.42 10.47 10.39 10.67 11.19 11.27 Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units. 2 Historical figures recalculated due to changes in baseline following divestments or accuracy improvements. 3 CO2 equivalent includes also other greenhouse gases in addition to CO2. 95% of our greenhouse gases under scope 1 are CO2, the rest are methane and nitrous oxide (N2O). Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Carbon dioxide 49 Governance Stora Enso’s carbon footprint1 Social agenda Our direct Indirect emissions emissions 23% 9% Environmental agenda Indirect emissions along the value chain Electricity and heat Economic purchased for our 68% agenda operations On-site electricity Data and and heat production assurance Production of fuels Production of purchased materials and services: pulp, recycled paper and board, pigments, fillers Processing of products by our customers Harvesting Transportation and distribution of our products to customers globally Transportation of purchased raw materials and fuels Scope 1: Direct emissions from our operations. Scope 2: Emissions related to purchased energy consumed in our operations. Scope 3: Emissions from other sources along our value chain. 1 Covers all Stora Enso production units, a total of 10.47 million tonnes of fossil CO 2 equivalent (10.39 million tonnes in 2015). Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 50 Governance Forests, plantations, Social and land use agenda Sustainable forest management is in our immediate and long-term interest, as it keeps forests healthy Environmental and productive, and thus helps secure the longagenda term availability of the renewable resources we use. Economic agenda Opportunities and challenges Forestry in a changing world Data and Forests and plantations are an increasingly important part of assurance a wider global development agenda, especially in relation to combatting global warming. As a renewable natural resource, wood represents a favourable alternative to materials based on fossil fuels. Trees absorb carbon dioxide (CO 2) from the atmosphere, and together with wood-based products act as carbon sinks. If forests and plantations are managed sustainably, new generations of trees replace those that are logged, sequestering more CO 2 from the atmosphere. Global warming entails physical challenges and opportunities in relation to forests and plantations, due to changing patterns of temperature, wind, and rainfall, which can all be expected to impact our operational environment. Wellmanaged forests can make entire ecosystems more resilient to negative impacts, and benefit from positive ones. Global challenges such as population growth, increasing demand for agricultural land, and the widening gap between supply and demand for wood, all require us to use natural In 2016, 90% of Stora Enso’s wood came from managed semi-natural forests in Europe, where most forests are privately owned. resources even more efficiently, and to produce larger forests. Stora Enso believes that safeguarding the biodiversity amounts of raw materials from less land. Because the need to of forests is a cornerstone of a successful bioeconomy. This We know the origin of conserve our remaining natural ecosystems is also increasing, we must find new ways to integrate competing land uses. requires sustainable forest management, sufficient forest protection, and open stakeholder dialogues. all the wood we use. Simultaneously, the trend for more forest-owners to be based 100% comes from in cities away from their landholdings brings new challenges in relation to wood procurement as their connection to day-toOur policies sustainable sources. day operations is weakened. Committed to sustainable forestry In December 2016, environmental NGOs announced a Stora Enso’s policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land global campaign calling for increased protection of northern Management covers the entire cycle of forest and plantation Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 51 • Forest and plantation planning Governance • Silvicultural operations (everyday forest and plantation How can we promote sustainable management) forestry along our supply chains? • Wood harvesting Social Sustainable forestry in the Northern Hemisphere has • Regeneration of forests and plantations agenda become a hot topic, with environmental NGOs widely • Monitoring of each part of the process, for example through calling for forests to be better protected. Stora Enso audits and self-assessments. Environmental believes that safeguarding the biodiversity of forests is agenda a cornerstone of a successful bioeconomy. This requires In 2016 the total amount of wood (including roundwood, wood sustainable forest management, sufficient forest chips, and sawdust) delivered to our mills was 37.6 million m3 Economic protection, and open stakeholder dialogues. (solid under bark) (36.2 million m3 in 2015). agenda Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability Planning with a long-term view As trees take many years or decades to mature, long-term Data and forestry planning is essential. Such planning involves assurance ecological landscape plans and biodiversity assessments made to identify, conserve, and restore vital ecosystems and ecological features. In 2016, 90% (89%) of Stora Enso’s wood management. Key goals include ensuring that we can trace We also continued participating in the WWF’s New came from managed semi-natural forests in Europe where the origin of all the wood we use. We also aim to maintain open Generation Plantations (NGP) platform, which focuses on most forests are privately owned. Forest planning involves dialogues with our stakeholders. Other Stora Enso policies that the institutional and technological aspects of responsible finding ways to optimise wood production and conservation. promote sustainable forestry include our Code of Conduct and plantation management. In 2016, we hosted a NGP study tour We work together with forest-owners to identify sensitive our Supplier Code of Conduct. on our trial plantations in Laos. For more information about our forest areas in need of protection. operations in Laos, see page 27. In 2016, 10% of Stora Enso’s wood came from tree How we work Stora Enso is cooperating with WWF Finland to promote plantations (11%). When establishing new plantations, we forest conservation and the sustainable use of forests. This use internationally approved principles such as the Food Ensuring the sustainability of fibre works includes promoting alternative harvesting practices and Agriculture Organisation’s (FAO) Voluntary Guidelines Stora Enso’s approach to responsible forest and tree among private forest-owners. plantation management and our related actions duly take into account the economic, social, and environmental aspects of Comprehensive wood procurement sustainability. Compliance with national legistlation is only To cover all three aspects of sustainability in our forest and Wood procurement by region¹ the starting point for our work, and we actively support and plantation operations, we apply the same comprehensive 37.6 million m³ implement voluntary forest conservation and restoration wood procurement process in all the regions where we Finland 13.7 (36%) measures both in lands owned, leased, and managed by operate. Our wood procurement is organised regionally, with Sweden 9.6 (26%) Stora Enso, and in other areas where we purchase wood. our supply units in Finland, Sweden, the Baltic Countries, Central Europe 5.4 (14%) We are also active members of numerous local and global Russia, and Central Europe each responsible for sourcing Russia 3.1 (8%) forestry associations, networks, and programmes. Stora Enso wood for the Stora Enso mills in these regions. Each of our tree Baltic Countries 2.0 (5%) has been a member of the Forest Solutions Group (FSG) of the plantations operates under the mill to which it supplies wood. Uruguay2 2.0 (5%) World Business Council for Sustainable Development since the Our Biomaterials division manages certain plantation Brazil2 1.8 (5%) late 1990s. projects that are not associated with a single mill, like our In 2016, we continued to support and participate in trial plantation in Laos, while our Chief Technology Officer is 1 Total amounts of wood (roundwood, chips and sawdust) procured within these regions for delivery to our mills (million m³, The Forests Dialogue (TFD), a platform for multi-stake­holder responsible for our forestry operations in Guangxi, China. solid under bark). In addition 20 000 m3 was delivered to our discussion and collaboration on the most pressing local and Our wood procurement process covers the entire Beihai Mill in China which commenced operations in 2016. 2 Figures for Brazil and Uruguay include 50% of the wood global issues facing forests and people. management cycle in forests and plantations, including: procurement of our joint operations Veracel and Montes del Plata. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 52 on Planted Forests, and we also certify our commercial Governance plantations to ensure all three aspects of sustainability are duly taken into consideration. Stora Enso never establishes plantations in natural forests, protected areas, or waterSocial sensitive locations. We only use land with low biodiversity agenda value, such as former pasturelands. Stora Enso’s employees and forestry contractors are given on-the-job training on Environmental ecological management, and we regularly monitor the impacts agenda of our operations on biodiversity, soil, and water resources. We recognise that our plantations are an integral part Economic of local land use, and we invariably evaluate and define agenda sustainable land use practices for each location. After determining the scope of expected impacts and possible 02 remedies, we decide on whether or not to go ahead with a Data and planned project. Stora Enso subsequently remains in constant assurance 01 We continuously strive to dialogue with stakeholders, and strives to make sure that land improve the productivity and contracts are legitimate and fair. quality of the eucalyptus trees grown in our tree plantations. Sustainable silviculture and harvesting 02 We always ensure that forests Stora Enso closely monitors the management of the forests and plantations are duly regenerated wherever wood and plantations where we purchase wood. Wood harvesting is harvested. is planned to suit the special characteristics of each harvesting site, making use of appropriate felling methods and technology. Wood harvesting volumes are always aligned with the long-term carrying capacity of the forests and plantations. All the roundwood, chips, sawdust, and externally purchased pulp supplied to our mills come from sustainable sources. 01 We use a range of tools to ensure this, and to guarantee the sustainability of each part of the forest management cycle. These tools include forest certification and thirdparty traceability systems such as the Forest Stewardship for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), and the ISO environmental and cultural characteristics in forestry Council’s®1 (FSC) Chain of Custody/Controlled Wood scheme, 14001 environmental management standard. operations, in line with our updated guidelines. One key goal the Chain of Custody/Due Diligence System of the Programme We actively work with our stakeholders to promote here is to ensure that optimal felling methods are used in sustainable forest management and the wider use of environmentally sensitive areas. More than 600 employees certification systems. As certification programmes cover all from our Swedish wood procurement and harvesting three aspects of sustainability, they are an important indicator operations received such training during 2016. To further We design our tree of responsible forestry. For this reason we follow our progress with a key performance indicator measuring the proportion of strengthen our wood procurement organisation in Sweden we also recruited five environmental experts to new positions. plantations to be the lands owned and managed by Stora Enso that are covered by forest certification schemes. Regenerating forests and plantations an integral part of In Sweden we provided further training for our forestry We always ensure that the forests and plantations where local land use. experts during 2016 to help them better recognise local we harvest wood are duly regenerated. Often this is done with active planting or sowing, though in many areas active 1 Stora Enso Communications’ FSC ® trademark license number is FSC-N001919. regeneration is complemented by natural seed dispersal Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 53 institutions annually monitor the environmental quality of some unsafe or otherwise not permissible. Currently we have no plans Governance 150 Stora Enso harvesting sites. to plant genetically engineered trees in any of our commercial Veracel conserves and In China, we have continued our long-term cooperation with Flora & Fauna International (FFI) on biodiversity monitoring in plantations. Social agenda restores extensive areas tree plantations. Progress of native rainforest. Tree breeding Steady advances on certification Environmental Stora Enso is working continuously towards the long-term goal Stora Enso owns or leases lands with a total area of 972 821 agenda of improving the productivity and quality of the eucalyptus hectares globally. We follow our progress on responsible trees grown in our plantations, so as to sustainably enhance forestry with a key performance indicator (KPI) that measures Economic wood production per unit of land. Tree breeding primarily the percentage of these lands covered by certification agenda from nearby forests, by leaving seed trees in the harvesting targets increased biomass production (i.e. volume and density) systems. Our target is to reach 96% coverage by the end of area, or by coppicing. Whatever the methods used, we and cellulose yield. Other targets may include resistance 2017. In 2016 coverage amounted to 90% (90% in 2015). The always make sure the trees that we harvest will be replaced to frost, drought, pests, or diseases, or improved rooting, share of certified wood in our total wood supply was 83% Data and by new growth. depending on local conditions and the species in question. We (80%). assurance In Brazil, our joint operation Veracel goes beyond test and apply modern scientific tools for tree improvement In 2016 our 50%-owned joint operation Montes del Plata in regeneration by conserving and restoring areas of natural and the management of genetic diversity. This may involve Uruguay was granted PEFC certification for lands it owns and rainforest. Approximately half of Veracel’s 215 000 hectares selecting “elite trees”, or conducting marker assisted breeding leases, in addition to existing FSC certification. of land are dedicated to rainforest preservation. Areas where and genetic engineering. Wood Supply Russia continued to work with WWF Russia natural regeneration is not possible are carefully planted. Our genetic engineering activities are in the research and during 2016 to expand Stora Enso’s FSC certification groups Veracel aims to restore 400 hectares of rainforest habitat every development phase. As with traditional clone improvements, it will and to make certification more accessible and cost efficient year through local partnerships. A total of 6 098 hectares of take many years to develop genetically engineered clones. We are for small and medium-sized companies. In June, four new forest have been restored between 1994 and the end of 2016. currently planning to establish related field trials in areas totalling logging companies joined FSC certification groups managed This work is part of a regional restoration programme which less than 50 hectares at two locations in Brazil in 2017. These trials by Stora Enso in Russia. This added 126 000 hectares to the helps to connect remaining areas of valuable natural habitat will fully comply with the relevant national regulations. Stora Enso total area covered by the group certifications, and increased with forest corridors, enabling animals to move from one area will not carry out any trials considered by the authorities to be the total extent of certified areas to 940 000 hectares to another. The Veracel Station visitor centre, established in an area of preserved rainforest habitat, conducts research, conserves native and endangered ecosystems, and provides How can sustainable tree environmental education for visitors. plantations benefit biodiversity? Detailed monitoring Stora Enso widely uses raw materials obtained from tree We closely monitor the sustainability of our operations plantations. Do plantations endanger biodiversity, or can throughout the forest management cycle, focusing on their biodiversity actually be enhanced by sustainable tree impacts on biodiversity, soil, and water resources. We regularly plantations? We talk to Peter Kanowski, Professor of audit our suppliers and work together with respected local Tropical Silviculture at the Australian National University institutions to make sure everything is done according to the in Canberra and Antti Marjokorpi, Head of Forest, standards set by certification schemes and our own policies. Plantations, and Land use at Stora Enso. In Sweden, for instance, our monitoring of the environmental quality of felling sites is based on information received during assessments and feedback sessions Listen to the podcast at storaenso.com/renewablefuture conducted with harvesting teams. More than 100 felling sites are monitored in Sweden each year. In Finland, local Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 54 land leased from village collectives, individual households, Governance How does Stora Enso enhance and local forest farms. In many cases these social lands had sustainable forestry in Karelia? already been sub-leased, sometimes repeatedly, resulting in chains of sub-leases. Often the original owners did not benefit Social Forestry is a vital industry to the economy of the densely from increased land rental prices because of these chains. agenda forested Republic of Karelia in northwest Russia. Stora Enso has been reviewing and correcting land lease Stora Enso procures wood in Karelia while also working contracts in Guangxi since 2009, when irregularities in the Environmental with local partners – including non-governmental contract chains were first discovered. By the end of 2016, 66% agenda organisations and research institutes, as well as the of the contracts were found to be free from contractual defects authorities – to promote sustainable forestry and (63% by the end of 2015). In irreconcilable cases we terminate preserve the forests’ ecologically valuable features. leases in a responsible manner, considering all potential Economic agenda impacts. In 2016, we terminated identified irreconcilable Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability contracts covering a total area of 1 719 hectares. The leased area without contractual defects covered 16 480 hectares Data and (16 471). When contracts have no defects this means that assurance the ownership of land is clear or resolved, and contracting procedures have proven to be legal, authentic and valid. The target for the end of 2016 was to terminate all remaining irreconcilable or economically unviable contracts. At the year-end irreconcilable or economically unviable contracts corresponding to 382 hectares remained in effect. These (814 000 hectares in 2015). Stora Enso’s Russian subsidiary A proactive approach to land use remaining contracts will be terminated by mid-2017. companies have been FSC-certified since 2006, and are Stora Enso recognises that the areas where we operate are As announced on 19 January 2017, Stora Enso is included in the total certified area above. of value to different stakeholders. We have therefore adopted reconsidering its plans to build a chemical pulp mill in Beihai. Stora Enso also continued to actively promote an integrated approach to land use around our plantations, As a consequence of the change in scope, Stora Enso would economically viable and ecologically responsible forestry applying locally developed agroforestry models, for example. decrease the area of its leased forest lands in the Guangxi across Russia during 2016 through cooperation with Boreal We have duly developed innovative land use models in Laos, region. The scope and schedule for this reduction will be Forest Platform (BFP), a new stakeholder forum organised Uruguay, and Brazil to benefit local farmers and communities decided later. As a part of this process, all contracts will be by WWF. as well the company. For details of these integrated land use evaluated, and Stora Enso aims to have only land leased that is Since 2011 Veracel has been promoting group certification practices, see pages 24–28. free of contractual defects. among its tree farmers in Brazil. In 2014, Aspex, an association Until 2016, Stora Enso kept track of progress on land use representing certified tree farms, took over the management efficiency through a group-level key performance indicator of the certification process, using certificates granted by measuring the increase in the average volume of fibre both FSC and Cerflor (PEFC). By the end of 2016, dual forest produced per hectare in certified tree plantations owned certificates had been obtained by 71 farmers (79 at the end and managed by Stora Enso. We instead plan to monitor of 2015) for areas totalling 37 876 hectares (35 724), of which 16 147 hectares (15 351) are planted with eucalyptus. the sustainable intensification of production separately at each plantation, taking into account different local operating In 2016, 90% of the In 2016 Stora Enso’s pellet production and supply chains at conditions, as this enables us to assess progress more lands we own or lease Näpi and Imavere in Estonia, and Nebolchi in Russia obtained accurately than a global average. Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP™) certifications. For were covered by forest more information see page 59. As part of our efforts to improve the energy efficiency of our forestry operations, our wood Managing land contracts in Guangxi, China Stora Enso leases a total of 83 560 hectares of land in four certification systems. supply operations in Finland were certified to the ISO 50001 regions of Guangxi, of which 30 500 hectares (32 322 hectares energy management standard in 2016. in 2015), corresponding to 37% (37%) of the total area, is social Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Environmental agenda – Forests, plantations, and land use 55 Forests, plantations, and lands owned by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2016 Governance Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Montes del Plata plantations and lands, 190 279 ha, of which 102 312 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 190 279 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Remnants of native ecosystems, such as Uruguay (joint operation with Arauco) grasslands and riparian forests, are protected within the company’s lands. Social agenda Veracel plantations and lands, Bahia, Brazil 214 963 ha, of which 73 082 ha planted CERFLOR (PEFC) for 179 411 ha; Dominated by pasturelands cleared from Atlantic rainforest between the 1950s and 1980s. (joint operation with Fibria) for pulp production FSC for 179 411 ha 113 072 ha of Veracel’s lands are protected, including a 6 063 ha Private Natural Heritage Environmental Reserve. These protected areas mostly consist of native forest remnants at different agenda stages of regeneration (see page 53). Plantations and lands, Rio Grande do Sul, 43 412 ha, of which 20 810 ha planted Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. 14 000 ha of the total area is protected, Economic Brazil including native grasslands, riparian forests and other habitats. agenda Wood Supply, Estonia 137 ha, of which 124 ha planted No protected areas within this area. Data and assurance ¹ Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. In addition to the forest and plantation areas listed above, Stora Enso owns 49% of Bergvik Skog, which owns 2.3 million hectares of land in Sweden and 0.1 million hectares in Latvia; and 41% of Tornator, which owns 0.6 million hectares of forestland in Finland, 53 000 hectares in Estonia, and 12 000 hectares in Romania. Forests and plantations leased, and managed by Stora Enso¹ as of 31 December 2016 Unit Area Certification coverage Details of local landscapes and protected areas Wood Supply, Russia 369 422 ha FSC group certificate In Russia protected areas are generally excluded from lease agreements. Areas amounting to 2 266 ha are protected as natural monuments including genetic pine reserves and watercourses. Plantations and lands, Guangxi, China 83 560 ha, of which approximately 69 940 ha Chinese Forest Certification Council Mosaic landscape including agricultural crop fields, forest plantations and settlements. planted with eucalyptus and 13 620 ha certificate (PEFC) for 83 560 ha; No native ecosystems are found in the leased lands. Areas totalling around 1 300 ha are with other species FSC for 83 560 ha protected (including 184 ha of public benefit forest), consisting of steep slopes, buffer zones and other important areas for watershed protection. Montes del Plata 54 939 ha, of which 43 857 ha planted PEFC and FSC for 44 193 ha Mainly pasturelands and agricultural fields. Protected and sensitive areas are not incuded in lease agreements. Veracel 12 209 ha, of which 5 999 ha planted FSC for 10 965 ha; PEFC for 10 965 ha 5 384 ha of leased lands are protected. They mostly consist of native forest remnants at different stages of regeneration. Trial plantations, Laos 3 900 ha, of which 2 995 ha planted The plantations are located within a mosaic of intensive shifting cultivation lands and traditionally protected remnants of native forests. One plantation area is located close to a National Biodiversity Conservation Area. The majority of the total area is covered by agroforestry production schemes. ¹ Including operations where Stora Enso’s shareholding is at least 50% and size of the area exceeds 100 hectares. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda 56 Governance Economic Social agenda agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and Customers 57 assurance Suppliers 60 Investors 64 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Customers 57 Governance Customers Increasing global consumer demand for Social sustainability is encouraging companies agenda and brand owners to provide smart and safe solutions to meet everyday needs. Environmental agenda Opportunities and challenges Economic agenda Replacing fossil-based materials with renewable alternatives In many countries the middle class is growing even faster than Data and the rapid average increase in global population. This means more assurance and more people are demanding lifestyles that can seriously burden the environment. Simultaneously, consumers’ awareness of the scarcity of natural resources and their sense of social responsibility are increasing, putting pressure on brand owners to focus more on environmental and social responsibility throughout supply chains. Combined with new legislation, this is also driving our customers to use renewable and recyclable raw materials to create more sustainable products. In the long run, the world is looking to replace fossil-based materials with renewable alternatives. Stora Enso’s various fibre-based products, including future bio-based chemicals, are well-positioned to respond to these demands. Our policies A single set of globally applicable values We produce various products covered by specific safety regulations, such as food contact materials. The Stora Enso Code of Conduct constitutes a single set of values, expectations, and ambitions related to our global approach to ethical business practices, environmental values, areas and products, catering to many kinds of customers. We work actively together with our customers to improve and human and labour rights. These values are applied Our product portfolio includes various boards for printing the material efficiency and environmental impact of our wherever we operate, and in all dealings with customers. and packaging, several pulp grades, wood-based products products and the related production processes. We also for construction, energy pellets, paper products made regularly measure customer satisfaction. How we work from virgin fibre and recycled paper, and lignin, which can be used to replace fossil-based phenols, for instance. Prioritising product safety Serving multiple sectors These safely recyclable products are based on renewable Stora Enso’s products covered by specific safety regulations At Stora Enso we are developing our expertise in renewable materials. Stora Enso promotes and participates in successful include food contact materials, material for toys, packaging materials to meet our customers’ needs through products recycling schemes, particularly for paper. We also sell for pharmaceuticals, and construction materials. Our in-house with high sustainability performance. Our business is a variety of useful by-products from our production processes product safety and quality control systems cover our processes organised into five divisions, each with their own focus (for more information, see page 34). from product development and raw material sourcing all the way Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Customers 58 For unit-specific details of our sustainability certificates see Governance Is eating packaged food safe? storaenso.com/certificates. Shopping for food and drink is not always easy – Life cycle assessments and ecolabels Social particularly when weighing up options regarding Stora Enso’s experts collect product-specific life cycle agenda healthy eating and taste. But at least choosing a safely inventory data (LCI) for use in life cycle assessments (LCAs), packaged product should never be a problem. Experts which are in practice mostly conducted by our customers or from Stora Enso and our customer Tetra Pak explain why Environmental brand owners. The environmental performance of our paper product safety is a top priority for both companies. agenda and consumer board products is reported in line with the voluntary Paper Profile initiative. Economic Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability More than 90% of our Paper division’s own brands are agenda covered by one or more recognised ecolabels, including the EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel, and the Blue Angel (Blauer Engel). Many of our graphical board brands are also available Data and with the EU Ecolabel. Ecolabel criteria cover the whole life assurance cycle of a product, from the extraction of raw materials through production, product use, and disposal. Ecolabels are voluntary to the delivery of the finished products. We also oblige our tools that aim to help buyers identify products and services suppliers to comply with our product safety requirements. that have a reduced environmental impact compared with Our units producing sensitive packaging materials follow other similar products. Good Manufacturing Practice, a set of widely recognised Our Wood Products division offers its customers guidelines also incorporated into EU regulations. All our sustainable building materials and solutions that enable Consumer Board mills and most of our Packaging Solutions buildings to obtain environmental and energy efficiency mills are additionally certified according to recognised hygiene certification. Many Stora Enso products are also sold as FSC management standards. Food safety compliance for essential or PEFC certified, showing that they have been produced using raw materials is also checked with our suppliers prior to any wood from responsibly managed sources, and that the entire purchasing decision. We additionally provide our customers journey of the raw material from the forest to the store shelf has with information on products’ hygiene and safety aspects been verified by a third party. For more information about our through compliance declarations. responsible forestry and forest certification work see page 50. We follow legislation designed to protect public health and the environment, including the EU’s REACH, Biocidal Progress Products, and Classification, Labelling, and Packaging regulations, as well as other food contact legislation and Continuous engagement with our customers demands relating to food safety. When producing food Systematically collected customer feedback plays an essential contact materials we only use chemicals that have been role in developing our products, services, and processes. We specifically approved for that purpose, after duly checking also cooperate with our customers by exchanging expertise on their safety and legal compliance. Many of our wood products various sustainability topics. When it comes to new products, are CE-marked to guarantee that they comply with the related such as lignin, we collaborate closely with customers to create EU directives. applications meeting their needs with regard to the entire value Our divisions have Product Safety Networks in place, chain. During 2016 we shared our expertise on human rights and all our mills work to ensure that their products meet the topics in the supply chain with some of our large customers Our Wood Products division offers its customers sustainable building relevant product safety requirements. Our units’ ISO 22000, through training sessions arranged at their request. materials and solutions that enable buildings to obtain environmental FSSC 22000, and FDA product safety certificates ensure In 2016 Stora Enso conducted forest and mill excursions with and energy efficiency certification. that they apply a systematic approach to food safety issues. 50 paper customers. Participants visited our Central European Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Customers 59 paper mills and discussed the whole supply chain, covering have to provide sustainability-related data once, while all the Governance issues from sustainable forestry, wood logistics and pulp content follows the Sedex format and level of detail, and is and paper production to certificates, ecolabels, on-product regularly updated. labelling, and how certified paper is delivered to customers. In 2016, Stora Enso received the highest recognition level Social Our Biomaterials division is also collaborating with the (Gold) in the ethical supplier rating system Ecovadis. agenda fashion industry to create a more sustainable and traceable value chain for clothing products (for more information, see our Environmental Progress Book). agenda New initiatives in product stewardship Economic In 2016 our pellet production and supply chains at Näpi and agenda Imavere sawmills in Estonia and Nebolchi Sawmill in Russia obtained Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP™) certifications. SBP certification is used to verify the legal and sustainable Data and sourcing of wood and to track greenhouse gas emissions along assurance the supply chain. Stora Enso’s Wood Products Division also joined the stakeholder committee of the SBP certification system. Imatra Mills in Finland meanwhile joined the Guarantees How can you tell if paper has of Origin system, which is designed to provide third-party been sustainably produced? evidence of reductions in products’ carbon footprints, achieved by favouring renewable energy sources in their Paper brands are different – not just in terms of their production. quality, but also in their environmental performance. During 2016 Stora Enso issued environmental product Ecolabels are voluntary tools with strict criteria declarations (EPD) for one liquid packaging board, one that showcase the reduced environmental impact cupstock product, and Cross Laminated Timber (CLT). EPDs of a product along its full life cycle, as compared are third-party-verified documents that offer transparent and to other products in the same category. More than comparable information about the environmental footprint of a 90% of Stora Enso’s own paper brands have been product throughout its life cycle. awarded one or more ecolabels, such as the EU Ecolabel, the Nordic Ecolabel, and the Blue Angel. Sharing information as a supplier By the end of 2016, 26 of Stora Enso’s mills were registered Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability with the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex). Sedex gives us a platform to share information with customers on our compliance with the Ethical Trading Initiative’s base code and other key sustainability topics through the supply chain. By the end of 2016, all our Consumer Board mills were also third-party-audited according to the Sedex Members’ 26 Stora Enso mills were Ethical Trading Audit (SMETA) guidelines, which set standards on labour, health and safety, business ethics, and the registered with Sedex environment, while also facilitating reporting and auditing. by the end of 2016. Sedex benefits customers and Stora Enso as a supplier in many ways. Customers can use the same approach with Our in-house product safety and quality control systems cover our several suppliers instead of developing their own systems and processes from raw material sourcing all the way to the delivery of running individual queries. It also means that suppliers only the finished products. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Suppliers 60 Governance Suppliers In addition to wood and fibre, Stora Enso sources Social other raw materials, products, and services from agenda approximately 25 000 suppliers and contractors globally. We strive to ensure that our suppliers meet Environmental agenda our high standards of sustainability. Economic Opportunities and challenges agenda Sustainability along the supply chain We source a wide range of raw materials, products, and Data and services for our business globally. In 2016, purchases of assurance materials, goods, and services represented 48% of our total variable costs and fibre procurement accounted for 52%. The concept of responsible sourcing is relatively new in some markets, and local suppliers may not be familiar with sustainability requirements and audits. However, we believe that demonstrating sustainability ultimately benefits our suppliers, while helping to promote more sustainable sourcing around the world. Although Stora Enso works in various regulatory environments, we consistently respond to our stakeholders’ demands concerning transparency and sustainability performance of our suppliers. Imposing sustainability requirements on our direct suppliers encourages them to build up their capacity to meet such stricter demands, and creates a larger pool of more sustainable suppliers. Our policies Our Supplier Code of Conduct imposes minimum requirements on human and labour rights, occupational health and safety, environmental High standards for sourcing commitments and responsible business practices. We strive to identify and address the impacts of our operations in our supply chain. The Stora Enso Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC) plays an integral role in our sourcing. The code is a Several other Stora Enso policies and documents also support • Instructions for Purchasers, providing practical guidance legally binding document that imposes minimum supplier responsible sourcing, including: on responsible sourcing process for our purchasers to help sustainability requirements on human and labour rights, • Sourcing Guideline, which defines how sourcing should be them address challenges related to sustainability occupational health and safety, environmental commitments, executed, managed, and controlled • Policy on Wood and Fibre Sourcing, and Land Management, and responsible business practices. It applies to all our • Sourcing Strategy, which sets out a consistent framework which includes standards that apply to our suppliers. sourcing categories globally. for “Sourcing Best Partners” • Practical Instructions for Stora Enso Suppliers, including guidance on the topics included in the SCoC Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Suppliers 61 How we work Managing supplier sustainability risks at Stora Enso Governance Constructive engagement with suppliers Our purchaser uses Our responsible sourcing For Stora Enso, responsible sourcing means drawing on our Potential suppliers pass Social A supplier our risk mapping tool team assists our purchaser by deep commitment to sustainability, addressing the concerns our pre-qualification is selected and other tools for organising audits. For high-risk agenda of key stakeholders, complying with regulatory frameworks, process and sign to contract supplier analysis to suppliers our sustainability team adhering to best practices, and managing supply risks. These our Supplier Code of with us. identify any heightened is also engaged. Conduct (SCoC). Environmental principles are put into practice every day by our employees sustainability risks. agenda responsible for sourcing. Our approach to responsible sourcing has become more deeply embedded in purchasing Economic and supplier management since our more centrally-led agenda sourcing organisation was established in 2014. Materials and products sourced by Stora Enso include Our representatives A pre-audit If a supplier is The auditor prepares wood and fibre-based materials such as pulp and paper for an audit report. Our and the external auditor questionnaire is Data and unwilling to commit recycling (PfR), as well as chemicals, fillers, energy, fuels, purchaser helps the perform an audit. The sent to the supplier assurance to our SCoC, the spare parts, and maintenance, logistics, and IT services. supplier to facilitate supplier signs any for completion and relationship may any corrective necessary corrective to confirm an audit be terminated. Our responsible sourcing process actions. action plans. date. Any supplier who wishes to do business with Stora Enso must first pre-qualify, before being awarded with a contract. As with our SCoC, this pre-qualification process applies to all sourcing globally. Instead of using our own supplier numbering, we use D-U-N-S® numbering, which is a globally recognised system Any non-conformances with our SCoC identified during (FSC) Chain of Custody/ Controlled Wood scheme, the Chain for identifying companies. audits are followed up with supplier meetings where the of Custody/ Due Diligence System of the Programme for the To pre-qualify, suppliers must respond to a questionnaire, findings are discussed and corrective action plans devised. Endorsement of Forestry Certification (PEFC), and the ISO and submit confirmation of their compliance with our SCoC. Our Suppliers must sign up to these plans, and our purchasers 14001 environmental management standard. The ISO 14000 suppliers are also asked to provide information about their own will then monitor progress on their implementation. If a and ISO 9001 standards were updated during 2016, and we suppliers, such as sub-suppliers operating in high-risk countries. supplier does not take the necessary corrective actions, have subsequently integrated the necessary changes and new discussions are held to examine the reasons, at higher improvements. All the pulp we purchase or produce also Competence building and auditing management level if necessary. In cases where suppliers are complies with the EU Timber Regulation, which ensures that In addition to enforcing our SCoC, we actively engage not willing to improve their performance, relationships are no illegally harvested wood or wood products enter the EU. with our suppliers to help them improve their sustainability terminated. performance. This may involve on-site visits, detailed supplier assessments, or in-depth training sessions, depending on the Pulp procurement Breakdown of raw material supplier s location and product category. Most of the pulp used by Stora Enso’s mills is produced and service costs Our supplier sustainability risk mapping tool was developed internally, but for quality and logistical reasons we also % of our total variable costs in collaboration with the non-profit organisation BSR in 2014. purchase some pulp from external suppliers for our paper Fibre 52% It includes criteria for geographic location, the nature of the and board production. In 2016, 3% of our pulp was purchased Logistics and supply chain, product category, and our purchasing power. externally. Pulp from our joint operation Veracel in Brazil is commissions 16% Suppliers may be selected for a third-party sustainability considered to be internally produced in these figures. Chemicals and fillers 13% audit, conducted together with the purchaser, based on a As with our wood purchases, we ensure that all the pulp Energy 10% pre-evaluation of the supplier’s social and environmental risk we purchase is sustainably sourced, by applying thirdProduction services and profile. This tool helps our purchasers review sustainability party-verified traceability systems and forest certification materials 9% risks related to suppliers. systems. These include the Forest Stewardship Council’s Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Suppliers 62 For more information about our approach to sustainable wood Progress qualification, and business principles. Most of these training Governance procurement see page 50. sessions used a train-the-trainer concept, where the trained Increasing our Supplier purchaser is then responsible for training their team. Paper for recycling Code of Conduct coverage Our Supplier Management Tool was introduced in China Social Stora Enso sources paper for recycling (PfR) from various Stora Enso’s related key performance indicator (KPI) and Russia in 2016. This tool facilitates the pre-qualifying agenda local authorities and waste management companies. For more measures the proportion of our total supplier spend covered process for potential suppliers. details of our PfR use see page 35. by our SCoC, including all categories and regions. By the end Environmental of 2016, 92% of Stora Enso’s total spending on materials, Supplier audits agenda Contractors goods, and services was duly covered (90% at the end Stora Enso continued to conduct third-party supplier audits in In some of our operations we hire contractors for long-term of 2015), exceeding our target of 90% by the end of 2016. 2016 with a focus on high-risk suppliers in China. During the first Economic work such as forest and plantation management. We also In 2016, this indicator was broadened to also cover our Wood half of the year our purchasers worked to ensure that suppliers agenda hire contractors for shorter periods of time, for example in Supply units. The target for 2017 will be communicated in audited during the previous year duly completed their corrective large-scale investment and mill maintenance projects. Our the Interim Report for Q1/2017. action plans and remained committed to the requirements SCoC also applies to such contractors. While contractors are imposed on them. During the second half of the year, in addition Data and primarily responsible for their own employees, we make every Focusing on training to re-auditing previously audited suppliers, third-party audits assurance effort to ensure that everyone working on our premises is During 2016 Stora Enso provided extensive training for our were extended to new sites and suppliers. In 2016 a total of 36 treated fairly and receives adequate safety training. purchasers on a variety of topics, including supplier presuppliers were third-party audited in China (39 in 2015). Supplier audits conducted in China revealed non-­ conformances primarily related to occupational safety, wages, working hours, and basic workers’ rights, as defined by our 02 SCoC. During 2016 third-party audits were also conducted on 11 suppliers in countries other than China. These audits revealed non-conformances particularly related to wages, working hours, and preparedness for emergency situations in the workplace. During the year we were compelled to terminate three supplier relationships due to these suppliers’ unwillingness to commit to our SCoC (five in 2015). Other work in 2016 included the launch of updated versions of our Instructions for Suppliers and Purchasers. We additionally intensified our focus on contractors’ safety. For more information about Stora Enso’s approach to occupational health and safety, see page 17. Our Sourcing Strategy was also slightly updated. More extensive revisions will be made during 2017 and applied from 2018. Coal sourcing for Beihai Mill In southern China coal is currently the only feasible energy 01 In addition to enforcing our Supplier Code of source for an industrial facility as large as Stora Enso’s Beihai Conduct, we actively engage with our suppliers Mill. However, we are investigating opportunities to use more to help them improve their sustainability performance. renewable energy as a part of our long-term planning (for more 02 Transportation by sea accounted for 89% of information see page 47). all our product transportation by weight and In 2016 our focus was on identifying the most sustainable 01 distance in 2016. Read more on page 47. sourcing solution possible. This involved evaluating seven Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Suppliers 63 Governance What does sustainability mean at Stora Enso’s Beihai Mill? We believe that Social agenda Stora Enso’s new consumer board mill at Beihai in Guangxi, China, started production in May 2016. The mill produces demonstrating liquid packaging board and other high-grade consumer board products to meet growing consumer demand for sustainability ultimately Environmental agenda safe and high quality renewable packaging in the Asiabenefits our suppliers, Pacific region. Sustainability has been an integral part of the mill and forestry operations right from the start. while helping to promote Economic agenda more sustainable sourcing Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability around the world. Data and assurance local coal suppliers against our supplier selection procedures to validate extraction and separation technologies to identify the supplier that best fulfilled our sustainability developed by Virdia – a start-up company purchased requirements and our SCoC. BSR reviewed our supplier by Stora Enso in 2014. The plant will convert cellulosic selection procedures, and concluded that the process was biomass such as wood or crop residues into highly refined rigorous. We also introduced a responsible sourcing process xylose sugars. The project entered its commissioning and eight months prior to awarding the contract with the preferred start-up phase during 2016. supplier. The demonstration plant is located in the vicinity of Two Stora Enso sustainability audits and three third-party an existing sugar mill and sugar cane growing operations, audits of the preferred supplier were conducted in 2016. Areas enabling it to use bagasse by-product from the mill as requiring improvement were identified for further examination feedstock. The sugar cane growing operations were audited with the supplier, and progress will be monitored through in December 2014 to verify that the feedstock supplier’s future meetings and audits. Audits of mineral suppliers are operations comply with Stora Enso’s Supplier Code of rare in China, as mining companies typically do not allow Conduct. The sugar industry in Louisiana uses migrant customers to visit their mines. Stora Enso was able to audit workers in harvesting and production, and this was one the whole coal supply chain, excluding shipping, and a of the major issues examined in the audit. During 2016 social impact assessment was also conducted in villages Stora Enso evaluated labour rights in the bagasse supply neighbouring the mine as well as along the logistics chain. chain and among employees at the demonstration plant The supplier is committed to develop its processes, but site. The evaluation identified concerns regarding working contracts are currently awarded for only a few months at a time hours in the supplier’s sugar mill and harvesting operations. to ensure continuous improvement and compliance. Stora Enso is currently assessing the labour rights context in Louisiana in more detail to ensure compliance with our Sourcing sugar industry Supplier Code of Conduct. by-products in Louisiana, USA When sugar cane is harvested the leaves are left in the Transportation accounted for 24% of our CO 2 emissions in 2016. Stora Enso has completed the construction of a demonstra­ fields. Stora Enso will continue to examine opportunities to For information on how we work with suppliers to combat global tion and market development plant in Raceland, Louisiana, use this residual material in our production processes. warming, see page 47. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Investors 64 Governance Investors We strive to continuously improve our Social sustainability performance and reporting to keep agenda investors informed of our progress, ambitions, and future direction. Environmental agenda Opportunities and challenges Economic agenda Sustainability crucial for long-term success The global pool of socially responsible investors (SRIs) is growing, and the incorporation of environmental, social, and governance Data and (ESG) analysis into mainstream investment decision-making assurance is accelerating. Both of these trends encourage companies to be more sustainable in their operations. At the same time, shareholders expect financial profits from their investments. At Stora Enso we believe that only truly sustainable operations can ensure long-term financial success. Stora Enso’s Investor Relations work is guided by several laws and regulations, including the EU’s Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), the Finnish Securities Markets Act, Nasdaq rules in Helsinki and Stockholm, and the standards of the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority. Our policies Consistent investor dialogues Company policies and guidelines related to our Stora Enso’s We believe that only sustainable operations can ensure long-term financial success. Investor Relations include: • Disclosure Policy, a set of rules covering all our communications with investors and other stakeholders, communications governance, and communications They constantly follow our sustainability performance and and encompassing insider guidelines, closed periods, procedures reporting. For more information on how we create value with • Code of Conduct, which applies to all our operations around a sustainable business model, see our Progress Book. For details the world, including investor relations. of Stora Enso’s ownership distribution see our Financial Report. Timely and transparent communications with shareholders Timely and transparent How we work are a top priority for Stora Enso. We actively maintain open communications with Transparent communications dialogue with our investors on ESG matters through face-toface meetings, conference calls, seminars, and webcasts. We shareholders are a top Various aspects of sustainability are important to Stora Enso’s also regularly share updated information on our sustainability investors, including human rights and global warming. performance with our shareholders in our Interim and Annual priority for Stora Enso. Stora Enso’s main shareholders are long-term investors, reports, stakeholder letters, web updates, and investor and sustainable business practices are high on their agenda. newsletters. We also regularly participate in sustainability Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – Investors 65 Governance Social agenda Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and assurance How can the credibility of sustainability reporting be improved? Though the external assurance of corporate sustainability reporting is not mandatory, Lasse Ingström, Risk Advisory Partner at Deloitte explains that companies are increasingly choosing to give greater credibility to their reporting by obtaining external assurance. In 2015 Stora Enso became one of the few companies in the world to obtain Reasonable Assurance for its direct and indirect fossil CO 2 emissions data. Read the full article at storaenso.com/sustainability In 2016 our Investor Relations function organised 13 investor meetings focusing on ESG-related topics. Approximately 60 investor representatives participated in these meetings. events of interest to investors. For more information about our investor relations, see storaenso.com/investors. meetings also included a webinar for ESG investors and analysts focusing on our sustainability strategy and activities. We share updated Progress During the year we revised our strategy for providing ESG information to shareholders, aiming to make sustainability information on our information more widely available on our website to benefit and sustainability performance Focusing on key sustainability indices In 2016 our Investor Relations function organised 13 investor serve all our different stakeholder groups. This also involved further prioritising Stora Enso’s participation in questionnaires in our Interim Reports. meetings focusing on ESG-related topics. In total, approximately and assessments for the ESG index and ratings schemes that 60 investor representatives participated in these meetings. The are most material for our investors. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Economic agenda – External recognition 66 Governance ESG indices and other external recognition in 2016 Stora Enso was included in and recognised by at least the following indices and reviews in 2016: Social agenda Environmental FTSE4Good Index ECPI Ethical Indices Global Compact 100 agenda Stora Enso is included in the Stora Enso is included in the ECPI EMU Stora Enso is included in the United FTSE4Good Index Series. These Ethical Equity index, which covers Nations Global Compact 100, a Economic indices measure on a half-yearly basis environmental, social, and governance global stock index that combines agenda the performance of companies that criteria. corporate sustainability and financial meet globally recognised corporate performance. responsibility standards. Ethibel Investment Register Data and Stora Enso is listed in Forum ETHIBEL’s ReportWatch assurance Recognitions by CDP Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Stora Enso’s Annual Report 2015, CDP included Stora Enso on its Register and Ethibel Sustainability including the Sustainability Report, 2016 Climate A List as well as on its Index (ESI) Excellence Europe. Such was ranked by ReportWatch as the Supplier Climate A List, in recognition recognition indicates that a company best annual report in Finland for the of the company’s long-term actions performs better than average in its second consecutive year, and the and strategy in response to global sector in terms of corporate social seventh best report globally. The warming. Stora Enso was also the responsibility. rankings included 1 600 companies only Nordic company to be included from 65 countries. in CDP’s Supplier Engagement Euronext Vigeo – Europe 120 Leaderboard. Stora Enso is listed in the Euronext Sustainability report Vigeo – Europe 120 index as one of review in Finland OMX GES Sustainability the 120 most advanced European Stora Enso’s Sustainability Report Finland index companies in terms of environmental, 2015 was selected as the best Stora Enso is included in the NASDAQ social, and governance performance. sustainability report in Finland in the OMX and GES Investment Service’s country’s leading annual sustainability OMX GES Sustainability Finland index. Oekom Research report review, coordinated by the GES Investment Services compare Stora Enso is classified as “Prime” by corporate responsibility network FIBS. leading companies listed on NASDAQ Oekom Research’s environmental, Our report was also rated as the best OMX Helsinki with regard to their social, and governance rating sustainability report by the media, and responsibility work on environmental, methodology. by students. social, and governance issues. Global Child Forum STOXX ESG indices In a benchmark report published by Stora Enso is included in several the Global Child Forum and the Boston STOXX ESG indices. These indices Consulting Group Stora Enso was rate leading global companies recognised as an industry leader in the according to environmental, social, Nordic region for advancing children’s and governance criteria. rights. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Data and assurance 67 Governance Data and Social agenda assurance Environmental agenda Economic agenda Data and Reporting scope 68 assurance Data by production unit 69 Assurance report 72 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Data and assurance – Reporting scope 68 Governance Reporting scope in this Sustainability Report excludes employees of our 50%-owned joint operations Montes del Plata and Veracel. All the HR data presented here covers our permanent and reporting on a sustainability aspect or indicator only concerns specific units, geographical regions or other data collection boundaries, based on the identified materiality, this is specified At Stora Enso we regularly review the priorities temporary employees as of 31 December 2016, except for in the comment field in the G4 index table, or in connection Social in our Sustainability Agenda, and ensure that our the unit-specific numbers of employees on pages 69–71 with the respective disclosure. agenda reporting duly addresses them. When defining which are yearly averages. Certain administrative functions Stora Enso’s generic management approach to the materiality of issues impacting our sustainable and sales offices are not included in the group’s consolidated sustainability covers all of the aspects of the G4 framework Environmental occupational health and safety (OHS) data. identified as material. We also report on our management agenda business model, we consider the expectations approach with regard to specific aspects in the relevant of significant stakeholders inside and outside Significant changes in scope during 2016 sections of this report, with respective page references Economic the company. For more information on our Stora Enso completed the divestment of the Arapoti paper mill included in the G4 index table. agenda approach to materiality, see page 7. in Brazil on 1 April. The divestment of a mill producing coated mechanical paper at Kabel in Germany was completed on External assurance 1 September. The closure of Suzhou paper mill in China and This report has been assured by an independent third-party Data and Data boundaries the divestment of the Hartola modular building unit in Finland assurance provider in accordance with the voluntary external assurance Unless otherwise stated, the group’s consolidated were completed in June. assurance practices followed in sustainability reporting. performance data as expressed in this report covers the Our consolidated data on environment and energy, HR, The assurance report for this report appears on page 72. parent company, Stora Enso Oyj, and all companies in which human rights and responsible sourcing covers our continuous Deloitte & Touche Oy has provided a limited level of we hold over 50% of voting rights directly or indirectly. The operations as of the end of 2016, excluding units divested assurance covering the contents of this report, as well as group’s consolidated sustainability performance data does or closed during the year. Data on these divested and pages 5–13 and 57–59 of the group’s Progress Book. For the not cover joint operations or equity-accounted investments closed units is, however, included where necessary in the second year running a level of reasonable assurance has been where Stora Enso’s ownership is between 20% and 50%, or consolidated data on occupational health and safety (OHS), provided for Stora Enso’s reporting on direct and indirect fossil companies in which our ownership share is less than 20%. forest and land use, and training and compliance case figures CO2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2). The report does, however, describe issues directly relating related to business ethics. to companies in which Stora Enso’s ownership is 50% or Our new consumer board mill in Beihai commenced The UN Global Compact below, when these issues have been identified as material operations in May, and is included in the group’s consolidated Stora Enso supports the ten principles of the United Nations’ considering the sustainability impacts of the group, and related sustainability data. Global Compact, an initiative set up to encourage businesses interest among our stakeholders. For this reason this report worldwide to embed responsibility in their operations. covers material sustainability topics relating to Stora Enso’s Following the GRI framework We respect and promote these principles throughout joint operations in South America, Veracel and Montes del This report corresponds to the ‘Comprehensive’ level our operations, and report on our progress in this report. Plata, as well as our 35%-owned equity-accounted investment in the G4 reporting framework of the Global Reporting We annually upload our Communication on Progress to Bulleh Shah Packaging in Pakistan. Initiative (GRI). This means that our reporting covers all the the UN Global Compact website as a public record of our Our consolidated environmental and energy data covers Standard Disclosures of the G4 framework, as well as all the commitment. our production units as of the end of the reporting period. sustainability aspects we have identified as material in our Figures for related historical performance have been operations. Our GRI index (available at storaenso.com/gri) lists recalculated following the removal of divested units from the our Standard Disclosures with reference to G4 categories, baseline. Scope limitations related to specific environmental aspects and indicators, and refers to the pages or locations indicators are explained in footnotes. Stora Enso’s sawmills where these issues are addressed in our annual reporting and converting facilities are excluded from the group’s current publications and/or other information channels. References to environmental targets due to their lower materiality. pages or locations are complemented with additional reporting Human resources (HR) data is derived from separately in the index as necessary. collected HR statistics, except for numbers of employees, Impacts that make sustainability topics relevant for us which are derived from financial accounting. Unlike in our may occur outside Stora Enso, or they may be material Progress Book and Financial Report, consolidated HR data only for certain of our operations or locations. When our Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Data and assurance – Data by production unit 69 Governance Data by production unit This table presents unit-specific information on environmental performance, production, certificates, Social and numbers of employees. Joint ventures and units that were divested or closed during 2016 are excluded. agenda Environmental Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions agenda ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 FSC® CoC PEFC™ CoC Process CO2, on-site Economic Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as transpor­ Biogenic CO2, Process water agenda employeesa capacityb Products fibrec FDA landfill wasted SO2e NO2 Direct CO2f Indirect CO2 f tationf biomass fuelsf COD AOX Phosphorous Nitrogen discharges Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Belgium Data and Langerbrugge 348 555 x x x x x x x 6 614 87 5 254 109 503 32 832 1 452 562 511 983 1 6 26 6 655 assurance China Beihaig 393 h x x x x x x 0 11 11 32 222 157 25 057 325 2 681 88 1 8 2 188 Dawang 220 170 x x x x x 0 1 125 134 5 0 44 2 952 Gabou, Dongguan 1 323 50* x x x x 0 6 0 0 161 2 702 12 0 6 0 0 0 Jiashan, Zhejiang 372 10* x x x x 0 3 0 0 1 428 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 Qian’an, Hebei 1 420 55* x x x x 0 4 0 0 4 406 57 0 0 0 0 1 Estonia Tallinn 29 15* x x x 0 0 623 35 0 1 Finland Anjala/Ingerois 528 435/280 x x xi x x x x 0 85 14 265 125 132 90 068 1 519 143 530 2 037 3 84 9 347 Enocell 177 470 x x x x x x 9 117 30 90 996 61 777 3 777 147 1 430 003 7 540 51 3 56 22 422 Heinola Fluting 170 300 x x x x x x x 1 097 186 407 395 143 853 6 540 203 193 913 1 352 2 14 4 760 Heinolaj 138 100* x x x x x x 15 29 851 111 0 16 Imatra 1 082 1 130 x x x x x x x x x 889 310 158 2 085 192 625 49 019 1 645 2 136 040 18 697 76 13 195 64 432 Kristiinankaupunki 42 20* x x x x x x 0 1 145 50 24 0 0 Lahti 160 40* x x x x x x 97 53 3 110 74 0 10 Oulu 613 1 080 x x x x x x 29 162 368 1 336 225 602 30 083 3 095 1 223 506 9 254 51 8 75 19 377 Sunila 167 370 x x x x x x 3 469 132 53 728 26 790 780 585 904 184 6 553 36 8 32 17 092 Varkaus 253 390 x x x x x x x x 1 116 173 386 621 110 217 13 675 594 674 410 3 628 4 53 14 948 Veitsiluoto 526 785 x x x x x x 857 9 486 1 042 216 391 29 375 324 1 108 092 9 450 22 9 176 10 983 Germany Maxau 430 530 x x x x x x x 0 132 8 244 118 445 117 373 3 274 167 1 480 0 3 13 5 192 Sachsen 262 310 x x x x x x x 38 1 5 144 162 020 2 990 765 39 270 567 1 0 12 3 334 Latvia Riga 142 100* x x x 0 40 2 4 4 310 163 0 7 Lithuania Kaunas 47 20* x x x 0 2 1 386 67 0 4 Poland Łódz 222 120* x x x x x x 0 0 0 3 3 567 6 400 0 0 11 Mosina 97 25* x x x x x x 0 53 392 1 702 36 0 3 Ostrołęka 1 228 670 xk x x xl x x x 0 128 220 231 363 662 160 127 1 459 366 296 989 4 7 210 Tychy 142 110* x x x x x x 0 4 2 860 4 203 166 12 Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Data and assurance – Data by production unit 70 Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Governance ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 22000 FSSC 22000 ISO 50001 OHSAS 18001 FSC® CoC PEFC™ CoC Social Process CO2, on-site Number of Production Recovered waste to Hazardous NOx as transpor­ Biogenic CO2, Process water agenda employeesa capacityb Products fibrec FDA landfill wasted SO2e NO2 Direct CO2f Indirect CO2 f tationf biomass fuelsf COD AOX Phosphorous Nitrogen discharges Unit 1 000 t t t t t t t t t t t t t 1 000 m3 Environmental Russia Arzamas 172 100* x x x 40 3 1 3 3 213 13 497 111 0 24 agenda Balabanovo 332 165* x x x 86 4 1 2 4 888 21 954 205 0 34 Lukhovitsy 136 80* x x x 68 2 0 2 2 436 13 671 124 0 14 Economic Sweden Falu Rödfärg m x x 0 23 247 0 460 1 0 agenda Fors 592 455 x x x x x x x 0 94 9 110 2 661 354 668 260 879 1 737 1 2 27 4 821 Hylte 423 480 x x x x x x x 36 612 100 0 113 6 404 615 891 223 158 977 0 2 21 5 057 Data and Jönköping 181 100* x x x 0 17 1 459 567 42 0 4 2 assurance Kvarnsveden 591 665 x x x x x x 0 126 21 95 20 447 1 234 23 201 068 2 309 1 2 45 10 315 Nymölla 564 485 x x x x x x 0 24 568 587 -13 169 229 1 879 672 519 11 676 1 13 71 25 778 Skene 138 100* x x x 0 1 0 16 33 52 0 1 0 2 Skoghall 716 855 x x x x x x x x 2 725 991 154 435 53 907 527 2 033 880 537 7 814 14 7 78 24 427 Skoghall (Forshaga) 105 120 x x x x x x x x 0 5 1 351 16 211 0 Skutskär 386 540 x x x x x x 0 19 562 763 57 8 732 1 478 1 837 063 5 254 31 19 107 19 985 Vikingstad 60 75* x x x 0 0 0 1 068 84 1 0 1 2 Total pulp, paper, 11 075n 62 869 26 274 3 527 10 488 2 169 502 779 514 20 590 13 133 827 92 440 286 109 1 095 279 418 board, converted products Total, wood products Wood products unitso p p p p p p p p p 9 069 460 24 360 2 844 184 817 13 692 443 945 Grand total All units 71 938 26 734 3 551 10 847 2 172 346 964 331 34 282 13 577 772 92 440 286 109 1 095 279 418 a Yearly average. i Covers only board production at Ingerois. Products: board and packaging paper market pulp converted products b Production capacities of integrated pulp, paper, and board mills only include paper and board j Stora Enso has announced that Heinola Mill will be closed permanently, with packaging (e.g. cores, corrugated board) paper red paint pigment production capacities. manufacture transfered to the Lahti. c Mills using recovered fibre as raw material (fully or partly). k Kraft paper unit uses recycled fibre. * million m2 d Reported on the basis of country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. l Covers only corrugated board unit. e Total sulphur is reported as sulphur dioxode (SO 2) equilevant, but includes all sulphurous m Does not have its own personnel but hires personnel from Stora Enso AB. The figure 0 (zero) in the table signifies that such discharges, emissions, or wastes do compounds. n Excluding total corrugated board capacity 1 305 million m2. not occur or only occur below detection limits. Where cells are left blank, this signifies f All CO 2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. o Production capacities for sawn timber 5 200 000 m3 and for wood pellets 355 000t. that the parameter is considered as not relevant for that unit. g Start-up in May 2016. Ramp-up phase ongoing in 2016. p See separate table for wood products units. h Data not available due to ramp-up phase in 2016. Capacity for 2017 is estimated to be 390 000 t. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Data and assurance – Data by production unit 71 Capacities Certificates Fossil CO2 emissions Governance Process Number of Sawn Further Wood ISO ISO OHSAS ISO PEFC™ FSC® waste to Hazardous CO2, on-site Biogenic CO2, employeesa products processed CLT pellets LVL 9001 14001 18001 50001 CoC CoC SBP™ landfill wasteb SO2 NOx as NO2 Direct CO2c Indirect CO2c transportationc biomass fuelsc Social Unit 1 000 m 3 1 000 m 3 1 000 m 3 1 000 t 1 000 m3 t t t t t t t t agenda Wood products units Austria Bad St. Leonhard 228 350 275 60 x x x x x x 0 60 4 10 730 3 Environmental Brand 191 440 255 x x x 0 36 3 135 3 agenda Ybbs 331 550 390 70 x x x x x x 0 63 5 855 3 Czech Republic Planá 227 360 220 x x x 408 65 1 19 0 1 979 31 382 Economic Ždírec 273 560 320 65 x x x x x x 3 158 22 1 88 0 2 275 90 728 Estonia agenda Imavere 317 335 155 100 x x x x x x 2 202 56 312 50 544 1 982 59 318 Näpi 89 35 150 15 x x x x x 0 5 1 6 10 11 201 346 6 476 Data and Finland Honkalahti 103 310 70 x x x x x x 0 9 30 205 2 749 776 50 976 assurance Kitee 83 260 110 25 x x x x x x 9 15 28 2 039 526 37 909 Uimaharju 52 240 20 x x x x x x 0 23 0 1 800 19 259 835 601 Varkausd 33 130 40 x x x x x x 17 18 4 761 143 Veitsiluotoe 51 200 x x x x x x 0 0 14 20 5 548 Germany Pfarrkirchen 92 110 x x x x x x 19 2 2 14 2 933 298 6 257 Latvia Launkalne 131 190 10 x x x x x 734 4 32 353 1 861 5 24 590 Lithuania Alytus 208 200 90 x x x x x x 0 22 1 11 0 13 491 1 378 41 188 The Netherlands Amsterdam 40 55 x x x x x 0 1 14 939 3 Poland Murow 200 200 35 x x 117 8 3 18 241 3 9 212 Russia Impilahti 98 120 10 15 x x x x 1 465 0 0 5 16 923 32 11 978 Nebolchi 160 180 30 35 x x x 940 0 0 49 30 794 23 990 Sweden Ala 148 370 45 x x x x 39 2 36 31 1 793 49 341 Gruvön 83 370 150 100 x x x 13 1 150 1 782 1 311 Wood products units total 5 400 2 500 130 355 40 9 069 460 24 360 2 844 184 817 13 692 443 945 a Yearly average. b Reporting is based on country-specific definitions applied in national regulations. c All CO 2 figures are calculated using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. d Varkaus LVL (laminated veneer lumber) line start-up in June 2016. e Sawing capacity reported with the Paper divison. Stora Enso Sustainability Report 2016 Progress Book Financial Report Corporate Governance Report GRI index Data and assurance – Assurance report 72 Independent obtain limited assurance whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Sustainability • Performing analytical review procedures and testing data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of the Deloitte & Touche Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a assurance Governance Information has not been prepared, in all material respects, presented Sustainability information; comprehensive system of quality control including in accordance with the Reporting criteria. In addition, we • Performing site visits to Beihai in China and Ostrołęka documented policies and procedures regarding compliance report have a responsibility to form an independent conclusion, in Poland to review compliance to reporting policies, with ethical requirements, professional standards and Social based on our reasonable assurance procedures, on to assess the reliability of the Sustainability data applicable legal and regulatory requirements. This agenda whether the fossil direct and indirect CO2 emissions as a reporting process as well as to test the data collected for engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team whole are reported, in all material respects, in accordance Sustainability reporting purposes on a sample basis; including assurance and sustainability expertise with Environmental To the Management of Stora Enso Oyj with the reporting criteria. • Assessing that the Sustainability Information has professional qualifications. Our team is experienced in agenda We have been engaged by Stora Enso Oyj (hereafter We did not perform any assurance procedures on the been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability providing sustainability reporting assurance. Stora Enso) to provide limited assurance on Stora Enso’s prospective information, such as targets, expectations Reporting Guidelines (G4 Comprehensive) of the Global Economic Sustainability information and reasonable assurance on and ambitions, disclosed in the Sustainability Information. Reporting Initiative. Limited assurance conclusion agenda Stora Enso’s direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) fossil CO2 Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the prospective On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing emissions as a whole within the Sustainability Information information. Our assurance report is made in accordance The reasonable assurance engagement involved has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the for the reporting period of January 1, 2016 to December 31, with the terms of our engagement with Stora Enso. We do performing procedures to obtain evidence about the information subject to the assurance engagement is not Data and 2016. The information subject to the assurance engagement not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than direct and indirect fossil CO2 emissions as a whole. In prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the assurance is the Sustainability Report 2016 and the Sustainability Stora Enso for our work, for this assurance report, or for the addition to the limited assurance work, our key assurance Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Comprehensive) information disclosed in the Progress Book 2016 on pages conclusions we have reached. procedures have included an evaluation of the operating of the Global Reporting Initiative or that the Sustainability 5–13 and 57–59 (hereafter: Sustainability Information). A limited assurance engagement with respect to effectiveness of internal controls and the systems and Information is not reliable, in all material respects, with Sustainability related data involves performing procedures processes for collecting and processing the direct and regard to the Reporting criteria. Management’s responsibility to obtain evidence about the Sustainability Information. indirect fossil CO2 emissions data. Furthermore we have Management is responsible for the preparation of the The procedures performed depend on the practitioner’s performed testing on a sample basis at selected sites, Reasonable assurance conclusion Sustainability Information in accordance with the Reporting judgment, but their nature is different from, and their extent chosen based on an evaluation of significance, as well as On the basis of the procedures we have performed, in our criteria as set out in Stora Enso’s reporting principles on is less than, a reasonable assurance engagement. It does general and specific risks, to evaluate whether direct and opinion, Stora Enso’s reporting on direct and indirect fossil page 68 of the Sustainability Report and the Sustainability not include detailed testing of source data or the operating indirect fossil CO2 emissions as a whole presented in the CO2 emissions as a whole is prepared in accordance with Reporting Guidelines (G4 Comprehensive) of the Global effectiveness of processes and internal controls and Sustainability Information are reported according to the the Reporting criteria and is reliable, in all material respects, Reporting Initiative. This includes: designing, implementing consequently they do not enable us to obtain the assurance Reporting Criteria. with regard to the Reporting criteria. and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation necessary to become aware of all significant matters that We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with and fair presentation of the Sustainability Information that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness for are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud Our procedures on the limited assurance included: conclusion. Sustainability information. This independent assurance or error, selecting and applying appropriate criteria and • Conducting interviews with senior management report should not be used on its own as a basis for making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. responsible for Sustainability at Stora Enso to gain an Our independence, quality interpreting Stora Enso’s performance in relation to its understanding of Stora Enso’s targets for Sustainability control and competences policies of sustainability. Assurance provider’s responsibility as part of the business strategy and operations; We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies which Our responsibility is to express an assurance conclusion on • Reviewing internal and external documentation to verify address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of Helsinki 13 February 2017 the Sustainability Information based on our engagement. to what extent these documents and data support the the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics Deloitte & Touche Oy We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance information included in the Sustainability Information for Professional Accountants in their role as independent with International Standard on Assurance Engagements and evaluating whether the information presented in assurance providers and in particular preclude us from (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) to provide limited assurance on the Sustainability Information is in line with our overall taking financial, commercial, governance and ownership performance data and statements within the Sustainability knowledge of Sustainability at Stora Enso; positions which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our Jukka Vattulainen Information, and in accordance with ISAE 3410 to provide • Conducting interviews with employees responsible independence and impartiality and from any involvement Authorized Public Accountant reasonable assurance on direct and indirect (scopes 1+2) for the collection and reporting of the Sustainability in the preparation of the report. We have maintained our fossil CO2 emissions as a whole. Information and reviewing of the processes and systems independence and objectivity throughout the year and This requires that we comply with ethical requirements for data gathering, including the aggregation of the data there were no events or prohibited services provided which Lasse Ingström and plan and perform the assurance engagement to for the Sustainability Information; could impair our independence and objectivity. Authorized Public Accountant Stora Enso Oyj P.O. Box 309 FI-00101 Helsinki, Finland Visiting address: Kanavaranta 1 Tel. +358 2046 131 Stora Enso AB P.O. Box 70395 SE-107 24 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: World Trade Center Klarabergsviadukten 70 Tel. +46 1046 46 000 storaenso.com/sustainability group.communications@storaenso.com Concept, design, and illustrations: Miltton Oy Photography: Lasse Arvidson, Petri Artturi Asikainen, Mikko Auerniitty, Tina Axelsson, Markus Bullik, Eduardo Davit, Tuomas Harjumaaskola, Studico / Jarmo Hietaranta, Kaapo Kamu, Tuukka Koski, Aleksi Koskinen, Teemu Kuusimurto, Vesa Laitinen, Matti Lehto, Michele Lugaresi, Jere Luukkanen, Antti Marjokorpi, Eduardo Moody, Laura Noponen, Felix Odell, River Cresco / Niklas Palmklint, Tobias Regell, Sami Saarenheimo, Niklas Sandström, Adam Wołosz, MODE Artes Visuales, Scala Photography and Stora Enso’s image bank. It should be noted that Stora Enso and its business are exposed to various risks and uncertainties and certain statements herein which are not historical facts, including, without limitation those regarding expectations for market growth and developments; expectations for growth and profitability; and statements preceded by “believes”, “expects”, “anticipates”, “foresees”, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Since these statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, they involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to materially differ from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: (1) operating factors such as continued success of manufacturing activities and the achievement of efficiencies therein, continued success of product development, acceptance of new products or services by the group’s targeted customers, success of the existing and future collaboration arrangements, changes in business strategy or development plans or targets, changes in the degree of protection created by the group’s patents and other intellectual property rights, the availability of capital on acceptable terms; (2) industry conditions, such as strength of product demand, intensity of competition, prevailing and future global market prices for the group’s products and the pricing pressures thereto, price fluctuations in raw materials, financial condition of the customers and the competitors of the group, the potential introduction of competing products and technologies by competitors; and (3) general economic conditions, such as rates of economic growth in the group’s principal geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange and interest rates. All statements are based on management’s best assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it and Stora Enso assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forwardlooking statement except to the extent legally required.
