UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 1 Statement of continuing support CIEE has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative in 2016. We are pleased to confirm that CIEE Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share and communicate this information to our stakeholders and the general public using our primary channels of communication. Mr. Jean-Philippe TAILLEDPIED Plant Director CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 2 HUMAN RIGHT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy CIEE THAI COMPANY Management is firmly committed to conducting business in an ethical and responsible manner, respecting the rights and dignity of all people CIEE THAI COMPANY respect and support international principles aimed at protecting and promoting human rights, as described in the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. CIEE THAI COMPANY is committed: To treat everyone fairly and without discrimination, harassment or retaliation. Our employees, agency staff and suppliers are entitled to work in an environment and under conditions that respect their rights and dignity. To respect freedom of association. Where our employees wish to be represented by trade unions or works councils, our employees are able to collectively choose to represent them within the appropriate national legal frameworks. To not hire people younger than 18 years. To not make business with any companies who does not respect the human or children rights. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 3 CIEE THAI COMPANY recognizes its responsibility to respect human rights in its operations. In addition, we recognize that we have an opportunity to promote human rights where we can make a positive contribution. This includes, among other things, opposing human trafficking and the exploitation of children. Progress CIEE is a company that honors human rights where we promote diversity and equal opportunity and practice nondiscrimination and we have a company policy of maintaining a harassment free workplace. As such the company does not condone disrespectful behavior, intimidation and harassment. Our policy does not tolerate sexual harassment, verbal or physical conduct of sexual nature. In the history of the company, we have not come across any such behavior. We would take immediate action if we became aware of any harassments or misconducts. We are committed in maintaining a safe, clean and healthy work environment for our employees. We are committed to continuously challenge our employees in order to promote their individual growth as persons. We support and sponsor local charity activities and encourage our staff to join in on these activities. CIEE provides transparency in our practices and at the same time protects personal information of our employees and clients, where personal information used solely for business purposes. We encourage growth and development of our employees through bi-annual appraisal which helps both the management and employees to express any issues relating to work which also promotes improvement for employees. Each year, we support humans rights through financial contribution, where the employees raise funds and items to be donated for the under privileged kids in rural areas. We contribute a decent amount of money for charity runs, also encouraging our employees to be part of it. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 4 LABOR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms if forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation Policy As Human Right policy, plus human resources policies in countries of operation and CIEE rules and regulation and contracts that are also aligned with local regulation, laws and practice. Progress In June 2016, CIEE has established the Forced Labor and Child Labor policy to ensure that all employees are treated with respect and dignity, are working under their own free will, and are being properly compensated for their effort. CIEE does not discriminate against employees who voluntarily establish and join organization of their own choice. CIEE’s maintains a good remuneration and work environment for all our employees. We adhere to all business and company legislation. Our employees are employed on their own free will. The employees are free to terminate their employment at any time in accordance to the employment contract they have signed. CIEE is committed to uphold the protection of human rights for all workers and are committed to ensure that we are not complicit in any human rights violations. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 5 Embracing different backgrounds In accordance to promote diversity, we do not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin and disability and age. CIEE also appreciates age differences and welcomes fresh impetus. Experienced employees work closely with apprentices and younger professionals to embrace different viewpoints. Close collaboration with academic institutions enables CIEE to attract talented young women and men. Empowering employees to act safely CIEE is required to report on three health and safety key indicators every month: The incident frequency rate (IFR) The incident severity rate (ISR) The number of major / minor accidents (including all cases of medical treatment and first aid) CIEE has reached an injury frequency rate (IFR) 0.38 cases per 200,000 working hours —53.6% lower than 2015. Also, CIEE continued to decrease the severity of its injuries (measured by injury severity rate; ISR) 0.66 cases per 200,000 working hours —65.4% lower than 2015. Key figures 2015 2016 Change in +/-% Injury Frequency Rate (IFR) Case per 200,000 working hours 0.82 0.38 -53.6 Injury Severity Rate (ISR) Case per 200,000 working hours 1.91 0.66 -65.4 The number of major Case 4 3 -25.0 /minor accidents CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 6 Environment • Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy CIEE THAI COMPANY Management is firmly committed to a policy enabling all work activities to be carried out safely, and with all possible measures taken to remove (or at least reduce) risks to the health, safety and welfare of workers, contractors, authorized visitors, customers and anyone else who may be affected by our operations. Strive for continuous improvement in our environmental, health and safety management systems and in the environmental quality of our products and processes. Guiding principles: Meet or exceed all applicable environmental, health and safety requirements. We will evaluate our EHS performance by monitoring ongoing performance results and through periodic management reviews. Where laws and regulations do not provide adequate controls, we will adopt our own standards to protect human health and the environment. Advocate the adoption of prudent environmental, health and safety principles and practices by our contractors, vendors, and suppliers. Communicate environmental, health, and safety policy to our employees and stakeholders & ensure that all employees are aware of their role and CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 7 responsibility to fulfill and sustain & environmental, health and safety management systems and policy. Ensure that policy will deploy to yearly objectives and targets. We will conduct periodical management review to ensure effectiveness of implementation and maintain of this policy. Management responsibility is to provide and maintain as far as possible: A safe working environment. Safe systems of work. Plant and substances in safe condition. Facilities for the welfare of workers. Information, instruction, training and supervision that is reasonably necessary to ensure that each worker is safe from injury and risks to health. A commitment to consult and co-operate with workers in all matters relating to health and safety in the workplace. A commitment to continually improve our performance through effective safety management. Workers responsibilities & obligation are to: Comply with safe work practices, with the intent of avoiding injury to themselves and others and damage to plant and equipment. Take reasonable care of the health and safety of themselves and others. Wear personal protective equipment and clothing where necessary. Comply with any direction given by management for health and safety. Not misuse or interfere with anything provided for health and safety. Report all accidents and incidents on the job immediately, no matter how trivial. Report all known or observed hazards to their supervisor or manager. CIEE THAI COMPANY seeks the co-operation of all workers, customers and other persons. We encourage suggestions for realizing our health and safety objectives to create a safe working environment with a zero accident rate. This policy applies to all business operations and functions, including those situations where workers are required to work off-site. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 8 Progress CIEE is committed to follow a sustainable business practice into the company’s operations according to our existing Environmental policy. We recognize our responsibility to our employees, customers and suppliers to operate in environmentally conscious and responsible manner. CIEE supports various certification and principle such as ISO14001, ECOVADIS. We ensure that all our suppliers are environmentally conscious and responsible. If a supplier fails to adhere to this policy, we will not continue our cooperation with them. We conduct regular performance audits and training for our employees and suppliers to ensure that environmental commitments have been met. Decrease of water consumption CIEE collects data on the water consumption and discharge of its operations. The company focuses primarily on reducing water consumption. Overall, water consumption increased by 5% in 2016 but the consumption by m3/1,000 working hours decreased by 4%. So, the year-on-year rolling target to maintain or reduce the water consumption per 1,000 working hours was met. Key Figure Year Total waste waste /working hour Charge +/(%) Limited waste Charge +/(%) (container) (Container/1,000Whr) from 2015 /working hour from limit (Container/1,000 Whr) 2015 728 0.6569 2016 728 0.6570 +0.02% 0.70 -6.14% Maintain of electricity Consumption In 2016 the company replaced all its lighting fixtures with LED lightning to reduce our electricity consumption. We are also in the beginning stage of studying into installing solar panels. Overall, electricity consumption increased by 2% in 2016 because of company growth. CIEE control electricity consumption per 1,000 working hour to lower than 700 MWh/1,000Whr in 2016. It is under limit by 7.7%. So, the year-on-year rolling target to maintain or reduce the water consumption per 1,000 working hours was met. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 9 Key figure Year Total Consumption Charge +/Limit Charge +/(%) Consumption /Working hour (%) from (MWh/1000 from limit (MWh) (MWh/1000Whr) 2015 Whr) 2015 701,000 632 2016 785,000 646 +2.1% 700 -7.7% Avoiding, reusing, and recycling waste All employees in the office practice the 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) as encouraged by company management to support waste reduction. Total waste produced is stable in 2016. CIEE control total waste produced per 1,000 working hour to lower than 0.7 container/1,000Whr in 2016. It is under limit by 6.1%. So, the year-on-year rolling target to maintain or lower than 0.7 container/1,000Whr, the company has met this target. Maintain Gas Emission Quality Air quality from CIEE exhaust fume hood has been monitored 2 times per year to study trends and to monitor the environmental impact. In order to the practices set forth in the series of environment system ISO14001 From analyzed results for the emission air quality monitoring from stack were compared with the regulation standard of the notification of Ministry o Industry B.E. 2549 (2006) under the topic of “The Polluted Air Emission from Factory” Total Suspended Particulate (TSP) monitoring from stack. Found that has a value are within the criterion standard define. Tin (Sn) and Isopropyl alcohol (IPA) monitoring from stack. Found that cannot compared to standard announced by the Ministry of Industry because there is not a standard but the value is very small. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 10 Key Figure 2015 2016 Limit Charge Charge in in +/-% in +/2016 from % 2015 from limit Total Water Consumption m3 7,758 8,165 +5.2 3 Water consumption per m /1,000Whr 7.0 6.7 7.0 -4.0 -4.0 working hour Total Electricity Consumption mWh 701,000 785,000 +11.2 Electricity consumption per mWh/1,000Whr 632 646 700 +2.1 -7.7 working hour Total waste Container 728 728 0.0 Waste per working hour Container / 0.6569 0.6570 0.7 +0.02 -6.14 1,000Whr CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery Policy CIEE THAI COMPANY is committed To ensure anti-corruption in our businesses practices. To prevent use of CIEE products and services for money laundering purposes To prevent fraud, misappropriations, and other irregularities To disclose any situations that may involve inappropriate or improper conflicts of interests To ensure the right to our employee to bring complaint to top management directly or through suggestions. To operate in compliance with all applicable laws. Progress We are committed to working against corruption in all forms, including bribery and extortion. CIEE is transparent in all of its business and ensures that our employees adhere to this code of ethics in any form of dealings or communications. Employees are fully aware of actions that will be taken against them for any ethic violation concerning this issue. We have also established a corporate anti-corruption policy in 2016. CIEE UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 12
