Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd United Nations Global Compact (UN GLOBAL COMPACT) Communication on Progress April 2017 0000 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support ----Page 2 Profile ----Page 3 Human Rights Principles ----Page 4 ~ 6 Labor Principles ----Page 7 ~ 9 Environmental Principles ----Page 10 ~ 11 Anti-corruption Principles ----Page 12 ~ 13 Page -1 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Statement of Continued Support It has been five years since MIT became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2012. Once again, MIT reaffirms our commitment to the compliance of the United Nations Global Compact Principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. MIT has always strived to adhere to the spirit and letters of the said principles so that MIT’s corporate sustainable growth can be achieved through the integration of the UN principles into our strategic business operations. We at MIT are doing our very best to further develop during the course of implementation with the full knowledge and cooperation of our staff, stakeholders, suppliers, and customers. We are glad that UN Global Compact has shown us its full support, cooperation and guidance in our corporate efforts to make this world a better place to live. We truly appreciate it. All our efforts related to and in compliance with the principles of the UN Global Compact, year on year, can be seen on our website at www.mit.com.mm. Yours sincerely, Dr. Tun Thura Thet Founder and CEO Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Page -2 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd A Brief Profile of MIT What began as a business in 1997 with few staff in Yangon, turned out, by mid-2000s, to be a nationally recognized mid-sized company following a succession of lucrative operations involving hotels, banks, government departments, trading houses, services organizations, hospitals, small and medium, enterprises etc. MIT has been able to expand its business operations such as the Value Added Reseller (VAR) of SAP in Myanmar, providing Enterprise Resourcing Planning (ERP) implementation and consulting services to the customers. MIT currently employs more than 300 staff in four of its offices in Myanmar and a sub office in Singapore providing local and international customers with strategic ICT products and services. MIT has been able to garner a major share of software market in Myanmar and is the first and largest local partner of Microsoft and Oracle in Myanmar. In addition, MIT has established strategic partnerships with regional ICT solution providers in Singapore. MIT was awarded the Priority Integration Sectors-Excellence Award under e-ASEAN Subcategory by the ASEAN-Business Advisory Council in 2015. MIT devotes its commitment in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and is a member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), fully committed to complying with 10 principles human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. MIT tenaciously upholds its motto: for PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROFIT. Page -3 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals We are fully committed to observing, supporting and respecting the protection of globally recognized human rights as embodied under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we recognize the need to strengthen the fundamentals of our business operations with the help and guidance of this network. We hope to make full use of this assistance to realize sustainable development and achievement of our objectives. Therefore, our company’s policy is to establish a sound and pragmatic set of rules and regulations that are integrated with the principles as well as to facilitate successful implementation. Implementation In this respect, we initiated to inform and educate our staff, first of all, regarding the principles of human rights which we have embedded in all our operational procedures and processes with the aim of integrating the essences and values of the UN Global Compact for those of the company. Following this, we then proceeded to compose our company’s policies in line with the human rights principles. The result of this is that we were able to come up with a comprehensive set of Code of Conduct enabling our employers follow it accordingly so as not to infringe upon the principles as well as not to get involved, unwittingly or naively in human rights abuses. Mentioned in the Code of Conduct are dos and don’ts, on daily basis, on how to preserve the values of the said principles. Among them are: prohibition and avoidance of forced and child labor, discrimination of gender, age, race and religion in employment, etc. in our company. Page -4 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd We are conscious of the importance of the CSR, and the more so now that we have become a member of the UN Global Compact, with all the responsibilities of the company to pay back to the society where we operate. Hence, we have set up a rough guide-line on what and how to do in terms of carrying out the CSR obligations. Since 2015, we also have set in place a scheme by which we award scholarship to outstanding students at the University of Information Technology, Yangon, Myanmar. This same scheme also applies to needy and impoverished students studying at the University of Computer Studies in Hinthada, a town in Ayeyarwady delta region. Moreover, we have donated computers and accessories to a school in a satellite town of Yangon, enabling the teachers and the students to familiarize themselves with this modern, useful innovation. Another initiative which we have been running to enable those seeking to improve themselves prior to full employment elsewhere or before they enroll in universities etc., is to come to our company and get firsthand, on-the-job training in computing. This encourages the youth to improve themselves for further education or to prepare themselves for future employment. Currently, we are implementing the E-village projects and leading E-Community center in conflict affected areas that we physically and financially support as needed. Page -5 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Measurement of Outcome MIT management oversee the overall implementations of the Human Rights principles within the company, specifically in terms of external relationship with our customers, suppliers, partners and stakeholders. Periodic review of operational activities and resulting outcomes are duly monitored by the management team. Page -6 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals It is incumbent on MIT to uphold, once having become a member of UN Global Compact, the principles of Labor in all respects. Chief among them are the freedom of association together with the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, avoidance of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, doing away with child labor and lastly, the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The goals of MIT are to encourage employees to take part in grievance mechanism as freely as they wish, establish fair and equitable working conditions and bring about an environment that is amicable, efficient, cooperative and resultoriented. All these are embodied in MIT’s Staff Handbook giving guidance and advice towards not only fulfilling their obligations but also achieving their aspirations for a well-balanced, satisfactory life. Implementation MIT has always supported the policy of freedom of association within our establishment for the good and welfare of the employees and has always encouraged the right to collective bargaining dealing not only with employment and working conditions but also with social, personal requirements. First and foremost, MIT provides staff uniforms annually with the view to conform to the need and convention of the modern day business world. Next, we provide ferry service to all our staff to and from work on daily basis so that time and the grind and hardships of travelling will be saved. We also see to it that all our staff get registered with the Social Security Board of the Page -7 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Ministry of Labor, Immigration and Population for them to enjoy the benefits offered by the government. It is MIT’s priority to provide all types of leaves to our employees such as medical leave, casual leave, annual leave, leave without pay, maternity leave and so on, like the rest of local and international companies operating in Myanmar. We also provide assistance in the form of cash to those who are faced with difficulties in meeting their medical expenses or even in helping them out with social necessities such as Funeral and Bereavement leave. At our workplaces, MIT management provide the staff with clean and fresh drinking water as well as fresh seasonal fruits to keep them fit and healthy at work. Speaking of well-being, MIT allows its staff to organize a football team to participate in tournaments thus helping the male staff to stay abreast of the sporting events taking place in the country and to keep themselves fit and strong. In like manner, MIT has organized a yoga session for the staff at its headquarter so as to not only help them get peace of mind and enhance their ability to concentrate, but also to have physical fitness. An annual sporting event is also organized for all our employees to take part and spend the time together raising the awareness of team spirit. This is to develop both mental and physical conditions in line with the slogan: Menssana in corporesano (Sound mind in sound body). On the front of educational and skill development, MIT takes great care and interest in making it available to all the staff to get onthejob training courses, providing new-comers orientation courses, sending selected staff abroad to attend internationallyrecognized courses, as well as to participate in the seminars, workshops, and meetings, when invited, and encouraging them to give presentations, speeches, and lead courses. Page -8 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Many of the employment benefits and entitlements enjoyed by the staff are described in the Staff Handbook. For example, overtime allowances include free meals, as well as allowance for travelling expenses to customers’ worksites. MIT pays great attention to signing of employment contracts between MIT and new recruits so that equal employment opportunities can be enjoyed by all employees. Measurement of Outcome Since becoming a member of UN Global Compact, MIT has never had complaints of any kind whatsoever related to Labor Principles or infringements against any applicable lawsboth the labor laws of Myanmar and those of the ILO in respect of any working conditions prevailing at MIT. The MIT management see to it that strict adherence to rules and regulations, notices and circulars issued from time to time, is observed by all concerned. Page -9 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Environment Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibilities; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals In keeping with the terms of UN Global Compact and in compliance with the guidance as laid down by UN Global Compact, MIT approaches the environmental issues with precaution and takes initiatives that will enable all those concerned to take greater responsibilities to protect the environment. MIT gives priority to utilizing advanced technologies which are not only environmentally friendly but also cost effective. Implementation As with the rest of the principles, MIT, first and foremost, keeps all the staff well informed of the principles related to environmental protection. We do this with the hope of raising awareness of the importance of taking care of one’s own surroundings among our staff, stakeholders and all concerned. To reduce the consumption of electricity at all our offices, we make it compulsory for all employees to follow the rules and regulations issued from time to time for better use of electricity. As an example, all non-LED lightings are replaced by LED ones; when not using, all electrical devices are switched off; careful attention is to be paid at the end of the day when all lightings are to be turned off. Page -10 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd An additional initiative we have undertaken in order to help preserve the environment especially where we work is to introduce new technology in our operational activities. One such initiative is using a new software called “HCM” which reduces the use of paper in all our work. It also helps optimize cost-efficiency and helps create a cleaner paperless workplace. We use hashtag such as “Going green” in all our emails to inform our clients, partners and stakeholders on our effort to keep the environment clean and inviting them to do the same in compliance with the UN Global Compact principles. Moreover, we have computerized all our recruitment processes thereby reducing the use of paper in our offices. Over all, these measures will help raise awareness of the environmental protection and climate change among those concerned. In order to improve health conditions for our employees as well as to create a cleaner, fresher environment at our workplaces, we have designated ‘non-smoking areas’ in our headquarter and its premises. Measurement of Outcome Following these initiatives we had implemented so far, we are able to significantly reduce the CO2 emissions as well as build a better, cleaner and more environment-friendly atmosphere in all our workplaces. We believe that what we had undertaken, with the best of our capacities, will go towards mitigating negative impacts on our surroundings. Reducing the use of electricity, using less paper, using emails for internal and external communications wherever possible etc. will all go to fight against global climate change. Page -11 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Anti-corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ______________________________________________________________________ Assessment, Policy and Goals MIT is committed to fight against all types of corruption such as kickbacks, bribery and extortions observing all local applicable laws as well as international and regional frameworks against corruption. The aim of our endeavors here is to keep out all negative impacts that can occur during the course of our operations. One such impact can be mentioned, within this context, and it is that accepting or taking part in such an act of bribery or extortion would tantamount to a moral brinkmanship. We are trying to build an organization where fair and morally acceptable standards of conduct come first above all else. Thus, MIT has adopted a zero tolerance on all forms of corruptions. Implementation The first thing that we did was to inform our staff on our obligation to observe the principle laid down by the UN Global Compact. Subsequent to it, the company’s rules and regulations will have to be practiced throughout all the operational processes. A comprehensive training and awareness program has been conducted for the staff in order to foster and promote correct behavior while enhancing a shared sense of belonging and responsibility conducive to ethical conduct. To make sure that all our staff practices what they preach, we tackle a particular practice of giving presents to superiors on festive and traditional occasions. The company prohibits all our employees from giving presents or gifts worth, when they pay homages to their superiors, not more than Ks 10,000 either in cash or in kind. The company’s senior management oversee that all transactions go through proper business practices and keep tab on them all. We also enforce our rules and regulations to prevent such malpractices from taking place, and explicitly including terms and conditions in all Employment Agreements. Besides, we reinforce this provision, by Page -12 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd stating in clear terms, the rules and regulations to be observed by all the staff in the Staff Handbook. Measurement of Outcome We can definitely affirm that the measures we had so far undertaken in the fight against corruption in all its forms have played an important role in our company achieving our desired objectives on yearly basis. Of course, not only this but also the initiatives we had undertaken so far in complying with all the ten principles. All go to improve our organization’s over-all mission, vision and detailed operational objectives. We never had had a case dealing with corruption issues in our company so far. Thanks to the invaluable guidance offered by the UN Global Compact. Page -13
