Creating a tomorrow BETTER Woolworths Limited ABN 88 000 014 675 2 0 1 7 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS Chief Executive Officer’s report 2 Our Group 3 Woolworths Group 2020 commitments 4 2017 at a glance 6 Our journey 8 People: encouraging diversity 10 Planet: for a healthy environment 22 Prosperity: founded on trusted relationships 38 Table of contents by business unit 56 Woolworths Group value chain 58 At Woolworths Group, we know Sustainability metrics Workplace metrics 60 62 how important our approach Corporate governance 67 to sustainability is to our United Nations Global Compact Global Reporting Initiative 69 70 customers and communities. External assurance statement 74 Store analysis 78 With our presence across Australia’s and Glossary 79 New Zealand’s cities, regions and remote Company directory 80 areas, we are part of the fabric of society. The sustainability targets we set impact our nations’ economies, communities and environments. We serve over 900 million customers each year. We directly employ over 202,000 people, and indirectly, many thousands more, through our supply chain. When it comes to sustainability, we understand that we will be judged on what we do, not what we say. We are taking action to positively influence the supply chain to become more sustainable and reduce our carbon footprint. In this way, and in many others, we are supporting a healthy environment. We are working together to create better experiences for our customers every day, and understand our responsibility for creating a better tomorrow. SCOPE OF REPORT: Unless otherwise stated, this report covers all our operations in Australia and New Zealand for the 2017 financial year – 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 (FY17). Only workforce data (excluding safety) is included for our global sourcing offices in China, Bangladesh and Thailand. Woolworths Limited ABN 88 000 014 675 2 3 CHIEF OUR GROUP EXECUTIVE WOOLWORTHS GROUP OFFICER’S Woolworths Group manages some of Australia's and New Zealand’s most recognised and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 trusted brands. We endeavour to create a world class experience for customers across all our stores and platforms. Woolworths Group consists of the following core businesses: REPORT AUSTRALIAN FOOD Woolworths Supermarkets We are Australia’s largest supermarket chain and operate 995 supermarkets across the country. Australian Food also includes FoodCo, Metro and WooliesX. ENDEAVOUR DRINKS Endeavour Drinks Endeavour Drinks comprises 1,517 stores, including the Dan Murphy’s, BWS, Cellarmasters and Langton’s brands. Earlier this year, we launched our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Strategy. We made 20 commitments structured under the three key pillars of People, Planet and NEW ZEALAND FOOD Prosperity. These commitments were developed collegially with our key business and function leaders, and are part of our shared commitment to create a better tomorrow. New Zealand Food I am delighted to be able to report on our progress over the last six months. Our Countdown branded supermarket chain has 184 supermarkets across New Zealand, serving around three million customers every week. New Zealand People: At the heart of our business are our people. We have been working hard to Food also includes 65 franchise FreshChoice and SuperValue Supermarkets. create a safe and inclusive environment for all of our team members, and to create opportunities for all to excel. We are particularly proud of our work in closing the gender pay gap, increasing indigenous employment and lifting our Voice of Team engagement Woolworths is a scores this year. signatory to the United Nations Global Compact PORTFOLIO BUSINESSES Planet: The reach of our business means we have an important role to play in contributing (UNGC). UNGC to a healthier environment and have been working on creating better ways of using our natural resources, including reducing waste going to landfill, sourcing key commodities signatories embrace from sustainable sources for our products and reducing our carbon footprint. a set of core values in the areas of human BIG W Prosperity: In order to do good business, we need to value and nurture the trust that our rights, labour standards, BIG W provides Australians with great value across 185 stores as well as online customers and suppliers have in us. At our best we are a key part of the communities within which we operate and the way we responded to Cyclone Debbie in Australia and the environment and choices for general merchandise. the Kiakoura Earthquake in New Zealand are a real highlight. anti-corruption. In this report, we share our I am proud to present our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report, which details some of performance against the our achievements in F17 from across the Woolworths Group. We are clear however that UNGC core values. we are on a journey and still have much to do. Working together with our customers, our suppliers and our communities, we are committed to creating a better tomorrow in all of the countries within which we operate, especially Australia and New Zealand. Hotels ALH Group is a market leader, operating 329 hotels, including bars, dining, gaming, accommodation and venue hire operations. Brad Banducci CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 4 5 2020 WOOLWORTHS GROUP WOOLWORTHS GROUP PEOPLE: PLANET: PROSPERITY: encouraging diversity for a healthy environment founded on trusted relationships CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We recognise Woolworths Group’s environmental COMMITMENTS We value diversity across Woolworths Group. Our customers should see in our people a reflection of themselves and their communities. In this strategy impact across our value chain and will work with our suppliers, service providers and operations to innovate for a healthy planet. We will focus on positive relationships with suppliers, give back to the communities we embrace targets that support diversity and, hand We will support the move to a circular economy, in which we operate, and rebuild trust in hand with this aim, tolerance and respect. source environmentally sustainable commodities with our customers and investors. and respond to climate change. PROMOTING GENDER EQUITY MOVING TO A CIRCULAR ECONOMY WORKING WITH OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS Launched in February 2017, our 1 At least 40 per cent of executive and senior manager positions to be held by women. 9 Towards zero food waste going to landfill. 15 We will achieve a top quartile ranking in how we engage fairly and equitably with 10 Improve the recyclability of our our suppliers as measured by independent Corporate Responsibility Strategy supplier surveys. 2 No salary wage gap between male and female own brand packaging and contribute 2020 brings new focus, resources employees of equivalent positions on a per-hour to the circular economy. 16 rate at all levels of the company, with a step change We will focus on a best practice compliance and energy to sustainability. improvement in closing any gaps by the end of FY17. system according to the Global Social SOURCING ENVIRONMENTALLY Compliance Program. We will collaborate with SUSTAINABLE COMMODITIES peak organisations to improve workers’ lives. The targets assigned under EMBRACING OUR DIVERSITY 11 Source key raw materials and commodities 3 our People, Planet and 100 per cent of those responsible for hiring new sustainably to an independent standard by GIVING BACK TO THE COMMUNITIES team members to have completed unconscious 2020. We will raise awareness of sustainably IN WHICH WE OPERATE Prosperity pillars cover bias training. sourced products. 17 We will invest the equivalent of 1 per cent Woolworths Group’s engagement of a three‑year rolling average of total Group 12 Achieve net zero supply chain deforestation for 4 Continue the focus on encouraging cultural with customers, communities, diversity, with a commitment that by 2020 ‘high-impact’ commodities in our own brand Earnings Before Interest and Tax (EBIT) in community partnerships and programs. the Woolworths Group team will truly reflect products, such as palm oil, timber, pulp and supply chain and team members, the communities we serve. paper, and packaging. as well as our responsibility 18 We will publicly report social impact to quantify the positive changes we are creating with to minimise the environmental SUPPORTING ABORIGINAL AND RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE a focus on health, economic development and 13 TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER EMPLOYMENT emergency relief. impact of our operations. Reduce Woolworths Group’s carbon emissions to 10 per cent below 2015 levels. 5 Proportion of Indigenous team members to equal Federal Government Employment Parity CREATING SHARED VALUE WITH OUR CUSTOMERS 14 19 contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our Store Innovate with natural refrigerants and reduce Operations team members will be Indigenous. We will achieve leading customer refrigerant leakage in our stores by 15 per cent of satisfaction scores. CO2-e below 2015 levels. 6 20 Proportion of Indigenous Graduates to equal Federal Government Employment We will inspire our customers to consume all Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our products in a healthy, sustainable way. of our Graduates will be Indigenous. CREATING OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL 7 We are committed to maintaining a workplace that safeguards the health and wellbeing of our team members, customers and visitors. 8 Achieve Gold Tier employer status in Australian Workplace Equality Index (AWEI) for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. 6 7 2017 at a glance WOOLWORTHS GROUP PLANET: for a healthy environment CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 MATERIALS DIVERTED FOOD SAVED STORES WITH UPGRADED FROM FOR MEALS HYBRID OR HFC-FREE LANDFILL 8M REFRIGERANT SYSTEMS (TONNES) 3 PEOPLE: meals 269 283,040t encouraging diversity 2017 CARBON EMISSIONS 11% SOLAR POWER GENERATION TOTAL 1,512MWh RECORDABLE INJURY TEAM below 2015 levels 3 Materials diverted from landfill data from Australian Supermarkets, New Zealand FREQUENCY MEMBERS Supermarkets and BIG W. RATE (TRIFR) 12.97 TRIFR 202,000+ PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) INDIGENOUS EMPLOYEES HIRED THROUGH THE PARITY PROGRAM 6.76 LTIFR SINCE LAUNCH 1 JOBS IN INDIRECT CONTRIBUTION TO THE 952 AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY 4 OWN BRAND PRODUCTS UNDERGONE CASH A NUTRITIONAL RENOVATION DONATIONS YOUNG TEAM 769,438jobs A VALUE OF $113.7 BILLION 120+ $6.3M MEMBERS 2 BOARD DIVERSITY NET PROFIT 77,000+ VOICE WOOLWORTHS OWN BRAND PRODUCTS PAID IN WAGES IN KIND OF TEAM AFTER TAX (NPAT) 7 WITH THE HEALTH STAR RATING DONATIONS ENGAGEMENT 2,000+ $7.9B $17.3M SCORE $1.4B 1 Figures stated relate to the period 11 December 2015 to 7 July 2017. 2 Under the age of 25.  Female Male 50% 50% 82% TOTAL SHAREHOLDER DIVIDEND PAID TOTAL SALES 5 EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAX (EBIT) 6 4 Flow on from value of sales. Base on Concept Economics Multipliers, 2009. 5 From continuing operations. $1.1B $55.5B $2.3B 6 Before significant items. 7 From continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent entity (before significant items). Our journey 8 9 WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WOOLWORTHS GROUP LAUNCH 2020 NO SALARY COMMITMENTS MARRIAGE WAGE GAP EQUALITY In February 2017 we launched our No salary wage gap between CR 2020 strategy, setting out our Woolworths Group supports male and female employees sustainability journey. marriage equality. of equivalent positions. INDIGENOUS SAFETY & HEALTH ACHIEVED: UNCONSCIOUS TEAM MEMBERS LGBTI DESTINATION ZERO WOOLWORTHS LIMITED BIAS TRAINING PAY INCLUSION 1,600 new Indigenous BOARD 50% WOMEN PARITY team members to join our Gold Tier employer status in Our vision is to be one of the Unconscious bias training pilot world’s safest places to work The Woolworths Limited Board is program completed. Planning Gender pay gap reduced business through employment Australian Workplace Equality and shop. gender balanced with 50% women. for rollout across the Group. to less than 0.5%. parity program. Index for LGBTI inclusion. PEOPLE PLANET PROSPERITY PROJECT ENLIGHTEN COUNTRY OF ENERGY HUMAN RIGHTS PLASTIC NET ZERO COMMENCES ORIGIN LABELLING MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS BAGS DEFORESTATION Commenced energy We were the first supermarket Commence work on establishing Best practice review of our Australian stores will no longer Net zero deforestation from efficiency project focused to label our own brand products. the Energy Management Centre approach to ethical sourcing offer single-use lightweight “high impact” commodities on lighting technology. of Excellence. and human rights. plastic shopping bags. in own brand products. ACHIEVED: ACHIEVED: 100% SUSTAINABLE REDUCE FOOD 1% EBIT COMMUNITY ASSESS CLIMATE NATURAL PALM OIL WASTE TO LANDFILL CONTRIBUTION CHANGE IMPACT TRANSPARENT REFRIGERANT LABELLING 100% certified sustainable Re-committed our goal to 1% of EBIT donated Use science-based targets 10 natural refrigerant palm oil in our own brand reduce food waste to landfill. to community causes across to assess the impacts of a two All eligible own brand products systems installed and 15% food products. Australia and New Zealand. degree world on our business. will display a Health Star Rating. leakage reduction achieved. ACHIEVED: OWN BRAND PRODUCT EMISSIONS SOLAR TOP SUPPLIER HEALTH STAR RATING RENOVATION REDUCTION INSTALLATION SURVEY RATING First Australian retailer to Removing artificial colours, 2017 carbon emissions 11% Commission a 1.2MW Achieve top quartile rating in commence rollout of voluntary flavours and added MSG below 2015 levels. solar installation (3,344 independent supplier survey for Health Star Rating System on own and reducing saturated fat, panel) in Melbourne South fair and equitable engagement. brand products. sugar and sodium across Distribution Centre. own brand products. MACRO WHOLEFOODS MARKET RELAUNCH Relaunching our better-for-you 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Macro brand. PEOPLE 10 11 WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Encouraging diversity We embrace diversity because we know that different backgrounds are a source of strength. We want our customers to see in our people a reflection of themselves, so our targets support diversity, tolerance and respect. PEOPLE: encouraging diversity 12 13 1 2 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT COMMITMENT PROMOTING At least 40 per cent of executive and senior No salary wage gap between male and female employees of equivalent positions on GENDER CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 manager positions a per-hour rate at all levels Closing to be held by women. of the company, with a step change improvement in closing any gaps by the end of FY17. EQUITY To encourage greater numbers of women in Woolworths Group’s management, by 2020 we aim to have at least 40% of our executive BOARD DIVERSITY the gap EQUAL and senior manager positions held by women. OPPORTUNITIES Women in A key enabler to gender equity is equal Over the past year, Countdown has pay for equal work. In December 2016 been reviewing our people strategies leadership we completed phase one of the Pay and goals, so that our team enjoys Parity Project in Australia. Over 17,600 the same rewards, resources, and salaries were reviewed and the pay opportunities, regardless of gender.  Female 50% gap between male and female team We’ve recently completed a gender  Male 50% members carrying out like-for-like roles pay equity review of our salaried team was reduced to 0.5%. A further review members. As a result, we awarded salary is now underway for all remaining increases to both men and women where managers and senior leaders, which gender‑based pay gaps were identified. will be completed by September So far, a total of 83 roles and 818 salaried 2017. Our commitment is that gender team members have received a parity We are increasing female representation across our whole is not a factor in the decisions we adjustment. We will continue our work business, especially in management. This will improve make in regards to how we reward on this important initiative. our gender equality, provide aspirational role models, our team members. and increase attraction and retention of high performing women. It also helps our team step closer to reflecting our customer base and the Australian community. EMBRACING Currently, women represent 55% of our total workforce, CHANGE with 39% at manager level and 29% at senior leadership and executive levels. We are proud to say that BIG W has already embraced the push for women to fill senior positions. Women now fill 50% of executive and senior manager positions, and 67% of the BIG W Executive Committee are women. Store Leadership Pathway – class of March 2017. PEOPLE: encouraging diversity 14 15 3 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT 100 per cent of those responsible for hiring new EMBRACING OUR team members to have CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 completed unconscious bias training. DIVERSITY SUSTAINABLE ENGAGEMENT Having a workforce that understands our COMMITMENT 4 customers is critical to providing the best Continue the focus on Woolworths Group shopping experience – our customers should encouraging cultural understands the importance of having an see in Woolworths Group’s people a reflection diversity, with a commitment that by 2020 the Woolworths engaged workforce and of themselves. We are building a workforce that Group team will truly reflect that this is a lead indicator supports and encourages diverse perspectives the communities we serve. of customer satisfaction. and contributions. We run two team engagement surveys each year with team members to hear their voice and provide Reflecting the managers an opportunity to respond. In January 2017 communities we achieved a Voice of RECRUITMENT, ENGLISH Team engagement score TRAINING AND LANGUAGE of 82% – representing an we serve increase of 5% since the RESEARCH SUPPORT previous survey in June 2016. We are working on further positive initiatives so we can match national Our ambition is to recruit Countdown’s English and international industry and develop a team that as a Second Language engagement standards. reflects the Australian program is designed to community. To do this, help strengthen English we will equip our managers language, numeracy and Employing more than 202,000 people from all walks of life, we strive to be as diverse and executives with gender, literacy. The lack of these a the communities we serve. We are building a culture of inclusion and participation, with cultural and unconscious communication skills proportionate representation of women, and people of different cultural and Indigenous groups. bias training. A pilot is often a significant but During FY17 we continued to recognise and celebrate our diversity through supporting key training program has been hidden problem, and while cultural events including Harmony Day, NAIDOC Week, Reconciliation Week, International completed in FY17 with our people may have a Women’s Day and Wear it Purple Day. a view to developing this strong work ethic, language further for senior leaders can be seen as a barrier to We are working to determine how to effectively capture and map ethnicity data to show that store and all managers with their success. The training team members reflect the communities they are serving. This includes at point of recruitment and responsibility for hiring focuses on language VOICE through internal team engagement surveys. We are currently piloting an approach within one decisions. We are working related tasks which workers OF TEAM of our brands with a view to leveraging a successful model across the group by FY19. ENGAGEMENT with external providers to with limited English find SCORE We are a signatory to the Friendly Nation initiative with the NSW Government. This program identify a scalable approach challenging in their regular 82% is designed to provide employment opportunities for displaced refugees from Syria and Iraq for rollout in FY18. work environment. We aim to contribute to successful settlement. A successful program has been run in Western Sydney to assist 100 team members and in Logan in Queensland. We will continue to work with the Department to provide ongoing per year with their English support and employment. language learning needs. 5 PEOPLE: encouraging diversity 16 17 COMMITMENT WOOLWORTHS GROUP Proportion of Indigenous SUPPORTING team members to equal Federal Government Employment Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent ABORIGINAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 of our Store Operations team members will be Indigenous. TORRES STRAIT 6 ISLANDER COMMITMENT EMPLOYMENT Proportion of Indigenous Graduates to equal Federal Government Employment Parity contract. Once achieved, 2 per cent of our Graduates will be Indigenous. We are committed to increasing Indigenous employment opportunities in our business. In partnership with the Federal Government and Diversity Dimensions, Woolworths Group has committed to recruit 1,600 additional Indigenous team members by 2019. Our 2020 target is for Indigenous people to make up at least 2% of our store team and graduates. Resourcing the future INDIGENOUS TALENT JAWUN INDIGENOUS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY SECONDMENT PROGRAM Our Indigenous employment program has continued to help us focus on ‘Resourcing the Future’. With steady growth in applications and job placements, we are proud of our achievements During the year we commenced We have continued the partnership to date. However, we are determined to continue this growth and stay ahead of our Federal development of an Indigenous talent between Endeavour Drinks and Government 2020 parity target. development strategy that is based Jawun – a not-for-profit organisation Since launching in 2015, we have implemented the program in 328 stores and seen an additional on the success of our Indigenous that supports innovative programs 952 Indigenous Australian job seekers placed into permanent part-time employment, with the employment ‘Resourcing the Future’ of change in Indigenous communities. majority of these positions in regional and remote Australia. This has also led to a significant Program. For our FY19 Graduate By providing skilled employees, we were increase in the number of direct job applications – resulting in an additional 1,082 Indigenous Program, we will proactively work able to help in areas such as marketing team members joining our Woolworths Group family in the last year alone. with external partners on a targeted and business planning – giving much approach to attract and develop Diversity Dimensions General Manager, Mimi Kind, said: “Woolworths has embraced this program needed help over two separate staff Indigenous graduates. with a level of commitment that inspires us. This is why we are seeing such great results in this trips to regional areas. program, with a retention rate of over 80% of Indigenous employees that we place. We’ve seen These initiatives added a FY17 contribution first-hand the positive impact it has had on the lives of individuals, families and their community.” of approximately $42,000, as well Key to this success has been the strong senior leadership support and the continued rollout as our annual $75,000 operating‑cost of targeted recruitment directly linked to our workforce plans, as well as the delivery of cultural contribution to the program. awareness training by Indigenous mentors to all teams participating in the program. Woolworths Group Head of Diversity and Inclusion, Tony Backshall, and the Tribal Warriors Cultural Dancers during National Reconciliation week, 30 May 2017. PEOPLE: encouraging diversity 18 19 7 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT We are committed to maintaining a workplace CREATING that safeguards the health CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 and wellbeing of our team members, customers and visitors. OPPORTUNITIES CONFINED SPACES NATURAL DISASTER PREVENTING PEDESTRIAN FOR ALL TRAINING PREPARATION ACCIDENTS Our studies showed that To prevent a major incident To reduce the risk of Our vision is to become one of the safest places to work the biggest risk to working in the face of an earthquake people being hit by moving in confined spaces is an in New Zealand, we have vehicles in areas where and shop. We are committed to maintaining a workplace that inability to rescue workers collaborated with specialist machinery is at work, we safeguards the health and wellbeing of our people, customers should something go wrong. engineers to dramatically have invested in physical and visitors. Our aspiration is ‘Destination ZERO’: a place In line with world best improve the design of our barriers and suspended where people go home every day free from injuries or illness. practice, Endeavour Drinks warehouses. These will keep walkways. We are also have commissioned new our workers safe and enable trialling proximity sensors rescue equipment for each us to continue to serve the in our MeatCo and Supply Focusing on of their manufacturing sites broader community should Chain businesses to further and all team members who disaster strike. protect workers. work in confined spaces mental health have completed Emergency Rescue Simulation training using this equipment. TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY Mental distress or illness impacts one in four Australians, RATE (TRIFR) which is why we have identified it as our number one safety and health risk. To protect and nurture our team members TRUCK BRAKE LIGHTENING 12.97 TRIFR with mental health issues, we have worked with several ALERT THE LOAD industry experts to introduce a range of appropriate risk prevention and safety response options. To combat the stigma that goes with mental health issues, we have created a positive workplace that encourages early Our warehouses see over To reduce risk of injury when intervention and an open platform for conversation regarding one million trucks pass handling heavy loads, we use mental health. Partnering with leading mental health groups through each year, and one Rotatruck – a non‑traditional of the risks is vehicles rolling trolley system that can LOST TIME such as Lifeline, beyondblue, and R U OK, we support mental INJURY health on a larger scale outside of our team member network. from parked positions. reduce the physical effort FREQUENCY Our Supply Chain business required to move a load by RATE (LTIFR) We have implemented a Mental Health First Aid Program is working with our transport up to 78%. A breakthrough that equips all levels of team members with the skills and providers to install park in ergonomic design, knowledge to help peers showing signs of mental health brake alarms on vehicles it improves both 6.76 LTIFR issues. They can then use our confidential employee so drivers remember to productivity and safety and assistance program to help get back on their feet. apply the brake before is being used across BWS leaving their truck. stores nationwide. PEOPLE: encouraging diversity 20 21 8 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT Achieve Gold Tier employer status in Australian CREATING Workplace Equality Index CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 (AWEI) for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Intersex (LGBTI) inclusion. OPPORTUNITIES BWS AND MARDI GRAS PARTNERSHIP FOR ALL In celebration of the Sydney We want all our team members to feel valued and respected at Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras Festival, BWS showcased work, regardless of their gender, age, ethnicity, beliefs, disability, its support for equality and sexual orientation or gender identity. To address LGBTI issues the local LGBTI community and equality in the workplace, we have implemented a range of by painting its inner-city Sydney stores in rainbow initiatives to demonstrate our commitment to the LGBTI community. colours, and creating a BWS Pride radio station on Pandora, our in‑store radio LGBTI network. It’s the first time Australia’s largest drinks retailer has partnered at this community scale in the celebration of Mardi Gras. LGBTIQ support WINNERS This year two of our team members, Chelsea McPhail‑Rosenberg and Kate McLaren, were awarded co-winners of the 2017 LGBTIQ COUNTDOWN’S Young Professional Role Models Woolworths Group are members of Pride in Diversity, Australia’s national not‑for‑profit organisation which of the Year award, hosted by TRANSGENDER POLICY ‘LETS TALK GENDER’ provides support and advice across all aspects of Out for Australia. The duo were Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and/or Intersex recognised for co-founding (LGBTI) inclusion. Our 2020 target is to achieve Gold the ‘Proud @ Woolworths’ Tier employer status in the Australian Workplace initiative and were praised Countdown launched a transgender So that BIG W is a workplace where our team Equality Index (AWEI) for LGBTI inclusion. During FY17, for their commitment and transitioning policy aimed at supporting members can truly bring their full selves to Woolworths Group received Participating Employer passion to the project, which transitioning team members across New work, we have launched ‘Let's Talk Gender’ status for our first AWEI submission. We received resulted in Woolworths Group Zealand. It not only outlines our responsibilities sessions in partnership with Pride in Diversity. positive feedback and support for our current initiatives. formalising our commitment as an employer and commitment to providing Our aim is that all of the BIG W Support Office We will continue our partnership with Pride in Diversity, to LGBTI diversity. an inclusive environment, but also offers team members will have attended one of these who will assist us with key projects for our FY18 practical assistance to team members who sessions by the end of 2017. submission to help on our pathway to Gold status are transitioning genders. by 2020. PLANET 22 23 WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 For a healthy environment We know how important it is to innovate for a healthy planet, which is why we are currently working to use less, waste less and pollute less. As well as using sustainable products and materials, we are committed to reducing our carbon emissions. PEOPLE: encouraging PLANET: for a healthydiversity environment 24 25 9 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT MOVING TO A CIRCULAR ECONOMY Towards zero food waste CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 going to landfill. Reducing food waste in Australia This ambitious target involves the year-on-year reduction in tonnes of food waste going to landfill. We’ll do this by reducing stock loss, improving store waste management, and improving the effectiveness of our farmers' program and food rescue program. We are constantly implementing new strategies to reduce food waste. Although we’ve made impressive progress and we lead the domestic market, each year sees us send around 52,000 tonnes of food waste to landfill at a cost of $13 million. Currently, 91% of stores have a food waste diversion program that successfully diverts 60,500 tonnes of food each year. However, it was recently highlighted that 49% of the volume in a general waste bin consists of savable food. To fix this, we are not only focusing on our supermarkets, but also our end‑to‑end supply chains, where there is still $8 billion of food waste each year. REDUCING Some strategies we have implemented so far include: FOOD WASTE • Improving back-of-house source separation with the rollout of colour coded bins. OZHARVEST IN NEW ZEALAND • Extending our Odd Bunch range, which currently sells around 50,000 tonnes each year. • Providing the equivalent of eight million meals to food rescue programs every year. • Farmers are collecting produce and bakery goods from over 500 stores to be used as feed for animals. • Introducing the Jamie Oliver ‘Leftovers to Makeover’ Christmas campaign. • Improving reporting capability so we can see where we need to change for the better. “Working hand in hand with Woolworths Countdown’s Food Rescue program • Continuing to strengthen our relationships with food rescue organisations. over the last 18 months has generated is the largest of its kind in the country. By partnering with OzHarvest, Foodbank, and other food rescue organisations, we are helping reduce food waste spectacular results. Food rescue All our stores take part and help to see in Australia. The launch of The Odd Bunch saw local Aussie farmers cut their waste down too, as their once operations have grown a staggering surplus food donated to foodbanks and unused products are now being offered as cheaper alternatives at our stores across the country. As a result, 320% in that time, saving over food rescues each year, as well as to we are seeing many Aussie families enjoying quality, healthy, and affordable food that was once wasted. 100 tonnes of good food from landfill farmers for food scraps for their animals. Woolworths’ ambassador, Jamie Oliver, raised awareness of the disturbing amount of food wasted every month. The OzHarvest message To highlight the need for change, in Australia at a media event at our Food Innovation Centre. He captured public attention and put has reached so many people through we bring together all our partners the spotlight on the changes we are making about food waste. Woolworths’ ‘Good Acts’ campaigns for an annual Food Rescue Partners including the ‘Christmas Table for Good’, Summit in Wellington and support their TOTAL FOOD RELIEF DIVERTED TO THOSE IN NEED 1 which helped deliver over 1.4 million continued growth through our Food meals and continued with the successful Rescue Partners Contestable Fund FOODBANK THE HOPE CENTRE OzSizzle pilot. Woolworths is united of $100,000 p.a. Along with the re-launch AUSTRALIA FARESHARE SECONDBITE OZHARVEST FOODBARN with us in the fight against food waste, of our internal policies, we also re-branded 1,346 478 711 1,177 303 through their support with the OzHarvest and launched our new purple donation bins tonnes of food tonnes of food tonnes of food tonnes of food tonnes of food initiated Zero Food Waste Form, and in conjunction with our annual Winter Food 2.7 955,462 1.4 2.4 606,232 showcasing their Odd Bunch range at our Rescue Appeal with The Salvation Army, million meals meals million meals million meals meals Think.Eat.Save events across the country.” which saw a big increase in customer donations, both in‑store and online. Ronni Kahn, OzHarvest Founder & CEO 1 The ratio of rescued food to number of meals is based on a 500g meal size, as agreed at the SVA Food Forum. PLANET: for a healthy environment 26 27 10 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT MOVING TO A Improve the recyclability CIRCULAR ECONOMY of our own brand packaging CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 and contribute to the circular economy. IMPROVED WASTE RECYCLABLE RECYCLE LOGO TO ENERGY MEAT TRAYS Our target to ‘Improve the recyclability of our own brand packaging and contribute to the circular economy’ will see us decrease non-recyclable packaging, and increase recycled content. We will phase out expanded polystyrene by 2020. Clear on-pack communication Pinnacle Drinks (the own Meat departments across We will also introduce clear, user-friendly recycling instructions. that informs customers how and exclusive brands arm of Countdown have moved to dispose of each packaging Endeavour Drinks) partners away from non‑recyclable Packaging plays a key role in the retail supply chain. It protects the significant component after use is an with Australia’s biggest expanded polystyrene investment that we and our suppliers have made in growing, processing and important part of increasing packaging suppliers who packaging into recyclable transporting the products to our shelves and makes sure they are delivered recycling rates in Australia. are leaders in sustainability RPET trays. The trays We have been working on within their sectors, with themselves are made using safely to customers’ homes. It is also critical in providing convenience and a new recycle logo system preference towards recycled postconsumer 50–95% communicating to customers. which will be rolled out in materials used in packaging. recycled PET (typically 95% FY18 to make our recycle Pinnacle Drinks’ main wine depending on availability). instructions simple and easy production site in Angaston, to understand. South Australia has a zero waste to landfill policy with five waste recycling streams The end of Tray Sleeve Film for packaging waste. Any landfill waste is used as the plastic bag energy for the site. OWN BRAND PACKAGING WASTE INTENSITY MATERIALS (T/SQUARE METRES) 1 DIVERTED To play our part in reducing plastic When we design the packaging for FROM bag use, we will remove single-use Woolworths own brand products, we LANDFILL plastic bags across Woolworths Group try to use our packaging as efficiently 34 (TONNES) 2 nationwide – including Woolworths as possible and assess each new SOFT PLASTICS Supermarkets and Metro stores, BIG W, BWS and Online. Dan Murphy’s and Cellarmasters are already single-use product against a list of sustainability criteria. The own brand Sustainable Packaging Guidelines have been PROGRAM 27 26 27 28 283,040t 2 Materials diverted from landfill data plastic bag free. updated in 2017 as part of the continued from Australian Supermarkets, New Zealand Supermarkets and BIG W. focus to improve their sustainability The phased approach will begin shortly, We currently partner – the improved guidelines will be with the aim to have it in place across the with Redcycle in 96 of our implemented in early FY18. entire Woolworths Group in Australia supermarkets, where we by the end of FY18. This will see us cut In December 2016 we changed the collect soft plastics like WASTE TO the number of single-use plastic bags packaging format and reduced the bread bags, which are then LANDFILL we distribute by 3.2 billion each year. amount of plastic packaging for potato (TONNES) 3 recycled into products and pasta salads by 120 tonnes. including outdoor furniture. We will continue to provide our 106,103t customers with a range of alternative We are expanding this shopping bag options across stores, program to over 500 and will offer thicker, reusable versions stores. We also offer a place at different prices to suit our customers. to recycle single use plastic 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 bags in all our stores. 1 Waste intensity is from Australian 3 Waste to landfill data from operations. Australian operations. PLANET: PEOPLE: encouraging for a healthydiversity environment 28 29 11 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT SOURCING Source key raw materials and commodities sustainably ENVIRONMENTALLY to an independent standard CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 by 2020. We will raise awareness of sustainably sourced products. SUSTAINABLE COMMODITIES ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBLE SOURCING FISH AND SEAFOOD Woolworths Group is committed to During FY17 Woolworths sourced responsible sourcing, protecting people 9,029 tonnes of fish and seafood and reducing our impact on the planet. from certified farms and fisheries. Our customers expect us to operate in an Third party certifications recognised ethical and sustainable manner, particularly by Woolworths are the Marine for high risk commodities, including tea, Stewardship Council (MSC), coffee, chocolate, sugar, fish and seafood. Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC), Best Aquaculture Practice (BAP) Our customers want more sustainable and Global GAP. We have started products and more independently to label our own brand products with certified products. In FY17, our certification eco-labels helping our own brand products sold contained customers to identify products from 28,883 tonnes of sustainably certified third party certified sources. coffee, chocolate and sugar. We will continue to expand our certified Where we are unable to source certified sustainable offering in FY18, which in product, Woolworths has committed Australia will include the launch of our to independently verifying the fishery sustainably certified own brand tea or farm. To do this we need to risk range, and all of our Christmas and assess the source against a set of Easter chocolate will be sustainably credible criteria. To achieve this by WORKING WITH INDUSTRY certified. We are committed to 2020, Woolworths has engaged with AND INFLUENTIAL OWN BRAND achieving our target to ‘Source key raw the Fisheries Research & Development STAKEHOLDERS SUSTAINABLY CERTIFIED materials and commodities sustainably Corporation. The framework we will – FAIRTRADE MACRO COFFEE COFFEE, to an independent standard by 2020.’ adopt will be in line with the FAO CHOCOLATE Code of Conduct for Responsible AND SUGAR We continue to raise awareness of Fisheries. For wild-capture fisheries Our Macro Organic Coffee is Fairtrade certified, and has an (TONNES) sustainably sourced products through the assessment will look at stock, authentic and direct link to provenance. All coffee is sourced through participation in initiatives such as the management and environmental the network of small community growers producing through the Good Egg Guide and Fairtrade Fortnight. impacts for which the methodology 28,883t We have developed our Responsible Cooperative Coopchebi in central Peru, an area with abundant will be publicly available to provide forests and birdlife. The growers get a fair price for a quality product Sourcing Discovery webpage to share transparency with our customers and support for sustainable farming practices such that the small our sustainably sourced products with and stakeholders. communities can produce quality coffee in generations to come. our customers. PLANET: for a healthy environment 30 31 12 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT SOURCING Achieve net zero supply chain deforestation for ‘highENVIRONMENTALLY impact’ commodities in our CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 own brand products, such as palm oil, timber, pulp and paper, and packaging. SUSTAINABLE COMMODITIES We understand the importance of protecting our forests and are working with numerous organisations to achieve net zero supply chain deforestation for our own brand products. We are working through our supply chain to identify the high impact commodities and subsequently source them from independently-certified sustainable supply chains. NET ZERO PAPER, PULP DEFORESTATION PALM OIL AND TIMBER We are a proud member The Roundtable on We are working towards of the Consumer Goods Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) a 2020 target of sourcing ZERO OWN BRAND FOOD PRODUCTS SUPPORT Forum (CGF), and as is a multi-stakeholder all products containing CATALOGUES DEFORESTATION THE PRODUCTION such we are a signatory organisation comprising paper, pulp and timber from to the CGF Deforestation retailers, manufacturers, independently certified AND PAPER PACKAGING OF RSPO‑CERTIFIED SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL Resolution of 2010 palm oil producers, traders sustainable supply chains. 100% for achieving net zero and non‑government Currently, over 70% of our deforestation by 2020. organisations. It sets global products containing these All of the paper used for Our next step is to stretch To achieve this, we will standards for palm oil materials come from sources the nearly 880 million beyond products and sustainably source the production and manages certified by either the catalogues we produced to continue our zero relevant high-impact a certification scheme. Forest Stewardship Council during FY17 came from deforestation practices commodities such as In FY17, all of the palm (FSC) or the Programme sustainable sources. with our packaging. palm oil, timber, pulp and oil used in our own brand for the Endorsement of Within the rest of our To do this we are working paper, and packaging. food products support the Forest Certification (PEFC). business, we procured with our supply chains We are working towards production of RSPO‑certified All of our own brand toilet more than 147,000 to expand the sourcing PAPER, PULP AND TIMBER a 2020 target of sourcing sustainable palm oil. We are paper, tissues and paper reams of paper for office of certified sustainable and PRODUCTS USING these products from working towards ensuring towel are FSC certified. use during FY17, all recycled packaging options. SUSTAINABLY independently certified that all of the palm oil used of it FSC‑certified. This SOURCED represents a more than FORESTRY sustainable supply chains 1. in our own brand formulated MATERIALS non-food products meets 30% reduction in paper >70% third party independent use compared to FY16. certification requirements by 2020. 1 1 Where this is not feasible, we will consider credible offsetting schemes. PLANET: for a healthy environment 32 33 WOOLWORTHS GROUP ANIMAL WELFARE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Quality products start with quality producers, so we’ve taken steps to improve animal welfare across our business. We use the five freedoms to work with our suppliers to implement the most practical and commercially viable standards of animal welfare across our farming supply base. ANIMAL WELFARE PRINCIPLES: COLLABORATION FIVE FREEDOMS WITH FARMERS EGGS AND NGOs • Farmer assurance scheme including food safety, animal welfare, land stewardship and retailer transparency • 13% of total eggs sales are cage free • Removed the sale of caged eggs in our own brand 1 Freedom from hunger and thirst • Ranked higher than any other Australian • Committed to phase out caged eggs retailer in the Business Benchmark For Animal Welfare (BBFAW) by 2025 to align with industry and customer demand PERSONAL CARE AND NEW ZEALAND 100% COSMETIC ANIMAL 2 Freedom from CAGE FREE EGGS BY 2025 WELFARE STANDARDS discomfort POULTRY PORK In August 2016, Countdown launched BIG W’s own brand products are our Egg Producer Program to support produced to high standards of animal 3 • First retailer to launch an industry • 100% of fresh chicken is certified RSPCA standard 'Pork Blueprint' Freedom from free range and barn egg farmers. welfare. BIG W does not use animal • Our world class PigSafe pens include pain, injury This provides farmers with an testing on its own brand products, • All own brand products containing chicken as an ingredient to be RSPCA sloped walls for piglet protection or disease opportunity to increase their investment including personal care and cosmetics. during sow lying events, nesting certified by 2020 material for maternal instincts and in free range and barn egg capacity BIG W has also committed to not sell any heated bedding area for piglets with certainty, as we are committed products made from angora wool due to take future supply through to the animal welfare concerns of the individual partnership agreements. process of fibre removal from rabbits. 4 Freedom to This year, we announced that we are BEEF AND express normal aiming to be 100% cage-free in North DAIRY behaviour LAMB Island retail stores by the end of 2024, and across the rest of New Zealand by the end of 2025. We are the first • First retailer to have a higher welfare • 100% of beef and lamb sourced from national retailer to make this move, and 5 standard for dairying Australia and New Zealand it extends our earlier commitment to • New animal welfare standard developed for Farmers 0wn which • 230,000 tonnes of grass fed beef p.a. Freedom from transition to free range and barn only in will benefit 8,703 cows p.a. • 13,000 tonnes of organic lamb p.a. fear and distress our own brand eggs by the end of 2022. PLANET: for a healthy environment 34 35 13 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE: Reduce Woolworths ENERGY AND Group’s carbon emissions CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 to 10 per cent below 2015 levels. CARBON INITIATIVES Our immediate target is to ‘Reduce Woolworths Group’s carbon emissions to 10 per cent below 2015 levels.’ In response to the Paris Agreement, we will use science-based targets to assess the impacts of a two-degree world, and examine their applicability to our Group. This work will be undertaken during the coming financial year. 2017 CARBON EMISSIONS EMISSION REDUCTION FUND Woolworths Group has ENERGY EFFICIENCY COUNCIL AWARDS Project Enlighten won the GREENER DEVELOPMENTS To keep our future and current 11% below 2015 levels successfully registered Energy Efficiency Council’s developments as green as two programs under the Leading Energy User award possible, we became a member Federal Government's for 2016. The National of the Green Building Council of Emission Reduction Fund. Energy Efficiency Awards Australia in 2017. Our property These programs look to help are Australia's highest development division, Fabcot, the Federal Government profile honours dedicated has committed to obtaining meet their 2030 Climate to excellence in energy a Green Star performance Change Target by reducing efficiency. Project Enlighten, rating for currently owned carbon emissions. an ambitious program of LED retail centres. And for future developments, we are aiming Project Enlighten utilises lighting, refrigeration and to achieve an even higher WAREHOUSE A FOCUS ON WATER energy conservation measures air-conditioning upgrades Green Star rating by using the SKYLIGHTS SOLAR TO MANAGE RISK has delivered annual energy (such as LED lighting, learnings and initiatives passed savings equivalent to powering on from other market leaders. HVAC and lighting controls 36 supermarkets that help To reduce BIG W’s carbon We have been investing We will work with our optimisation) to reduce We have committed to opening offset rising energy costs. emission, we have introduced in renewable energy and suppliers to build capacity carbon emissions, whilst our a new supermarket and Dan As well as the great energy skylights in warehouses, as will investigate further to manage risks such Source Separated Organic Murphy's store in the Burwood benefits, Project Enlighten well as upgrading in‑store cost‑effective investment as as water shortages and Waste Diversion project was Brickworks development. With also delivers an enhanced lighting to LED bulbs – reducing technology and commercial droughts, which could affect rolled out to Woolworths an ambitious sustainability in-store experience for energy use by approximately opportunities evolve. We are commodity supply and prices. supermarkets to help reduce agenda for the project, the our customers and team 15% per store. To date, we looking at the broad application This work has begun and will organics ending up in landfill goal is for the development to – a true win-win outcome. have 13 stores upgraded to the of solar across our business be completed during FY18. where they produce harmful become the most sustainable gases as they decompose. shopping centre in the world. new LED bulbs. We are also and are about to commission The sustainability will be shifting more traffic from truck a 1.2MW solar install (3,344 measured by the Living Building routes to rail where possible, panels) at our new DC in Challenge – an initiative of the removing over 6,000 truck Melbourne South. This will International Living Future movements per year. double our installed solar PV Institute based in Seattle. capacity to over 2.4MW. PLANET: for a healthy environment 36 37 14 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE: Innovate with natural ENERGY AND refrigerants and reduce CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 refrigerant leakage in our stores by 15 per cent of CO2-e below 2015 levels. CARBON INITIATIVES Running our refrigeration systems is a material contributor to the carbon footprint of our businesses. We are investing in new technologies to reduce the impact of this critical part of our business. Even though our overall refrigerant leakage for FY17 increased, the encouraging reductions in recent months gives us confidence that we will achieve our 2020 goal as our initiatives take effect. Refrigerant CARBON INTENSITY (t CO2-e/SQUARE METERS) management 0.81 0.76 0.74 0.76 0.70 As a business, we depend on refrigeration, so it’s in our best interests to make sure we are using the most advanced and sustainable technology to run it. Our 2020 target is to ‘Innovate with natural refrigerants and reduce refrigerant leakage in our stores by 15% of CO2-e 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 below 2015 levels.’ We’ll do this by implementing leakage reduction initiatives and by replacing existing refrigeration systems with hybrid (R134a and CO2) or HFC-free systems. We’ve recently opened the first Australian Woolworths ENERGY INTENSITY supermarket at Greenway Village in Colebee with (GJ/SQUARE METERS) transcritical CO2 refrigeration. The system uses 100% natural refrigerants that have no global warming potential. Transcritical refrigeration systems have a lot more waste 3.0 2.9 2.9 heat available for store heating, water heating, under floor 2.8 2.7 heating, and even store cooling. Countdown in New Zealand 2017 has also embraced this technology, operating transcritical REFRIGERANT systems in four stores (as well as two of our FreshChoice LEAKAGE 11% stores). Going forward, all new Countdown stores will have transcritical systems, utilising natural refrigerants. Another new technology we are using in our stores is waterloop refrigeration. It offers a reduction in refrigerant charge and refrigerant leak rates compared to standard supermarket systems. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 above 2015 levels PROSPERITY 38 39 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Founded on trusted relationships CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We are a trusted business partner to thousands of suppliers. We will continue to foster these positive relationships, give back to the communities we serve, and continue to build trust with our customers by providing quality products and doing the right thing by people and the planet. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 40 41 15 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT WORKING WITH We will achieve a top quartile ranking in how we engage OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 fairly and equitably with our suppliers as measured by independent supplier surveys. PARTNERS We believe our relationships with our suppliers are a huge part of our success. Building strong long-term partnerships through fair and equitable dealings will foster trust and innovation. These positives relationships will in turn provide our customers with the best possible products in the most sustainable way. REWARDING OUTSTANDING UNDERSTANDING SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUPPLIERS PRACTICES VOICE OF SUPPLIER In order to better understand our Woolworths Supermarkets continues to suppliers, we continue to work closely with the Advantage Group, provide business updates to its supplier base twice yearly, and recognises best COUNTRY OF BUYER & SUPPLIER an independent body that measures in class performance at our Supplier of ORIGIN LABELLING PRINCIPLES BIG W has committed to holding a supplier conference every business relationship perceptions and the Year awards. In 2016 awards were six months. This will inform benchmarks these against industry handed out in 23 categories, including, key suppliers with business peers. In 2017 we made good progress on for the first time, Sustainable Supplier of We firmly agree that Our Endeavour Drinks’ plans, performance updates, our 2020 commitment to achieve a top the Year and Organic Suppler of the Year. customers should have as Good Buyer and Supplier and address any key issues from quartile ranking in how we engage fairly much information as possible Principles set standards for the VOS survey. Our Sustainable Supplier of the Year about where their food our buyers to follow when and equitably with our suppliers, with Award encourages our suppliers to comes from. We were the dealing with suppliers. some encouraging improvements across further develop their business models first supermarket to label our The purpose is that all the business: supermarkets moved from to be environmentally conscious. own brand products when parties act with fairness the 4th quartile to the 2nd quartile (up By nurturing these changes for good, the Federal Government and transparency. This is eight places), BWS moved from the we aim to increase best practice SUPPLIER 4th quartile to the 2nd quartile (up six introduced the Country in support of our landmark sustainability across a wide range of Origin Labelling reforms 2014 agreement with the CHARTER places) and Langton’s moved into the first of industries and filter these practices in 2016. We are proudly Winemakers’ Federation quartile (up 15 places). A key contributor through our supply chains. Our 2016 going beyond the minimum of Australia. Using tools was the introduction of Voice of Supplier winner was Natures Organics for Food legal requirements, and are such as our supplier portal, In March 2017, Countdown (VOS) across the Group: a pulse survey Waste and & Packaging. The Company labelling all of our own brand we work to make sure all launched its Supplier Charter, independently managed by the Advantage outlining principles for conducting demonstrated admirable results in products including compliant suppliers, both big and small, Group. VOS provides regular feedback supplier relationships and its recycling program, including using labelling online. have a chance to range their which has allowed us to understand our including a dispute resolution over 1.7 tonnes of recycled plastic products in our stores. suppliers and address concerns in a more process. The Charter frames the to manufacture 42.4 million bottles timely manner. expectations we have our own during FY16. team and our suppliers regarding how we do business together. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 42 43 16 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT WORKING WITH We will focus on a best practice compliance system according to the Global Social OUR BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Compliance Program. We will collaborate with peak organisations to improve OVERSEAS PARTNERS workers’ lives. REMEDY WORKERS As a signatory of the 2015 Australian All of our fresh produce suppliers have As a modern-day retailer, we are constantly faced with complex Business Pledge against Forced Labour, now undergone verification checks against issues when sourcing goods through our extensive supply we have acknowledged a responsibility to our Policy for Employing or Engaging chain. Our goal is: “We will focus on a best practice compliance identify and address any confirmed instances Overseas Workers. Whilst these checks of forced labour in our supply chain. revealed a high rate of compliance, we system according to the Global Social Compliance Program.” Effective remedy requires multi -stakeholder are striving to continuously improve our engagement and we are working together management of this important issue and Improving with other Pledge signatories to examine best we are currently reviewing our policy, with practice approaches to remedy. engagement and input from our suppliers. ETHICAL AUDIT STATUS 1 (PER SITE) working conditions BUILDING CAPACITY ENABLING AT SPENCER SUPPLIER FASHIONS EXCELLENCE Woolworths is committed to respecting human rights for our own team members and the workers in our supply chain in Our BIG W Asia supply chain team During the year, we launched our new alignment with the principles and guidance contained in the has continued to focus on safety Supplier Excellence Program to improve  Conditionally approved 79.5% improvements to make sure that both new the quality and product safety standards United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human  Approved 18.5% Rights. We are evolving our approach to management of human  At‑risk 2.0% and existing suppliers comply and adhere across our extensive global sourcing rights in our supply chain and we expect that this will be a multito our ethical sourcing policy. This includes network. The launch included a series year journey. We are committed to transparent reporting of our our work with the Bangladesh Accord, of roadshows in Australia and Asia, progress each year in our Corporate Responsibility Report. where we have achieved an overall including Shenzhen, Bangkok and company ranking of 99/206. The current Shanghai. The program has streamlined We have commenced a Group-wide holistic review of our CORRECTIVE ACTION remediation progress rating is sitting our quality processes, applying clear ethical sourcing practices to help us reach our 2020 goal, PLAN SEVERITY 1 at 81%, well above the overall average standards and a risk-based approach. and have become members of SEDEX, a global non-profit (PER NON‑CONFORMANCE) progress rating for all members of 77%. This includes supplier excellence organisation for sharing responsible sourcing data on supply Spencer Fashions is a small manufacturer of standards, industry standards and codes chains. As part of our review project, we will assess potential men’s denim in Bangladesh. It has supplied of practice, as well as a specific code human rights risks through the full scope of our value chain: BIG W for many years. BIG W is the lead of practice for employing or engaging inside our organisation, tier 1 suppliers down to raw material brand responsible for this factory under overseas workers for our domestic supply suppliers, and also including distribution and warehousing. the Bangladesh Accord agreement, so chain in Australia and New Zealand. We will use the outcomes of this assessment to determine our areas of focus, in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles, we wished to enable the growth of this which encourage the prioritisation of salient issues and risks. company. During our close relationship with this key supplier, we have recently worked We expect all suppliers to comply with our ethical sourcing together to improve the factory and its policy, which has a compliance audit program for factories working conditions. This included improving making our own brand products. We engage experienced  Major 816 the factory layout, which has helped improve third-party certification bodies to conduct the audits and  Minor 230 the work flow and reduce wasted material to rate factories as approved, conditionally approved or at risk.  Critical 41 handling. Improvements are continuing Factories at risk or that need critical corrective actions cannot and we are very happy to have helped build start production for Woolworths until these issues are resolved. capacity in this partner manufacturer. 1 More details on our Ethical Sourcing Policy can be found at: https://www.woolworthsgroup. com.au/page/community-and-responsibility/ group-responsibility/responsibile-sourcing/ Labour_Practices_in_our_global_supply_chain/ PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 17 44 45 COMMITMENT WOOLWORTHS GROUP MAKING AN IMPACT We will invest the equivalent of 1 per cent of a three‑year NT: CHRISTMAS QLD: HELPING QLD: FLYING NSW: rolling average of total Group Earnings Before Interest IN DARWIN SICK KIDS DOCTORS WHITE RIBBON CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 and Tax (EBIT) in community partnerships and programs. With over 3,500 locations, Woolworths Group is part of the Woolworths supported Woolworths stores across In FY17 EDG, through Woolworths has been fabric of society and we are proud to be an important contributor the Christmas in Darwin supporting the Children’s Queensland and Northern BWS and Dan Murphy’s, to communities across Australia and New Zealand. Association to stage Hospital Foundation NSW threw their support raised a total of $480K the Darwin Carols by to save lives, lessen the behind the Royal Flying to support White Ribbon’s Our goal is to contribute the equivalent of at least 1% of our pre-tax Candlelight, spreading hurt and help sick kids Doctors Service (Qld work towards stopping Christmas cheer to to heal. Our partnership Section). FY17 was our violence against women. profits on a three-year rolling average every year to the communities in Territorians. has spanned 30 years and most successful year in which we operate. Throughout this year, all of our brands have made an raised $50 million. this partnership, raising NZ: KAIKOURA impact – by assisting those affected by natural disasters, helping sick more than $660,000. EARTHQUAKE kids, or bringing a little bit of good to our customers and communities through our involvement in local events, both big and small. NSW: FARM TO FORK The Kaikoura earthquake DIRECT COMMUNITY ACT: on 14 November 2016 INVESTMENTS OUR COMMUNITY KIDS IN NEED had a local and national impact. Immediately CONTRIBUTION 1 AS % Woolworths is a major OF EBIT 2 ON A ROLLING sponsor of the Sydney following the earthquake, CASH AVERAGE BASIS Royal Easter Show. eight Countdown stores 1.1% DONATIONS Woolworths has worked Together with the Royal were closed, along with NORTHERN with Variety, the Children’s Agricultural Society the Palmerston North $6.3M TERRITORY Charity for several years of NSW, Woolworths Distribution Centre. to assist children and their supported a new interactive We supported those families in need all over exhibit in 2017 to take impacted through our NSW and the ACT. children on a paddock support of the Red Cross QUEENSLAND Kaikorua Earthquake WESTERN to plate adventure to learn WA: more about where their appeal. We kicked started AUSTRALIA IN KIND TELETHON food comes from. our customer appeal SOUTH for the Red Cross with a AUSTRALIA $25,000 donation, and $17.3M Countdown customers Woolworths stores donated $19,633.47. in Western Australia supported the Telethon NEW SOUTH NZ: EDGECUMBE Institute for Child Health WALES FLOODS Research and Perth’s Princess Margaret Hospital TEAM MEMBER Foundation by fundraising NZ: TIME year-round to help sick kids. In response to the major CHRISTMAS flooding in Edgecumbe in $9.0M NEW ZEALAND April 2017, Countdown VICTORIA supported the NZ Red Cross Bay of Plenty For the majority of Kiwis, Floods Appeal 2017. Christmas is a time of WA: BIG W’S TASMANIA festivity, warmth, joy and BIG HEART celebration, however this is not the case for DIRECT COMMUNITY VIC: GOOD everyone. Thousands of INVESTMENT TOTALLING SA: RAISING FRIDAY APPEAL VIC: VERY TAS: struggling families and individuals in need find $32.6M Our BIG W BIG Heart Appeal has been running FUNDS FOR SPECIAL KIDS GIVE ME 5 the Christmas season for 15 years. The Appeal VARIETY FOR KIDS incredibly stressful. supports the Sydney Woolworths stores in Countdown supports The Children’s Hospital in local communities across TAS: Salvation Army with the Randwick (NSW), The Victoria have raised over The ALH Group has been KIDS DAY OUT Christmas Food Rescue Royal Children’s Hospital Together with Variety, $20 million over our a major partner of the Woolworths store teams Appeal. Each Countdown LEVERAGED Foundation (Qld), The we presented Adelaide 30 year partnership with annual Very Special Kids and customers fundraised store donates $500 worth FUNDRAISING Bone Health Foundation North Special School with the Good Friday Appeal, fundraising event since for Give Me 5 For Kids of groceries ($91,500 in Inc (SA), The Royal a new Sunshine Coach which aims to help make 2012 and has raised Woolworths sponsored total) and shoppers are to support sick children $19.1M Children’s Hospital (Vic) to help children who use a difference to the lives of more than $2.4 million the “Kid I Am” event in encouraged to donate and their families in and the Princess Margaret wheelchairs to get out sick children at the Royal through its network Launceston, a great kidadditional groceries and/ times of need. Hospital Foundation (WA). in the community. Children’s Hospital. of 88 Victorian venues. focussed family day out. or money to the cause. Note: map is not to scale. 1 Excludes leveraged funds. 2 Before significant items. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 46 47 18 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT GIVING BACK TO We will publicly report social impact to quantify THE COMMUNITIES the positive changes we are CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 creating with a focus on health, economic development and emergency relief. IN WHICH WE OPERATE Cyclone TOGETHER WE S.T.A.N.D. Debbie Woolworths has supported The Queensland State Government The Salvation Army since asked The Salvation Army to play 1954. Over the past five a key role in the Cyclone Debbie years we have averaged emergency response effort. more than $2 million The Salvation Army launched an a year in contributions, appeal to provide disaster recovery with a further $3 million assistance to households affected. a year donated by our At the peak of response efforts, customers. Our ongoing they were providing immediate LT. COL. NEIL VENABLES formal partnership is called assistance from six hubs in NATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SECRETARY S.T.A.N.D. (Support Queensland and five centres in Through Australian Natural NSW. S.T.A.N.D.‑donated funds Disasters) and provides were used to provide direct The S.T.A.N.D. initiative has been a way to bring together two brands that have a strong presence in local natural disaster response, assistance in the form of cash communities all over Australia. In 2017, we really saw the benefits of this strong partnership with exrecovery and resilience grants, vouchers, counselling Tropical Cyclone Debbie devastating communities in Queensland and Northern New South Wales. With works in the community. services and goods to help the support of Woolworths, we were able to provide immediate on-the-ground support in the form of gift Operating at two levels, those affected. cards, meals to disaster affected people and emergency crews, and the manning of recovery centres.” we collect year-round The Salvation Army continued to work with individuals, contributions, and provide businesses, families and communities on the ground through a higher level of engagement local centres, community recovery hubs, and by partnering if disaster strikes. We are with government and non-government agencies. With the continuing our commitment support of Woolworths, Salvation Army recovery volunteers MAJOR BRYCE DAVIES through staff engagement COMMUNITIES OF HOPE COORDINATOR, and local teams supported communities with immediate SALVATION ARMY VOLUNTEER IN PROSERPINE FOR EX-TROPICAL CYCLONE DEBBIE and initiatives such as relief and assistance in the form of psychosocial support, volunteering at times as well as material assistance in the form of EFTPOS cards, of disaster and offering various store gift cards and EFT payment grants. In total, the senior staff to act as “A mother with four young children had spent the night trying to stop debris and howling winds Salvos received $196,421 in registered donations. S.T.A.N.D. from coming in through her smashed windows. When she came to the recovery centre and we strategic advisors to water raised $11,470, and $446,500 worth of Woolworths The Salvos’ operations. handed her $250 worth of Woolworths vouchers, she just burst into tears. It’s so nice to be able gift vouchers were handed out to people in need. to give something.” Woolworths Group CEO Brad Banducci, Salvation Army Chief Secretary in Charge Colonel Mark Campbell and S.T.A.N.D. ambassador Adam Goodes launch S.T.A.N.D., 8 November 2016. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 48 49 18 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT GIVING BACK TO We will publicly report social impact to quantify THE COMMUNITIES the positive changes we are CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 creating with a focus on health, economic development and emergency relief. IN WHICH WE OPERATE As the fresh food people, we are passionate about using our resources and skills to partner with the communities that we are part of to improve the health and wellbeing of our customers. Foodbank Jamie's Ministry of Food Australia “Foodbank is Australia’s largest food relief organisation, “With a vision to lead the transformation of Australia’s food providing 63 million meals a year. By our side for 15 years, habits, it is through the support of Woolworths that we have Woolworths is the single biggest retailer donor of food been able to teach over 37,000 participants nationally how to and groceries, donating more than 15 million kilograms cook from scratch using fresh ingredients. We have increased our to date. With food waste in Australia being at dire straits, participants’ skills, knowledge and confidence to cook and have Woolworths has also been partnering with us to seek provided information during the course on budgeting, seasonality solutions to reduce this problem. From fighting hunger, and the health benefits of cooking” says Felicia Mariani, CEO The to fundraising and sustainability – we couldn’t do what Good Foundation and Jamie’s Ministry of Food. we do without the wonderful support of Woolworths.” Woolworths has been integral to the success of this program Brianna Casey, CEO Foodbank Australia by providing fresh ingredients nationally since 2014. “Our partnership with Woolworths has opened up a range “This year alone, Woolworths has enabled participants to of ways to source the food and groceries needed in order learn how simple it is to cook with eggs by donating 29,452 to change the lives of vulnerable Australians. With the help eggs. We’ve cooked over 6,423 omelettes and taught people of Woolies, Foodbank is able to capture fresh and staple aged between 12–96 years how to cook up over 3,205 roast food items, which ensures Foodbank’s warehouses all chickens with all the vegetable trimmings.” said Felicia. over Australia are always packed to the brim with delicious Learning to cook used to be a skill passed on from generation products. Woolworths has made a big impact, and for that, to generation. The success of this program is how it is we can’t thank them enough.” changing the way people feed themselves and their families. Phil Riley, Warehouse Manager Foodbank NSW & ACT With programs running during 2017 in Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia, Woolworths Food Group Head of Sustainability Adrian Cullen and Brianna Casey, CEO we have connected with communities across the country. Foodbank Australia. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 50 51 19 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT CREATING SHARED We will achieve leading customer satisfaction VALUE WITH OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 scores. WIMMERS QUEENSLAND CUSTOMERS Wimmers Soft Drinks are an iconic Queensland soft drink brand that has been enjoyed by thirsty Queenslanders since 1910. In 2016, Wimmers were one of the first local suppliers in Queensland to be Voice of Customer (VOC) scores are a key indicator for our team to measure our performance. ranged under the Local Sourcing Program, supplying 12 stores around In FY17, customers have reacted positively to our initiatives in Australian Food with our their Sunshine Coast factory. Today, Wimmers Soft Drinks are store‑controllable VOC score improving significantly to finish the year at record levels of 81% and stocked in almost 150 stores across Queensland. The products have we achieved record Net Promoter Scores (NPS) and VOC scores in both Dan Murphy’s and BWS. prime position, along with brand-specific signage to highlight the Our Countdown team also achieved new highs in its customer satisfaction scores throughout the year. brand and the local relevance. Catering for locals GROCERY – BRANDED AUSTRALIAN SOURCED AND OWN BRAND SHELF FRESH PRODUCTS 1 (%) KEEPING UNITS (SKUs) (%) ORGANICANDRAW DALY'S POTATO CO McLAREN VALE, Over the past year, we have been working to not only MARION BAY, TASMANIA SOUTH AUSTRALIA expand our range of locally-sourced products, but to also make sure our stores have ranges that are locally relevant for their customers. A good example of this is what we Sue and Gerard Daly have MOJO Kombucha, made by have achieved in our Glen Huntly store. been supplying us with loose Organic and Raw, originally Customers of Woolworths Glen Huntly asked for a range potatoes for over 30 years. commenced business with more relevant to their local community – a larger Kosher In an effort to become a us in 2015 in 11 stores in 1 2 3 4 range. Over the past year we have been working with new and more sustainable business Adelaide. Their traditional 1 Meat 100.0%  Branded 91.6% existing Kosher suppliers to cater for our Jewish customers. and eliminate food waste, style kombucha was 2 Fruit and Vegetables 96.6%  WOW own brand label 8.4% With one of the largest Jewish populations in Melbourne, Daly's Potato Co started spot‑on trend and very 3 Bakery 88.0% producing potato salads topical with customers, 4 Fish and seafood 68.7% Glen Huntly is a test store, and will lead the way for us to move into more stores with a similar demographic. With the and roast potatoes. The so we’ve continued to add introduction of approximately 129 new Kosher products over beautiful potato salads more lines to the range. the past year, feedback has been overwhelmingly positive. were introduced into our Last financial year saw sales GROCERY – BRANDED AND Tasmanian Woolworths of over 600,000 units, with OWN BRAND GROCERY – OWN BRAND SALES (%) stores in 2016 and the distribution of selected lines AUSTRALIAN SOURCED 1 (%) roast potatoes launched now in hundreds of stores Sourcing locally in August 2017. across all states. We listen to our customers, so in 2014 when 52% told us that buying local food is extremely important to them, we launched our 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Local Sourcing Program. Our team of state-based local sourcing 1 Macro 81.5% managers search for products that are grown or produced 2 WOW branded own label 60.3% locally in their home state. Since launching the program, we have 3 Select 70.9%  Branded 84.1% validated nearly 3,000 products and added over 500 to our 4 Homebrand 57.9%  WOW own brand label 15.9% range from 66 new suppliers. This is in addition to approximately 5 Essentials 75.7% 6 Gold 48.1% 97% of our fresh fruit and vegetables being Australian grown. 7 Total 67.6% 1 In Australian supermarkets. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 52 53 20 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT MAKING IT We will inspire our INCREASING EASIER TO CHOOSE customers to consume all CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 of our products in a healthy, FRUIT AND HEALTHIER HEALTH STAR sustainable way. VEGETABLES NEW ZEALAND RATING HEALTHIER OPTIONS Thanks to lower market When the NZ government Over 80% of our own brand costs, we’ve seen lower launched the Obesity range has the voluntary We are committed to making healthy choices easier for our customers. In 2015, shelf prices for fresh Action Plan in 2016, the NZ health star rating on front produce, which has resulted team pledged to commit to of pack. That’s more Woolworths and Countdown were the first national retailers to give away free in increased purchases. health and nutrition targets. than 2,000 products. fruit to any child shopping with an adult. In the last 12 months, we have given Berries are up 27%, Solano This includes nutrition Our customer research away $10 million worth of free fruit, which is equivalent to 20 million pieces! tomatoes grew by 70% and renovations, at least one found shoppers like the broccolini by 28% from last confectionery free checkout simplicity of the health year. Customers are also in 95% of stores, nutrition star ratings to make ‘at Healthier own brand buying more convenient information on the website a glance’ choices. These options too, with single and health stars on front of ratings appeal to time poor and double serve salad pack. We will continue to shoppers and those less bowl and tub sales growing provide free fruit for kids confident in their food by over 25%. and healthy food inspiration health knowledge. Families through Feed Four for $15. see the benefit of making it easy to point out healthier We are committed to improving the nutritional profile of our own brand foods. choices to children. In FY17 we achieved: FOOD AND HEALTH DIALOGUE BEST READY MADE MEAL In 2009, we adopted the Food and Health Dialogue targets, a joint government and food industry initiative focused on reducing the sodium Judged by Accredited THE content of foods from nine commonly consumed categories. This year we met all targets when we completed a 20% salt reduction across Practising Dietitians, EDUCATING NUTRITION HEALTHY FOOD Delicious Nutritious Beef seven hams and 30% salt reduction in Woolworths cheese slices. and Tomato Casserole won TEAMS EXPERTS PARTNERSHIP the Healthy Food Guide’s Healthy Eating Award for the best ready meal category. 120+ NUTRITION own brand We are showing our We have a team of Woolworths is an invited RENOVATIONS foods with teams how to become accredited nutritionists member of Healthy Food healthy lifestyle advocates. to guide healthier product Partnership, a joint initiative RETAINING THE Our internal health development, food labelling between government, 195 tonnes less salt GOODNESS and nutrition events and communications help to and communications. Transparent labelling, industry, retailers and public health advocates 100 tonnes less saturated fat There are no artificial give our team members the skills and knowledge the removal of additives and an improved nutritional to improve the dietary habits of all Australians they need to successfully profile of our products help by making healthy food 200 colours or flavours or MSG in any own brand foods. shop and eat healthier. our customers to make choices easier. tonnes less sugar There are 1,000 tonnes better‑informed choices 8 more whole grains when shopping. billion less kilojoules in 16 own brand foods. PROSPERITY: founded on trusted relationships 54 55 20 WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT RESPONSIBLE We will inspire our RESPONSIBLE SERVICE OF customers to consume all CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 of our products in a healthy, GAMBLING sustainable way. ALCOHOL To be a responsible provider of electronic gambling services, As a retailer of alcoholic beverages, we are conscious of our we focus on setting limits, staff education and training, obligations to address the issues of responsible drinking and and partnerships. Our Hotel and Gaming Charter clearly the responsible service, ranging, sale and marketing of alcohol. demonstrates our commitment to responsible gambling. Keeping Darwin safe DRINKING RESPONSIBLY RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING AMBASSADOR VOLUNTARY PRE-COMMITMENT Endeavour Drinks is a funding supporter of DrinkWise – an independent, not-for-profit organisation For seven years, we have worked with David This system is a cornerstone for our whose primary focus is to help bring about a healthier When the Safer City Program launched and safer drinking culture in Australia. DrinkWise Schwarz, a well-known former professional responsible gambling strategy. It allows in Darwin, BWS was invited to attend by develops and implements a range of national AFL footballer and reformed problem gambler. gamblers to nominate a limit before they the city’s Lord Mayor, Katrina Fong Lim. information and education campaigns, as well David is our Responsible Gambling Ambassador. start using our machines. The launch event brought together various as providing practical resources to help inform leading members of the community to look and support the community about alcohol use. at the supply of alcohol in Darwin, and to work in close collaboration with the liquor industry to monitor and regulate it. As a result, the program initiated the Darwin Inner City RESPONSIBLE RANGING SELF‑EXCLUSION PROGRAM Packaged Liquor Accord. We pride ourselves on the quality and extent Our Self-Exclusion Program helps people who of our range but there are some drinks we don’t have decided to limit their access to gaming Serving alcohol stock because we’ve found they appeal to people machines to implement that decision. who shouldn’t be drinking and/or encourage responsibly people to drink too much. We never stock a drink item if its advertising and packaging makes a direct, unambiguous appeal to young people, or encourages excessive consumption. RESPONSIBLE We are very strict when enforcing the rules GAMBLING TRAINING regarding alcohol. To keep young people safe, we have a policy to make sure all patrons of our RESPONSIBLE MARKETING hotels and liquor outlets are checked for ID if they appear under 25. We are also very diligent We have implemented a mandatory online if there’s a chance alcohol could be purchased for As the first retail signatory to the Alcohol Beverage responsible gambling training module for a minor or if people are already intoxicated. All Advertising Code (ABAC), our advertising campaigns all relevant employees, teaching them how staff receive regular RSA training updates from never step outside community standards, will never to approach and interact with customers programs we have developed ourselves, many of target young people, and will not encourage people showing signs of problem gambling. who shouldn’t be drinking to do so. All our exclusive which have gone on to be adopted industry-wide. and own brand liquor brands follow and comply with the ABAC. Our efforts are supported and outlined in our Charter for Ranging Alcohol. 56 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS BY BUSINESS UNIT WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WOOLWORTHS GROUP ENDEAVOUR DRINKS Woolworths Group Endeavour Drinks Women in leadership 12 Environmentally Jawun Indigenous Community Buyer & Supplier principles 41 Closing the gap 13 responsible sourcing 28 Secondment Program 17 Keeping Darwin safe 54 Reflecting the communities we serve 14 Net zero deforestation 30 Confined spaces training 19 Serving alcohol responsibly 54 Recruitment, training and research 15 Palm oil 30 Lightening the load 19 Drinking responsibly 54 Sustainable engagement 15 Paper, pulp and timber 30 BWS and Mardi Gras partnership 21 Responsible ranging 54 Resourcing the future 16 Catalogues and paper 31 Waste to energy 27 Responsible marketing 54 Indigenous talent development Zero Deforestation Packaging 31 strategy17 Emission Reduction Fund 34 Focusing on mental health 18 Greener developments 34 Preventing pedestrian accidents 19 Solar35 Truck brake alert 19 A focus on water to manage risk 35 LGBTI community support 20 Refrigerant management 36 NEW ZEALAND FOOD The end of the plastic bag 26 Understanding our suppliers 40 Improved recycle logo 27 Improving working conditions 42 New Zealand Food Remedy43 Equal opportunities 13 Working with industry and English language support 15 influential stakeholders – Fairtrade Macro Coffee 29 Natural disaster preparation 19 New Zealand 100% cage free Countdown’s transgender policy 21 eggs by 2025 33 Reducing food waste in New Zealand 25 Supplier Charter 41 Recyclable meat trays 27 Healthier New Zealand 53 AUSTRALIAN FOOD Woolworths Supermarkets LGBTIQ winners 20 Foodbank48 Reducing food waste in Australia 24 Jamie’s Ministry of Food Australia 49 PORTFOLIO BUSINESSES OzHarvest25 Catering for locals 50 Own brand packaging 26 Sourcing locally 50 Wimmers Queensland 51 BIG W Soft plastics program 27 Sustainable fish and seafood 28 Daly’s Potato Co Marion Bay, Tasmania51 Embracing change 12 Warehouse skylights 35 Working with industry and influential stakeholders Organic and Raw ‘Lets Talk Gender’ 21 Voice of supplier 41 – Fairtrade Macro Coffee 29 McLaren Vale, South Australia 51 Personal Care and Cosmetic Building capacity at Animal welfare 32 Healthier own brand 52 Animal welfare standards 33 Spencer Fashions 43 Energy Efficiency Council Awards 34 Food and Health Dialogue 52 Rewarding outstanding Best Ready Made Meal 52 sustainability practices 40 Retaining the goodness 52 Country of origin labelling 41 Increasing fruit and vegetables 53 Overseas workers 43 Health Star Rating 53 Hotels Enabling supplier excellence 43 Educating Teams 53 Together we S.T.A.N.D. 46 Nutrition experts 53 Responsible Gambling Ambassador 55 Self‑Exclusion Program 55 Cyclone Debbie 46 The Healthy Food Partnership 53 Voluntary pre-commitment 55 Responsible gambling training 55 58 59 Value WOOLWORTHS GROUP COMMITMENT 9 WOOLWORTHS GROUP Towards zero food waste COMMITMENT 1 At least 40% women executives Chain COMMITMENT 2 No gender salary gap CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 COMMITMENT 13 10% emissions reduction COMMITMENT 14 15% refrigerant leakage reduction COMMITMENT 3 Unconscious bias training Our Corporate Responsibility COMMITMENT 4 Strategy addresses emerging COMMITMENT 15 COMMITMENT 11 True cultural diversity reflection Independent supplier survey issues from an understanding top quartile ranking Sustainable sourcing COMMITMENT 7 of the global trends that are Safe workplace shaping business through COMMITMENT 12 COMMITMENT 8 Achieve Gold Tier AWEI to 2020 and beyond. Deforestation reduction COMMITMENT 16 COMMITMENT 5 Develop a best practice 2% Indigenous Store These emerging issues include the compliance system Operations team members increasingly connected and diverse to improve workers' lives COMMITMENT 15 Independent supplier survey communities from which our customers top quartile ranking COMMITMENT 6 2% Indigenous Graduate intake and team members are drawn, concerns for responsible and ethical supply COMMITMENT 17 relationships, food and water supply COMMITMENT 16 Invest 1% EBIT in community security, and climate change, water and COMMITMENT 10 Develop a best practice Improve recyclability compliance system to improve COMMITMENT 18 COMMITMENT 20 COMMITMENT 9 waste management. At the same time, of own brand packaging workers' lives Report on social impact Inspire healthy choices Zero food waste the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals define global sustainable development priorities and aspirations for 2030 and seek to mobilise global efforts around a common set of goals and targets. Reflecting our operation within a global community, our commitments and interaction with the United Nations 2030 Sustainable Development Goals are mapped here along our value chain. PRODUCTION & This ensures that our efforts deliver PROCUREMENT OPERATIONS CONSUMPTION END OF LIFE value to our stakeholders. PROCESSING Our strategy is Group-wide with clear targets and commitments for the business divisions. A materiality assessment that involved comprehensive internal and external stakeholder engagement, document review and landscape analysis SUPERMARKETS SUPERMARKETS SUPERMARKETS SUPERMARKETS was conducted to develop our priorities. Low price and value for money Labour rights in the supply chain, Supplier relationships Employee conditions, wellbeing animal rights and communications Product quality, safety, Acknowledging that key issues vary across Environmentally availability and range Local sourcing responsible sourcing Energy and emissions reduction our business divisions, we have identified Partners with the community Understanding and responding the most important issues for each. to customer needs Each business division will develop more BIG W detailed implementation plans on how they ENDEAVOUR DRINKS Labour rights in the supply chain, will achieve these targets. animal rights ALH GROUP Responsible gambling Range of alcohol Responsible marketing and service of alcohol Partners with the community 60 61 SUSTAINABILITY METRICS WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 TOTAL CO2 EMISSIONS (t CO2-e) 1 EMISSIONS FROM FACILITIES (t CO2-e) 1 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 TOTAL ALH ALH 15,987 226,133 29,285 271,405 BIG W BIG W 13,466 142,846 25,325 181,638 BWS BWS 5,208 20,001 3,758 28,967 Corporate Corporate 414 36,690 5,789 42,892 Dan Murphys Dan Murphy’s 9,115 44,590 6,374 60,079 FABCOT 22 5,245 730 5,997 FABCOT Logistics 342 85,385 11,649 97,376 Logistics Masters – 39,191 14,663 53,855 Masters PEL 76,835 36,078 18,874 131,787 PEL Petrol 2,125 40,131 7,677 49,932 Petrol Supermarkets 537,529 1,616,722 311,328 2,465,580 Supermarkets Thomas Dux 477 1,873 350 2,701 Thomas Dux Grand total 661,521 2,294,885 435,802 3,392,209 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 2015 2016 2017 TRANSPORT EMISSIONS BY USE (t CO2-e) 1 END USE AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND ELECTRICITY USE (MWh) 1 Business travel 3,772 2,178 Home delivery 5,717 – ALH Logistics 3rd party road 77,644 30,984 BIG W Trolley collection 14,380 – BWS Corporate Dan Murphy’s MATERIALS DIVERTED FROM LANDFILL (tonnes) FABCOT Materials diverted from landfill from Australian Supermarkets, New Zealand Supermarkets and BIG W. Logistics AUSTRALIA 2014 2015 2016 2017 Masters Food waste to composting or energy 14,655 17,359 15,791 16,877 PEL Food to charity 1,381 2,956 3,231 4,015 Petrol Cardboard 201,165 192,170 218,535 222,145 Supermarkets Plastic film 7,869 7,028 8,226 9,232 Thomas Dux Polystyrene 16 3 – – 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 Other 205 131 47 296 2015 2016 2017 Total Australia 225,291 219,647 245,830 252,565 NEW ZELAND 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cardboard 24,546 25,324 26,057 26,709 Plastic film 977 1,253 1,307 1,296 Food waste to farmers 827 807 787 768 Food to charity – 509 509 509 Other 430 435 440 1,193 Total New Zealand 26,780 28,328 29,100 30,475 Total diverted 252,071 247,975 274,930 283,040 1 Energy use and carbon emissions data was prepared in accordance with NGER Guidelines. 62 63 WORKPLACE METRICS WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL % of workforce covered by Enterprise Bargaining Agreements (EBAs) 79.6% <25 0 0 0 25–<35 0 0 0 GROUP EBA TOTAL HEADCOUNT % 35–<45 0 0 0 ALH (Venue & Support) 0 11,321 0.0% 45–<55 3 2 5 BIG W 17,034 18,738 90.9% 55–<65 0 0 0 EziBuy 355 542 65.5% >65 1 2 3 Endeavour Drinks 4,762 11,064 43.0% Total 4 4 8 Food Group 131,804 150,619 87.5% Statewide Independent Wholesalers 314 341 92.1% FEMALE REPRESENTATION BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 1 Group Support 6,753 9,562 70.6% TECHNICIANS AND Total Employees 161,022 202,187 79.6% EXECUTIVES SENIOR MANAGERS MANAGERS OFFICE/SUPPORT TRADES SALES OTHER 29% 26% 39% 56% 10% 59% 17% WORKFORCE AND TURNOVER RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF FEMALE TO MALE EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 2 2017 2016 HEADCOUNT BY BUSINESS UNIT AVERAGE AVERAGE GROUP/BRAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL ANNUALISED RATIO TO ANNUALISED RATIO TO SALARY AVERAGE SALARY AVERAGE ALH (Venue & Support) 6,366 4,955 11,321 Non-managerial female $46,122 97.2% $44,627 97.3% BIG W 12,857 5,881 18,738 Non-managerial male $49,114 103.5% $47,438 103.4% EziBuy 459 83 542 Average salary $47,467 $45,888 Endeavour Drinks 4,074 6,990 11,064 Food Group 83,208 67,411 150,619 Managerial female $75,675 92.1% $73,380 92.8% Statewide Independent Wholesalers 26 315 341 Managerial male $86,274 105.0% $82,582 104.5% Group Support 2,156 7,406 9,562 Average salary $82,153 $79,033 Total 109,146 93,041 202,187 RESPECT AND DIGNITY HEADCOUNT BY EMPLOYEE TYPE We expect our employees to treat each other, our customers and our suppliers with respect and dignity. We train our employees FEMALE MALE TOTAL on these expectations, but sometimes we do have issues which escalate to external jurisdictions. We are working towards Full-time 25,493 32,887 58,380 a resolution on the outstanding claims. Part-time 52,800 31,347 84,147 Casual 30,853 28,807 59,660 Total 109,146 93,041 202,187 DISCRIMINATION Number of claims lodged in Australia during the year 19 Number resolved in financial year 15 1 Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) data with an extraction date of 1 January 2017 (Australian business units only). 2 The employment category does not reflect like-for-like roles. WGEA data with an extraction date of 1 January 2017 (Australian business units only). WORKPLACE METRICS (continued) 64 65 WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 HEADCOUNT BY REGION TURNOVER BY AGE REGION FEMALE MALE TOTAL TOTAL TERMINATIONS % LABOUR TURNOVER Australian Capital Territory 1,217 1,418 2,635 AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL New South Wales 31,168 27,990 59,158 <25 13,044 13,678 26,722 34% 34% 34% Northern Territory 1,011 911 1,922 25–<35 6,248 7,865 14,113 28% 31% 30% Queensland 23,122 17,945 41,067 35–<45 3,587 3,360 6,947 19% 23% 21% South Australia 6,112 6,078 12,190 45–<55 2,854 2,051 4,905 16% 22% 18% Tasmania 2,900 1,937 4,837 55–<65 1,639 1,417 3,056 14% 26% 18% Victoria 22,974 21,570 44,544 >65 550 489 1,039 29% 46% 35% Total 27,922 28,860 56,782 25% 30% 27% Western Australia 9,379 6,686 16,065 New Zealand 10,934 8,294 19,228 China 324 191 515 Bangladesh 2 19 21 NEW HIRES BY REGION Thailand 3 2 5 TOTAL NEW HIRES Total 109,146 93,041 202,187 FEMALE MALE TOTAL Australian Capital Territory 347 495 842 New South Wales 7,747 8,271 16,018 Northern Territory 406 461 867 WORKFORCE BY AGE Queensland 6,087 5,590 11,677 AGE BAND FEMALE MALE TOTAL South Australia 1,290 1,353 2,643 <25 37,606 39,434 77,040 Tasmania 406 396 802 25–<35 21,966 24,739 46,705 Victoria 4,831 5,430 10,261 35–<45 18,033 13,938 31,971 Western Australia 2,194 2,156 4,350 45–<55 17,886 8,877 26,763 New Zealand 2,253 2,284 4,537 55–<65 11,716 5,013 16,729 China 109 54 163 >65 1,939 1,040 2,979 Bangladesh 1 5 6 Total 109,146 93,041 202,187 Thailand 1 0 1 Total 25,672 26,495 52,167 TURNOVER BY REGION TOTAL TERMINATIONS % LABOUR TURNOVER PARENTAL LEAVE FEMALE MALE TOTAL FEMALE MALE TOTAL We continue to offer paid parental leave to eligible Australian-based employees, which includes six weeks paid parental leave, Australian Capital Territory 426 612 1,038 33% 41% 37% two weeks’ return-to-work bonus and up to 104 weeks unpaid parental leave. All employees are eligible if they have completed New South Wales 7,347 8,126 15,473 23% 29% 26% six months of continuous service prior to taking the leave or if they qualify as an eligible casual employee. Northern Territory 445 477 922 44% 52% 48% Queensland 6,477 6,117 12,594 28% 32% 30% 2017 2016 ACCESSED RETURNED FROM ACCESSED RETURNED FROM South Australia 1,503 1,518 3,021 25% 24% 24% PARENTAL LEAVE PARENTAL LEAVE PARENTAL LEAVE PARENTAL LEAVE Tasmania 534 702 1,236 19% 30% 24% Female 4,834 4,621 2,091 1,883 Victoria 5,470 6,059 11,529 23% 27% 25% Male 23 20 20 17 Western Australia 2,678 2,489 5,167 27% 34% 30% Total 4,857 4,641 2,111 1,900 New Zealand 2,911 2,664 5,575 27% 33% 30% China 127 96 223 39% 51% 43% Bangladesh 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% Thailand 4 0 4 114% 0% 73% Total 27,922 28,860 56,782 25% 30% 27% WORKPLACE METRICS (continued) 66 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SAFETY AND HEALTH PERFORMANCE We have set targets and made commitments to be a responsible and sustainable business. This can only be achieved with the PER MILLION PER 200,000 support of our people at all levels of our business. BUSINESS LTIFR RESULTS FOR 2017 HRS HRS % FEMALE As any business should, Woolworths gives priority to issues that are material to the business and which align with our strategic Supermarkets 6.57 1.31 61.7% pillars. The Destination Zero safety and health strategy and the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2020 provide the direction and Logistics 11.68 2.34 20.4% focus for our practices, policies and investment. BIG W 4.10 0.82 82.9% Endeavour Drinks 5.30 1.06 39.0% GOVERNANCE, THE BOARD AND DIRECTORS Fuel and Metro 3.43 0.69 58.3%% Corporate governance is at the core of Woolworths’ and the Board’s approach to the enhancement of shareholder value and the New Zealand 9.38 1.88 Not available protection of shareholder funds. Integral to shareholder value is protecting and enhancing our reputation, which is why the Board Corporate 1.00 0.20 50.0% oversees the Company’s approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability. Woolworths Limited 6.76 1.35 57.0%% The Woolworths Board Sustainability Committee, which meets quarterly, reviews performance on issues of Safety and Health, ALH 10.85 2.17 Not available Sustainability and Community Investment. The Sustainability Committee conducts regular site visits across our businesses. Information on our Board of Directors and the Board Charter is at: https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about-us/our-leadership-team/board-of-directors/ GROUP LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR), TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (TRIFR) Information on our Sustainability Committee and its charter is at: AND OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about-us/our-leadership-team/board-committees/ Woolworths Limited LTIFR for 2015-2017 More information is in our corporate governance statement: KPI 2015 1 2016 1 2017 https://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/page/about-us/our-approach/corporate-governance/ LTIFR (million hours worked) 11.50 9.56 6.76 RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK LTIFR (200,000 hours worked) 2.30 1.91 1.35 The continued growth and success of Woolworths depends on the ability of our Company to understand and respond to the % change on previous year -1.6% -16.9% -29.3% challenges of an uncertain and changing world. As a large, dispersed and complex organisation, this uncertainty generates risk, 1 Previous year numbers have been updated to reflect any delayed reporting. with the potential to be a source of both opportunities and threats. By understanding and managing risk, the Group provides greater certainty and confidence for all its stakeholders. More information about our approach to risk management is in our risk Woolworths Limited TRIFR for 2015-2017 management policy. See: http://www.woolworthsgroup.com.au/icms_docs/182376_Risk_Management_Policy.pdf KPI 2015 1 2016 1 2017 TRIFR (million hours worked) 22.07 18.16 12.97 MATERIALITY TRIFR (200,000 hours worked) 4.41 3.63 2.59 Woolworths conducted an independent assessment to identify our key material sustainability issues. % change on previous year -6.05% -17.8% -28.5% The assessment was based on the AccountAbility AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) principle of materiality and guided 1 Previous year numbers have been updated to reflect any delayed reporting. by their Five Part Materiality Test, to identify and prioritise issues relevant to: • Direct short-term financial impacts Occupational Disease Rate (200,000 hours) 0.70 • Policy-related performance • Business peer-based norms • Stakeholder behaviour and concerns WORK RELATED FATALITIES • Societal norms. WOOLWORTHS GROUP MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Employee 0 Employee conditions, wellbeing and communications Contractor 0 End-to-end reduction of waste Other 0 Energy and emissions Environmentally responsible sourcing Labour rights in the supply chain Low price and value for money model Partners in the community Product quality, safety, availability and range Supplier relationships, communication and collaboration Understanding and responding to customer needs CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (continued) 68 69 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 The assessment considered all of our business divisions and a broad range of external stakeholders, including consumers, Woolworths Group addresses the 10 accepted Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the following manner. customers, employees, government, investors, peers and suppliers. Inputs included customer insights, employee surveys, PRINCIPLES ACTIONS PAGE strategic priorities and targets, the Advantage Report, traditional and social media reviews and industry sustainability benchmark indices. Human Rights Principle 1 The assessment identified the Group-wide material sustainability issues set out in the table on the previous page. Protection of Human Rights Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program 42–43 The assessment also identified some division‑specific issues, which have been addressed in this report, e.g. local sourcing for Principle 2 supermarkets, responsible service of alcohol for Endeavour Drinks and responsible gaming for ALH Group. No Complicity in Human Rights Abuse Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program 42–43 Freedom of Association and Union Engagement 63 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Labour The Woolworths Group Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, provides management oversight of the Principle 3 effectiveness of the Group’s implementation of the safety and health vision, principles, policy, standards, strategy and initiatives, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program 42–43 risk processes, resources, information, compliance and assurance. Freedom of Association and Union Engagement 63 Principle 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION Elimination of Forced and Compulsory Labour Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program 42–43 All our employees commit to our Code of Conduct to maintain the highest legal, moral and ethical standards in our dealings Principle 5 with customers, suppliers, employees and local communities. This code outlines how employees can meet the highest standards Abolition of Child Labour Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program 42–43 through their everyday behaviours and choices. Principle 6 Elimination of Discrimination Diversity and Equal Opportunity 12–21 We are committed to continuous improvement, transparency and accountability. We don’t tolerate workplace misconduct under any circumstances and we need our trade partners to work with us to stamp out any and every instance. We have clear, Environment long‑standing and accepted procedures for trade partners to report any issues. However we recognise there is always opportunity Principle 7 to strengthen our systems. Our Speak Up service is available for trade partners to use when normal escalation methods have Precautionary Approach No explicit reference to precautionary approach been exhausted or are inappropriate. Approach to Risk Management 67–68 Principle 8 POLITICAL DONATIONS Environmental Responsibility Environment 24–37 Woolworths participates in policy development and advocacy in a manner that is open, transparent, and compliant with all Principle 9 relevant laws. We do so in a non-partisan manner. Woolworths does not make political donations except through attendance Environmentally Friendly Technologies Technology addressing climate change, water conservation, at events, functions and forums organised by parliamentarians and political parties. This is overseen by the Chief Executive transport and packaging 24–37 Officer and the Head of Government and Industry Affairs in accordance with the Woolworths Political Donations Policy and applicable electoral laws. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 TRANSPARENCY AND REPORTING Work against Corruption Anti-Corruption 67–68 Woolworths uses the globally recognised reporting framework developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI reporting framework sets out the principles and indicators that organisations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. This report was prepared in accordance with the “core” principles of the GRI Guidelines. More information can be found in the GRI Index starting on page 69. We continue to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an investor-driven disclosure initiative enabling companies to report on risk identification and mitigation processes related to climate change. We also participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), a global index that tracks the financial performance of leading sustainability-driven companies. We are a signatory to the United National Global Compact (UNGC). The Index on page 68 shows our approach to the UNGC core values. 70 71 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 GRI DESCRIPTION PAGE Disclosure on Economic Management approach G4-1 Statement from the CEO 2 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 7, 44–45, AR G4-3 Name of the organisation Front Cover G4-EC2 Financial implications of climate change 34–37 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services AR 14 –19 G4-EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations AR 108 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters 80 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Government GRI Index G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates Contents G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 7 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 126–127 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 50–51 G4-8 Markets served 78, AR 63 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation 2, 3 Disclosure on Environmental Management Approach G4-10 Total workforce 62–66 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume GRI Index, 60–61 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 63 G4-EN3 Energy consumption 34–37, 60–61 G4-12 Describe the organisation's supply chain 12–21, 24–37, 40–55, 58–59 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption 34–37, 60–61 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 98–100 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 34–37 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary principle GRI Index G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 34–37, 60–61 G4-15 External corporate responsibility charters 12–21, 24–37, 40–55, 67–68, 69 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 34–37 G4-16 Memberships in associations 12–21, 24–37, 40–55, 69 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 34–37, 60–61 G4-17 All entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements AR 122 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 34–37, 60–61 G4-18 Process for defining report content 67–68, Corporate Responsibility Strategy 4–5 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 34–37, 60–61 G4-19 Material aspects identified when defining the report content GRI Index G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 34–37, 60–61 G4-20 Material aspect boundary inside the organisation Contents: Scope of Report G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 34–37, 60–61 G4-21 Material aspect boundary outside the organisation Contents: Scope of Report G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) GRI Index G4-22 Explanation of any re-statements GRI Index G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 26–27, 60–61 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods AR 20–24, 98–100 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills GRI Index G4-24 List of engaged stakeholders 67–68 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions GRI Index for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 67–68 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods 34–37, 60–61 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 14–15, 40–43, 50–51 and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-27 Key topics and concerns for stakeholder 67–68 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria GRI Index G4-28 Reporting period scope Contents G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 30– 31, 40–43 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report June 2016 and actions taken G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved GRI Index G4-31 Contact point for the report 80 through formal grievance mechanisms G4-32 GRI Content Index for comprehensive disclosure GRI Index G4-33 Policy seeking external assurance for the report 67–68, 74–77 G4-34 Governance structure 67–68 G4-56 Values, principles, standard and norms of behaviour 67–68, 69 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (continued) 72 73 WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Disclosure on Labour Management approach Disclosure on Product Responsibility Management approach G4-LA1 Employee turnover 62–66 G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impacts on local communities 54, 55 G4-LA2 Benefits for full-time employees AR 108–114 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI Index G4-LA3 Retention rate after parental leave 62–66 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI Index G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) for significant operational changes GRI Index G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 67– 68 G4-LA5 Workforce represented in joint management worker health and safety committees 18–21, 62–66 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and GRI Index monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days and absenteeism 18–21, 62–66 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions GRI Index G4-LA7 High incidence or risk of diseases related to occupation GRI Index for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions GRI Index G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society GRI Index G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee GRI Index G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and GRI Index G4-LA10 Career and skills management GRI Index actions taken G4-LA11 Employee performance and career development reviews GRI Index G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved GRI Index through formal grievance mechanisms G4-LA12 Governace bodies and breakdown of employees relating to diversity 62–66 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, 62–66 by significant locations of operation Disclosure on Product Responsibility Management approach G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria GRI Index G4-PR1 Significant product categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed 50–53 G4-LA15 Labour practices impacts in the supply chain 40–43 G4-PR2 Non-compliance regarding health and safety impacts of products GRI Index G4-LA16 Grievances about labour practices GRI Index G4-PR3 Product information and labelling GRI Index G4-PR4 Non-compliance regarding product labelling GRI Index Disclosure on Human Rights Management Approach G4-PR5 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction GRI Index G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses GRI Index G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products GRI Index, 54, 55 G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights GRI Index G4-PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing GRI Index G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination 62–66 G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy GRI Index G4-HR4 Risks to right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 40–43 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines GRI Index G4-HR5 Risks of incidents of child labour 40–43 G4-HR6 Risks of incidents of forced or compulsory labour 40–43 G4-HR9 Human rights impacts in the supply chain GRI Index, 40–43 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria GRI Index, 40–43 G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in the supply chain GRI Index, 40–43 G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights in the supply chain GRI Index, 40–43 74 75 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 SUBJECT MATTER REPORTING CRITERIA Selected Sustainability Indicators (continued) • Economic performance: –– Direct economic value generated and distributed (G4 -EC1) Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu A.C.N. 74 490 121 060 • Employment: Grosvenor Place –– Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 turnover by age group, gender and region (G4-LA1) PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place –– Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Sydney NSW 1220 Australia (G4-LA3) DX 10307SSE Tel: +61 (0) 2 9322 7000 –– Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, Fax: +61 (0) 2 9322 7001 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (G4-LA16) www.deloitte.com.au –– Total hours of employee training on human right policies or procedures concerning aspects of Human Rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO THE DIRECTORS OF WOOLWORTHS (G4‑HR2) LIMITED IN RELATION TO THE 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT –– Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken (G4 –HR3) We have carried out a limited assurance engagement on the subject matter detailed below (the “Subject Matter”) presented in Woolworths Ltd.’s (“Woolworths”) 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report in order to state whether anything has come to our –– Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, attention that would cause us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported and presented fairly, in all material addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria described below (“Reporting Criteria”). (G4-HR12) • Occupational health and safety: SUBJECT MATTER AND REPORTING CRITERIA –– Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, The Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria for our limited assurance engagement for the year ended 30 June 2017 is as follows: and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region, and by gender (G4-LA6) SUBJECT MATTER REPORTING CRITERIA • Anti-corruption: GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines –– Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Woolworths 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance with The GRI Guidelines and related information, procedures (G4 –SO4) the core criteria option (the “GRI self‑declaration”) prepared in accordance publicly available at GRI’s global website with the requirements of the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines at www.globalreporting.com, in particular the –– Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, (“GRI Guidelines”). requirements to achieve the GRI Self Declaration and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (G4-SO11) Selected Sustainability Indicators WOOLWORTHS’S RESPONSIBILITIES The FY2017 performance data and information in respect of Woolworths’ Woolworths’ definitions and approaches The Directors of Woolworths are responsible for: Sustainability Indicators as contained in section Global Reporting Initiative as described in section Corporate Responsibility within the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. Governance of Woolworths’ 2017 Corporate • ensuring that the Subject matter in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report is properly prepared and presented in accordance Responsibility Report and GRI Guidelines and with GRI G4 Guidelines Reporting Criteria; • Environment: • confirming the measurement or evaluation of the underlying Subject Matter against the applicable criteria, including that related information, publicly available at GRI’s –– Energy consumption within the organisation (G4-EN3) global website at www.globalreporting.com. all relevant matters are reflected in the Subject Matter information; and –– Energy consumption outside the organisation (G4-EN4) • designing, establishing and maintaining internal controls to ensure that the Subject Matter information is properly prepared –– Energy intensity (G4-EN5) and presented in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. –– Reduction in energy consumption (G4-EN6) DELOITTE’S INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL –– Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) (G4-EN15) We have complied with the independence and other relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which –– Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and (G4‑EN16) professional behaviour. –– Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) (G4‑EN17) The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains –– Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity (G4-EN18) a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical –– Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (G4-EN19) requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. –– Total Weight of waste by type and disposal method (G4-EN23) –– Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms (G4-EN34) Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/au/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT (continued) 76 77 WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 DELOITTE’S RESPONSIBILITIES LIMITATIONS OF USE Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we have performed This report is made solely to the directors of Woolworths in accordance with our engagement letter dated 26th July 2017, for the and the evidence we have obtained. purpose of providing limited assurance over Woolworths 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report or on the Subject Matter to which it relates, to any person other than the directors We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements ASAE of Woolworths or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (ASAE 3000), issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board in order to express a conclusion whether, based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been MATTERS RELATING TO ELECTRONIC PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION prepared and presented in all material respects in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. That standard requires that we plan Our limited assurance engagement included web-based information that was available via web links as of the date of this and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter is free from material misstatement. statement. We provide no assurance over changes to the content of the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report after the date of this assurance statement. A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3000 involves identifying areas where a material misstatement of the Subject Matter information is likely to arise, addressing the areas identified and considering the process used to prepare the CONCLUSION Subject Matter in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. the Subject Matter has not been properly prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria for the year ended 30 June 2017. ASSURANCE WORK PERFORMED In order to form our conclusion we undertook the following limited assurance procedures: • Review of Woolworths’ processes relating to stakeholder identification, engagement and responsiveness, including an assessment of stakeholder engagement outcomes and how this process and the outcomes have been presented in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report • Review of Woolworths’ process to identify and determine material issues to be included in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU Report with examination of underlying assessments and evidence on a sample basis • Interviews with a selection of Woolworths executives and senior management, including Woolworths sustainability management team concerning the overall governance structure, corporate sustainability strategy and policies used for managing and reporting sustainability performance across the business • In respect of the Selected Sustainability Indicators –– interviews with a selection of Woolworths management responsible for the Selected Sustainability Indicators to PR Dobson understand the compilation and review processes Partner –– applying analytical and other review procedures including assessing relationships between the reported information Sydney, 28 September 2017 and other financial and non-financial data –– examination of evidence for a small number of transactions or events –– analysing and inspecting on a sample basis, the key systems, processes and procedures and controls relating to the collation, validation, presentation and approval process of Selected Sustainability Indicators included in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. –– review underlying evidence on a sample basis to corroborate that the information is prepared and reported in line with the relevant reporting criteria. • Comparison of the content of Woolworths’ 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report against the criteria for a GRI self-declaration The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion providing reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter in the 2017 Annual report has been properly prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with Reporting Criteria. INHERENT LIMITATIONS Non-financial information, including the Subject Matter may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. The Subject Matter should be read in the context of Woolworths’ Reporting Criteria as set out in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. 78 79 STORE ANALYSIS GLOSSARY WOOLWORTHS GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 TERM MEANING FULL YEAR ENDED 25 JUNE 2017 FULL FULL FULL FULL FULL STORES (NUMBER) YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR YEAR Carbon dioxide equivalent A standard measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based Continuing operations (CO2-e) on their global warming potential. For example, one tonne of methane emissions is equivalent NSW & ACT 312 303 292 282 271 to 21 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. QLD 234 237 230 225 209 VIC 244 242 234 224 221 EBIT Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) reflects operating revenues less operating expenses SA & NT 80 84 82 80 78 and is reported before interest and tax expense or income. WA 94 94 92 89 88 TAS 31 32 31 31 30 Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an independent, not-for-profit organisation which promotes responsible management Australian Supermarkets 995 992 961 931 897 (FSC) of the world’s forests. Refer to fsc.org or fscaustralia.org.au. New Zealand Supermarkets 184 184 177 171 166 Total Supermarkets 1,179 1,176 1,138 1,102 1,063 Lost Time Injury A Lost Time Injury (LTI) is an injury or illness that results in an employee being unable to work Thomas Dux 3 5 9 11 11 a full scheduled shift (other than the shift during which the injury occurred). Freestanding Liquor (incl. Dan Murphy’s) 387 373 359 349 339 Attached Liquor 550 544 527 509 490 ALH Retail Liquor Outlets 580 569 557 544 526 ML Megalitres or million litres. Summergate 2 2 2 – – Woolworths Petrol 2 – – 513 499 482 Mt One million tonnes or megatonnes, equates to one billion kilograms. Caltex/Woolworths Petrol – – – 131 131 Total Food, Petrol & Endeavour Drinks Group 2,701 2,669 3,105 3,145 3,042 MWh Megawatt hours is a unit of measurement for electricity use, referring to the amount of electricity needed to supply power to 1,000 homes for one hour. BIG W 185 186 184 182 178 Hotels (includes clubs) 329 331 330 329 326 National Greenhouse and NGER establishes a national framework for Australian corporations to report greenhouse EziBuy (Unallocated) – 5 5 4 – Energy Reporting Act 2007 gas emissions, reductions, removals and offsets, and energy consumption and production. Home Timber & Hardware (retail) – – – 28 26 (NGER) Refer to climatechange.gov.au/reporting/publications. Masters – – – 49 31 Total continuing operations 3,215 3,191 3,624 3,737 3,603 NPAT Net profit after tax (NPAT) is the net earnings for the group after taking into account all income and expenses for the financial period. Discontinued operations Woolworths Petrol 531 527 – – – PEFC Council The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Council is an independent, Home Improvement – 106 102 – – non-profit organisation that promotes sustainably managed forests through independent Total Group 3,746 3,824 3,726 3,737 3,603 third‑party certification. Refer to pefc.org. Wholesale customer stores (continuing operations) Scope 1 emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company, Super Value and Fresh Choice 65 64 60 59 55 such as combustion facilities (e.g. generators) and combustion of fuels in company-owned Home Timber & Hardware wholesale – – – 475 490 or company‑controlled transport (e.g. cars and trucks). Statewide Independent Wholesale 220 220 220 220 220 Total continuing operations 285 284 280 754 765 Scope 2 emissions Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, cooling Discontinued operations or steam. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is bought or otherwise brought into (Home Timber & Hardware wholesale) – 349 452 – – the organisational boundary of the entity. Total wholesale customer stores 285 633 732 754 765 Scope 3 emissions Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions that are a consequence of a company’s activities, but Trading area (sqm) 1 that arise from sources that other entities own or control. Scope 3, like Scope 2, is a category Australian Food 2,252,709 2,229,714 2,143,082 – – of indirect emissions and covers all other indirect emissions from sources that are not owned or controlled by a company, but that occur as a result of its activities. Examples include emissions Endeavour Drinks Group 446,083 430,691 413,409 – – from waste disposal to landfill. New Zealand Supermarkets 415,970 417,966 397,889 – – BIG W 1,055,838 1,061,413 1,051,159 – – 1 As a result of separating the trading performance of Australian Food & Petrol and Endeavour Drinks Group, we are now disclosing separate trading area for Total Recordable Injury A Total Recordable Injury (TRI) is the sum of the total number of employee fatalities, lost time Australian Food and Endeavour Drinks Group. FY15 trading area has been restated on the same basis and is no longer comparable to previously reported data. injuries, restricted work injuries or medical treatment injuries. 2 From 2014 three distribution centres were included in store numbers. 80 COMPANY DIRECTORY REGISTERED OFFICE 1 Woolworths Way Bella Vista NSW 2153 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Web: www.woolworthsgroup.com.au AUDITOR Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Tel: (02) 9322 7000 Web: www.deloitte.com.au WOOLWORTHS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Alex Holt General Manager, Quality, Health & Sustainability Fiona Walmsley Group Senior Manager, Corporate Responsibility Designed and produced by ArmstrongQ ArmstrongQ.com.au We are con stantly s to innovating to meet We look for way y – changing needs. improve every daomers, st better for our cu unities. team and comm We create better experiences together. periences It's both the retail ex we make and the experiences s' lives. possible in customer We work seamlessly as one team , leveraging our strength as a Group.
