United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Table of Contents 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer 2. Human Rights Principles 3. Labour Principles 4. Anti-Corruption 5. Environmental Principles UN Global Compact | Table of Contents | 2 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer As one of South Africa’s leading and This year marks our fifth Communication on Progress largest law firms, we acknowledge – a significant milestone for our firm. Such an occasion presents an opportunity to reflect on the commitment that our success goes hand-in-hand we first expressed in our letter dated 16 September 2011; with a responsibility to our people, our and an opportunity to assess, with as much objectively as communities and our country. possible, whether that commitment remains as strong. At the risk of sounding overly cynical, acknowledging Taking stock of the last few years and our progress such a responsibility is the easy part. Fulfilling it, on within each, I truly believe that our commitment to the the other hand, is rather difficult. To do so requires the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact is stronger than people working within the entity to take ownership it ever has been. Our actions and initiatives in the last of that duty too. How have we set about achieving 12 months support this opinion and the pages that this? At every opportunity, we have emphasised our follow document it. firm’s values, encouraging our people to rely on these principles to guide everything they do. Furthering the cause, we have celebrated value champions, identifying those who live our ideals, holding them up as examples worth emulating. In these efforts and many others, the weight of our collective responsibility to our people and “As one of South Africa’s our communities and our country has landed on the leading and largest law individuals that make this firm whole. Communicating our Brent Williams, Chief Executive Officer, commitment to the UN Global Compact and staying true firms, we acknowledge that Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr Inc to its core tenets claims pride of place within this agenda. our success goes hand-in-hand with a responsibility to our people, our communities and our country.“ UN Global Compact | Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer | 3 2. Human Rights Principles Assessment, policy and goals disadvantaged people to access justice and to forward human rights and constitutionalism through public As a responsible corporate citizen CDH is sensitive to interest work. The Pro Bono Policy provides that: the broader socio-economic context within which it conducts business and is committed to respecting • The firm has adopted and maintains a Pro Bono and promoting human rights both internally in its Policy independent of any legislation or regulation relations with its employees and externally through its requiring mandatory pro bono work. engagement with clients and communities. In 2013 as • The firm is committed to the involvement of its a manifestation of the firm’s commitment to human practitioners and staff members in pro bono work. rights CDH adopted a Human Rights Statement. In that • All CDH practitioners and staff members statement we record as follows: acknowledge that they have a role to play in • We are cognisant of the social context within which assisting and supporting the firm in fulfilling these we operate as a law firm, and we are committed to commitments. respecting the rights entrenched in the Constitution CDH has also adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility of the Republic of South Africa, 108 of 1996 (the (CSR) policy and has set up a Social and Ethics Constitution), and in particular the Bill of Rights. Committee, as well as a CSR Committee. • We confirm that we support upholding the rights entrenched in the United Nations Universal Implementation Declaration of Human Rights, the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, the International Our work in promoting human rights Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and We strive on a continued basis to realise our human Cultural Rights and the core conventions of the rights commitments in various ways. International Labour Organisation (ILO). First, we dedicate significant time and effort to ensuring • We confirm our commitment to respecting the ten in our everyday conduct that we promote and respect principles of the United Nations Global Compact. the rights and interests of all of our employees by means • We communicate our commitments as set out in this of adherence to the precepts of our Constitution and Human Rights Statement to our clients, employees our domestic labour, employment equity, occupational and other stakeholders. health and safety and other relevant legislation. In this regard we recognise the need to continuously work at In 2011 as part of its commitment to human rights, promoting a more inclusive and diverse work culture in CDH adopted a Pro Bono Policy and set up a dedicated which the equal rights of all are advanced and employees Pro Bono and Human Rights Practice (the Pro Bono are encouraged to raise any grievances in accordance Practice) whose mandate is to assist vulnerable and UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 4 with our grievance policy. Our ongoing progress in this Third, through the firm’s ongoing commitment regard is outlined in more detail below in the section of to corporate social responsibility, we continue to this COP dealing with the Labour Principles. dedicate significant financial and human resources to various social investment projects, vehicles and Second, through the implementation, as described causes. A summary of some of our key corporate social below, of our Pro Bono Policy. Our dedicated Pro Bono responsibility projects and activities for the period under Practice continues to provide thousands of hours of pro review is provided below. bono assistance each year in the implementation of this policy, to numerous people and organisations who are unable to afford to pay for these services. Pro Bono and Human Rights work in the period under review In the period under review our small but dedicated Pro Bono Practice has made a material contribution to We are proud to report that during the period under promoting social justice by providing access to legal review CDH as whole donated over 8,000 hours / in services to a number of people who would not have excess of R16 million in free legal services to deserving been in a position to enforce their rights without the aid individuals and organisations. of pro bono assistance. We summarise some of the highlights of our pro bono and human rights work below, and outline our CSR Through some of the new cases that it has taken on activities for the year. during the period under review, our Pro Bono Practice has also made an important contribution in advancing the human rights causes of some particularly vulnerable Human Rights awareness and training and marginalised groups of people and has worked initiatives to extend the boundaries of our human rights and constitutional protections. It has also contributed NSMCC towards advancing awareness and education on various Led by the Pro Bono Practice, CDH continued to provide human rights issues through the hosting of key events, extensive support for the National Schools Moot Court participation in other partner organisation / stakeholder Competition (NSMCC) in 2017. initiatives, and through special project work. The NSMCC is an annual schools moot court competition Our Pro Bono Practice has also encouraged and which began in 2011. It is a joint-initiative of the University assisted members in other practice areas in the firm of Pretoria, the Foundation for Human Rights, the to make pro bono contributions. Many practitioners in Department of Justice and the Department of Basic numerous different practice areas in our firm both at Education, amongst others. Learners from all secondary our Johannesburg and Cape Town offices have given schools in the country are encouraged to participate generously of their time over the 2017 year and have in the Competition which involves two stages – an provided invaluable assistance to countless clients. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 5 essay writing elimination round and various oral rounds The evening concluded with a dinner hosted at our culminating in a final round argued before a panel of offices. Many members of the firm also assisted with adjudicators at the Constitutional Court. the adjudication of the preliminary, quarter final and semi-final rounds of the Competition. The aim of the NSMCC is to create greater awareness and understanding among schools and communities As has been the case with previous years, the standard about the Constitution as well as the rights and values of learners participating in the national rounds of that it embodies. In addition, the Competition aims the Competition and the level of dedication and to provide young people with exposure to the legal determination displayed was impressive. CDH is once system and profession, and encourage them to consider again offering a generous bursary to the four learners of pursuing a career in law. Each year the moot problem the winning team (should they choose to study law). is one which involves fictional learners faced with a scenario in a school environment implicating various bill I DECIDE = I AM EXHIBIT of rights issues. CDH was proud to partner with the Centre for Human As part of CDH’s 2017 contribution, our firm in conjunction Rights, Faculty of Law, University of Pretoria, in its with the University of Pretoria, facilitated a training initiative to reproduce the Exhibition “I Decide = I Am” by workshop for about 72 learners preparing for the oral the Bulgarian Centre for Not-For-Profit Law Foundation component of the Competition, together with their in South Africa. The provocative exhibition is authored by educators. The seminar included presentations and panel Nadezhda Georgieva (a Bulgarian illustrator), and Yana discussions on various topics including an introduction Buhrer Tavanier (award winning journalist and human and overview of the legal profession as well as the role rights activist) and aims to create awareness through of the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) the distinctive narratives of sixteen persons (whose legal and other state institutions supporting our constitutional capacity was painfully renounced) about the human democracy. A moot demonstration was held by the rights impact that the deprivation of legal capacity members of the University of Pretoria’s mooting club and has on affected persons. The exhibition held at CDH one of the previous finalists in the Competition shared her also featured emotive art works by South African artist experience with the learners. Daniel Mosako which recount the recent Life Esidimeni The high point of the workshop was a keynote address by tragedy in which 143 patients died in 2016 after being Justice Mbuyiseli Madlanga who addressed the learners transferred by the Department of Health from the Life on transformative constitutionalism and the need for all Esidmeni hospital to unlicensed, under funded NGOs citizens to take responsibility for ensuring that the rights with little to no experience in caring for persons with and values underpinning the Constitution become a severe psychosocial, intellectual or cognitive disabilities. reality for all. To view highlights of the speech click on The ill conceived and inhumanely executed transfer was the following link: https://youtu.be/qYCw2GXn3CU. effected allegedly in order to cut costs and as part of a programme to deinstitutionalise care for those with psychosocial and intellectual disabilities. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 6 “The event provided legal The I Decide = I Am exhibition is a creative and emotive Presenting at Disability Rights in Africa conference professionals, colleagues, clients vehicle for raising awareness of the many forms of During November 2017, the Disability Rights in Africa discrimination faced by persons with psychosocial or and the business community as a conference was hosted by the Centre for Human Rights, intellectual disabilities. It further calls for law reform whole with an opportunity to view in accordance with Article 12 of the United Nations University of Pretoria. The conference theme was the exhibition and to reflect ‘Domesticating the Convention on the Rights of Persons Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities with Disabilities (CRPD) in the Africa region: A focus on on the issues.” (CPRD) which affirms unequivocally that all persons with access to justice and legal capacity’. The conference was disabilities have full legal capacity and are entitled to equal well attended by NGOs, academics, intergovernmental recognition before the law – which right is indispensable organisations and state officials across Africa. Director to the exercise of the right to access to justice guaranteed and National Practice Head of the Pro Bono Practice, by Article 13. Jacquie Cassette presented at the conference. The travelling exhibition was launched in South Africa The topics of discussion were many and varied. They at an opening event held at the offices of the SAHRC in included strategies for the effective implementation June 2017, and made its way to CDH’s offices in October and domestication of the right to access to justice and 2017. In order to celebrate the opening of the exhibit the right to equal recognition before the law of the at our Sandton offices and to create awareness about CRPD, communication accommodations in the justice Article 12. CDH hosted a cocktail evening on the evening system, provision of support to exercise legal capacity, of 16 October. The event provided legal professionals, the interaction between persons with intellectual and colleagues, clients and the business community as a psychosocial disabilities and the justice system, legal whole with an opportunity to view the exhibition and capacity and law reform, the role of non-state actors in to reflect on the issues. advancing access to justice for persons with disabilities, Former Constitutional Court Judge, jurist and struggle theoretical underpinnings of Articles 12 and 13 of the stalwart, Justice Yacoob, gave a keynote address at CRPD, inaccessible justice systems and accessing justice in the cocktail event and shared many insights in his particularly challenging contexts. capacity as a respected judge and lawyer on the Jacquie’s paper was titled ‘Supported decision making in topic, as well as a substantial amount of wisdom an African context – An examination of comparative and from his personal experience as a person living with international models with a view to law reform in South a disability. To view Justice Yacoob’s speech click Africa’. Key points that emerged from her presentation on the following link: https://www.youtube.com/ were that like in many other African countries, persons watch?v=i30sDu_0AbQ&feature=youtu.be. with disabilities, and in particular, persons with psychosocial and intellectual disabilities constitute some of the poorest and most vulnerable members of South UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 7 African society. Not only do they struggle to access This was an opportunity for CDH to recognise the social and other basic services, but they also battle with invaluable contribution that our support staff make to our persistent deep stigmatisation, and in many instances firm and to provide them with a morning to reflect on our serious abuse and gross violations of their rights. She painful history and appreciate the immense strides we emphasised that South Africa needs to urgently move have made in transitioning to a constitutional democracy forward in its initiatives to put in place domesticating in which the human rights of all are protected. The tour legislation to implement the rights in the CRPD, including was the culmination of a period of introspection for our Article 12. staff facilitated by the Pro Bono Practice. As part of an awareness campaign, we conducted a survey of all staff One of her recommendations was that in order to to see whether people were aware of the rights afforded make equal recognition before the law a reality for to them in the Bill of Rights, and what those rights mean persons with psychosocial and intellectual disabilities, to them. We also provided them all with copies of the Bill South Africa needs to put in place a comprehensive of Rights in all 11 official languages. statutory framework to cater for a continuum of support mechanisms to assist affected persons. She also Of the support staff that responded to the survey, a observed that as the recent Life Esidimeni tragedy has group was selected to join the tour. Those who could shown, initiatives to deinstitutionalise and move towards attend came away with an unforgettable experience. We community based care (one of the goals of Article 12), were able to laugh, to cry, and to reflect together on our need to be properly planned, properly co-ordinated, hard fought and hard won Human Rights. properly resourced, properly regulated, and properly Some of the staff who attended had the following to say: implemented. They need to be phased in over time with appropriate monitoring, and only after bona fide, proper, “This was a great experience. I have never been to meaningful consultation with all stakeholders. the Constitutional Court. It was shocking to see what people went through in the prison. We were CDH staff tour of the Constitutional Court able to see it live with our own eyes.” On 21 March South Africa celebrates Human Rights Day. “It was just amazing to see such history as I have As part of a Human Rights Day awareness campaign never imagined. I can honestly say that if this rolled out during the month of March, on 24 March 2017, opportunity had not arisen for me, I may never the Pro Bono Practice arranged for CDH to take 40 of its have known to do the Tour on my own and I would support staff (joined by the Pro Bono Practice) to go on a have been the poorer for it. I learnt so much from memorable tour of the Constitutional Court, the Old Fort our Guide. It was both informative and humbling. I Prison and the Constitutional Hill precinct. have recommended it to all my friends.” “The Constitutional Hill is a miracle rear view mirror that tells us where not to go as a nation.” UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 8 “It was touching but at the same time sad to see Refugee Law Award what our forefathers went through. The prison was not a nice place to be. Imagine a cell meant for two In September 2017 our Pro Bono Practice was honoured people with eight people crammed into it. There to win the ProBono.Org award for the category of was no privacy. There was no dignity. Their Human refugee law. ProBono.Org is a pro bono clearing house Rights were undermined. I learnt that the people in which many law firms and advocates partner with in those days really had it hard. It made me thankful order to carry out valuable pro bono, human rights and for the freedom that we now have.” public interest work. The organisation hosts an awards ceremony each year to acknowledge the pro bono “This was a very important trip as a generation contributions of the many attorneys and advocates that must learn how the previous generation lived who dedicate their services to assisting indigent and under the iron fist rule and the difficulties that vulnerable people in need of legal assistance. they experienced in their lives. We as the coming generation have to come together to build anew. The award recognises the extensive contribution that our Now as the Rainbow Nation, with our Human Pro Bono Practice has made in assisting refugees and Rights, things have changed. Each person must promoting refugee rights. know their rights, especially their rights to Human Dignity, Equality and Freedom. We need to start Overview / year under review our own journey. We must build a new South Africa In the year under review our Pro Bono Practice has been together. We need to combine and build a strong working tirelessly on matters for a number of clients non-racial and non-sexist nation. We must work many of whom hail from the Democratic Republic of together to build a happy Rainbow Nation.“ Congo and Angola. Having been unlawfully denied “First of all, I would like to say thank you for this formal refugee status and asylum papers at the Refugee opportunity to do the tour, it does not come often. Reception Office (RRO) upon entering South Africa, I am more aware of my Human Rights than I was our clients have sought our legal assistance with the before. The tour made me sensitive to the fact that appeal of these RRO decisions. The Pro Bono Practice all Human Rights should be respected, regardless assists with appeals against these decisions before the of age, race or gender. Human Rights must be Refugee Appeal Board (RAB). Extensive and intensive respected at all costs. A lot of people are not aware client consultations, sometimes with language barriers, how it was before, we need to educate people to the drafting of papers and liaising with the relevant respect Human Rights. I am very appreciative of government entities are all in a day’s work for this team. the lessons that we all learnt on the tour. I am very Members of our Practice also represent clients during lucky to have had this experience.” arduous hearings before the RAB. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 9 More often than not, the decisions of the RAB require process. The Guide has been completed and forms part review as they often have no basis in law or in fact. Here, of a larger project undertaken by ProBono.Org that aims the Pro Bono Practice assists with the institution of the to equip other attorneys from partner law firms that required legal action, covering the ground work as well assist with the refugee law clinic with a basic overview of as instructing highly regarded counsel for argument refugee law and related matters in order to enable them before the courts of law in deserving matters. to more effectively advise clients at the clinics. As was highlighted by the guest speaker at the Awards The Guide was officially launched in June 2017. Ceremony, former Minister of Finance Pravin Gordhan, in a society which according to the latest Gini – coefficient, Notable Pro Bono and Human Rights is one of the most unequal in the world, and in which cases people’s statutory and constitutional rights are sadly regularly being flouted, pro bono lawyers play an Helping refugees born and living in South Africa important role in assisting the poor to enforce their rights for more than 18 years to apply for citizenship and to hold institutions accountable. In so doing not only do they assist in promoting the dignity of those affected, The Pro Bono Practice is currently assisting two brothers they assist in promoting the very stability of society. who were born in South Africa (SA) and who are over 18 (and have lived all their lives in SA) to apply for citizenship Mr Gordhan emphasised that against this backdrop, in terms of s4(3) of the Citizenship Act, No 88 of 1995 activism in the form of pro bono work retains its (the Citizenship Act). Section 4(3) of the Citizenship Act relevance and its significance. It is an equalising force. provides that people who were born in SA to parents who When the most vulnerable in society are assisted by the are neither citizens nor permanent residents, and who law, they are more likely to trust the law and the basic have lived in SA continuously until the age of majority are tenet of ‘no one is above the law’ becomes a reality entitled to apply for citizenship, provided that their births rather than a hoped-for ideal. were registered in accordance with the Births and Deaths Registration Act, No 51 of 1992. Refugee Law Clinic guide The brothers’ parents are Angolan citizens who fled One of our Pro Bono Practices’ key contributions to the Angola in 1995 and who sought and were granted field of refugee law during the year under review was refugee status in SA from 1997 until 2014 – when its work in producing a guide to be used, together with their refugee status was withdrawn as a result of the other guides produced by other law firms, by the refugee Angolan refugee repatriation process entered into by law clinic run by ProBono.Org. our government in 2013. The two brothers were born The Pro Bono Practice, which regularly staffs the refugee in SA in 1996 and 1997 respectively and were also law clinic, was requested by ProBono.Org to assist in granted refugee status until 2014 when their status producing a Guide on Judicial Review (the Guide) in was also withdrawn together with that of their parents. the context of the refugee / asylum seeker adjudication UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 10 “The Pro Bono Practice assisted a Both brothers who have never been to Angola, were During February 2016 our client was in a marked SAPS member of the South African Police in high school at the time that their refugee status was vehicle patrolling in and around Johannesburg. As he withdrawn and had to apply for temporary study permits was driving, he noticed a civilian vehicle flashing its lights Services (SAPS) to bring proceedings in order to remain in the country. at him. Our client, accompanied by two of his colleagues in the Equality Court to obtain from the SAPS, pulled over in order to assist the driver redress from a member of the No application forms have been promulgated by the of the vehicle (the respondent in the Equality Court Department of Home Affairs (DHA) for s4(3) applications. public accused of committing proceedings). The respondent – who claims she had just The Pro Bono Practice, on behalf of the brothers, made serious acts of racially motivated applications to the DHA in terms of s4(3) by way of affidavit. been the victim of a smash and grab incident – refused hate speech against him.” to be assisted by a black police officer and thereafter No meaningful response was received from the DHA. verbally attacked our client in a prolonged spate of racial As a result, the Pro Bono Practice instituted legal abuse. proceedings in the High Court on 8 June 2017. The Shocked and traumatised by the incident, our relief sought is, inter alia, the granting of citizenship to client approached the South African Human Rights the brothers. The respondents only filed their answering Commission (SAHRC) for assistance in seeking redress. papers in October 2017, long after they became due. Proceedings were instituted in the Equality Court. The This means that the hearing of the matter will have to be SAHRC was joined as the second applicant in the matter deferred to next year. because of its special statutory mandate in terms of In the interim, the Minister has granted the brothers, the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair together with their mother and younger brother Discrimination Act, No 4 of 2000 (PEPUDA). permanent residence for four years in respect of the The Equality Court awarded damages in the amount exemption application which they made under the of R100,000 (one hundred thousand Rand) in favour Immigration Act, No 13 of 2002. The brothers, together of our client. Further, in what seems to be a first, the with their mother and younger brother have completed respondent was ordered to attend a programme of their applications for the residency permits and now integrated community service and sensitivity training. The await to receive same from the DHA. Their rights and programme will be administered by the SAHRC, together interests will accordingly we hope be protected in the with affiliate organisations such as the Ahmed Kathrada interim. Foundation. As part of the programme, the respondent will be required to visit the Apartheid Museum, attend Defending a victim of racist hate speech SAHRC community outreach and advocacy programmes, The Pro Bono Practice assisted a member of the South and attend Race Sensitisation Workshops conducted by African Police Services (SAPS) to bring proceedings in the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation. the Equality Court to obtain redress from a member of The respondent was also ordered to make an the public accused of committing serious acts of racially unconditional written apology to our client, and that this motivated hate speech against him. apology should incorporate an unequivocal retraction UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 11 by her of all or any racial and / or discriminatory and / or status of Angolan refugees was withdrawn. The Standing abusive remarks amounting to hate speech made against Committee for Refugee Affairs (SCRA), a statutory black persons in general. This apology was ordered to body created by s9 of the Refugees Act (one of whose be published on Twitter and Facebook, as well as the statutory duties and powers is to determine if and when SAHRC’s website. a person’s refugee status should be withdrawn), however decided that an exemption from repatriation should be This robust order is welcomed and it is hoped that it facilitated for Angolan refugees with a serious medical will send out a strong warning that racist hate speech, condition. Our client and three of his children fell into which is inimical to our constitutional values and which this category. He has a serious heart-related condition threatens the very foundations of our young democracy, while three of his children suffer from sickle cell disease, “The respondent was also will not be and cannot be countenanced. It is also hoped a genetic blood disorder with the potential to cause that the novel order of requiring the respondent to attend ordered to make an severe pain and permanent damage to vital organs in the a specially designed sensitivity training / community unconditional written apology to service programme under the auspices of the SAHRC, body. They all require urgent ongoing medical treatment. our client, and that this apology will usher in a mechanism that can be made available on Our client’s representations, in which he explained his shall incorporate an unequivocal a more widespread basis going forward to help address and his children’s medical conditions and circumstances retraction by her of all or any some of the root causes of racism. (even though received by the DHA) were never forwarded racial and / or discriminatory to or considered by the appropriate decision makers. The respondent is now in the process of appealing the As a result, although they fell within the exemption for and / or abusive remarks Equality Court’s judgment. We will be opposing the persons with serious medical conditions determined amounting to hate speech appeal. by the SCRA, the family’s refugee status was unlawfully made against black persons withdrawn. in general.” Obtaining Court – ordered reinstatement of the refugee status of an Angolan family Despite the SCRA having acknowledged that their status should not have been withdrawn, with the help of an One of our Pro Bono Practices’ most satisfying victories NGO called Scalabrini, the family fought for years with no of the year was our success in assisting a family of success to try and have their refugee status reinstated. In Angolan nationals whose refugee status had been the meantime, the DHA refused to renew their refugee unlawfully withdrawn as part of the Angolan repatriation permits and the children who required ongoing medical process in 2013, to have their refugee status reinstated. care struggled, and at times were unable to receive, the This has enabled the family to once again access much necessary ongoing medical care that they require. The needed health care, and step out each day without fear eldest son, despite having managed to secure funding, of arrest, detention and deportation. was also unable to apply to study at university. The family Our client and his children were granted refugee status in as a whole was perpetually vulnerable to arrest, detention the early 2000s. In 2013 the DHA announced a cessation and deportation because they were unable to secure the of all Angolan refugees in terms of which the refugee necessary papers affirming their status. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 12 “In another matter that illustrates a Eventually, Scalabrini reached out to the Pro Bono other persons designated by the Apartheid machinery as failure on the part of state institutions Practice for help in taking the matter to court. Armed “non-whites” of their homes and property and resulted in with a legal opinion from three very able counsel their forced relocation). Our client’s father, who was one to comply timeously with their (including senior counsel) we managed to get the of the original claimants, has since passed away and our statutory and constitutional SCRA to revoke its incorrect decision. Disconcertingly, client who is his lawful heir has now become entitled obligations, we are assisting a however, the DHA unlawfully refused to comply with the to a portion of the proceeds of the claim. The claim family to have a long outstanding SCRA’s decision and refused to reissue the family with is being dealt with by the KZN Regional Claims claim for restitution of land in the relevant refugee permits. We were accordingly forced Commissioner (RLCC). terms of the Restitution of Land to bring an urgent court application to order the DHA to After many years of waiting, the RLCC made our client issue them with the necessary papers. Rights Act finalised.” and his family a monetary offer of settlement in terms The application which was heard on 5 September 2017 of s42D of the Restitution of Land Rights Act, which our was successful and the family was eventually granted client and the other family members accepted. Despite written recognition of their reinstated refugee status having been promised that payment was imminent, for in October and they were, needless to say, overjoyed. reasons that have yet to be explained, the client and his The family no longer faces an imminent risk of arrest family simply never received payment of the amount due and deportation, the ill family members can now access to them under the settlement agreement. much needed medical treatment and the eldest child has Eventually in 2015, after attempts to have the matter now been able to apply to study at university. resolved via the Public Protector’s Office failed, the client approached the Pro Bono Practice for assistance. Assisting a client with a Long-Outstanding Land Restitution Claim In response to our interventions, the RLCC very recently made a new higher offer of settlement to the family In another matter that illustrates a failure on the part of based on a renewed valuation of the property. The state institutions to comply timeously with their statutory new offer has been accepted by the family. However, and constitutional obligations, we are assisting a family a few months have intervened and we are still awaiting to have a long outstanding claim for restitution of land in feedback on whether the settlement offer has been terms of the Restitution of Land Rights Act finalised. approved by the Minister as is apparently required. We Our client’s uncle submitted the claim on behalf of the are in the process of briefing counsel to assist with a family back in 1997 in respect of a property in Durban court application to compel the Minister and the RLCC which the family was dispossessed of pursuant to to finalise the matter and make payment, should we not the Group Areas Act (one of the pillars of Apartheid receive feedback soon. legislation that deprived black, coloured, Indian and UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 13 Assisting a non-profit institution specialising In order to prevent further sales and marketing of the gel, in HIV healthcare to defend itself against the Society wrote a letter to various authorities (including the Department of Health, the Medicines Control Council accusations of defamation (MCC) and the Advertising Standards Authority), which In March 2017 judgment was handed down in a matter in was later referred to in a newsletter to its members, and which our Pro Bono Practice had assisted an organisation posted on its website. The content of this letter and of healthcare workers (the Society) on a pro bono basis, newsletter was seen to be defamatory by the doctor in to defend a defamation application launched against it question. by a doctor who had developed and marketed a sexual Relying on the expert evidence of the three experts lubricant gel in a manner it considered to be irresponsible tendered by the Society (all of whom were in agreement and unlawful. The doctor sought to interdict the Society that given the antibacterial, antifungal and antiviral from publishing any “future defamatory material” of him on claims made in the marketing, the gel was a medicine its website and to remove published (allegedly) defamatory which by law had to have been registered with the material from its website. In an important victory for the MCC before being sold or marketed) the Court held organisation, the High Court found that there had been no that the gel should have been registered as a medicine defamation and dismissed the application with costs. In prior to being brought to market. It also found that an its judgment the Court emphasised the importance of the effective microbicide to prevent HIV infection has yet watchdog roll of the Society. to be developed anywhere in the world, and that the The organisation, which is a powerful and independent advertising claims made in respect of the gel were likely voice on HIV Aids in Southern Africa, strives to support to result in it being used in the place of acceptable, and strengthen the capacity of its members to deliver already-proven HIV prevention methods by the high quality, evidence-based HIV prevention, care and unsuspecting public – in the mistaken belief that it would treatment services through publications, conferences prevent HIV infection. and guidelines. Advocacy is especially important as the The Court held that the doctor’s view that the Society Society promotes only the highest quality of care for had intended to injure his reputation through its people living with HIV. publications was misconceived. It found that the Given the Society’s mandate and the nature and extent Society’s intention was not to defame the doctor by of HIV in South Africa, it was concerned that based on means of the published correspondence, but rather the marketing and packaging of the gel, that the public to pursue its objects of ensuring that the public was would view the gel as a potential substitute for condoms not exposed to untested medicines. Also that the fight to be used to prevent the transmission of HIV and other against HIV was a national one and that all interested sexually transmitted diseases. The Society considered parties including the Society had the right to voice this to be irresponsible because not only was the gel not their concerns whenever there were suspicions of registered as a medicine in terms of the Medicines and irregularity. The Court therefore held that statements Related Substances Act, there was also no proof that the relied on by the doctor constituted an honest expression gel could be used safely, or had any clinical benefits. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 14 “In another matter against the DHA, we of fair comment, were made in the public interest and living without documented status have been devastating are assisting a client who has despite were therefore not defamatory or unlawful. The Court for both her and her youngest daughter. As a result, she also found that the Society had every right to raise its has not been able to vote, to get formal work or obtain her best efforts, for the better part of concerns about the product with the relevant regulatory a birth certificate for her daughter, who as a result has two decades, been unable to obtain and professional bodies. been unable to attend a public school or be admitted a replacement Identity Document to a public hospital. She currently resides in a shelter for The doctor has filed an application for leave to appeal after her ID was stolen in a burglary abused women together with her daughter. the judgment. We will be opposing the application. There at her home.” have been lengthy delays in establishing a set down date After many attempts to engage with the DHA we recently for this application to be heard and we still await the launched an urgent application on behalf of our client finalisation of such date. and her minor daughter in the High Court in which we asked the Court to review the DHA’s failure to process Long-overdue redress for a citizen without legal her applications and order the DHA to register her birth status in her country of birth and provide her with an ID book. In another matter against the DHA, we are assisting While the Court was concerned by the indefensible a client who has despite her best efforts, for the conduct of the DHA in failing to resolve our client’s better part of two decades, been unable to obtain a predicament, it gave the DHA one more chance to replacement Identity Document (ID) after her ID was comply with its constitutional and statutory obligations stolen in a burglary at her home. on an urgent basis, failing which it ordered that our client would be entitled to re-approach the Court for an order Over the course of the last seventeen years, our client compelling the DHA to do the necessary to register her has made multiple applications with various offices and provide her with an ID. of the DHA for a new ID, but with no success. Many years into the process, it emerged that someone else The DHA has since failed to comply with the deadline on the population register had been given the same ID imposed by the Court and we accordingly returned to number as her and so she had been removed from the the Pretoria High Court on 28 November 2017 where an population register. She was instructed to renounce order has finally been granted in favour of our client. The her previous ID number and to reapply to be registered DHA was ordered to grant our client’s application for late on the population register. She faithfully followed all registration of birth and register her on the population instructions from the DHA officials, including attending register within 10 (ten) days of service of the court order. various interviews with a committee tasked with verifying The DHA was also ordered to issue our client with a birth her identity, together with family members who have certificate and an ID in the form of a smart ID card within attested to her South African identity, but to no avail. She 15 (fifteen) days of service of the court order. even lodged a complaint with the SAHRC. Our client is overjoyed by this and it fills her with hope Despite all of this, the DHA has failed to meaningfully that she will soon be able to reclaim the rights she is assist her and she remains without legally recognised entitled to in terms of the Constitution of South Africa. status in the country of her birth. The consequences of UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 15 Assistance with the staffing of law clinics In 2017, the Employment Practice received the Johannesburg Firm Award from the South African Refugee Law Clinic Society of Labour Law for its contribution to the Our Pro Bono and Human Rights Practice staffs this clinic SASLAW Pro Bono NPC. The SASLAW Pro Bono NPC on a monthly basis and provides much needed advice is a non-profit organisation formed by SASLAW to on the asylum seeker process. Assistance is also given in administer the Pro Bono projects in the four Labour relation to the Refugee Appeal Board hearings and High Courts in South Africa, namely Johannesburg, Durban, Court reviews. Cape Town and Port Elizabeth. For the past five years, the Employment Practice has Inner City Housing Clinic managed to dedicate more hours than any other law firm at the Pro Bono Advice Centre. Since its inception, the Our Real Estate Practice staffs the Inner City Housing SASLAW Pro Bono Advice Centre has assisted over 17,000 Clinic on a monthly to bimonthly basis. This clinic runs clients with high quality advisory and labour law services on a weekly basis and individuals from all walks of life to those who otherwise would not have had access to visit the clinic in order to obtain assistance / advice on an such legal services. array of issues including the rectification of title deeds, transfer of ownership, endorsements, cancellation of bonds and drafting of various agreements. Skills Develpment Initiatives We assist the Southern African Litigation Centre, which Master’s Legal Clinic develops legal resources for human rights litigators in Our Trusts and Estates Practice staffs the Master’s Legal countries of Southern Africa, outside South Africa. Clinic on a monthly basis. Indigent individuals can obtain We continue to be active in practical legal training in advice on all aspects of deceased estates at the clinic. commercial work for black lawyers through the Black Lawyers Association (with the American Bar Association) High Court Help Desk and through the South African Law Society (with the Irish Our Litigation Practice helped staff the High Court Help Law Society). Desk. This clinic runs on a weekly basis and indigent individuals can obtain advice on instituting and defending WOLELA (Women Leading In Law) matters in the High Court. CDH is a proud sponsor of a Women Lawyers Network known as WOLELA (Women Leading in Law) in 2017. The SASLAW Clinic network came about at the closing of South Africa’s first Our Employment Practice staffs this clinic on a weekly Women in Law & Leadership Summit hosted by UCT Law basis and provides advice on all aspects of South Africa’s @ work in partnership with the Centre for Integrative labour law to indigent persons unable to pay for legal services. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 16 Law held in 2015, titled Finding New Ways for Women to and welcoming and it is genuinely a safe space to Lead in Law. Terry Winstanley, Director & National Head share experiences and solutions to the everyday of CDH’s Environmental Law Practice was one of the challenges that women face. – Zanele Ngakane speakers at the 2015 summit. At the close of the summit, the desire was expressed CSR Initiatives by many of the delegates to be part of an ongoing CDH remains committed to discharging its corporate community of women lawyers focused on personal social responsibility (CSR) obligations through continued and professional development. It was agreed that the enforcement of its Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, conversations begun at the summit had to be continued as overseen by the Corporate Social Responsibility and out of this agreement, WOLELA was born. Committee. It is actively involved in a number of A firm’s sponsorship of WOLELA allows for lawyers to corporate social responsibility initiatives and projects and join the network and demonstrates a firm or company’s also continues each year to make significant donations commitment to the advancement and retention of to various charitable causes. Some of the main projects women in law. Members are afforded the opportunity to and initiatives with which CDH was involved over the learn from women in other firms about what’s working reporting period include: and what’s not and they can also network with potential new clients from a range of industries via in-house Santa Shoebox counsel WOLELA members and top-ranked attorneys CDH began participating in the Santa Shoebox Project and advocates. in 2014 – an initiative of the Kidz2Kidz Trust which Sponsorship also facilitates a firm’s access to the aims to share the joy of giving over the festive season. pioneering space WOLELA holds within the global The project involves the co-ordination, collection and Integrative Law movement and the leaders in touch distribution of personalised gifts to underprivileged with the network who are developing more conscious, children who would otherwise not receive gifts over humane and client centric ways to practise law. Christmas. In 2017, CDH contributed about 140 boxes. Current CDH members of WOLELA include Anelisa Come Together Home Mkeme, Nonhla Mchunu and Zanele Ngakane in the Johannesburg office and Gabi Mailula and Samiksha As part of a longstanding tradition at the firm, CDH will be Singh from the Cape Town office. CDH’s commitment hosting a Christmas party for the Come Together Home to the personal and professional development in law is during the course of December 2017. The Christmas pronounced in what one of the members had to say: party provides an opportunity for the children and staff at the Home to enjoy an afternoon with CDH staff filled I find the WOLELA sessions very helpful and with entertainment, treats and games. In 2017, funds will empowering. I have even found ways of applying be raised at the firm’s annual Pub Quiz and same will be the useful skills and tools in my everyday work and given to the Home to cater for its needs in 2018. personal life. The ladies at the sessions are warm UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 17 Casual Day occurred in the Western Cape. While thousands of people managed to save the little they had, others CDH assisted with the selling of ‘Casual Day’ stickers in lost everything. order to support persons with disabilities. The QuadPara Association of South Africa visited CDH to provide A plan of action was formed for the week and within the information and education on the reality of persons living space of two days, CDH managed to donate boxes of with physical disabilities like quadriplegia and paraplegia. grocery hampers, including blankets, 5-litre bottles of The information session involved activities which allowed water and several non-perishable food items to some the participants to experience a moment in the life of a of the affected families in Imizamo Yethu. In addition to person living with a physical disability. this, special boxes were also donated to the families with babies under the age of three years old. With the support CANSA Shavathon and leadership of our CEO Brent Williams and Cape Town Managing Partner Gasant Orrie, arrangements were 2017 marked the 14th year of the annual Cancer made to make this an ongoing project as opposed to a Association of South Africa (CANSA) #Shavathon. once-off donation. Alongside the shaving and / or spraying of hair, the Cape Town team set up a fun photo booth and conducted a Nelson Mandela Day raffle while the Johannesburg team prided itself on the scrumptious sweet and savoury snacks it had on offer. All CDH honoured the legacy of Nelson Mandela of this was in a bid to raise as much funds for the cause by participating in Mandela Day initiatives at our as possible, raise awareness and create a platform for Johannesburg and Cape Town offices. Each of us CDH to rally behind those affected by cancer. can make every day a Mandela Day by choosing to do something sustainable that will help South The efforts paid off – the event was attended by Africa eradicate poverty and ensure we each realise countless supporters and a total of about R23,000 was the ideal of a dignified life. Aligned to this theme of raised between the two CDH offices! This is indeed a #ActionAgainstPoverty, CDHers created hygiene care testament to the priority CDH places on its corporate packs for the youth at Abraham Kriel Childcare, a social responsibility. Contributions made in all shape, registered NPO providing care and skills development manner and form made a valuable difference. for traumatised children and youth in need in the greater Johannesburg area. In Cape Town, similar packs Hout Bay | Imizamo Yethu were delivered to the Homestead Child and Youth Care On Saturday 11 March 2017, 7500 people in the small Centre which provides a daily programme for children township of Imizamo Yethu in Hout Bay, Cape Town, living, working and begging on the street. The Centre were left homeless after crippling fires swept through assists these children to settle into a routine life by the area in the early hours of the morning, destroying ensuring they get the support they need to transition thousands of houses in the process. The devastating off and away from the street life. blaze is said to be one of the largest fires to have ever UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 18 Nelson Mandela Month in Cape Town unwanted street children until eventually the healed, beautiful child is revealed. The Centre works with a In celebration of Mandela Month, Christmas came purpose to heal, develop and educate these children; early for the 24 youth at the “The Launch Pad” of the to put the trauma of their past aside; and to ensure that Homestead Child and Youth Care Centre. they have an empowered future. The CDH teams that participated this year were allocated a youth to sponsor and had to create a Legal Education Advancement Fund Project (LEAF) fun-filled care pack including the following items: CDH, in partnership with Juta, hosted a very successful toothpaste, soap, deodorant, face cloths, socks, and insightful legal writing training workshop for the underwear stationary and snacks. On the 28th July, LEAF (Legal Education Advancement Fund) recipients CDH staff gathered together in their respective teams from the University of Johannesburg and the University and decorated and personalised their care packs to of the Witwatersrand. the beat of the African drum. After a session filled with ribbons, wrapping paper, glue and far too much glitter, The aptly named ‘Legally Right Programme’ is a two24 beautifully wrapped care packs were created with day workshop (20-21 July) formatted as an interactive home-made cards including an inspirational message. writing course designed for future lawyers. One of The money collected from salary deductions was used the fundamental reasons for hosting the students is to buy pyjamas for each of the youths. that in addition to assisting them financially, CDH is also providing them with the opportunity to upskill The best part was yet to come and on 2 August, all the their legal writing abilities. The workshop exemplifies packs were delivered to the Homestead Centre. CDH CDH’s interest in both the students’ growth, and their were finally able to put a face to a name as they handed future in the legal sector. The workshop helped equip out the packs, watching the children’s faces light up as the students with the necessary skills and knowledge their names were called. Staff also met Paul Hooper, to take their legal writing to the next level. CDH will the Director of the project and were given a tour of the continue to roll the workshops out in 2018, in both Centre and provided with more information about what Johannesburg and Cape Town. exactly the Homestead does for these children. Subsequent to the workshop, and with year-end The Centre provides a daily programme for children exams underway, CDH hosted study sessions for the living, working and begging on the street and assists students at our Johannesburg office. Students formed such children in settling into a routine life by ensuring study groups with their peers, discussed relevant study they get the support they need to transition off the materials and exchanged notes while having access to street and away from street life. The Centre wishes to CDH resources including our library, printing facilities chip away at all the pain, anger and developmental and the internet to ease their studying environment. delays that define chronically neglected, abused and UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 19 “CDH established collaborative Advocates for Transformation (AFT) Initiative Pocket Guides Donation relationships with a number of As one of its enterprise development initiatives CDH has With 4th year law students at the University of the small, black owned law firms in established a project with Advocates for Transformation Western Cape unable to afford prescribed textbooks Johannesburg. We share information, (AFT). An agreement was concluded between CDH and and pocket statutes needed for assessment and exam knowledge and expertise on a AFT, in terms whereof CDH financially supports AFT, purposes, CDH donated 100 of the Companies Act for the benefit of new Black advocates, at the start of pocket guides to the Law faculty. regular basis through training their careers, to enable them to overcome the barriers sessions and seminars at CDH, and The pocket guides will be made available during to entry to that profession presented by the need to assessments and exams to students who are unable to the distribution of our internal self-support for a considerable period of time during afford to buy them. publications and marketing training, and while establishing a practice. In addition, materials.” the agreement entails the framework for further National Schools Moot Court Competition interactions to establish and cement relationships between the beneficiaries of the support (as well as and Bursary Scheme other young Black and female advocates) and CDH’s As has already been mentioned above, CDH provides professionals, to encourage a change in exclusionary extensive and varied assistance to the NSMCC, briefing patterns between attorneys and advocates. including the provision of generous bursaries to the four winning students (should they decide to study law). Professional Collaboration CDH established collaborative relationships with Ikamva Labantu a number of small, black owned law firms in CDH is committed to supporting Ikamva Labantu, a Johannesburg. We share information, knowledge and well-respected non-profit organisation whose primary expertise on a regular basis through training sessions objectives are to redress the damaging effects of South and seminars at CDH, and the distribution of our Africa’s apartheid past. The organisation works with internal publications and marketing materials. seniors, orphans and vulnerable children. Our Cape Town office provides Ikamva Labantu with ongoing pro bono legal assistance, including providing advice on various legal and governance matters, as well as helping with the registration of its properties. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 20 Measurement of Outcomes The total hours spent on pro bono by the firm in the period under review exceeded 8,000 and this we While the firm’s policies do not commit it to a specific believe demonstrates a strong level of dedication and total pro bono or CSR spend each year, CDH takes commitment. This amounts to a monetary spend of in pride in ensuring that every year it makes a significant excess of R16 million during the period under review. and valuable contribution to forwarding the human rights of others through its pro bono and human rights A particular emphasis was placed by the firm during the related work and CSR activities. period under review on supporting and promoting the rights of some of the most vulnerable groupings in our As the above summary of our work throughout the society, including young people, people with disabilities reporting period illustrates CDH made a material and refugees. contribution to forwarding the rights of many through pro bono work, training and awareness building and Over and above this, sizable new CSR projects were through various CSR special projects. rolled out by the firm during the period under review aimed at transforming the legal sector. Significant financial and human resources were dedicated to these projects. UN Global Compact | Human Rights Principles | 21 3. Labour Principles Assessment, policy and goals Employment Equity Plans (EEP) being created. Under these EEP’s, annual goals are set, designed to remove South Africa is a member state of the International under-representivity of designated groups (Black people Labour Organisation (ILO), and ILO standards find (as defined in the EEA), women and people living with their way into local law. Both ILO instruments that disabilities) in every level of the organisation. These goals are binding on South Africa, and those to which the do not function as absolute barriers to employment country is not a party, are used as tools of interpretation or advancement of non-designated, or already fully in a South African context. This is specifically required represented groups of employees, however, are guides by the Constitution and has been confirmed by the that inform employment decisions, in a conscious Constitutional Court. These principles therefor inculcate effort to remove areas of under-representivity of the the local legislation and case law. designated groups. Under-representivity is established CDH is committed to the fostering of social and by a comparison between actual employee numbers, economic progress for all South Africans, irrespective of per prescribed category, with an ideal position, typically individually defining characteristics, in accordance with either the national economically active population, the prescripts of applicable legal principles. and / or the regional economically active population, as may be appropriate. A comprehensive set of employment policies have been designed by CDH, to give effect to its commitment to Employees receive formal and informal feedback from respecting the dignity and equality of its employees, their EEC representatives, on the work of the EEC. This business partners and clients, while maintaining the work includes (amongst others) the identification of professional standards and ethics expected of a leading training needs on issues of employment equity, equality, South African law firm. These policies are available to all and the respect for human dignity. Training on issues of employees on an internal electronic platform, as well as sexual harassment and gender sensitivity is conducted in writing. Employment practices are tested against the regularly, and all levels of the organisation are exposed employment policies, read with employment legislation to such training. and relevant codes of good practice. The EEC further identifies barriers to employment Implementation or advancement of designated groups, and works to remove such barriers. This includes for instance ensuring The work of the CDH Employment Equity Committee that reasonable accommodation is made for people with (EEC), a widely representative employee body constituted disabilities; bringing employment barriers to the attention in accordance with the requirements of the Employment of HR or the EEC; and engaging with their constituents to Equity Act, No 55 of 1998 (EEA), results in periodic ensure that an avenue is available to employees to UN Global Compact | Labour Principles | 22 raise concerns. Individual grievances are raised and dealt Notable initiatives arising from Transcom’s work include with in accordance with the firm’s disciplinary code and the redesign of CDH’s mentorship programme, so as to grievance procedures, while issues of wider concern, offer greater support to junior professionals; adaptations “Over the past year Transcom has such as an employment policy or practice that may have to the firm’s remuneration structure to encourage met extensively, and has done an a discriminatory effect, may be considered by the EEC increased briefing of colleagues who may not have before any further action is taken. otherwise had equal access to work, and, with that, exhaustive evaluation of past and advancement opportunities; formalised support to the existing transformation initiatives, All new trainee lawyers (candidate attorneys) entering advocates profession, to support the entrance into the including an evaluation of its the organisation must participate in formal prescribed professional of designated individuals; and a process of failures and successes.” training, which includes Gender Law, Constitutional infusing interactions with and between employees with Law, and Labour Law training. Such training includes the principles of respect for, and celebration of, diversity. training on CDH’s policy regarding discrimination, sexual harassment and respect for the dignity of others in the Many of the initiatives envisaged by Transcom remain organisation. in the planning phase, for further development over the coming year(s), however many have already found CDH has a Transformation Committee (Transcom), implementation for example our AFT initiative (see comprised of firm leaders (director level). Transcom discussion under CSR initiatives). reports directly to the CDH executive committee, and meets regularly to address transformation issues. Over the past year Transcom has met extensively, and has done an exhaustive evaluation of past and existing transformation initiatives, including an evaluation of its failures and successes. This has resulted in a report being presented to the firm’s directors, setting out the initiatives which the firm will embark on in the coming year, to progressively weed out actual or perceived prejudice resulting from race or gender. UN Global Compact | Labour Principles | 23 Outcomes of transformation initiatives Measurement of outcomes CDH has consistently filed its EEP, and has never failed to are formally measured in two ways: meet the goals it set for itself, over the lifetime of its EEP Outcomes of transformation initiatives are formally (typically, 3 years). CDH’s BBBEE level, for the year 2017, • through a report to the measured in two ways. Annually, the EEC prepares is level 3 (with level 1 being the highest possible level). Department of Labour; and a report, in prescribed form, for submission to the Department of Labour. This report constitutes a The firm further tracks internally whether any alleged • through a formal evaluation breakdown of employees’ race, gender, and disability violations of other employment legislation occurred. of transformation initiatives profiles across the firm, and tracks whether CDH has Any such alleged violations are resolved through our in terms of the Broadmet the goals it set for itself in its EEP, to reduce underdisciplinary and grievance procedures. We are again Based Black Economic representivity in designated groups. pleased to confirm that no awards have been made against us at any of the Courts or Tribunals with Empowerment Act. The second formal evaluation of transformation jurisdiction over us (ie the Commission for Conciliation, initiatives is done in terms of the Broad-Based Black Mediation and Arbitration, or the Labour Court) since Economic Empowerment Act No. 53 of 2003. This CDH’s formation in 2008. legislation requires companies to obtain an annual certification of its BBBEE status. Certification is based on a detailed independent evaluation of many aspects of the company’s transformation initiatives, and is not solely based on labour principles, although the underrepresentivity of designated groups in (especially) the higher categories of employee will adversely impact on a company’s level. The BBBEE Act’s purpose is to promote economic transformation in order to enable meaningful participation of black people in the South African economy, and to achieve a substantial change in the racial composition of ownership and management structures and in the skilled occupations of existing and new enterprises (amongst others). UN Global Compact | Labour Principles | 24 4. Anti-Corruption Introduction Regrettably, corruption in public and private life remains part of the South African reality, and perhaps that of As always, maintaining the highest legal, professional the world. In South Africa, ongoing allegations of state and ethical standards remains a key part of CDH culture capture and an alarming number of corporate scandals and the firm is committed to the fight against corruption have served to highlight risks in both the public and and bribery. Anti-corruption initiatives at CDH are both private sectors. internal and client facing to the extent that the firm runs anti-bribery and corruption seminars for its practitioners Nevertheless, from a due diligence perspective, an as well as clients. understanding of the anti-corruption compliance risks inherent in today’s local, regional and global business A number of our attorneys continue to develop valuable climate is gaining prominence. An awareness of local expertise in advising on white-collar crime, bribery and and global legislation influences the way we conduct corruption as well as the conduct of forensic audits business and interact with our clients, associates and and investigations. CDH has sought to formalise and suppliers and we continue to take our obligations in coalesce this aspect of its service offering through a this regard seriously. crossdisciplinary virtual practice in white collar crime and related advice made up of regulatory attorneys and Compliance litigation experts. New hires have bolstered our ability to offer specialist advice in this important field. Through advice and advocacy, CDH supports compliance with a number of local laws that underpin CDH’s Pro-Bono Practice acts in support of the rule anti-corruption enforcement in South Africa including: of law in its broadest sense, while other practices such as Competition Law contribute to advocating against ff The Prevention of Organised Crime Act 1998; corruption in the form of price-fixing and bid-rigging ff The Protected Disclosures Act 2000; cartels. ff The Financial Intelligence Centre Act 2001; South Africa’s role in the global economy means that foreign legislation and treaty obligations also need to be ff The Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities considered, including obligations under the Organisation Act 2004; for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) ff The Public Services Act 1994; Recommendations on Combating Bribery, Bribe Solicitation and Extortion; the UN Convention against ff The Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Corruption and the African Union Convention Against Terrorist and Related Activities Act 2004; and Corruption; and more pointedly, the US Foreign Corrupt ff The Companies Act 2008. Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. UN Global Compact | Anti-Corruption | 25 The Financial Intelligence Centre Act, 2001 (FICA) and Training the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act, 2008, are geared towards combatting money laundering. The CDH offers focussed anti-bribery and corruption training firm, as a registered “accountable institution” under FICA as part of formal career academies for professionals. has comprehensive policies and procedures in place to In addition and as part of the firm’s in-house training comply with our obligations in respect of, for example, programme, newly appointed candidate attorneys are verifying the identify of clients, keeping records of required, in preparation for their admission examinations, business relationships and transactions and reporting to attend various training sessions on professional cash transactions as well as suspicious transactions to the conduct and ethics, which includes, for example, a Financial Intelligence Centre. We have comprehensive discussion of risk management, fraud, bribery and internal rules in this regard, which are made available to corruption as well as attorney-client privilege. all employees as part of compulsory training on our FICA As part of the new practice management course for policies and procedures. new directors which has been introduced by the Law A key development in CDH has been the appointment Society of South Africa, new directors attend in-house of a dedicated risk and compliance manager. Our risk training sessions on professional conduct, ethics and risk and compliance manager is responsible, inter alia, for management. overseeing compliance with all local anti-corruption and This year, CDH has sought to formalise and update a bribery related legislation; formulating recommendations number of initiatives related to driving its anti-corruption for improvements in line with international best policies and procedures. practice and statutory objectives; providing an ad-hoc advisory service to the business in respect of queries relating to due diligence, money laundering, reporting Other initiatives and policies Ethical conduct responsibilities and for leading the implementation of CDH adopts a zero tolerance policy on corruption, remains a cornerstone internal policies, guidelines, procedures and training. bribery and extortion. CDH recognises that anti-bribery of the legal profession and anti-corruption requires on-going vigilance from and a fundamental Regulation senior managers through to professional staff and other part of CDH’s ethos. employees. The firm’s internal guidelines on antiEthical conduct remains a cornerstone of the legal corruption continues to be refined to take into account profession and a fundamental part of CDH’s ethos. developing best practice in managing these risks and In terms of the Attorneys Act, 1979, our attorneys are driving a culture of compliance at CDH and in relation to registered with the relevant provincial law societies where third parties with whom we work. they practice and comply with the rules in regard to professional conduct and ethics. UN Global Compact | Anti-Corruption | 26 5. Environmental Principles Relevance of environmental Implementation protection for CDH Carbon footprint The legal sector has a relatively small environmental footprint. However, CDH acknowledges that it has a CDH conducted its annual carbon footprint to obtain a clear responsibility to ensure its environmental impacts are overview of all the greenhouse gas emissions it causes, minimised. We maintain that the greatest impact we can including energy use. The footprint is attached to this COP. have on environmental sustainability is using our expertise CDH’s total emission have increased in 2016 / 2017 by 13% in providing legal advice to our clients to help them from 2015 / 2016. understand and comply with environmental legislation and implement environmentally sound management, so as to This increase relates to travel (commuting by private car; respond to the environmental challenges facing the world. business car-hire and air travel); and electricity usage. Electricity consumption makes up most of CDH’s carbon CDH’S environmental policy footprint (68% of total emissions). The Sandton office has an At CDH we continue to recognise the critical electricity intensity of 43% less than the Cape Town office importance natural resources have on economic per full time employee (FTE). growth and sustainable development, particularly in Cape Town’s electricity intensity reduced by 9% between Africa. We acknowledge the importance of reducing 2013 / 2014 to 2015 / 2016 financial year due to proactive our environmental impact in all areas of our business steps CDH has taken to reduce the Cape Town office’s and contributing to projects that support positive electricity intensity. It has however increased in 2016 / 2017 environmental outcomes. to 12605 kwh / per full time employee up from 10,546kWh Our commitment to operate in a responsible way remains per FTE in 2015 / 2016, being a 19% increase. focused on the following areas: For CDH as a whole, emission intensity per square metre • Assessing and reporting on carbon emissions. of office space has remained constant since 2014 / 2015 financial year due to steps taken by CDH to become more • Reduction and efficient use of water, energy and paper. energy efficient. • Reduction, re-use and recycling of waste. Emission intensity per employee has also been constant • Creating environmental awareness among staff, clients since 2014 / 2015 but has increased by 19% in 2016 / 2017 and business partners. financial year. As noted, this is largely due to increases in air travel, commuting by private car and electricity usage. • Providing pro bono legal support to non-profit organisations (NPOs). CDH’s steps to decrease its footprint are discussed below. • Furnishing environmental legal services to clients. UN Global Compact | Environmental Principles | 27 “CDH conducted its annual carbon Transportation • Lighting is believed to be the largest energy footprint to obtain a clear overview consumer, mainly due to some of the time schedules CDH used ‘foot-messengers’ for all inner-city deliveries being set to extended hours. Adjusting the lighting of all the greenhouse gas (within a 1 – 4 km radius). operating hours and the installation of more efficient emissions it causes, including Our virtual meeting technology, installed in both our lighting will result in a saving of 24%. energy use. The footprint is Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices provides an In 2014 / 2015 CDH piloted a process of adjusting the attached to this COP.” effective alternative to travel and is increasingly used. lighting timers for a certain period whilst it received CDH’s increases in its carbon footprint however relate feedback from employees that usually work later hours. to transport (commuting by private car, car hire and air The timers in the Cape Town Office are now set on all travel) and measures to reduce this portion of the carbon floors to turn off automatically at a set time. footprint will need to be considered in the next reporting In order to achieve significant savings, it is recommended year. that the lighting be replaced with more efficient lighting Reduction and efficient use of water and energy and that occupancy control in the individual offices be installed. The design of CDH’s Johannesburg Office ensures the efficient use of water and energy. Solar panels on the CDH previously installed more energy efficient LED roof generate hot water and evaporative cooling in the globes in areas that are able to accommodate them. This atrium controls the air temperature. The glass used project was not continued with in 2016 / 2017 and further extensively on the Office facades is a low e-glass, which steps will be taken in the next reporting year. emits low levels of radiant energy. The top basement It is recommended that the operating hours of both levels are designed to allow for natural ventilation and HVAC and lighting be specialized to reduce wastage. the Office windows are designed to allow as much light Furthermore, the tenant equipment (mainly computer in as possible. Double-glazing on vision panels and roof equipment) could be specialized by installing specialized insulation allows for the conservation of natural energy. software whereby the operating hours can be reduced. Electrical energy consumption is reduced at the CDH has not yet adjusted the timers on the HVAC system Johannesburg Office through movement sensors and This is now planned to occur in the next reporting year timers for lighting systems. Timers have also recently and will be piloted for staff feedback. This will however been installed at the Cape Town Office. Energy efficient differ from the lighting adjustment, as the need varies per PCs and laptops are also used. season. A large portion of the carbon footprint constitutes Some proposals can be done internally without any electricity usage in the Cape Town Office. CDH therefore additional costs (such as adjusting the air conditioning conducted an energy efficiency audit on it in 2014. The and lighting operating hours). findings of the Audit and the steps CDH has taken are set out below. UN Global Compact | Environmental Principles | 28 Our security contractor / guards continue to assist with Providing Pro Bono legal support to monitoring and switching off unnecessary equipment environmental NPOS during their hourly patrols at night. CDH has provided a wide range of pro bono legal In an effort to reduce and save energy consumption on a services to the Endangered Wildlife Trust (EWT) since larger scale, CDH enlisted the services of a Company that 2012. We are currently assisting them with a dispute deals primarily in assisting corporate companies with their concerning their lease agreement. energy efficiency (Winterbourne-Green Energy (Pty) Ltd) in the 2014 / 2015 reporting year. This project has been In 2015 / 2016 it has also provided corporate and put on hold, as Winterbourne-Green Energy (Pty) Ltd is employment pro bono legal services to Delta still in the process of enlisting more corporates for this Environmental Centre. initiative. When the Project is implemented, it will assist greatly in both the Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices Creating environmental awareness among becoming more energy efficient, while still operating staff, clients and business partners optimally. The Environmental Law Practice provides seminars to other Departments, candidate attorneys and clients on Reduction, re-use and recycling of waste various aspects of environmental law. It also frequently We remain committed to reducing paper use and publishes articles on developments in environmental recycling paper, plastics and other waste. Whilst law and environmental rights in Africa, aimed inter alia at Cape Town has increased its waste usage by 15%, increasing awareness amongst its clients and the general Johannesburg has decreased by 17%. public CDH continues to utilise an accredited recycling company at its Johannesburg and Cape Town Offices. As with most Furnishing environmental legal services law firms, paper constitutes the bulk of CDH’s waste stream. to clients An employee of the recycling company is based CDH continues to represent several clients with permanently at the Johannesburg Office to separate significant environmental impacts due to the nature of waste streams for recycling purposes. In addition, paper their operations, such as the mining, industrial, waste recycling boxes are present in prominent positions in sectors and nuclear power generation. Through our both the Cape Town and Johannesburg Offices. Environmental Law Practice we advise our clients on all environmental aspects of their business, from environmental regulation and compliance to strategic environmental planning. UN Global Compact | Environmental Principles | 29 Monitoring Footprint and environmental impacts CDH’s Social and Ethics Committee has an arising from our operations environmental representative, who is a Director in the The energy audit will determine where and how the Environmental Law Practice. She continues to report Cape Town Office can become more energy efficient, back on the extent and effectiveness of environmental thereby reducing our carbon footprint even further. For strategies within the Firm and presents proposals on business air travel we are still formulating an appropriate further reduction / mitigation strategies to reduce CDH’s travel policy. Regarding private car travel we continue to environmental impact. actively encouraging lift-sharing and the use of public Through the carbon footprint’s outcome and data transport. Lastly, in order to have an accurate carbon accumulated on our waste stream, we have a measurable footprint, we have implemented the necessary data baseline to set annual targets and objectives, enabling management processes and will continue striving to us to accurately track and report our progress and improve them. determine if our strategies are effective. Management regularly assesses the effectiveness of strategies that have been implemented and whether they successfully reduce the negative impact in the three key areas. Goals CDH is committed to further reducing our environmental impact in the three key areas identified in the carbon footprint assessment namely: energy efficiency, air travel and car travel. Measures to reduce our carbon footprint from air and car travel will be further considered. UN Global Compact | Environmental Principles | 30 Carbon Footprint Report Reporting Period: 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 4 December 2017 www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Table of contents Acknowledgements 3 OVERVIEW OF CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR’S 2016/2017 CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT (CO2e) EMISSIONS 4 1. Introduction 6 2. Required information 7 2.1. Company description 7 2.2. GHG inventory boundaries 7 2.3. Reporting Period 8 3. Methodology 9 3.1. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) 9 3.2. Emission Factors (EFs) 9 4. Carbon footprint Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr 10 4.1. Scope 1 & 2 emissions 10 4.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions 11 4.3. Historical overview 12 4.4. Information on Offsetting 13 14 5. Carbon footprint CDH Sandton Office 5.1. Scope 1 & 2 15 5.2 Relevant scope 3 emissions 16 6. Carbon footprint CDH Cape Town Office 18 6.1. Scope 1 & 2 18 6.2 Relevant scope 3 emissions 19 6.3 Comparison between Sandton & Cape Town office 21 Contact Persons 22 Acknowledgements Franz Rentel from Climate Neutral Group would like to thank Sandra Gore and Beverley Winter for fielding all questions and coordinating the Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr team for the carbon footprint. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 3 OVERVIEW OF CLIFFE DEKKER HOFMEYR’S 2016/2017 CARBON DIOXIDE EQUIVALENT (CO2e) EMISSIONS REPORTING PERIOD: Financial Year 2016 / 2017 (1 April 2016 – 31 March 2017) CONDUCTED ON: Sandton & Cape Town office Basic Information Total CDH employees: 602 Total square metres of space reported: 19,276 Scope 1 Direct Emissions Metric tonnes of CO2e Equipment owned or controlled (generators) 0.79 Company delivery vehicles 38.79 TOTAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS 39.58 Scope 2 Indirect Emissions Electricity consumption 5272.47 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS 5312.05 Scope 3 Indirect Emissions Commuting by private car 888.31 Commuting by public transport 54.05 Business travel in commercial airlines 1346.31 Business travel in rental cars 57.03 Business travel in hotels 24.88 Paper 56.12 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 2426.69 TOTAL SCOPE 1, 2 & 3 EMISSIONS 7738.74 Total emissions per full-time employee (tCO2e/FTE) 12.86 Scope 1 & 2 emissions per square metre of space (tCO2e/m2) 0.28 CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 4 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 COMPANY VEHICLES 1% PAPER 1% CAR HIRE 1% AIR TRAVEL COMMUTING BY PUBLIC 17% TRANSPORT 1% COMMUTING BY PRIVATE CAR 11% 68% electricity consumption Emission per source in this period CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 5 1. Introduction An organisational carbon footprint serves as a starting point of the carbon footprint, based on your reported data. This and foundation for your company’s carbon management carbon footprint was determined in accordance with the programme by providing you with a clear overview of all Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting the greenhouse gas emissions caused by your operations, and Reporting Standard methodology1. including energy use by your offices and processes. Gaining insight into your business or organisation’s carbon Climate Neutral Group has gone to all reasonable lengths footprint is the first step towards managing it. This will to ensure that the primary information provided by you is allow you to: correct but we take no responsibility for any inaccuracies that this information might contain. This report, in its • disclose your carbon emissions to clients, government entirety, is both material and complete and is intended and other stakeholders for your company’s internal use only. Information may, • prepare for future mandatory carbon reporting however, be extracted for reporting purposes, such as for • determine your carbon tax exposure submission into international and/or national greenhouse • realise potential energy and cost savings gas registries and sustainability reporting. • track and reduce your carbon emissions • invest into carbon offsetting thereby linking your CSI We hope that this carbon footprint report will provide you mandate with your carbon strategy with the valuable insight you need to (further) limit your impact on the climate and/or demonstrate that any carbon This carbon footprint report is part of the standard service reduction measures you might have taken in so far have offering from Climate Neutral Group. It contains a brief had the desired effect. If you would like any advice on description of the boundaries, scope and methodology limiting your climate impact and/or how to offset (a part used. The major part of the report gives a detailed account of) your footprint, please speak to one of our consultants. 1 The GHG Protocol is a multi-stakeholder partnership of business, NGOs and governments led by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). It is the best source of information about corporate GHG accounting and reporting, and draws on the expertise and contributions of individuals and organisations from around the world. The GHG Protocol is the most widely used standard for mandatory and voluntary GHG Programmes. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 6 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 2. Required information 2.1. Company description 2.2. GHG inventory boundaries Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr (“CDH”) is one of the largest In accordance with the GHG Protocol, clear organisational business law firms in South Africa with some 115 directors/ and operational boundaries (including “scopes”) have to partners and 200 qualified lawyers, located at offices in be defined before a carbon footprint can be reported. It Sandton and Cape Town. The firm specialises in services is important to highlight that under the GHG Protocol, the covering the complete spectrum of business legal needs reporting of both direct emissions and indirect emissions with dedicated sector-led teams. resulting from purchased electricity are compulsory (scope 1 and 2 respectively). All other indirect emissions (scope 3) This 2016/2017 Carbon Footpring Report constitutes the are reported on a voluntary basis. However Climate Neural fourth consecutive carbon footprint commissioned by Group advises that any emissions from significant scope Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr (“CDH”) and should be compared 3 activities that your organisation has an influence over against the previous carbon footprint calculations. This should also be included (for example business travel). This report covers emissions resulting from business activities of provides you with a realistic carbon footprint which is the CDH’s two South African offices: Sandton (Johannesburg) best basis to initiate effective carbon reduction plans and and Cape Town. This covers a staff complement of some communicate transparently to stakeholders. Below is a 602 full-time employees (FTEs), excluding contracted short description about boundaries and scopes. intermediaries, and 19,276 square metres (m2) of total office space. ORGANISATIONAL BOUNDARIES Organisational boundaries determine which business units (core, subsidiaries, franchises, etc.), facilities, or physical places of operation, owned or controlled by the reporting company, are included in the carbon footprint. The more complex the company structure, the more important are the boundaries of an organisation for the clear definition and scope of the report. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 7 Organisational boundaries are established on either the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions resulting from the control approach or the equity share approach. Under the following activities have been calculated: control approach, a company accounts for all emissions by entities and activities that are controlled by the Scope 1 (direct): organisation. Under the equity share approach, a company • Equipment owned or controlled by company (e.g. backaccounts for its GHG emissions from operations according up Diesel generators) to its share of equity in the operation. Scope 2 (indirect – electricity): Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr reports on all emissions using the • Consumption of purchased electricity Operational Control approach. This includes South African offices managed and controlled by the firm for which Scope 3: (indirect – other): Scope 1 (direct), Scope 2 (indirect electricity) and Scope • Commuting of staff by private car & public transport 3 (indirect) emissions can be accounted for. The offices • Business Travel in rental cars, taxis, commercial airlines included in the boundary are the Sandton and Cape Town & hotel stays office. • Paper use OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES 2.3. Reporting Period Operational boundaries determine the actual business The reporting period of this report is for CDH’s 2016/2017 activities of the reporting company that generate financial year (1 April 2016 – 31 March 2017). emissions, which of these activities should be included in the calculation, and how these activities should be classified (i.e. direct or indirect emissions). The GHG-emitting activities covered by the report include direct emissions resulting from fuel used by companyowned or controlled equipment and fleet vehicles; indirect emissions from purchased electricity (referred to as Scope 1 and 2 emissions respectively); and selected indirect emissions resulting from your business travel activities, third-party vehicle fleet, employee commuting patterns and the consumption of office paper (referred to as Scope 3 emissions). Refer to Appendix B for a diagram to illustrate direct and indirect emissions and the different scopes of reporting. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 8 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 3. methodology 3.1. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent values. These default values are representative averages based on the most extensive data sets available and are (CO2e) largely identical to those used by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the premier authority on The root cause of climate change is the release of mangreenhouse gas accounting practices at the global level. made greenhouse gases into the atmosphere which trap heat. The most important are carbon dioxide (CO2), The GHG Protocol recommends, however, that businesses methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). Due to the varying should use customised values whenever possible, as ability of greenhouse gases to trap heat in the atmosphere, industrial processes or the composition of fuels used by some are more harmful to the climate than others. Each businesses may differ with time and by region. This report greenhouse gas has a “global warming potential” (GWP), largely uses the latest emission factors provided by the UK which refers to its heat trapping potential relative to that government’s Department of Environment, Food and Rural of CO2. Therefore, to provide a comparable final figure, all Activities (Defra), May 2016. emissions are reported as a relative figure to CO2, i.e. as CO2e values. In reporting emissions generated by the consumption of electricity purchased from Eskom, the emissions factor provided by the utility’s annual integrated report (2015) has 3.2. Emission Factors (EFs) been used to give local context accuracy. Emission factors convert activity data (e.g. amount of fuel It is important to note that emission factors from the used, kilometres driven, and kilowatt hours of purchased relevant institutions are continuously updated in line electricity) into a value indicating carbon dioxide equivalent with new developments. Sometimes this can make (CO2e) emissions generated by that activity. comparisons with a previous year’s carbon footprint less straight-forward. Therefore the changes you see in your Default values are used by the GHG Protocol to assist footprint over time are not only caused by changes in your businesses that are unable to develop accurate customised behaviour but also changes in emission factors. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 9 4. Carbon footprint Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr 4.1. Scope 1 & 2 emissions The following two tables outline all direct emissions under Scope 1 and indirect emissions from purchased electricity under Scope 2 for the 2016/2017 financial year. TOTAL DIRECT SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit2 CO2e emissions Fuel used in equipment Litres of diesel 3.04 259 0.79 owned or controlled (back-up generators) Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.8 13,853 39.58 Total emissions from vehicle fleet 39.58 TOTAL INDIRECT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Purchased electricity Kilowatt hours 1.013 5,220,269.6 5,272.47 Total emissions from purchased electricity 5,272.47 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS 5,312.05 2 U  nless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to Defra’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2016. 3 Eskom emission factor per kilowatt hours of electricity generated in South Africa from Eskom was sourced from the Eskom 2015 Integrated Report. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 10 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 4.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions The following table outlines major and relevant Scope 3 emissions generated during the 2016/2017 financial year. Employee commuting carbon emissions have been calculated by means of a staff survey carried out in November 2017 (details of the survey in Appendix C). TOTAL INDIRECT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit4 CO2e emissions Employee commuting tCO2e/FTE Various according to 4,965,867 km5 942.35 transportation mode Business travel – air km Varies with distance 4,481,341 km 1346.31 travel Business travel – car km 0.227 251,225 57.03 hire Business travel – hotel Bed night 20.6 1208 24.88 accommodation Paper ton Various types 51.02 56.12 TOTAL SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS 2426.69 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF EMISSIONS BY SCOPE Metric tonnes of CO2e Description emissions Scope 1 39.58 Scope 2 5272.47 Scope 3 2426.69 ALL SCOPES 7738.74 4  nless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to U Defra’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2016. 5 An online commuting survey was completed on 21 November 2017. Total responses received: 150, representing 25% of full time employees. Appendix C contains details of the survey. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 11 4.3. Historical overview Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr had initially set 2012/2013 financial year as its base year for the carbon footprint calculations. A base year is the historical year against which a company’s emissions are tracked and compared over time. It is typically the earliest relevant point in time for which a company has reliable data. However, this has been adjusted to the 2014/2015 financial year due to unreliable electricity consumption data in 2013/2014 financial year. The table below compares CDH’s carbon footprint over the past three financial years of reporting. COMPARISON OF EMISSIONS AND INTENSITY 1 April 2014 – 31 March 2017 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 BASIC INFORMATION Full-time employees (FTE) 601 630 602 Square metres (m2) 18,410 18,410 19,276 ACTIVITY (tCO2e) Back-up generators for electricity generation 2.4 2.3 0.79 Company owned / leased vehicles 28.4 33 38.79 TOTAL SCOPE 1 30.8 35.4 39.58 TOTAL SCOPE 2 – Electricity 5006.6 4874.4 5272.47 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 5037.4 4909.4 5312.05 Employee commuting by private car 547.8 744.2 888.31 Employee commuting by public transport 45 54.1 54.05 Business travel – commercial airlines 737.2 1044.3 1346.31 Business travel – car hire No data 7.9 57.03 Business travel – hotel accommodation No data 7.2 24.88 Paper 142 60.7 56.12 TOTAL SCOPE 3 1472 1918.5 2426.69 TOTAL GROSS EMISSIONS 6509.3 6827.8 7738.74 Carbon Offsets 0 0 0 TOTAL NET EMISSIONS 6509.3 6827.8 7738.74 Emission intensity per employee (tCO2e/FTE) 10.83 10.84 12.86 Emission intensity per square metre office space (scope 0.27 0.27 0.28 1 & 2 tCO2e/m2) Intensity: % tCO2e from electricity 77 73 73 Kilowatt Hours consumed 4,908,411 4,825,724 5,220,270 Electricity intensity: kWh/FTE 8167 7660 8671 CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 12 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 HISTORICAL OVERVIEW 9000 8000 7000 ton CO² eq/year 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 0 TOTAL ELECTRICITY AIR TRAVEL COMMUTING 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 13 4.4. Information on Offsetting Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr has not (yet) offset any of its GHG emissions generated in the past five financial years by purchasing carbon offsets (credits). Carbon offsetting offers a unique opportunity to make an immediate and significant difference to reducing your impact on the environment. Our projects not only reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, but also impact communities who benefit from the sale of carbon credits. Carbon offsetting can help your business to gain competitive advantage, build brand value, support your CSI policy, improve your BEE scorecard, motivate staff, and encourage reduction activities by setting an internal price for carbon. Climate Neutral Group has several exciting offset projects in its portfolio that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve livelihoods. All our projects comply with the three most internationally recognised carbon credit standards – the Gold Standard, Verified Carbon Standard and the Clean Development Mechanism. Our projects combine energy, environment and developmental solutions into sustainable business opportunities. A few examples of projects in our portfolio are (f.l.t.r.): househould Biogas in Cambodia, efficient cookstoves in Uganda & Kenya, Wonderbags in South Africa, Municipal Landfill Gas in South Africa, Basa Magogo in South Africa CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 14 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 5. Carbon footprint CDH Sandton Office CDH’s carbon footprint takes into account the GHG emissions of all your facilities and business activities as a whole (i.e. both CDH offices within South Africa). You have requested for us to produce individual sub-reports for each of your offices during this process. While this is not mandatory to satisfy the best practise in carbon accounting, it is beneficial from a carbon management point of view in order to track how the individual offices perform over time. 5.1. SCOPE 1 & 2 EMiSSIONS The following two tables outline all direct emissions under Scope 1 and indirect emissions from purchased electricity under Scope 2 for the 2016/2017 financial year for the Sandton office. TOTAL DIRECT SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS – SANDTON OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Fuel used in equipment Litres of diesel 3.046 259 0.79 owned or controlled (back-up generators) Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.8 8,603 24.09 Total emissions from VEHICLE FLEET 24.88 INDIRECT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY SANDTON OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Purchased electricity Kilowatt hours 1.017 3,077,306 3108.08 Total emissions from purchased electricity 3108.08 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS 3132.96 6  nless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to U Defra’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2016. 7 Eskom emission factor per kilowatt hours of electricity generated in South Africa from Eskom was sourced from the Eskom 2015 Integrated Report. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 15 5.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions The following table outlines major and relevant Scope 3 emissions generated during the 2016/2017 financial year for the Sandton office. Employee commuting carbon emissions have been calculated by means of a staff survey carried out in November, 2017 (details of the survey in Appendix C). TOTAL INDIRECT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit8 CO2e emissions Employee commuting tCO2e/FTE Various according to 3,381,758km9 664.55 transportation mode Business travel – km Varies with distance 2,713,009 km 793.19 air travel Business travel – km 0.227 246,443 55.94 car hire Business travel – Bed night 20.6 1186 24.43 hotel accommodation Paper Tons Various types 51.02 36.93 Total scope 3 emissions 1575.05 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF EMISSIONS BY SCOPE Sandton office Description Metric tonnes of CO2e emissions Scope 1 24.88 Scope 2 3108.08 Scope 3 1575.05 All Scopes 4708.01 8  nless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to U Defra’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2016 9 An online commuting survey was completed on 21 November 2017. Total responses received: 150, representing 25% of full time employees. Appendix C contains details of the survey CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 16 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 HOTEL STAYS 1% PAPER 1% CAR HIRE 1% AIR TRAVEL COMMUTING BY PUBLIC 17% TRANSPORT 1% COMMUTING BY PRIVATE CAR 13% 66% electricity consumption Emission per source in this period CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 17 6. Carbon footprint CDH Cape Town Office 6.1. SCOPE 1 & 2 EMiSSIONS The following two tables outline all direct emissions under Scope 1 and indirect emissions from purchased electricity under Scope 2 for the 2016/2017 financial year for the Cape Town office. Emissions associated with the operation of air-conditioning units and refrigerators have not been included due to unreliable data. . DIRECT SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS CAPE TOWN OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Fuel used in equipment Litres of diesel 3.04 0 0 owned or controlled (back-up generators) Vehicle fleet Litres of petrol 2.8 5250 14.7 Total emissions from VEHICLE FLEET 14.7 INDIRECT SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY – CAPE TOWN OFFICE Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit CO2e emissions Purchased electricity Kilowatt hours 1.01 2,142,964 2164.39 Total emissions from purchased electricity 2164.39 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 EMISSIONS 2179.09 CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 18 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 6.2. Relevant scope 3 emissions The following table outlines major and relevant Scope 3 emissions generated during the 2015/2016 financial year for the Cape Town office. Employee commuting carbon emissions have been calculated by means of a staff survey carried out in November, 2017 (details of the survey in Appendix C). INDIRECT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Emission factors Metric tonnes of Description Units Total consumption kgCO2e/unit8 CO2e emissions Employee commuting tCO2e/FTE Various according to 1,584,110 664.55 transportation mode10 Business travel – km Varies with distance 1,768,332 793.19 air travel Business travel – km 0.227 4782 1.09 car hire Business travel – Bed night 20.6 22 0.45 hotel accommodation Paper Tons Various grades 17.45 19.2 Total scope 3 tCO2e 851.65 OVERVIEW OF RESULTS OF EMISSIONS BY SCOPE CAPE TOWN office Description Metric tonnes of CO2e emissions Scope 1 14.7 Scope 2 2164.39 Scope 3 851.65 All Scopes 3030.74 10  n online commuting survey was completed on 21 November 2017. Total responses received: 150, representing 25% of full time employees. Appendix C A contains details of the survey.. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 19 Company PAPER 1% Vehicles 1% AIR TRAVEL COMMUTING BY PUBLIC 18% TRANSPORT 1% COMMUTING BY PRIVATE CAR 8% 71% electricity consumption Emission per source in this period CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 20 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 6.3. Comparison between Sandton & Cape Town office To gain better insight into the carbon emissions and energy intensity between the two offices a direct comparison is provided in the table below. The biggest difference is the electricity intensity: Sandton’s 4 Star Green Building has an electricity intensity of 7,123kWh per full-time employee whereas the Cape Town office is 12,605kWh per full-time employee. COMPARISON OF EMISSIONS AND INTENSITY CDH SANDTON & CAPE TOWN OFFICES 2015/2016 FINANCIAL YEAR SANDTON CAPE TOWN BASIC INFORMATION Full-time employees (FTE) 432 170 Square metres (m ) 2 12,748 6,528 ACTIVITY Ton CO2e Ton CO2e Equipment owned or controlled (back-up generators) 0.79 0 Company owned vehicle fleet 24.09 14.7 TOTAL SCOPE 1 24.88 14.7 TOTAL SCOPE 2 – Electricity 3108.08 2164.39 TOTAL SCOPE 1 & 2 3132.96 2179.09 Employee commuting by private car 634.56 253.75 Employee commuting by public transport 30 24.5 Business travel – commercial airlines 793.19 553.11 Business travel – car hire 55.94 1.09 Business travel – hotel accommodation 24.43 0.45 Paper 36.93 19.2 TOTAL SCOPE 3 1575.05 851.65 TOTAL GROSS EMISSIONS 4708 3030.74 Carbon Offsets 0 0 TOTAL NET EMISSIONS 4708 3030.74 % change in emissions from previous reporting year +3.8% +32% Emission intensity per employee (tCO2e/FTE) 10.9 17.83 Emission intensity per square metre office space (scope 1 & 2 tCO2e/m2) 0.25 0.34 Intensity: % tCO2e from electricity 66% 72% Kilowatt Hours consumed 3,077,306 2,142,964 Electricity intensity: kWh/FTE 7123 12605 CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 21 Contact Persons About Climate Neutral Group Franz Rentel Climate Neutral Group (CNG) aims to shape and promote Climate Neutral Group, the low-carbon agenda. We were established in 2001 in Country Director South Africa the Netherlands by the Doen Foundation and Triodos franz.rentel@climateneutralgroup.com Bank. Since then we have grown to market leader in Telephone: 021 202 6066 the Benelux thanks to our knowledge and experience in Website: www.climateneutralgroup.co.za carbon management. Wieb Miedema In 2012 we expanded operations into South Africa – a Climate Neutral Group, country with one of the largest carbon footprints in the Carbon Footprint Specialist world and increasing regulatory measures (such as the wieb.miedema@climateneutralgroup.com proposed carbon tax). Our expertise and services are well Telephone: + 31 30 232 6172 matched with the need for professional services that can Website: www.climateneutralgroup.nl ensure compliance and accelerate businesses’ transition towards sustainability. Sandra Gore Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr, CNG is member of the International Carbon Reduction and Director Environmental Offset Alliance (ICROA), thereby helping to set standards sandra.gore@dlacdh.com for the carbon industry. Through our National Business Telephone: 011 562 1433 Initiative (NBI) membership we engage with business Website: www.cliffedekkerhofmeyr.com leaders in shaping a low carbon future in South Africa. CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 22 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 appendix A ABBREVIATIONS AND GLOSSARY OF TERMS A/C Air-conditioning Baseline year An historical year used to compare preceding year’s emissions. Carbon Offset A unit of carbon dioxide-equivalent (CO2e) that is reduced, avoided, or sequestered to compensate for emissions occurring elsewhere CO2 Carbon dioxide CO2e Carbon dioxide equivalent – standardisation of all greenhouse gases to reflect the global warming potential relative to carbon dioxide Defra United Kingdom Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Direct emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from facilities/sources owned or controlled by a reporting company, e.g. generators, blowers, vehicle fleets Emission factors Specific value used to convert activity data into greenhouse gas emission values. Presented in specific units, e.g. kgCO2/km travelled FTEs Full-time employees GHG Greenhouse gases GHG Protocol Greenhouse Gas Protocol – uniform methodology used to calculate the carbon footprint of an organisation GWP Global Warming Potential – an indication of the global warming effect of a greenhouse gas in comparison to the same weight of carbon dioxide IPCC International Panel on Climate Change Indirect emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from facilities/sources that are not owned or controlled by the reporting company, but for which the activities of the reporting company are responsible, e.g. purchasing of electricity Offset See “Carbon Offset” Operational boundary Determination of which facilities or sources of emissions will be included in a carbon footprint calculation Organisational boundary Determination of which business units of an organisation will be included in a carbon footprint calculation Relevant emissions Emissions generated as a result of the business activities of the reporting company Required information Information relating to emissions that are compulsory under the GHG Protocol, namely direct emissions and indirect emissions from purchased electricity Scope 1 emissions Emissions resulting from equipment owned or controlled by a reporting company CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 23 Scope 2 emissions Emissions resulting from consumption of electricity purchased by a reporting company Scope 3 emissions Emissions resulting from other activities of a reporting company, such as commuting travel, business air travel, paper consumption WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI World Resources Institute CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 24 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 appendix B DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING DIRECT VS. INDIRECT EMISSIONS CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint www.climateneutralgroup.co.za 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, Cape Town, 8001, South Africa REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za 25 appendix C DETAILED RESULTS OF EMPLOYEE COMMUTING SURVEY 2017 RESULTS OF EMPLOYEE COMMUTING EMISSIONS SURVEY 2018 Emission factors Total consumption Metric tonnes of Description kgCO2e/unit11 Sandton Cape Town CO2e emissions Private car – petrol 0.229 2,244,529 833,742 704.9 Private car – diesel 0.213 389,052 250,123 136.2 Private car – hybrid 0.146 0 0 0 Private car – electric 0 0 0 Carpooling 0.1145 329,198 83,374 47.2 Motorbike 0.107 0 0 0 TOTAL private car 888.3 Minitaxi 0.0173 29,927 125,061 2.7 Taxi (Uber, metered) 0.229 29,927 6.9 Bus 0.117 59,854 125,061 21.6 Train 0.058 269,344 125,061 22.9 Walking / Cycling 0 22,526 0 TOTAL public transport 54.1 commuting 942.4 11  nless otherwise stated, all emission factors are provided by the UK Government Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra). Guideline to U Defra’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting; Annexes Updated May 2016 CDH 2016/2017 Carbon Footprint 14th Floor, Touchstone House, 7 Bree Street, www.climateneutralgroup.co.za Cape Town, 8001, South Africa 26 T +27 (0)21 202 6067 E info@climateneutralgroup.co.za REG 2012/051329/10 VAT 4190263204
