OP Year 2016 In a new direction with a bold approach OP OP OP Year 2016 Contents OP Financial Group OP Financial Group in brief 1 Review by the President, Group Executive Chairman 3 Owner-customers 5 Corporate customers 8 Local presence and cooperative banks 10 Personnel 11 Key figures 13 Highlights 14 Strategy Operating environment 16 OP's strategy 17 Value creation model 20 Value chain 21 OP business segments Banking 22 Non-life Insurance 24 Wealth Management 26 Product and service development 28 Governance Corporate Governance Statement 30 Supervisory Board 75 Executive Board 79 Risk management 91 Corporate Social Responsibility and GRI Corporate social responsibility highlights 96 Stakeholders and tax footprint 98 Disclosures on management approach and Materiality 102 Disclosure on management approach for material aspects 107 Economic Impacts 118 Environmental Impacts 120 Social Impacts 122 G4 Content Index 133 Assurance report 141 Report by the Executive Board and Financial Statements 2016 in brief 143 OP OP Year 2016 OP Financial Group in brief OP Financial Group is Finland's largest financial services group and fully owned by its customers. OP has three business segments: Banking, Non-life Insurance and Wealth Management. We provide our customers with the most extensive and diversified range of banking, investment and insurance services and the best loyalty benefits in the country. In line with our new strategy, OP’s aim is to gradually change from a plain financial services provider to a diversified services company of the digital era. With financial expertise remaining our cornerstone, we will gradually expand OP’s business into new areas, such as Health and Wellbeing Services, Housing-related Services and Mobility Services. OP employs over 12,000 people. We have some 3.9 million private customers and 440,000 corporate customers. The number of our owner-customers is around 1.7 million. Performance determined by success in two roles OP's operations are based on the cooperative principle – OP Financial Group structure cooperation and fair distribution of success among stakeholders. Based on our mission, we create sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing for our owner-customers, OP Financial Group is made up of some 170 independent OP and in our operating region by means of our strong capital cooperative banks and OP Cooperative which they own, base and efficiency. including its subsidiaries and closely related companies. We follow our mission through a dual role typical of a cooperative society. In the business role, OP provides its customers with the best possible products and services while ensuring its profitability. Success in our business role and financial performance enable us to execute our mission also through community actions, such as our #Suominousuun (Putting Finland on a new growth path) initiatives. Our business role and our social role need to be balanced in our operations, since succeeding in both roles is a measure of OP’s success. In accordance with social principles based on the cooperative system, we always act in the best interest of our broaderbased community and will therefore refrain from pursuing any targets of OP or individual players that conflict with the long-term targets of our operating region. 1 OP OP Year 2016 Owner-customers The central cooperative OP Financial Group is owned by its customers, and the OP Cooperative is the central cooperative of the Group’s 1.7 million owner-customers own the OP amalgamation of cooperative banks. It is a cooperative society cooperative banks. whose members are deposit banks and other credit institutions belonging to the amalgamation. The mission of OP Cooperative is to provide foundations for OP Financial OP cooperative banks Group's unity and success. It controls the Group's centralised services, develops the Group's business, manages the Group's strategic control and regulatory and public affairs, and OP cooperative banks are independent, local deposit banks manages the control and supervision duties which belong to engaged in retail banking on a regional basis. In terms of the the central cooperative of the amalgamation and the type of business organisation, they are cooperatives where company heading the financial and insurance conglomerate. each owner-customer has one, equal vote. Rather than Furthermore, OP Cooperative acts as OP Financial Group's focusing on short-term profits, OP cooperative banks aim at strategic owner institution. OP Cooperative also analyses the prospering together with their customers. The banks’ operating environment and gathers information on changes operating profit is used for the benefit of owner-customers: in the industry and on markets. It is in charge of the Group’s for the development of products, services and benefits. corporate image, reputation, identity and brands. Businesses OP Financial Group has three business segments: Banking, Non-life Insurance, and Wealth Management. Banking is the largest of the Group’s business segments. For the time being, OP’s health and wellbeing services are included in the Nonlife Insurance segment. Review by the President, Group Executive 2 OP OP Year 2016 Review by the President, Group Executive Chairman In 2016, OP continued its good financial performance by recording all-time-high earnings before tax as business grew at a rate above the market average. Our huge transformation process that we started remains, however, uppermost in my mind when it comes to the bygone year. Why should a successful company reinvent itself? In early 2016, we completed one of OP’s most extensive operating environment analysis ever carried out. Its message cannot be ignored. The financial sector is faced with the most drastic change in its history. We will respond to the change through our strategy adopted in summer 2016. We want to lead it at the forefront and reinvent ourselves with customer experience being our priority. As a company owned by customers, we want to be a trusted partner in the daily lives of our customers. We are branching out into businesses where we have had some presence previously through financial products, such as mobility, housing, and health and wellbeing. A journey towards diversification is a long and multi-stage process, which does not happen overnight as it should not either. Traditional banking and insurance services will remain our business cornerstone well into the future. OP will reinvent itself led by customer interests in a way that takes both the present and future customer generations into consideration. Competitive edge through investments Action in our social role Business reinvention takes tangible form when we invest in new technology, products, services and competencies. When Alongside our business development, we have implemented we published our strategy, we announced our investment our mission through our social role too. We have continued programme worth some 2 billion euros for the next five the series of campaigns under our #Suominousuun initiative years. In addition to blazing a new trail for our business, we by, for example, donating over 6 million euros to will further develop our existing one and digital capabilities. universities. Ensuring our price competitiveness and operational agility will require efforts to improve our operational efficiency. The As a gift to Finland celebrating 100 years of independence, wide variety of jobs and skill requirements will diversify at we are making a volunteering contribution biggest ever made OP. in our country. All of the over 12,000 OP employees throughout Finland may spend one working day doing volunteer work for a cause of their choice, and we have also encouraged our administrative staff, owner-customers and stakeholder groups to take on this challenge. Our volunteer work exchange site open to anyone can be found at www.hiiop100.fi. › Increasing expectations OP encourages society to reform 3 OP OP Year 2016 Increasing expectations OP encourages society to reform itself Expectations of our stakeholder groups have increased higher than ever following the new strategy, good financial performance and actions performed in our social role. Finland has been stuck in stagnation that has continued for a Positive energy created through our value-based reinvention decade now. What if Finland updated its strategy with the has spread from our employees to our administration and same determination as OP? customers. The year 2017 has begun with a brighter economic outlook. In 2016, OP received almost 260,000 new owner-customers. The centenary of Finland’s independence has every chance of With customer experience showing favourable development, becoming a landmark year in our country’s history. Now is OP cooperative banks across Finland work to be present in the time to let boldness spread through the entire society. the daily lives of owner-customers, not only physically, but While reinvention creates investments and new jobs, also digitally. investments bring competitiveness. Finland can become a We aim to meet the expectations set for us in both the bigger actor in the digitising world economy than what its business and social role and to represent a positive driver all size suggests, but that will require drastic reforms and over Finland. measures to build on our strengths. I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to OP’s owner-customers, customers and partners as well as administrative staff and personnel for the successful year. OP’s success will continue to be linked to the success of the Finnish people. We encourage everyone to go through the digital transformation with their head held high and we promise to do our share on this journey. Owner-customer interests guide our operations 4 OP OP Year 2016 Owner-customer interests guide our operations OP being owned by its customers creates prosperity and wellbeing for its owner-customers and in its operating regions, in accordance with its mission. This is why owner-customer is at the core of our operations. Everyone can become an owner-customer by paying a one vote principle. The members, or owner-customers, elect cooperative contribution. It is a one-time contribution – no from amongst them a Representative Assembly for the bank other payments exist. Owner-customers' rights come in two by voting in the assembly election. The Representative types: Owner-customers have the right to attend, and vote at, Assembly exercises the decision-making powers of the their OP cooperative bank's annual cooperative meeting or in cooperative bank’s members in matters laid down in the Cothe Representative Assembly elections. They can also run as operatives Act and the bank's Bylaws. Where an OP candidates for their OP cooperative bank’s Representative cooperative bank has no elected Representative Assembly, the Assembly and vote in its election. In addition, an ownerbank’s supreme decision-making body is its annual customer is entitled to OP's owner-customer benefits valid Cooperative Meeting. from time to time. Many OP Financial Group cooperative banks will organise Since 2014, our owner-customers have been able to invest in their Representative Assembly elections in 2017. Those who their own OP cooperative bank by means of Profit Shares. have become owner-customers by the end of June 2017 can An OP cooperative bank will pay annual interest on Profit vote, or stand as a candidate, in the election. Shares on the basis of its financial performance, thus channelling part of its prosperity for the benefit of its ownercustomers. OP anticipates paying interest of 3,25% on Profit Shares for 2016 (3.25% in 2015). In 2016, the number of OP Financial Group's ownercustomers increased by 256,000 to over 1.7 million. The year 2016 was the second full operating year after Pohjola Bank was delisted and OP went back to its roots as a financial services group wholly owned by its customers. As part of building the new OP Financial Group fully owned by its customers, the previously limited liability company OP Helsinki operating in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area was converted into a cooperative bank. Owner-customers can have their say in cooperative bank administration In accordance with cooperative principles, our administration system enables owner-customers to have an impact on decision-making and development of our operations. The owner-customers elect from amongst their number their own bank’s administrative staff. This ensures that the local bank’s operations are developed by taking its customers’ needs into consideration. Through their representatives in administrative bodies, owner-customers can promote businesses and prosperity in the region. Read more about OP cooperative banks’ local influence. › In terms of the type of their business organisation, OP cooperative banks are cooperatives whose basic values underlying decision-making include the one member, Digital customer communities in the form of OP bonuses and various benefits and 5 OP OP Year 2016 Digital customer communities in the form of OP bonuses and various benefits and discounts. The more an owner-customer uses OP’s services, forming new channels of the more he/she benefits. influence OP’s loyalty benefit programme consists of OP bonuses – generated in proportion to the person’s transactions with OP – as well as benefits and discounts related to OP’s banking, non-life insurance and wealth management products and Going forward, owner-customers will be able to influence the services. Furthermore, some service packages are only operations of the bank in their ownership in a variety of available to owner-customers. ways. OP bonuses are the most significant owner-customer benefit In the autumn of 2016, the OP cooperative banks of and they are generated from almost all customer Sastamala, Ruukki, Oulainen and Kainuu piloted a new digital transactions. OP bonuses are widely applicable to OP customer community as a channel of influence for their Financial Group's banking charges, non-life insurance owner-customers. An owner-customer community gives premiums and wealth management fees as well as OP owner-customers an opportunity to have their say by Kiinteistökeskus real estate agent commissions. A total of 101 answering surveys and by participating in discussions. million (100) euros of OP bonuses were used to pay for In the pilot, owner-customers were asked to propose charity banking and wealth management services and 107 million causes for their own bank and then vote for their favourite (101) euros to pay non-life insurance premiums. Since 1999, from amongst the suggestions received. In each bank, ownerwe have granted over 1.9 billion euros in OP bonuses. In customers selected a cause for supporting families with 2016, our owner-customers earned a total of 208 million children living on limited means. The pilot will be expanded (197) euros in OP bonuses. Discounts given related to nonin 2017. OP cooperative banks will start using ownerlife insurance totalled 86 million (79) euros. OP bonuses customer communities in their respective schedules and will were used to pay 2,200,000 insurance bills (2,023,000), with then invite their owner-customers to join the community. 297,000 (273,000) of them paid in full using bonuses. Owner-customers can also influence OP’s service and product We are continuously improving our owner-customer design. › benefits. The new mutual fund benefit was launched in June 2016 and it enabled owner-customers to buy, sell and switch the majority of OP funds' units with no transaction costs. We also introduced new services exclusively for our ownerBenefits and OP bonuses for customers, including the OP Investment Partner service package designed to support owner-customers in their owner-customers investment decisions and the new fixed-term home loan, enabling our customers to tie, for the first time in Finland, their whole home loan to a fixed interest rate for the entire In line with the cooperative principle, owner-customers loan period, up to 25 years. benefit from OP’s operations and success. A considerable part of business earnings are returned to the owner-customers 6 OP OP Year 2016 Supporting corporate customers’ operating 7 OP OP Year 2016 Supporting corporate customers’ operating fundamentals The business sector plays a vital role in the Finnish economy and OP wants to be involved in supporting the operating fundamentals of Finnish companies. Broad-based development of corporate services forms an important part of development programmes that put OP’s new strategy into practice. OP provides its corporate customers with versatile banking ›, A variety of choices and options are involved in the non-life insurance › and wealth management services › and establishment of a business and the various stages of growth. health and wellbeing services. › Our services cover for OP provides support for all business stages. example financing, payment transfers, cash management, risk management, employee wellbeing and internationalisation. We aim at creating total customer relationships on a longterm basis, by tailoring solutions according to the customer’s needs. In 2016, we launched a number of new services › for services and a network of trusted partners. The Baltic 8 OP OP Year 2016 In 2016, we launched a number of new services › for services and a network of trusted partners. The Baltic corporate customers, including the digital services OP countries belong to OP's home market with branches in Business mobile and Pivo Cashier helping entrepreneurs in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Baltic Banking offers a their daily routines. We also increased the availability of SME comprehensive range of banking services for corporate funding by the agreements signed with the European customers. Non-life insurance services in the Baltic countries Investment Fund (EIF) and the Finnish government. are offered by Seesam Insurance owned by OP. Alongside our own branches and representative offices, we Support for international are providing international services in cooperation with our global partner network. OP cooperates with foreign banks operations from our Baltic which have established a firm foothold in their markets, boast the best expertise in local business and banking and branches and broad-based have the best opportunities to provide corporate customers with services meeting the market needs. This cooperation partner network ranges from payment transfers all the way to strategic partnerships. In non-life insurance, OP cooperates with RSA, a leading global non-life insurer operating in over 100 We support companies’ business in Finland and abroad countries through its network. through our extensive range of international Local impact of OP cooperative banks 9 OP OP Year 2016 Local impact of OP cooperative banks A cooperative as a type of business organisation and the cooperative ideology add to continuity and community spirit in OP's operating environment. OP is strongly committed to its customers and operating environment. Thanks to our long-term knowledge of our local operating environment, we can finance households and companies – even during challenging times. Financing of local businesses is, indeed, one of the key prerequisites of regional prosperity in the long term. OP has a local impact across Finland, as with its 440 or so branches, the Group's branch and service network is the most extensive and has the best coverage. Support to local communities OP cooperative banks are major employers and taxpayers OP pursues its mission not only through its business role but also through its social role. This means fostering the livelihood and prosperity of the operating environment, for A large part of OP's economic impacts also involves indirect instance, through support to non-profit organisations, impacts on local and regional economic vitality. For example, donations and sponsorship. OP cooperative banks can make OP is a major employer in many municipalities. At the end of independent decisions to support local cultural life and the 2016, OP employed 12,227 people (12,130). Of these, 93 per physical education of children and young people provided by cent (93) were in permanent employment, while 7 per cent local sports clubs, for instance. (7) had temporary contracts. A total of 11,787 employees were based in Finland, 191 in Estonia, 113 in Latvia, 134 in In 2016, 30 cooperative banks offered a total of around 900 Lithuania and two in Russia. OP employed a total of 492 summer jobs to young people aged from 15 to 17 in local (483) summer employees and trainees during the year. non-profit organisations. As an example, to celebrate its 110th anniversary, OP Etelä-Karjala offered a summer job In several municipalities, OP cooperative banks are among for 110 young people in some 60 associations at OP’s the largest taxpayers, and at Group level, OP is one of the expense. The bank's support to employers was 360 euros per biggest taxpayers in Finland. OP Financial Group's current tax summer employee. for the financial year 2016 totalled 223 million (251) euros. In October 2016, we announced large-scale donations to See our tax footprint. › Finnish universities. OP cooperative banks and the central A pilot project involving three OP cooperative banks has been cooperative donate a total of 6.3 million euros to universities. initiated in order to study the regional impacts OP These donations to universities are our contribution to cooperative banks have when playing their business and safeguard the success of university-level education and social roles. The purpose of the project is to identify research and Finland as a whole. measures enabling OP cooperative banks and their OP also participates in the Taloustaito project, launched by stakeholders to better assess to what extent the bank’s the President of the Republic, by donating the working time mission has been accomplished. of its experts to help young people who have trouble with payments and debt. In 2016, 14 regional OP cooperative banks took part in the Taloustaito project. Employing top professionals 10 OP OP Year 2016 Employing top professionals OP Financial Group’s journey towards becoming a diversified services company as defined in our strategy means a major change process also in terms of personnel. In HR matters, we focus on the renewal and development of our competencies, management and corporate culture. The industry disruption challenges the organisation’s ability for self-renewal, tightening skill requirements in terms of Ensuring work ability with administration, management and personnel. Cooperation, efficiency, renewal and excellent change management capacity personnel surveys and new are at the core of management. OP’s culture is based on strong values and the spirit of continuous renewal and employee wellbeing practices reform. Highly skilled and motivated employees are a success factor, enabling OP to meet the challenges of the changing OP Financial Group has two types of organisation-wide operating environment and digitisation. personnel surveys: an extensive Personnel Survey and a more fast-paced Personnel Pulse. The Personnel Survey is carried out every two years; the next survey will take place in Diverse opportunities for 2017. The results of the 2015 Personnel Survey were good. According to the survey, OP’s key success factors are competence development community spirit, value-based performance and customer focus. OP offers all employee groups a variety of ways to develop OP updated its operating models for employee wellbeing their competencies. The basis for each employee’s individual management in 2016. The operating models of employee development is to understand OP’s strategy and how OP’s wellbeing, occupational health care and occupational safety strategic transformation will affect one’s own work and practices will increasingly help in safeguarding each competence needs. employee’s work ability throughout their career. Competence development involves the use of all applicable learning methods and opportunities as part of the employee’s work, either by providing new challenges and learning OP is an attractive employer opportunities in their present work or by offering versatile career opportunities within the Group. New skills are learned In employer image surveys conducted by Universum in 2016, primarily through knowledge sharing and by deepening one’s OP was the most attractive financial-sector employer among understanding through various interactive situations and young professionals with a business education background. networks. In addition to these, OP invested approximately 7 All sectors included, OP improved its ranking from 6th to 5th million euros in local employee training sessions and in video this year. In the corresponding survey among students, OP and online study solutions in 2016. The entire OP personnel rose from 6th to 4th place. in Finland and abroad have annual performance and career development reviews. We have engaged in diverse cooperation with educational institutions, including various projects, competitions and In order to develop the competencies of the members of the student visits. OP Financial Group also builds its employer cooperative banks' Boards of Directors and Supervisory image among various target groups by taking part in diverse Boards, we have created comprehensive competence events and recruitment fairs. At the Slush event, we development packages consisting of online courses and announced our trainee programme (OP Kiitorata) designed training days. Board work and competence development for students at an advanced stage in their studies leading to a aims to help the members successfully perform their duties higher university degree. in OP cooperative banks' governance, thereby supporting the renewal of the entire OP Financial Group. 11 OP OP Year 2016 Key figures and ratios 12 OP OP Year 2016 Key figures and ratios Q1–4/2016 Q1–4/2015 Change, % Earnings before tax, € million 1,138 1,101 3.3 Banking 596 642 -7.3 Non-life Insurance 230 259 -11.1 Wealth Management 232 213 8.8 New OP bonuses accrued to owner-customers 208 197 5.3 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Change, % CET1 ratio, % 20.1 19.5 0.6* Return on economic capital, % ** 22.7 21.5 1.2* Ratio of capital base to minimum amount of capital base (under the Act on the Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates), % *** 170 191 -21* Ratio of impairment loss on receivables to loan and guarantee portfolio, % 0.09 0.10 0.0* Owner-customers (1,000) 1,747 1,491 17.2 Q1–4/2016 Q1–4/2015 Change, % Number of employees 12,227 12,130 0.8 In permanent employment 10,609 10,606 0 Average age of employees 43.6 43.8 -0.5 Women in managerial duties, % 36 36 0 Comparatives deriving from the income statement are based on figures reported for the corresponding period in 2015. Unless otherwise specified, balance sheet and other cross-sectional figures on 31 December 2015 are used as comparatives. * Change in ratio ** 12-month rolling, change in percentage *** The FiCo ratio has been calculated under Solvency II transitional provisions and the comparatives have been adjusted. Highlights 13 OP OP Year 2016 Highlights Invest in Finland initiative brought many Addition to the Family initiative supports new shareholders to listed Finnish new life companies In April, OP announced the #Perheenlisä (Addition to the family) initiative which provides families with a baby with In the #SijoitaSuomeen (Invest in Finland) initiative, OP products and services to ease the daily life of a new family, stopped charging transaction costs related to Finnish equities including free-of-charge insurance and a loan repayment listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki and provided free access to holiday. equity research information during the initiative. The initiative ended in March 2016 and brought plenty of new shareholders to listed Finnish companies, increased trading activity considerably on the Nasdaq Helsinki and increased Towards a diversified services company interest in professionally produced investor information. In June, the Supervisory Board of OP Financial Group's central cooperative confirmed OP Financial Group's strategy EIF financing supports growth and and Group-level strategic goals. OP aims to gradually change employment from a plain financial services provider to a diversified services company of the digital era with strong financial services expertise. The strategy highlights customer In March, OP signed an agreement with the European experience enhancement by digitising services and processes. Investment Fund (EIF) for financing worth EUR 150 million to spur SME innovations and growth. SMEs have shown great interest in such financing and dozens of firms have already made use of it. In October, OP filed an application for the Excluding 60 high-carbon companies role of a financial intermediary related to the joint SME from investments initiative of the Finnish government, the EIB Group and the European Commission. This agreement was signed in January 2017 and it enables OP to provide financing also In late 2015, OP announced its intention to exclude highworth EUR 150 million to SMEs employing less than 250 carbon companies from active investments. As a result of its people. analysis of high-carbon companies completed in July 2016, OP excluded 60 companies from its investee companies. This means that active, direct investments in OP's mutual funds may no longer include equities or fixed-income instruments Mobile beats online in banking of such companies. Mobile banking became the most popular banking channel as the number of transactions in OP-mobile beat the number of Expansion in Health and Wellbeing transactions in op.fi for the first time in March. On average, OP-mobile had 11.4 million visits per month in 2016, while Services op.fi had 10 million visits. OP Financial Group opened its second hospital unit, in Tampere. At the opening, Omasairaala Oy was renamed Mobile services at the core of Pohjola Health Ltd. During 2017–2018, new Pohjola Hospitals will be opened in Oulu, Turku and Kuopio. development By launching contactless payment with Pivo, OP was the first From FFS to Palta bank in Finland to enable contactless mobile payment. OP also introduced two services for corporate customers, Pivo Cashier and OP Business mobile, as well as Pivo Junior On 28 September 2016, OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board designed for children and young people. decided on OP Financial Group's withdrawal from the Federation of Finnish Financial Services (FFS) activities. OP became member of Service Sector Employees OP Kulku lowers the threshold to use electric cars by 14 OP OP Year 2016 activities. OP became member of Service Sector Employees OP Kulku lowers the threshold to use electric cars by Palta on 1 January 2017. OP also enhances its in-house providing consumers and small firms in the Helsinki regulatory and public affairs expertise. Metropolitan Area with the opportunity to use an electric car with a monthly fee, without having to worry about ownership matters, putting in a major initial investment or value reduction of the vehicle. Record-high donations to universities OP wants to contribute to securing Finland's long-term 100 person-years of volunteering prosperity by participating in the funding campaign for universities with a donation package worth the record-high amount of 6.3 million euros. The total amount consists of OP is continuing the series of its #Suominousuun initiatives donations from OP cooperative banks and the Group’s through a major volunteering project in honour of the central cooperative. centenary of Finland's independence. OP’s gift to the 100year-old Finland is 100 person-years of volunteering. All 12,000 OP employees may do voluntary work for one day First step in Mobility Services during their working hours. OP is inviting people to be involved in voluntary activities on a wide front. Hiiop100.fi, a new volunteer work exchange site launched by OP in January OP sped up its journey from a plain financial services 2017, brings together those in need of help and volunteers. provider towards becoming a diversified service provider by launching OP Kulku, OP’s first step in Mobility Services. 15 OP OP Year 2016 Many megatrends and phenomena reshaping the financial sector The financial sector is undergoing a drastic and rapid digital The financial sector is also challenged by large-scale social transformation, which is continuously bringing new changes in the operating environment, which involves, for competition to the sector beyond industry boundaries. example, ageing population, increasing inequality between Regulation will result in ever-increasing competition and population groups as well as slow economic growth. Service open up banks’ customer data to third parties. With providers must be able to respond to the needs of a variety intensifying and globalising competition, customers are of customer segments where the customers are. The financial demanding as smooth and easy of a service experience from sector has potential in finding new sources of growth in a Finnish players, as they are accustomed to when using the role of safeguarding prosperity, providing healthcare services services of the best international firms. OP no longer and services for senior citizens. competes with mere financial services providers in providing a customer experience. The underlying megatrends and phenomena are intertwined in a diverse way. OP proactively monitors changes in the As customers are faced with a growing number of options operating environment and with a bold approach is seeking and switching a service provider is easy, they require smarter growth opportunities in the transforming financial landscape. and more proactive service – 24//7. Customers and other Our new strategy › is aimed at rising to the challenges stakeholder groups also expect companies to demonstrate presented by the operating environment and seizing the more transparency and responsibility by emphasising their opportunities it provides. own values in decision-making. OP 2016 strategy – towards a diversified service 16 OP OP Year 2016 OP 2016 strategy – towards a diversified service company OP Financial Group published its new long-term strategy in June. According to the new strategy, we aim to gradually change from a plain financial services provider to a diversified services company of the digital era with strong financial services expertise. The strategy highlights customer experience enhancement by service packages. We will develop business models that will digitising services and processes. In the years to come, we will reshape markets in, for example, the field of housing, build fully digital businesses in Banking, Non-life Insurance healthcare and wellbeing, mobility, commerce, financial and Wealth Management. Although we will speed up the management and security. digitisation of services, we will also invest in enhancing faceto-face service encounters that meet future needs. In our At the first stage, business diversification involves expanding, view, the winning customer experience will be increasingly for example, the health and wellbeing business. In the years founded on a collaboration effort between humans and to come, we will make health and wellbeing services our technology. fourth business line. Customers’ increasing expectations and change in customer OP of tomorrow will be built around the needs of customers. behaviour encourage us to create total solutions beyond industry boundaries. We will gradually shift the development focus from individual products towards customer-driven Customer ownership guides our own us and can have their say in our decisions and the 17 OP OP Year 2016 Customer ownership guides our own us and can have their say in our decisions and the development of our activities. A substantial amount of operations earnings return to owner-customers. As a services provider owned by customers, we have a dual role through which we carry out our mission. In our business Based on our mission, we create sustainable prosperity, role, we provide our customers with the best possible security and wellbeing for our owner-customers and in our products and services while ensuring our profitability. Success operating region by means of our strong capital base and in our business role and financial performance enable us to efficiency. A People-first Approach, Responsibility, and execute our mission also through community actions, such as Prospering Together form the basis of our operations. Based our #Suominousuun (Putting Finland on a new growth path) on our customer promise “We exist to serve our customers”, initiatives. customer interests guide all we do. Customers Large-scale development – Modernising service channels programme is putting our – Digitising and automating services – Revamping and simplifying the product portfolio strategy into practice – Reforming the basic systems and the ICT architecture We have initiated a large-scale development programme to – Further developing the owner-customer loyalty speed up OP’s reinvention. Annual development expenditure programme will increase to 300–400 million euros in the next few years, i.e. the amount for the next five years will total up to two Creating new business billion euros. For example, We will put the strategy into practice through strategic development initiatives. The initiatives involve the – Building fully digital businesses development of our present-day business, new business – Developing new, customer-driven business models; development and the development of new capabilities as well relating in the first stage to housing, mobility and as the promotion of OP’s social role.Development of presentelectronic commerce in particular day business – Extending the health and wellbeing business to form For example, the fourth business line – Developing SME service offerings Developing new capabilities For example, – Enhancing competencies, management and corporate 18 OP OP Year 2016 – Enhancing competencies, management and corporate culture – Building capabilities related to analytics and artificial intelligence required by digital business – Enhancing innovation Highlighting our social role For example, – Well-defined goals and metrics for the social role – Socially responsible openings like those under the #Suominousuun initiative New customer experience indicator alongside financial targets When publishing our new strategy, we also set new numerical targets for our capital adequacy (CET1), profitability (return on economic capital), efficiency (expenses of present-day business) and growth in the number of owner-customers. We put customer experience and its continuous improvement among our key targets when we adopted a new customer experience metric in the autumn of 2016. The new metric is based on the Net Promoter Score (NPS) measuring how likely customers recommend a service. The customer experience metric has two parts, consisting of the NPS target (25) for the brand and the NPS target (70, over time 90) for service. The NPS for the brand is used to measure customers’ experience of OP as a whole. The NPS for service measures what kind of customer experience OP manages to create in individual service encounters in all channels. Value creation model 19 OP OP Year 2016 Value creation model As a cooperative Group, our operations have a wide effect on various stakeholder groups in Finland, both on a local and nationwide basis. Our operations are guided by our dual role – business role and social role. Our overall success is measured against how we succeed in both roles. The figures describe the situation at the end of 2016. Value chain 20 OP OP Year 2016 Value chain The financial sector plays a key role in economic prosperity and in providing fundamental services and opportunities for citizens, companies and organisations, both directly and indirectly. Indirect impacts arise in the supply chain from investing, financing and non-life insurance claims services. We take account of risk management, data security and responsibility aspects at all stages of our value chain. OP’s centralised procurement is in charge of procuring the most important products and services within the Group. We expect product suppliers and service providers to conform with OP's Corporate Social Responsibility supplier requirements, OP Financial Group’s General Procurement Terms and Conditions, Code of Business Ethics and any applicable legislation and international agreements. In addition to the financial sector, OP is also engaged in the health and wellbeing business. The health and wellbeing business is not described in this value chain. 21 OP OP Year 2016 Banking OP is Finland's leading provider of home and corporate loans. During 2016, its market share of home loans and corporate loans increased to 39.4% and 37.8%, respectively. Banking is OP's largest business segment providing customers with an extensive and comprehensive range of products and services. For private customers, OP's Banking services and products include daily banking, loans, savings and investments, and housing-related services. We seek to secure prosperity for our private customers and to promote their personal financial management and success. We want to offer our customers comprehensive banking services that are flexible accommodating their various life situations. We provide corporate customers with financing, payment transaction and cash management services, investment services, and expert services related to business development. OP's corporate customers range from SMEs to large corporations and institutions. We aim for long-term and total customer relationships across the board. When we know customers well and are in close interaction with them, we can customise solutions for them. As a corporate partner, we wish to promote the success and internationalisation of Finnish business. International service capabilities being high on the agenda, we establish, for example, well-thought-out international partnerships based on the needs of our customers. Read more about Banking products and services at uusi.op.fi. › Based on its new strategy, OP is making heavy investments in the development of digital Banking services, with a view to creating the best financial planning and management services in the market in terms of user experience. As part of its drive to become a diversified services company, OP is also developing a new digital service for living. OP’s vision is to provide a comprehensive housing-related ecosystem that will serve customers in housing-related needs from buying and selling a home to renovation and daily life. New financing models and digital Moreover, a new payment method became available to 22 OP OP Year 2016 New financing models and digital Moreover, a new payment method became available to private customers, as OP introduced a contactless mobile services for corporate customers, payment to its popular Pivo mobile application. OP was the first bank in Finland and among the first banks in Europe security and smoothly-running that introduced the contactless mobile payment to mobile phones. With Pivo’s contactless payment facility, OP seeks to services for private customers in facilitate a customer’s daily life, as he/she can pay for purchases with his/her phone in the pocket with no need to their daily lives carry a wallet. The business sector plays a vital role in the Finnish economy and OP wants to be involved in supporting the operating Responsibility assessment in fundamentals of Finnish companies. Broad-based development of corporate services forms an important part lending is part of risk of development programmes that put OP’s new strategy into practice. management In March, OP signed an agreement with the European Investment Fund (EIF) for financing worth EUR 150 million to OP always assesses lending to customers on a holistic basis. spur SME innovations and growth. Under the agreement, OP Financing is guided by ethical principles and guidelines for may grant innovative SMEs new loans that will have a 50% lending. Regulations related to good lending practices and the risk-sharing guarantee provided by the EIF. This new recommendations of the Financial Supervisory Authority are financing model has sparked interest among SMEs, and over observed in lending and related instructions. 50 million euros of loans of the 150-million euro When it comes to private customers, responsible lending is programme were already granted towards the end of 2016. based on a thorough analysis of the customer’s debtOP also acts as an intermediary bank for SME Initiative servicing capacity, determining the appropriate loan size and financing. The guarantee facility model is being carried out explaining the risks to the customer in an intelligible manner. together with the Finnish state and the European Investment In corporate customer financing, recognising and analysing Fund. By providing financing to SMEs with growth potential, the social and environmental impacts of financed projects is OP wants to be involved in supporting future economic also important from the perspective of risk management, and growth and employment. forms part of the normal creditworthiness analysis, in addition to the assessment of financial matters. In addition to its In May, OP launched two digital services designed for small own analysis, OP may consult an independent analyst that corporate customers: OP Business mobile and Pivo Cashier. assesses environmental risks associated with an individual OP Business mobile enables an entrepreneur to manage not customer or a project in need for financing. only basic banking services but also, for example, invoicing and monitoring receivables while on the move when, say In 2016, OP decided to adopt Equator Principles (EP) which paying a visit to the customer. Pivo Cashier is a cashier is a voluntary commitment applied in project finance to service for small businesses, providing all that is necessary for manage risks related to environmental issues and social payment transactions and sales by both a brick-and-mortar responsibility. Although OP annually participates in only a shop and webshop. It enables a small business to establish a couple of EP-based project finance cases, committing to key webshop within only a few minutes. With products like OP international responsibility frameworks forms an important Business mobile and Pivo Cashier, OP wants to bring part of OP's corporate social responsibility actions. entrepreneurs opportunities offered by digitisation for developing business and enhancing basic business routines. For giving protection for the finances of private customers, OP launched a Long-term Fixed Rate product which enables borrowers for the first time to tie their home loan interest rate to a fixed rate for up to 25 years. This product is the first of its kind in Finland. Interest charges for a home loan with a fixed rate for the entire loan term are already known to the borrower when he/she takes out the loan. The advantage of the new product is that the borrower can repay the loan early, with no charges and take a repayment holiday according to normal procedures. The product is designed for OP’s owner-customers. Non-life Insurance 23 OP OP Year 2016 Non-life Insurance OP is Finland’s leading non-life insurer. OP provides its private customers and corporate and institutional customers with a diverse range of comprehensive insurance solutions. Through our new type of service concepts, digital solutions, high-quality network of partners and process efficiency, we are continuously enhancing our claims services’ customer experience while creating competitive advantage. OP’s health and wellbeing services are, for the time being, included in Nonlife Insurance. The aim is to make the health and wellbeing business an independent business division. Insurance for private customers is aimed at ensuring that they have a diverse range of comprehensive insurance solutions. The key insurance lines include motor vehicle, home and other property policies as well as personal insurance, such as accident, health and travel policies. For corporate customers, we seek to safeguard their business continuity, support employees' working ability and help to create a safe working environment. We provide our customers with extensive and diversified risk management services, which enable them to better ensure trouble-free and secure business operations in the case of problems. The entrepreneur himself/herself, company staff, the company's fixed and current assets, cargo, vehicles and the business itself are the key insured objects or persons in the field of business insurance. OP has expanded its offering for companies through cyber-insurance and an occupational healthcare service that can be included in personal insurance. In the EPSI Rating Vakuutus 2016 customer satisfaction and loyalty survey, OP ranked number one among insurance services for corporate customers. In claims services, OP has partnership agreements with firms representing over 20 industries, such as healthcare services providers, car repair shops, building renovation firms and house-hold appliance retailers. Through partnerships, OP ensures excellent customer experience, cost-efficient and even-quality claims settlement services and their easy availability. New digital services, such as vahinkoapu.op.fi (Claims Help) and the OP-mobile Insurance section provide customers with a smooth way of managing claims. The Vahinkoapu service offers instructions in the case of loss or damage, and information on what each insurance covers. The service is also available on OP-mobile and OP Business mobile. On OP-mobile for private customers, policy-holder Management models for vehicle can file a loss reports at the same time. 70% of loss reports are already filed online or mobile by private customers. and mobile device claims Read more about Non-life Insurance products and services at represents novel service uusi.op.fi. › concepts OP’s new strategy provides an updated framework for Nonlife Insurance in terms of, for exam-ple, development of claims services and product range. Non-life Insurance aims to According to the new strategy, OP aims to shift the be the most innovative player in the sector and modernise development focus from individual products towards the Finnish non-life insurance business. customer-driven service packages. Non-life Insurance has already taken steps toward this aim, for example, in the service models for vehicle and mobile device claims that seek and advise on the adaptation to climate change. Our goal is 24 OP OP Year 2016 service models for vehicle and mobile device claims that seek and advise on the adaptation to climate change. Our goal is to facilitate a customer’s daily life and thus provide a superior to foster responsibility among people and corporations, while customer experience. contributing to developments in legislation and official regulations on climate change. A popular pilot of a novel service model for motor claims launched in late 2015 was followed by a concept launched in late 2016 when the Repair Coordinator service was introduced in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area and in the Stepwise expansion of health Tampere and Turku regions. In this service, the customer suffering motor vehicle damage is directed straight to the and wellbeing services partner repair shop where OP’s repair coordinator is on the spot. The purpose of the model is to facilitate managing vehicle damage and claims in such a way, that the customer Expanding health and wellbeing services is OP’s first step can have his/her car repaired and manage claims at the same towards becoming a diversified services company. For the time and get back to normal faster. OP intends to expand the time being, OP’s health and wellbeing services are included in service during 2017–2018 to cover several partner repair the Non-life Insurance segment. shops and places. OP branched out into health and wellbeing services in early When it comes to mobile device claims, OP launched a novel 2013 when it opened its wholly-owned Omasairaala hospital service model in late 2016 where customers can have their in Helsinki. The hospital seeks to offer the shortest possible mobile devices repaired quickly at an OP partner repair shop stay on the clinical pathway and a great customer experience. with no separate loss report. OP annually compensates for The hospital network expanded in August 2016 when OP damage to some 30,000 mobile devices. Thanks to the new opened its second hospital in Tampere. When the Tampere service model, our customers can manage the claims related hospital unit was opened, Omasairaala Oy was renamed to their mobile device damage considerably more easily than Pohjola Health Ltd and the hospitals were renamed Pohjola before. Hospitals. During 2017 and 2018, OP will open Pohjola Hospitals in Oulu, Kuopio and Turku too. In addition to serving private customers, Pohjola Hospitals provide corporate customers with occupational healthcare services. Responsibility in Non-life Pohjola Hospital collects feedback from its customers Insurance means protecting through the NPS (Net Promoter Score). The NPS has been high since the opening of the first hospital, 96 in 2016 (NPS customers against risks and range -100-+100). encouraging pro-environmental Expanding health and wellbeing services is well-suited to OP's responsible mission of promoting the success and prosperity action of its owner-customers and operating region. Pohjola Hospital has been successful in shortening a patient’s stay on the clinical pathway significantly, which benefits all parties In terms of responsibility in Non-life Insurance, OP is in involved: employees, employers, society and non-life and charge of promoting the customer’s risk management and pension insurers through shorter absences and lower costs, safety and loss prevention. OP maps potential risks and claims paid and loss of income. security issues together with the customer, optimising insurance solutions individually for each customer. OP The results of the JYVÄ research project published by the ensures that its customer is sufficiently aware of his/her risks Aalto University in spring 2016 showed that Pohjola Hospital, and the loss or damage that he/she may suffer will not cause in comparison with OP Insurance’s partners, shortened an ininsuperable financial difficulties to him/her. jured patient’s stay on the clinical pathway by 15% and total costs per patient decreased by roughly 2,000 euros. The Climate change is affecting the lives of our policyholders and survey revealed that the periods of incapacity for work the business environment of our corporate customers. OP shortened by some 20 days per patient and 98% of the wants to make its insurance business is even more patients recommended Pohjola Hospital to others. The JYVÄ sustainable. Our aim is that our insurance solutions cover all survey data is OP Insurance’s comparative data from 2013– policy-eligible risks as extensively as possible in changing 2014, comparing private-sector service providers. circumstances as well. OP requires that its claims partners pay attention to the principles of sustainable development and act accordingly. We support sustainable development not only by developing our own business but also by encouraging others to perform on a more environmentally sound basis. We aim to advise our customers and partners on operations preventing climate change. We also increase risk awareness Wealth Management 25 OP OP Year 2016 Wealth Management OP ranks among the top wealth management services providers in Finland. Wealth Management aims to respond to the saving and investing needs of private and corporate customers with a customer-driven approach and to offer the best digital wealth management services and a unique Private Banking experience. OP provides private customers with an extensive range of savings and investment services. The range of mutual funds covers funds that invest in various asset classes and market areas. Responsibility for the portfolio management of these funds rests partly with OP Financial Group's own investment organisation and partly with its international partners. The product range of life policies consists of pension policies, endowment and unit-linked policies and pure risk policies. For institutional and corporate customers, OP provides not only discretionary investment management and advisory investment management but also modern risk reporting, portfolio analyses and liquidity management solutions for corporate customers. In 2016, OP expanded its service range for institutional investors by making it possible for them to invest in alternative investments alongside OP’s pension and insurance companies. OP boasts Finland's largest Private banking network which provides both private individuals and corporate and institutional customers with contractual personalised and comprehensive investment management services. Private banking service involves the range of products and services offered by OP and external partners. The service models include discretionary investment management and advisory investment management. Moreover, an extensive range of securities brokerage, custody and analysis services is available to private, corporate and institutional customers. OPs award-winning equity analyst team tracks over 80 listed companies, prepares forecasts and recommendations on a companyand sector-specific basis, and produces diverse analysis reports on macroeconomics, stock markets and industries. Read more about Wealth Management products and services Encouraging customers to begin at uusi.op.fi. › investing As part of its new strategy, OP is modernising Wealth Management by investing in digital service models in As a services provider owned by its customers, OP is tasked particular and developing new types of mobile services. with promoting the success and prosperity of its customers. Change in customer behaviour and a switch to digital Considering the current low interest rates, making money channels is already witnessed by the fact that 73% of mutual grow using traditional deposit options is challenging. We fund subscriptions were performed in digital channels in therefore encourage our customers to begin investing December 2016. As specified in the strategy, Wealth through various initiatives. Management will build completely new digital services. For instance, customers can already easily subscribe for mutual During OP’s Invest in Finland initiative underway at the fund units and trade in stocks mobile without a key code list. beginning of the spring 2016, OP stopped charging transaction costs related to Finnish equities listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki and provided free access to equity research. As a result, Finnish public companies attracted over 25,000 new shareholders and trading activity on the Nasdaq Helsinki increased significantly. The Invest in Finland initiative, which ended in late March, In accordance with the Group-level responsible investment 26 OP OP Year 2016 The Invest in Finland initiative, which ended in late March, In accordance with the Group-level responsible investment was followed by a reduction in OP's electronic equity trading policies, OP does not actively invest in companies that charges in the spring of 2016. We also provide all our equity produce controversial weapons or that continuously violate investment customers with Finland's most extensive equity international standards. As part of climate change prevention research service as part of our overall range of services. At efforts, OP has excluded from its active investments highthe beginning of June, we stopped permanently charging our carbon companies that cannot present a credible plan to owner-customers transaction costs related to mutual funds. reduce their impacts on climate. This approach involves direct Owner-customers can buy, sell and switch the majority of OP investments in mining companies where a significant part of funds' units with no transaction costs. business originates from mining of coal used for energy production, or where the amount of produced coal is large OP aims to talk about investing and asset management with and the company has no plans to change the situation. customers in an intelligible way and to lower threshold for investment. During 2016, we arranged, for example, online The exclusion also applies to certain coal-using energy events and webinars for customers dealing with investment companies. A list of excluded companies is available on OP’s in plain Finnish. website. Carbon footprints of OP’s equity and bond funds are also available on the website. We were the first Finnish fund management company to publish carbon footprints in 2015. Sustainable investment Furthermore, in accordance with the policies, OP primarily uses other investment solutions than those registered in offshore countries. Any investments in these countries always require a separate risk management procedure. OP aims to be a forerunner in sustainable investment in the sector on a global basis. In spring 2016, we established an OP Property Management is also committed to the principles environmental, social and governance (ESG) unit for of responsible investment and observes responsible sustainable investing with the purpose of deepening and investment principles in its real estate asset management. It broadening ESG activity and utilise more ESG information in manages property investments of the real estate funds it investment decision-making. OP's responsible investment administers and direct property investments made by its involves the consideration of sustainability issues in customers. In the maintenance of its directly owned investment decision-making, active ownership, positive and properties and in its new investments, the company places an negative screening, the monitoring process of compliance emphasis on energy efficiency, lower consumption and waste with international standards and engagement. According to management. When it comes to indirect property the results of the survey conducted annually by Scandinavian investments, the company is active in exercising influence on Financial Research Ltd (SFR), institutional investors ranked the underlying funds’ and investee companies’ boards of OP Finland’s best asset manager in the field of responsible directors and investment committees so that sustainability investment in 2016. issues are taken into consideration. OP Property Management is developing sustainable activities in the real estate sector on Of the international principles, OP’s investment activities are an ongoing basis. The company has signed a national energy guided by, for example, the UN Principles for Responsible efficiency agreement and is involved in developing CSR Investment (UNPRI), Global Compact and the OECD reporting in the real estate sector. Moreover, the company Guidelines. In keeping up with international standards, we has created its own environmental programme aimed at make use of an independent partner (GES Investment continuing to reduce environmental impacts caused by Service) which produces continuous analyses of the fulfilment operations. of international standards by investment vehicles, for use by investors. The partner checks all of OP's asset and fund management companies' investments twice a year in the case of violations. Screening includes direct and active equity and corporate bond investments and all OP mutual funds making the above-mentioned investments, but excludes, for example, index-linked products and mutual funds managed by external portfolio managers. OP Financial Group’s product and service 27 OP OP Year 2016 OP Financial Group’s product and service development OP’s product and service development aims to create products and services which are innovative, user-friendly and relevant to customers and offer a smooth customer experience. For private customers, OP’s development seeks to pay heed feedback. OP has stepwise switched to the agile development to the needs of customers of different ages living in different model, which has required the creation of new types of areas and to ensure that products are understandable, in operating models and roles and employee training on a longparticular. For corporate customers, the development of term basis. The new development organisation was built products and services aims at promoting a company’s around the agile development model. The model is success, for example, by improving operational flexibility and characterised by the launch of products and services with productivity. Despite the rapid digitisation of services, OP is limited functionality (beta) and their improvement based on also further developing face-to-face encounters to better testing and customer feedback. meet future needs. Major investments in Enhanced customer focus development through service design Intense and fast digital disruption in the financial sector is pioneership continuously attracting new market entrants and speeding up product and service development. Succeeding in the changing Customer needs form the bedrock of all development at OP operating environment necessitates offering the best possible and, thus, customer engagement is a natural and important customer experience irrespective of time, place and service part of product and service development. For several years channel. In OP’s view, the winning customer experience will now, OP has enhanced customer focus in product and service be increasingly founded on a collaboration effort between development by means of service design methods. Today OP humans and technology – personalised service will be can be counted among the pioneering service design enriched through the introduction of data, analytics and companies in Finland, and its unit of over 30 service artificial intelligence. designers is comparable with a design agency in terms of According to its strategy, OP will increase its annual expertise and size. development expenditure to around 300–400 million euros, Service design means the innovation, development and i.e. development expenditure for the next five years will design of services using design methodologies, in cooperation come to up to two billion euros. These development with customers. Service design starts from understanding investments will be allocated to the modernisation of basic fiuser needs and troubles identified in user experience and nancial services and the creation of new product and service finishes on the tangible implementation of user experience, packages. with a view to creating products and services that are The greater role of development is also reflected in the simpler, easier to use and better meet customer needs, recruitment of new talent. In 2016, OP’s product and service thereby improving customer experience. development hired over 100 new employees. At the end of Our customers have the opportunity to participate in the the year, we informed that we would modernise our development of OP's products and services by various development organisation and operating model to speed up different means. OP Helsinki's Vallila branch acts as OP's test strategy implementation. The modernisation is aimed at laboratory for new operating models and tools. At the improving the quality, speed and transparency of branch, customers can test and explore existing and development, producing new product and service packages prospective products and services by various means: and safeguarding the performance reliability of our existing touchscreens, videos, animation and demos. A development services. The new development organisation is in charge of organisation representative is always present at the Vallila the product development of all OP’s business segments and branch so that customers’ valuable observations and feedback the multichannel development of service channels, as well as can be utilised in the best possible way. of ensuring that OP pioneers in leveraging digitisation. On the web, customers may openly participate in product OP engages in product and service development based on the development on the OP Lab website, where the digital agile development model. Agile development at OP means an services of the future are demonstrated, iterative development model that gathers ongoing customer customer feedback is collected and services piloted jointly looking for startups no longer in their embryonic stage which 28 OP OP Year 2016 customer feedback is collected and services piloted jointly looking for startups no longer in their embryonic stage which with customers. In addition to the OP Lab, customers can have the capacity to directly start building new business register for the Paja customer community on the web. On together with OP’s experts. Paja, quick surveys are implemented, ideas assessed and feedback collected both online and at various events. Read more on the OP Lab site​. › Service designers also annually hold a significant number of face-to-face interviews with customers across Finland and generate ideas with customers in various workshops. Redesigned op.fi available to customers for beta testing OPs online service and online bank op.fi that is being redesigned is one example of applying the method of agile development and customer engagement to product and service development. The beta version of the new service, uusi.op.fi, › was made available to all customers for testing in autumn 2016. OP is collecting feedback on their user experiences that guides development further. Beta testing for banking services is not yet very common, and OP is actually one of the few players in the financial sector that has opened its service in the beta stage. From the very beginning, customers of different ages have contributed to the planning and development of the new service through, for example, interviews, group discussions and usability tests as well as by testing the service. Read more about other products and services launched in 2016: – OP Business mobile › – Pivo Cashier Service › – Pivo Junior › – Repair coordinator service › – OP Kulku › Cooperation with startups Based on our strategy, we will speed up reinvention, supplement our range of products and services and reinforce innovation by, for example, partnering with startups. In November 2016, we announced a new startup programme aimed at creating the best possible services for OP’s customers in cooperation with Finnish and international startups. We are looking for startup partners not only in the financial sector but also in the field of health technology, mobility and housing. OP’s startup programme differs from similar conventional programmes in terms of its needsdriven approach, because the programme is specifically 29 OP OP Year 2016 OP Financial Group's Corporate Governance Statement 2016 Download OP Financial Group's Corporate Governance Statement 2016 here. › This is a description of OP Financial Group's Corporate Governance Statement. By law, a credit institution and a securities issuer shall present its corporate governance system. OP Financial Group’s issuers (OP Corporate Bank plc and OP Mortgage Bank) prepare their own Corporate Governance Statements which substantially follow that of OP Financial Group. This OP Financial Group statement applies to credit institutions within the central cooperative consolidated, such as OP Process Services Ltd and OP Card Company Plc, excluding the abovementioned issuers. OP Financial Group member cooperative banks will publish their own corporate governance statements. Corporate governance and This Statement plus OP Financial Group's financial statements, Report by the Executive Board, Auditor's Report management and Annual Review are available on OP's website ›. In their decision-making and corporate governance, OP Financial Group and its central cooperative, OP Cooperative, This Corporate Governance Statement of OP Financial Group Financial Group, comply with the laws of Finland and has been prepared in accordance with the Act on Credit standards issued by virtue of them. OP Financial Group’s Institutions (CRD IV/CRR) and Chapter 7, Section 7 of the operations are specifically governed by the Act on the Finnish Securities Markets Act, and Recommendation 54 of Amalgamation of Deposit Banks (Laki talletuspankkien the Finnish Corporate Governance Code (2015) where yhteenliittymästä), the Act on Cooperative Banks and Other applicable. Cooperative Institutions, the Act on Credit Institutions, the The Statement has been issued separately from the Report Insurance Companies Act and the Co-operatives Act. by the Board of Directors. This Statement also covers some Taking into account the specific characteristics of the other key governance issues and the related, up-to-date cooperative system, OP Financial Group’s Corporate information is available on OP’s website ›. Governance conforms, whenever applicable, with the Finnish OP Financial Group's Executive Board discussed this Corporate Governance Code approved by the Securities Corporate Governance Statement on 31 January 2017. The Market Association in October 2015. Audit Committee of OP Financial Group's Supervisory Board In addition, OP Financial Group follows the Code of Business also assessed the Statement at its meeting. KPMG Oy Ab, the Ethics in its operations. Group’s auditor, has verified that the Statement has been issued and that the description it contains covering the main features of internal control and risk management systems related to the financial reporting process is consistent with the financial statements. Structure of OP Financial Group lies in a strong foundation of promoting the prosperity, well30 OP OP Year 2016 Structure of OP Financial Group lies in a strong foundation of promoting the prosperity, wellbeing and security of its owner-members, customers and and administrative bodies business partners. Being a Finnish Group is an important part of its identity. OP Financial Group consists of 173 indpendent member Group structure cooperative banks as of 31 December 2016 and the central cooperative they own, OP Cooperative, with its subsidiaries and affiliates. The Group’s operations are based on the cooperative principle – cooperation and sharing the fruits of OP Financial Group success with everyone. Based on its mission, OP Financial Group creates sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing for its owner-customers and in its operating region by means Established in 1902, OP Financial Group is a cooperative of its strong capital base and efficiency. financial services group formed by independent cooperative banks and the Group’s central cooperative with its OP Financial Group has three business segments: Banking, subsidiaries operating under the principle of joint and several Non-life Insurance and Wealth Management. liability. OP Financial Group’s success OP Financial Group consists of the following two parts: 2. Other entities and organisations of OP Financial Group 1. The amalgamation of the cooperative banks 31 OP OP Year 2016 The amalgamation of OP Financial Group member group, as referred to in the Accounting Act, or a consolidation cooperative banks is formed by OP Cooperative (central group, as referred to in the Act on Credit Institutions. The cooperative), companies belonging to its consolidation group, central cooperative of the amalgamation prepares the central cooperative’s member credit institutions and consolidated financial statements as referred to in Section 9 companies belonging to their consolidation groups, and credit of the Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks. institutions, financial institutions and service companies in which the abovementioned institutions jointly hold more than half of the voting rights form the amalgamation. OP cooperative banks OP Financial Group is comprised of the amalgamation of the member cooperative banks and those non-amalgamation entities of which entities belonging to the amalgamation hold Group member cooperative banks are independent, local more than half of the total votes. The extent of OP Financial deposit banks engaged in retail banking. They provide Group differs from that of the amalgamation of the member modern and competitive banking services to households, cooperative banks in that OP Financial Group subsumes SMEs, agricultural and forestry customers and public-sector companies other than credit and financial institutions or entities. Helsinki Area Cooperative Bank, which began to service companies. The most important of these are the operate as a cooperative deposit bank on 1 April 2016, is insurance companies with which the amalgamation forms a engaged in corresponding retail banking In the Helsinki financial and insurance conglomerate. In addition, Pohjola Metropolitan Area. Health Ltd, a hospital, belongs to OP Financial Group. In terms of the type of their business organisation, the More detailed information on the legal structure of OP member cooperative banks are cooperatives whose basic Financial Group and the amalgamation of the member values underlying decision-making include the one member, cooperative banks can be found in the Financial Statements one vote principle. Within the member cooperative banks, of OP Financial Group. The amalgamation of the member the highest decision-making body is the assembly comprising cooperative banks does not form a corporate owner-members or the cooperative meeting, which elects a Supervisory Board for the bank. The Supervisory Board in turn elects an Executive Board for the bank. The central cooperative’s Supervisory Board has confirmed bodies and executive management, internal control and 32 OP OP Year 2016 The central cooperative’s Supervisory Board has confirmed bodies and executive management, internal control and the Principles of Good Corporate Governance for the Group, remuneration. covering, for example, a cooperative bank’s administrative Cooperative bank federations Governance diversity 33 OP OP Year 2016 Cooperative bank federations Governance diversity The cooperative bank federations are regional cooperation OP Financial Group has a long-term approach to planning bodies for the member cooperative banks. Finland is divided the composition of administrative bodies. Effective work in into 16 federations of cooperative banks and the boundaries administrative bodies requires that their members have of the federations essentially follow those of provinces. sufficiently diverse expertise, skills and experience. The federations nominate candidates in their region for the In preparing the selection of members of the administrative OP Cooperative Supervisory Board. In addition, the bodies, attention is paid to the person’s added value to the cooperative bank federations cooperate, for example, in body’s composition in terms, for example, of fostering projects related to marketing, corporate social responsibility adequate diversity. Diversity is fostered by ensuring that the and internal training. candidates have a wide range of knowledge, skills and The meeting of a cooperative bank federation comprising experience, as well as the comprehensive representation of member cooperative banks shall elect the Executive Board to various regions and the balanced representation of genders represent the federation and attend to its affairs. According and age groups on the administrative bodies. to corporate governance recommendations, the Executive The aim is that the central cooperative’s Supervisory Board Board consists of a minimum of three (3) and a maximum of and member cooperative banks’ supervisory boards and nine (9) members elected annually. boards of directors are represented by both genders in proportion of 60/40. To that end, the Group seeks to ensure on a long-term basis that of the candidates with equal OP Cooperative and its responsibilities strengths in terms of skills and experience are nominated a member of an administrative body who represents a gender that is minority on the administrative body. The central cooperative of OP Financial Group is OP Cooperative and OP Andelslag in Swedish and is domiciled in Helsinki. Changes in OP Financial Within the central cooperative, the highest decision-making powers rest with the Cooperative Meeting and the Group’s structure in 2016 Supervisory Board elected by it and operational decisionmaking powers are exercised by the Executive Board elected by the Supervisory Board and being made up of OP Financial Group's consolidated financial statements at the management executives. The central cooperative’s member end of 2016 included the accounts of 173 member banks own OP Cooperative. cooperative banks (178) including Group companies, OP Cooperative Consolidated and OVY Insurance Ltd. The central cooperative’s members may include credit institutions, as referred to in the Act on the Amalgamation of During 2016, the mergers of member cooperative banks Deposit Banks, whose Bylaws or Articles of Association have reduced the number of OP cooperative banks while the been approved by the central cooperative. The Supervisory conversion of Helsinki OP Bank Ltd’s legal form into a Board takes decisions on admitting new members. cooperative bank registered on 1 April 2016 increased the number. The bank's new business name is Helsinki Area The purpose of the central cooperative as the central Cooperative Bank (OP Helsinki). OP Helsinki as subsidiary is cooperative of the amalgamation and as the company part of OP Financial Group central cooperative consolidated. heading the financial and insurance conglomerate formed by The central cooperative will continue to have a major role in OP Financial Group is to equitably contribute to and support capitalising the new bank, which is why OP Cooperative the development of, and cooperation between, its member exercises control over OP Helsinki, according to OP Helsinki's credit institutions, other OP Financial Group companies and Bylaws. entities and the entire OP Group. To that end, the central cooperative controls the Group's centralised services, On 30 November 2016, OVY Insurance Ltd transferred a develops the Group's business, manages the Group's strategic banking special insurance portfolio to OP Insurance Ltd, control and lobbying and manages control and supervision consisting of special banking insurance policies issued as duties belonging to the central cooperative of the general liability and crime insurance as well as legal expenses amalgamation and the company heading the financial and insurance for OVY Insurance Ltd’s senior management and insurance conglomerate. Furthermore, the central cooperative administrative staff. acts as OP Financial Group's strategic owner institution. Östra Korsholms Andelsbank merged into Vasa Andelsbank on 29 February 2016. On 31 October 2016, Keiteleen Osuuspankki merged into Pielaveden Osuuspankki, changing its name to Nilakan Seudun Osuuspankki. On 31 December 2016, Enon Osuuspankki, Kiihtelysvaaran The business names of OP Financial Group companies have 34 OP OP Year 2016 On 31 December 2016, Enon Osuuspankki, Kiihtelysvaaran The business names of OP Financial Group companies have Osuuspankki and Tuupovaaran Osuuspankki merged into been changed to begin with OP, effective as of 4 April 2016: Ilomantsin Osuuspankki, changing its name to Vaara-Karjalan Osuuspankki. – Pohjola Bank plc became OP Corporate Bank plc On 31 December 2016, Puolangan Osuuspankki merged into – Pohjola Insurance Ltd became OP Insurance Ltd Suomussalmen Osuuspankki, changing its name to Ylä– Pohjola Asset Management Ltd became OP Asset Kainuun Osuuspankki. Management Ltd Pielisen Osuuspankki and Pohjois-Karjalan Osuuspankki accepted a merger plan on 10 October 2016, according to – Pohjola Property Management Ltd became OP which the former will merge into the latter. The planned date Property Management Ltd for registration of the merger is 31 March 2017. – Pohjola Asset Management Execution Services Ltd Karjalan Osuuspankki and Mynämäen-Nousiaisten became OP Asset Management Execution Services Ltd Osuuspankki accepted a merger plan on 15 December 2016, according to which the former will merge into the latter. The planned date for registration of the merger is 30 April 2017. The business names of companies based in the Baltic countries have also been changed to begin with OP, as Vetelin Osuuspankki and Kaustisen Osuuspankki accepted a follows: merger plan on 21 November 2016, according to which the former will merge into latter. At the same time, Kaustisen – Pohjola Bank plc Eesti filiaal became OP Corporate Osuuspankki will be renamed Perhonjokilaakson Bank plc Eesti filiaal Osuuspankki. The planned date for registration of the merger – Pohjola Bank plc filiāle Latvijā became OP Corporate is 31 May 2017. Bank plc filiāle Latvijā Vetelin Ylipään Osuuspankki and Halsuan Osuuspankki accepted a merger plan on 28 November and 29 November – Pohjola Bank plc Lietuvos filialas became OP Corporate 2016, according to which the former will merge into the Bank plc Lietuvos filialas latter. At the same time, Halsuan Osuuspankki will be – Pohjola Finance Estonia AS became OP Finance AS renamed Halsua-Ylipään Osuuspankki. The planned date for registration of the merger is 30 June 2017. – ”Pohjola Finance SIA became OP Finance SIA Oriveden Seudun Osuuspankki and Mäntän Seudun – UAB Pohjola Finance became UAB OP Finance Osuuspankki accepted a merger plan on 29 December 2016, according to which the former will merge into latter. At the same time, Mäntän Seudun Osuuspankki will be renamed Omasairaala Oy was renamed Pohjola Health Ltd when the Pohjois-Hämeen Osuuspankki. The planned date for Tampere hospital unit was opened on 1 August 2016. registration of the merger is 30 June 2017. Central cooperative's Annual Annual Cooperative Meeting in 35 OP OP Year 2016 Central cooperative's Annual Annual Cooperative Meeting in Cooperative Meeting 2016 The Cooperative Meeting is OP Cooperative's highest OP Cooperative held its Annual Cooperative Meeting in decision-making body. Helsinki on 15 March 2016. The Meeting adopted the financial statements for 2015, discharged those accountable from liability and elected persons as required. Furthermore, Meeting duties and items on the the Meeting decided to alter the cooperative’s Bylaws and the cooperative’s donations. agenda The Annual Cooperative Meeting deals with issues mentioned OP Financial Group's Nomination in Section 7 of the central cooperative’s Bylaws, such as the Committee adoption of the parent and consolidated income statement and balance sheet for the previous financial year, and the election of members of the Supervisory Board and an The Committee is tasked with preparing and discussing auditor. proposals to the central cooperative's Cooperative Meeting on the Chair of the Cooperative Meeting, remuneration payable to the Supervisory Board Chair, deputy Chairs, the number Notice of Meeting and of Supervisory Board members, new candidates for Supervisory Board members presented to the Cooperative attendants Meeting as well as on the election of an auditor and its remuneration. In addition, the Nomination Committee proposes to the Supervisory Board on member nominees to Held in OP Cooperative’s registered office in Helsinki before the Representative Assembly of Helsinki Area Cooperative the end of May (in practice in March), the Annual Cooperative Bank representing the central cooperative. Meeting shall be convened by the Supervisory Board. An The Committee has 16–32 members and each Federation of Extraordinary Cooperative Meeting shall be held whenever Cooperative Banks is represented by one or two members in the Supervisory Board deems it appropriate or whenever it the Committee. must be held by law. In the composition of the Supervisory Board and its The Meeting is attended by the representatives of the central members' competence requirements, OP ensures that the cooperative's member banks. members have adequate experience and professional skills to Notice of the Cooperative Meeting shall be brought to the perform their duties professionally and carefully. Supervisory attention of members in writing or using an electronic Board members must have adequate knowledge of the communication channel no earlier than two months and no financial sector. In the competence requirements, OP also later than one week prior to the final registration date. ensures that the Supervisory Board is diverse and has adequate corporate social responsibility knowledge. Decision-making at the Meeting In calculating the votes cast at the Meeting, members exercise their voting rights, based on cooperative contributions, equalling their shares in the central cooperative. Member cooperative banks with a good financial standing have additional votes as stipulated in greater detail in the central cooperative’s Bylaws. However, no single member may cast more than two per cent of the votes represented at the Meeting. At the Annual Cooperative Meeting, a member has only one vote if, due to its own financial difficulties, it has received financial support based on a resolution passed by OP Cooperative, which fulfils the characteristics specified in Section 8 of the central cooperative’s Bylaws. Supervisory Board and its According to the rules of procedure confirmed by the 36 OP OP Year 2016 Supervisory Board and its According to the rules of procedure confirmed by the Supervisory Board, its responsibilities also include as follows: committees – Confirm the general policies as specified in the Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks; OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board – Confirm the principles of OP Financial Group's capital plan; – Confirm risk limits regarding risk-bearing capacity and Election, members and term of risk types for OP Financial Group and the risk categorisation principles for member banks and regularly the Supervisory Board follow the progress of the business, risk-bearing capacity and risk exposure of OP Financial Group and the central cooperative consolidated; In accordance with the Bylaws, the central cooperative’s Supervisory Board has a minimum of 32 and a maximum of – Confirm OP Financial Group's annual plan; 36 members elected by the Cooperative Meeting. A minimum – Monitor the progress of the implementation of OP of 16 and a maximum of 20 members shall be elected to the Financial Group's strategy valid from time to time; Supervisory Board in such a way that the Supervisory Board has at least one member from each of the 16 cooperative – Name OP Financial Group's regional banks; bank federation regions. These members' term of office is three years, and of these members the number closest to – Adopt the principles and policies concerning OP one third resigns each year. Another 16 members come from Financial Group's remuneration development and decide areas covered by the Federation of Cooperative Banks with on the Group's long-term remuneration schemes; and the number of members from the member banks involved determined on the basis of their capital adequacy. The term – Discuss and decide on the appointment of the Groupof office of these members is three years unless the term of level working groups of strategic significance. office ends prior to this date due to a change in the allotment of the seats among the federations. The Supervisory Board comprised 34 members on 31 December 2016. An administrative officer or salaried employee may not be Supervisory Board Chair and Vice elected to the Supervisory Board from a member bank which, pursuant to Section 8 of OP Cooperative’s Bylaws, has Chairs (presiding officers) only one vote at Cooperative Meetings, i.e. which has received financial support referred to in said section. A person who is 68 years of age or older is not eligible for Supervisory Board At its first meeting after the Annual Cooperative Meeting, the membership. However, a member who turns 68 years of age Supervisory Board shall elect from among its members a during his membership may sit on the Supervisory Board Chair and two Vice Chairs until the closing of the next Annual until the closing of the next Cooperative Meeting. Cooperative Meeting. The presiding officers of the Supervisory Board comprise the Chair and both Vice Chairs of the Supervisory Board. Holding Responsibilities of the their meeting whenever necessary, the presiding officers Supervisory Board communicate to the Executive Board Chair and Vice Chair in respect of important and far-reaching strategic issues relevant to OP Financial Group and the central cooperative consolidated as well as to OP Financial Group’s HR directors Under OP Cooperative’s Bylaws, the Supervisory Board shall in HR issues in which the Executive Board is disqualified. supervise the central cooperative’s corporate governance, managed by the Executive Board and the CEO, and ensure that the central cooperative’s operations are managed in a professional and prudent manner in accordance with the CoSupervisory Board's meeting and operatives Act and in the best interests of the central cooperative and OP Financial Group. decision-making procedures In addition, the Supervisory Board shall, for example, confirm OP Financial Group’s strategy and other shared goals Convened by the Chair or, whenever he is prevented, the Vice and policies, the central cooperative's operational and Chair, the Supervisory Board meeting is primarily held 6–7 financial targets, appoint and discharge the President and times a year. The Supervisory Board meeting has a quorum Group Executive Chairman acting as the CEO of the central when more than half of its members are present. Items cooperative and other Executive Board members and deputy members and the Chief Audit Executive. on the meeting agenda are primarily prepared by OP Supervisory Board work in 2016 37 OP OP Year 2016 on the meeting agenda are primarily prepared by OP Cooperative's Executive Board and primarily presented by the Supervisory Board work in 2016 Chair or Vice Chair of the Executive Board. Items on the Supervisory Board meeting agenda are also in the first place discussed in advance by the Supervisory Board Working The Supervisory Board had seven meetings in 2016. Jaakko Committee or by other Supervisory Board committees. Pehkonen acted as its Chair and Mervi Väisänen and Olli Tarkkanen as its Vice Chairs. The average attendance rate of Members and deputy members of OP Cooperative's Executive members stood at 95%. Board, the Chief Audit Executive and four separately appointed employee representatives and their deputies, if In 2016, the Supervisory Board dealt, for example, with the any, have also the right to be present and speak at following matters: Supervisory Board meetings. – Discussed the progress of strategy work at its meetings The Supervisory Board has adopted, for example, the in the early part of the year, adopted the OP 2016 following rules of procedure and instructions: strategy in June and discussed the initiation of strategy implementation at its meetings during the rest of the year; – The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board – The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board – Confirmed OP Financial Group’s risk-taking and risk presiding officers tolerance system, internal control principles, OP Financial – The rules of procedure for OP Financial Group’s Group’s Fit & Proper assessment guidelines, financial Nomination Committee statements and capital adequacy measurement principles as well as the principles of good corporate governance of – The rules of procedure for OP Financial Group’s OP Financial Group member cooperative banks; Remuneration Committee – Confirmed OP Financial Group’s Recovery Plan; – The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board’s Working Committee – Confirmed the long-term management remuneration scheme for 2017–2019; – The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee – Confirmed OP Financial Group’s and the central cooperative consolidated’s annual plan; – The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Committee – Discussed OP Financial Group’s organisation in terms of regulatory and public affairs. – The rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board's Risk Management Committee – Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board's Nomination Committee of the central cooperative consolidated Executive Board Supervisory Board committees – The rules of procedure for the Executive Board At its spring 2016 regrouping meeting, the Supervisory – Principles of good corporate governance Board elected, from among its members, members for a one-year term to the following five committees: Working – Principles of internal control Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Risk Management Committee as well as the Nomination – Risk-taking and risk tolerance system Committee of the central cooperative consolidated Executive – Accounting policies and the principles of capital Board. In addition, the presiding officers have a status adequacy measurement comparable with a committee. Acting as bodies supporting the Supervisory Board, as a rule the committees have no – OP Financial Group’s Fit & Proper assessment guidelines independent decision-making powers. The Supervisory Board also appoints, from among its In addition, the Supervisory Board confirms operating members, members of the committees reporting to it and principles regarding OP Financial Group. the Chair and Vice Chairs of the Audit Committee and the Risk Management Committee, and confirms the rules of procedure for the committees. OP Financial Group Supervisory Board members by the federation of cooperative banks as of 15 March 2016 › Working Committee 38 OP OP Year 2016 Working Committee The Working Committee comprises the Supervisory Board’s Chair and Vice Chairs and six other Supervisory Board members annually appointed from among Supervisory Board members. Chaired by the Supervisory Board’s Chair, the Working Committee is tasked with assisting the Supervisory Board in the preparation of OP Financial Group's strategy and in the monitoring of its implementation, participating in the preparation of significant projects and initiatives in the pipeline within the Group and taking charge of their monitoring. The Working Committee also considers major issues related to cooperation within the Group and the implementation of the Group's operating principles. In addition, the Working Committee is tasked, for instance, with: – Preparing significant issues coming out at a Supervisory Board meeting and monitoring the execution of Supervisory Board decisions; – Acting as a discussion forum for OP Financial Group management in the strategic and other major issues of the Group; – Acting as a link between the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board, for example, to ensure information flow; – Discussing organisational changes related to the central cooperative's senior management; – Issuing recommendations and statements to the Executive Board in matters between Group member cooperative banks and central cooperative consolidated companies related to pricing, if desired; – Issuing recommendations to the Executive Board in strategic matters relating to OP Financial Group, if desired. Convened by its Chair, the Working Committee meets 8–11 times a year. The central cooperative's Executive Board prepares the meeting agenda. Working Committee members: 39 OP OP Year 2016 Working Committee members: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Jaakko Pehkonen, Chair D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Professor of Economics, University of 1960 Jyväskylä Mervi Väisänen, 1963 Vice Chair M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), Senior lecturer in marketing, Kajaani M.Sc. (Econ.) University of Applied Sciences Olli Tarkkanen, 1962 Member LL.M, Trained on the bench, Managing Director, Etelä-Pohjanmaan eMBA Osuuspankki Kalle Arvio, 1964 Member Diploma in Business and Managing Director, Ruukin Osuuspankki Administration, MBA, LKV (authorised real estate agent), APV1 degree Tapani Eskola, 1953 Member M.Sc. (Tech.) Leif Enberg, 1954 Member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Entrepreneur, Oy Mapromec Ab Jorma Hyrskyluoto, Member M.Sc. (Econ.) 1950 Esko Mononen, 1957 Member M.Sc. (Agriculture and Managing Director, Pohjois-Karjalan Forestry) Osuuspankki Juha Pullinen, 1963 Member M.Sc. (Agriculture & Forestry), Managing Director, Loimaan Seudun M.Sc. (Forestry) Osuuspankki Working Committee work in 2016 may not be involved in the daily management of a credit institution whose affairs belong to the Committee's duties. At least one Committee member who has adequate expertise in The Working Committee had eight meetings in 2016. The accounting or audit must be outside of OP Financial Group. average attendance rate of members stood at 97%. The Audit Committee must have adequate expertise in In addition to the Committee members, the Working accounting, book-keeping, financial reporting and accounting Committee meetings were attended by the Chair and Vice practices as well as internal audit. The Chair of the Chair of the Executive Board and the secretary of the Committee must have special knowledge and experience in Supervisory Board acted as the meeting secretary. The the application of accounting policies and internal control meetings prepared matters to be discussed at Supervisory processes. Board meetings and examined other important preparatory The Audit Committee is tasked with assisting the Supervisory issues applying to the Group. Board to ensure that the central cooperative consolidated and OP Financial Group have in place an adequate and wellfunctioning control system to cover all operations and that Audit Committee the central cooperative consolidated’s and OP Financial Group's accounting and financial management control is organised appropriately. During its regrouping meeting, the Supervisory Board elects, from among its members, four members to the Audit The Committee is also tasked with monitoring that the Committee for a one-year term and appoints from amongst central cooperative consolidated’s and OP Financial Group's them a Chair, Vice Chair and three managing directors of OP activities and internal control are organised in accordance cooperative banks to act as permanent expert members for a with the requirements of the laws and regulations and the term of three years or until the end of the term of the principles of good corporate governance, in addition to Supervisory Board.An Audit Committee member with an supervising the performance of internal audit. employment or executive contract with the Group The Audit Committee also helps the Supervisory Board in 40 OP OP Year 2016 The Audit Committee also helps the Supervisory Board in ensuring that the central cooperative consolidated is managed in an expert and prudent manner that promotes the competitiveness and success of OP Financial Group. In addition, the Audit Committee is tasked, for example, with: – Discussing the Group's accounting policies and capital adequacy measurement principles to be submitted to the Supervisory Board for adoption; – Supervising for its part financial reporting; – Supervising for its part compliance with laws, regulations and other provisions; – Supervising compliance with the Code of Business Ethics; – Supervising the performance and effectiveness of internal audit; – Assessing the adequacy and functionality and effectiveness of internal control; – Dealing for its part with issues related to regulatory supervision; – Dealing with and assess matters related to auditing and auditors. The Audit Committee has mainly four meetings a year. Audit Committee members: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Jarna Heinonen, 1965 Chair D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Professor in Entrepreneurship, Turku School of Economics, University of Turku Timo Parmasuo, 1950 Vice Chair Graduate in engineering Teollisuusneuvos (Finnish honorary title), Board member, Meconet Oy Katja Kuosa-Kaartti, Member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Authorised public accountant, 1973 Tilintarkastus Kuosa-Kaartti Oy Seppo Laaninen, 1950 Member M.A. Ari Kakkori, 1955 Expert member Bachelor of Agriculture Managing Director, Virtain Osuuspankki Petri Krohns, 1964 Expert member LL.M, Trained on the bench, Managing Director, Etelä-Karjalan MBA Osuuspankki Ari Väänänen, 1973 Expert member LL.M, Trained on the bench Managing Director, Maaningan Osuuspankki Audit Committee work in 2016 – Confirms structural and other changes related to the 41 OP OP Year 2016 Audit Committee work in 2016 – Confirms structural and other changes related to the development of remuneration; The Audit Committee had six meetings, with the average – Confirms the general terms and conditions of OP attendance rate of members standing at 92%. Financial Group's remuneration schemes in terms of, for instance, updates caused by changes in regulation, law and In addition to members and expert members, the meetings agreements; were attended by the auditor representatives and the Chair of OP Cooperative’s Executive Board, Executive Board – Confirms annually the bases for the pay scale and for member in charge of finance and the Chief Audit Executive. the assessment of job grades within OP Financial Group; – Confirms risk-taker jobs whose holders may have an impact on the risk profile of the Group, company or Remuneration Committee Group member cooperative bank; – Exercises oversight to ensure that the rules and The Remuneration Committee comprises the Supervisory regulations governing remuneration and incentive schemes Board Chair, Vice Chair as his first deputy and a maximum of are followed throughout OP Financial Group; other three members annually appointed by the Supervisory – Supervises the overall remuneration for people in Board. A person included in the Supervisory Board, who has charge of OP Financial Group’s risk management and no employment or executive contract with an OP Financial business-independent control functions; Group company, may be a Committee member. The Remuneration Committee is tasked, for example, with – Prepares proposals to the central cooperative's controlling and supervising the development of management Supervisory Board on, for example, the general and employee remuneration within OP Financial Group, remuneration principles applied by OP Financial Group; assessing the performance of remuneration schemes in order – Issues recommendations on principles related to the to ensure that remuneration is in line with the Group's core management remuneration and incentives for Group values, strategy, objectives, risk policies and control system, member cooperative banks and OP-Kiinteistökeskus real and assessing incentives under the remuneration schemes estate agencies; and and other effects on the management of risks, capital and liquidity. In addition, the Committee confirms, for instance, – Confirms annually recommendations for management the performance metrics for OP Financial Group's personnel and administration remuneration. fund and their outcome, and confirms those included in the Group’s long-term management remuneration scheme and the amount of earned bonuses. Furthermore, the Remuneration Committee, for example: – Provides an overall, OP Financial Group level assessment of the fulfilment of conditions for remuneration in terms of the consolidation group’s earnings and earnings performance, capital adequacy, credit rating and financial and other factors before the payout of bonuses for each year and of deferred amounts; Remuneration Committee members: 42 OP OP Year 2016 Remuneration Committee members: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Jaakko Pehkonen, 1960 Chair D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Professor of Economics, University of Jyväskylä Mervi Väisänen, 1963 Vice Chair M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. Senior lecturer in marketing, Kajaani (Econ.) University of Applied Sciences Ilmo Aronen, 1958 Member D.Sc. (Agriculture and Forestry) R&D Director, Raisioagro Ltd Annukka Nikola, 1960 Member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. Director, Administration, Konehuone (Econ.) Oy Seppo Kietäväinen, Member M.Sc.(Agric.) 1959 Remuneration Committee work in 2016 large that it can jeopardise business continuity, capital adequacy, liquidity and strategy implementation. The Committee must assess whether the prices charged for The Remuneration Committee had 12 meetings in 2016. The services that tie the capital of the central cooperative and its average attendance rate of members stood at 98%. consolidation group are in line with their business model and Committee members included the Supervisory Board Chair, strategic risk policies and, if this is not the case, draw up a Vice Chair as his first deputy and Annukka Nikola, Ilmo plan to make corrections. The Committee must assist the Aronen and Seppo Kietäväinen. In addition to the Supervisory Board's Remuneration Committee in creating Remuneration Committee members, OP Financial Group's sound remuneration schemes. Executive Vice President of Human Resources participated in To carry out its duties, the Committee, for example: Committee meetings. – Considers the Group's risk-taking and risk tolerance system to be submitted to the Supervisory Board for Risk Management Committee approval, the principles of the control system required by joint and several liability, the Group's risk limits and capital plan; The Supervisory Board elects from among its members four – Supervises compliance of the risk policy with the Group Risk Management Committee members for a one-year term, strategy and risk limits, the amount and quality of capital who have the required expertise related to the credit held by the Group and its entities, profit performance, risk institution's and OP Financial Group's risk-bearing capacity exposure and compliance with the risk policy, risk limits and the Group's risk policies based on the strategy, and and control limits; appoints from among the Committee members a Chair and Vice Chair as well as three separately appointed member – Assesses the adequacy of the Group's risk limit system, cooperative banks’ managing directors as permanent expert the Group's risk exposure on the basis of risk analyses and members from among Supervisory Board members. At least the quality and sufficiency of the Group's risk management one of the Committee members must be outside of OP and capital adequacy management on the basis of various Financial Group. reports; The Risk Management Committee assists the Supervisory – Monitors Group member cooperative banks' risk Board in matters related to the central cooperative categories, the performance of the Executive Board's ALM consolidated’s and Group's risk-taking and risk management, and Risk Management Committee, risk assessments issued as well as risk-based supervision, in order to ensure that the by the regulator, the development of the regulatory executive management conforms to the risk-taking policy laid framework related to the Group in respect of risk out in the Group strategy and the risk limits decided by the management. Supervisory Board. The Risk Management Committee assists the Supervisory Board in ensuring that an adequate risk management system is in place and that no exposure is so Risk Management Committee members: 43 OP OP Year 2016 Risk Management Committee members: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Ola Eklund, 1952 Chair M. Eng.Managing Director, Wintem-Agency Oy Ulla Järvi, 1952 Vice Chair M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Certified public accountant Jaakko Kiander, 1963 Member Dr.Soc.Sc. Director, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company Petri Sahlström, 1971 Member D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Dean, University of Oulu, Oulu Business School Tuomas Kupsala, 1967 Expert member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), eMBA Managing Director, Korpilahden Osuuspankki Timo Laine, 1959 Expert member LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA Managing Director, kauppaneuvos (Finnish honorary title), PäijätHämeen Osuuspankki Olli Näsi, 1963 Expert member LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA Managing Director, Satakunnan Osuuspankki Risk Management Committee work in 2016 The Committee prepares proposals to the Supervisory Board on the nomination of the central cooperative’s Executive Board members, the Chief Audit Executive and Compliance The Risk Management Committee had six meetings in 2016. Officer, including the job descriptions, as well as the related The average attendance rate of members stood at 97%. checks and terminations. Furthermore, the Committee decides on the revision of the salaries and emoluments of the In addition to members and the secretary, the Committee Executive Board members and the Chief Audit Executive as meetings have been attended by the Chairman of OP well as on remuneration. Cooperative's Executive Board, Executive Board member in charge of risk management and Executive Board member in The Nomination Committee assesses the fitness and charge of finance. propriety of Executive Board members, Chief Audit Executive and Chief Compliance Officer and deals with the succession plans of Executive Board members and the Chief Audit Executive. The committee assists the Supervisory Board, for The central cooperative consolidated example, in the assessment of the collective knowledge, skills, management Nomination Committee experience and diversity of the Executive Board and the time commitment expected of its members, in the assessment of the composition, work and an individual member of the The central cooperative consolidated management Executive Board as well as in the assessment of the selection Nomination Committee comprises the Supervisory Board’s criteria and procedures applied to the executive management. Chair, the first Vice Chair and, based on the Supervisory Board’s decision, one or more Supervisory Board members. Members of the central cooperative consolidated 44 OP OP Year 2016 Members of the central cooperative consolidated management Nomination Committee: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Jaakko Pehkonen, 1960 Chair D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Professor of Economics, University of Jyväskylä Mervi Väisänen, 1963 Vice Chair M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. Senior lecturer in marketing, Kajaani (Econ.) University of Applied Sciences Ilmo Aronen, 1958 Member D.Sc. (Agriculture and Forestry) R&D Director, Raisioagro Ltd Annukka Nikola, 1960 Member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. Director, Administration, Konehuone Oy (Econ.) The central cooperative consolidated management Nomination Committee work in 2016 The management Nomination Committee had three meetings in 2016. The attendance rate of members stood at 100%. OP Financial Group's President, Executive Board of OP 45 OP OP Year 2016 OP Financial Group's President, Executive Board of OP Group Executive Chairman, and Cooperative OP Cooperative's CEO and Executive Board Appointment, composition and term of the Executive Board OP Financial Group's President The central cooperative's Executive Board acting as the board and Group Executive Chairman of directors comprises a Chairman acting as CEO and known as President, Group Executive Chairman; his deputy who acts as Vice Chairman of the Executive Board; and a minimum of The Chairman (President and Group Executive Chairman) of four and a maximum of nine other members and a the central cooperative's Executive Board is responsible for maximum of four deputy members, depending on the managing OP Financial Group, the central cooperative and Supervisory Board’s decision. the central cooperative consolidated and is in charge of their An Executive Board member and deputy member must have strategic control in accordance with the strategic intent adequate knowledge of the financial sector, financial matters confirmed by the Supervisory Board. He is also tasked with and general knowledge of the business of the central presiding over Executive Board meetings and ensuring that cooperative and consolidation group and OP Financial Group the Executive Board works effectively and sees to it that it and other qualifications required for the position. performs all duties within its remit. Executive Board members › The President and Group Executive Chairman also chairs the boards of directors of central cooperative consolidated credit The President and Group Executive Chairman and other institutions engaged in corporate banking as well as in the Executive Board members and deputy members as well as Helsinki Metropolitan Area in retail banking, non-life the Chief Audit Executive shall be appointed and discharged insurance company and asset management company as well by the Supervisory Board, which shall also decide on the as OP-Services Ltd and OP Process Services Ltd. division of responsibilities between the members. As the central cooperative's CEO, he has statutory The term of office of an Executive Board member or deputy responsibility for the central cooperative's management at member and the Chief Audit Executive is for the time being, operational level according to the instructions and regulations but for a maximum period up to the member’s retirement issued by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. age in accordance with OP Financial Group’s pension scheme. The term of office may end prior to this date if the member The Supervisory Board appoints the President and Group or deputy member requests to resign or is dismissed from Executive Chairman, acting as the central cooperative's CEO, membership. and decides on the terms and conditions of his executive contract. Specifically approved by the Supervisory Board, the job description of the President and Group Executive Chairman defines his main responsibilities. Reijo Karhinen, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) and vuorineuvos (Finnish honorary title), acts as the President and Group Executive Chairman of OP Financial Group. He has held that position since 2007. Information on the remuneration payable to the President and Group Executive Chairman can be found in the section covering remuneration below. 46 OP OP Year 2016 Responsibilities of the Executive Board – Giving approvals, as referred to in Chapter 4 of the Act 47 OP OP Year 2016 Responsibilities of the Executive Board – Giving approvals, as referred to in Chapter 4 of the Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks, that it is possible not to apply to a member credit institution the provisions The Executive Board is responsible for managing the central stated in greater detail in the Act governing the minimum cooperative’s and its consolidation group's operations in capital base, customer risks, requirements for liquidity, accordance with the Co-operatives Act, other laws, official disclosure of information on credit risk and the qualitative regulations and the central cooperative Bylaws. The Executive management of risks, unless the Executive Board has, Board must be careful in promoting the interests of OP within the limits it has determined, delegated these duties Financial Group, its central cooperative and its consolidation to the bodies or employees it has assigned; group. – Steering OP Financial Group and implementing the The Executive Board duties, according to its role, cover those Group strategy in line with the principles issued by the related to OP Financial Group's steering, the management of Supervisory Board; the central cooperative consolidated and the management – Making a proposal to the Supervisory Board on OP and administration of the parent entity (central cooperative) Financial Group’s strategy and operational and financial of the central cooperative consolidated. targets; The Executive Board responsibilities in respect of Group steering include: – Preparing an annual plan and submitting it to the Supervisory Board for approval; – Controlling the amalgamation’s operations and issuing instructions to the member credit institutions within the – Preparing the consolidated financial statements as amalgamation on risk management, good corporate referred to in the Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit governance and internal control to secure their liquidity Banks; and capital adequacy, as well as on compliance with – Deciding on major investments unless the Executive standardised accounting policies in the preparation of the Board has, within the limits it has determined, delegated amalgamation’s consolidated financial statements; these decisions to be made by employees or bodies it has – Supervising the companies within the amalgamation so assigned; that they operate in accordance with the laws and decrees – Confirming the rules of procedure of OP Financial governing their financial position, regulations issued by the Group’s Risk Management Committee and Credit Risk relevant authorities, their own bylaws or articles of Committee and appointing their members. association, and instructions issued by the central cooperative; For the management of the central cooperative consolidated, the Executive Board in its capacity as the consolidation group’s board of directors defines issues specified in the rules of procedure of the subsidiaries’ boards of directors. The Executive Board has operational responsibility for the management of the entire central cooperative consolidated. In respect of the management of the central cooperative consolidated, the Executive Board is tasked, for example, with the following: Discussing and defining – The consolidation group’s risk policy and risk and – The job description of the Banking Senior Credit 48 OP OP Year 2016 – The consolidation group’s risk policy and risk and – The job description of the Banking Senior Credit capital adequacy management and ALM policies and Committee of the central cooperative consolidated and its related key guidelines; members; – The consolidation group’s policies relating to funding, – The job description of the Underwriting Executives and amount of capital and investments; their members; – The principles of the dividend policy of subsidiaries and – The central cooperative consolidated’s management and the principles of the level of dividends; decision-making system. – The principles of member banks' list of service charges and fees; Issuing a statement on – The implementation of investments or company – The ICAAP report and the risk and capital adequacy acquisition/disposal or corporate transactions with an assessments (ORSA); impact on the strategically or financially important Group – Major changes in the technical bases for insurance companies; liability, such as those in the discount rate; – The consolidation group’s HR policy, (including the – Technical bases for equalisation provisions and their principles of remuneration and incentives and other changes. employee benefits) in line with the policy decisions made in greater detail by the Supervisory Board or its committees; In respect of the central cooperative management and governance, the Executive Board is tasked, for example, with: – The implementation of the Group strategy within the central cooperative consolidated and its supervision; – The consolidation group's communications and brand management policy and the related key principles; – The consolidation group's outsourcing policy and outsourcing principles; – The consolidation group's ICT architecture policy and ICT policy; – The annual business plan and the supervision of its progress; – The principles and practices applied to ensure the fitness and propriety of the management of the companies within the consolidation group; – The appointment and discharge of the managing director of subsidiaries and his/her deputy as well as the determination of their salaries and other benefits and the terms and conditions of their executive contract, if related decisions and policy statements are not within the remit of the Supervisory Board’s Remuneration Committee; – Compliance policy and the key compliance principles; – The organisational structure and management system of companies within the central cooperative consolidated; – The description of internal control and supervision of the adequacy of internal control performance in companies. Confirming – Drawing up the Supervisory Board’s and its committees’ Convened by the Chairman or, whenever his is prevented, 49 OP OP Year 2016 – Drawing up the Supervisory Board’s and its committees’ Convened by the Chairman or, whenever his is prevented, meeting agendas and putting forward a proposals to the the Vice Chairman, an Executive Board meeting is mainly Supervisory Board, for example, on held once a week. The Executive Board's ordinary members and deputy members participate in the meetings. OP – the central cooperative’s and the central cooperative Financial Group's Chief Audit Executive has the right to be consolidated's operational and financial targets; present and speak at Executive Board meetings. Executive Board meetings may also be attended by some other person – important issues of wide scope related to the whose presence is necessary due to the matter under central cooperative and the central cooperative discussion. consolidated and pertaining to the Group's interests, right and development for the purpose of convening a The meeting’s agenda and the basic meeting material shall be Cooperative Meeting; distributed to the Executive Board’s members for review well in advance prior to the meeting. – Attending to the execution of the decisions by the Each Executive Board member and deputy member shall Cooperative Meeting and the Supervisory Board; present items on the meeting agenda within his/her remit. In – Deciding on the basic principles of the remuneration this context, he/she may be assisted by an expert staff schemes of the central cooperative and companies within member or another expert. Proposals must be given in the consolidation group to the extent that deciding on writing. Each Executive Board member and deputy member them is not within the Supervisory Board remit; is responsible for the implementation of the execution of Executive Board decisions within his/her remit and supervises – Confirming the central cooperative's organisation, hiring their implementation. Minutes shall be kept of all Executive and firing employees necessary for the central Board meetings, containing those present, decisions made cooperative's operations, determining their remuneration and any dissenting opinions, by the secretary appointed by and confirming the division of responsibilities between the Executive Board. The next Executive Board meeting such employees to the extent necessary unless the adopts the minutes of the previous meeting and the minutes Executive Board has, within the limits it has determined, are signed by the secretary and the Executive Board delegated related decision-making to employees it has members and deputy members present at the meeting. All assigned; minutes documents are numbered consecutively by calendar year. – Deciding on the central cooperative’s corporate acquisitions, disposals or corporate transactions unless The Executive Board is collectively responsible for the related decisions do not fall within the remit of the matters upon which it decides jointly at its meetings. In Supervisory Board due to their significance; addition, Executive Board members and deputy members bear operational responsibility for the areas of responsibility – Deciding on financing for the central cooperative and and organisational entities individually designated to them. on its terms and conditions; Executive Board members must also give the company – Preparing the central cooperative's financial statements sufficient information to assess his/her fitness and propriety and Report by the Executive Board and submitting them and independence, and inform of any changes in such to the Supervisory Board. information. The Executive Board shall prepare an annual action plan, In addition, the Executive Board must assess and supervise containing a meeting schedule and the most important issues the appropriateness, scope and reliability of the Group's discussed at the meetings. The Executive Board shall review capital adequacy management, decide on reporting with its performance and procedures on an annual selfwhich the Executive Board monitors the business, riskassessment basis. bearing capacity, risk status and internal control of the Group and its subsidiaries. Executive Board work in 2016 Executive Board meeting procedures and decision-making The Executive Board had 49 meetings in 2016. The average attendance rate of members stood at 96%. At its meetings in 2016, the Executive Board discussed the At its meeting, the Executive Board decides on the matters following issues, among other things: within its remit. The Executive Board may hold a meeting on a teleconference basis or using other communications media if the matter in question is urgent or there exists some other similar reason to do so. Executive Board members must be given the opportunity to communicate with each other during decision-making. – OP 2016 strategy and its implementation process HR Committee 50 OP OP Year 2016 – OP 2016 strategy and its implementation process HR Committee – Implementation and strategic initiatives related to the OP 2016 strategy The central cooperative's Executive Board confirms the – OP Helsinki project composition of the HR Committee and appoints its members. The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Executive – #Suominousuun initiatives Board. Other members acting as Executive Board members comprise OP Financial Group's Executive Vice President of – Regulator’s (ECB and FIN-FSA) inspections and replies Human Resources, Executive Vice President of Operations given to them and one Executive Vice President of each business segment – Threats and opportunities of digitisation (as part of on a one-year rotation basis. Committee members must strategy work) have adequate knowledge of OP Financial Group's and the central cooperative consolidated’s operations as well as of HR – Health and wellbeing services issues. – Projects related to new businesses The HR Committee is responsible for supporting the Executive Board in controlling the HR management of the – Needs for changes due to regulation central cooperative consolidated in accordance with the adopted principles and decisions. The Committee is tasked At its meetings, the Executive Board also discussed, for with assisting the Executive Board in ensuring that HR instance, the annual plan, risk management and capital management supports the achievement of the business adequacy management principles and risk policies, and targets of the central cooperative consolidated by means of regularly analysed the financial performance, capital adequacy HR management methods, processes and their supporting and risk exposure of OP Financial Group, the central systems. cooperative consolidated and the business segments. The The Committee is also responsible for supervising the central Executive Board also monitored key measures taken and the cooperative consolidated that it complies in its operations achievement of the targets. In addition, it discussed key issues with the agreed and decided HR policy guidelines. related to markets, the competitive and regulatory environment and evaluated the effect of related changes on OP Financial Group. HR Committee work in 2016 As part of its normal activities, the Executive Board also discussed all audit reports prepared in 2016 and other key issues pertaining to internal and external control. In 2016, it The HR Committee held 10 meetings in 2016. Its members analysed regularly major purchases and projects. At its comprised President and Group Executive Chairman, meetings in 2016, the Executive Board regularly discussed Executive Vice President of Operations, Executive Vice and reviewed issues related to competence development and President of Human Resources and Executive Vice President remuneration. of Wealth Management. It also further developed its activities, for instance, by holding two two-day planning days. Outi Taivainen, OP Financial Group’s Executive Vice President for Human Resources and Development Committee deputy member of the Executive Board, became member of the Executive Board on 1 April 2016. Markku Koponen, deputy Executive Board member, OP Financial Group’s Chief The central cooperative's Executive Board confirms the Legal Officer, resigned on 31 December 2016. composition of the Development Committee and appoints its members. The Committee is chaired by the Vice Chair of the Executive Board. Other members comprise Executive Vice President, Banking; Executive Vice President, Wealth Executive Board committees Management; Executive Vice President, Non-life Insurance; Executive Vice President, Digital Business and New Businesses; and Executive Vice President, Group Steering. The The Executive Board has set up four committees whose rules Committee members must have adequate knowledge of the of procedure it has confirmed. The Committees have no development activities within OP Financial Group and the independent decision-making powers but the Executive central cooperative. Board makes decisions based on preparations by the The Committee is tasked with supporting the Executive Board committees. in controlling and managing Group-level development. The central cooperative's Executive Board confirms annual development needs and the main policy lines for allocating OP Financial Group’s development investments. On the basis of the policy lines issued by the Executive Board, the Development Committee defines development consolidated’s control and supervision, the Committee 51 OP OP Year 2016 Board, the Development Committee defines development consolidated’s control and supervision, the Committee priorities and allocates development investments to various regularly discusses the Group-level risk management development plans. The Committee controls the prioritisation processes, qualitative risks and the Internal Control between the development plans and the resulting observations analysis. development portfolios for the purpose of implementing the OP Financial Group strategy and achieving the targets deriving from the strategy. ALM and Risk Management Committee Development Committee work in 2016 The central cooperative's Executive Board confirms the composition of the ALM and Risk Management Committee The Development Committee held 17 meetings in 2016. In and appoints its members. The Committee is chaired by the 2016, the Committee held four longer meetings on the Chair of the Executive Board. Other members acting as allocation of development spending: the April–May meetings Executive Board members comprise OP Financial Group's discussed the existing plans for portfolios and the CFO, CRO, Executive Vice President of Banking and Executive implementation capacity and the September–October Vice President of Group Steering. The Committee members meetings concentrated on identifying the most important must demonstrate adequate knowledge of the operations, conditions of the new strategy and initiating the required capital adequacy management and ALM and risk changes in 2017. management of the Group and the central cooperative consolidated. The ALM and Risk Management Committee supports the Control and Compliance Committee Executive Board in steering and managing the Group's riskbearing capacity and risk appetite according to the operating principles and decisions issued by the Supervisory Board. The OP Cooperative’s Executive Board confirms the composition Committee is also tasked with assisting the Executive Board of the Control and Compliance Committee and appoints its in ensuring that the central cooperative and its consolidation members. The Committee is chaired by the Chair of the group have adequate capital adequacy management and risk Executive Board. Other members comprise the Executive management systems in place covering all operations. The Board member in charge of Group Steering and the Committee is also responsible for supervising the central Executive Board member in charge of Group risk cooperative and its consolidation group and the entire OP management. If the Chair is prevented from being present, Financial Group so that they do not take excessive risks in the Committee members shall select from among its their operations which would materially jeopardise the capital members a chair of the meeting. adequacy, liquidity and profitability of the central cooperative, its consolidation group and the entire Group. The Committee is tasked with supporting the Executive Board in the central cooperative's implementation of control and The Committee makes decisions on issues included in the supervision of the central cooperative consolidated and rules of procedure and delegated to it by the Executive cooperative banks based on the principles issued by OP Board. The Committee also discusses matters submitted for Cooperative's Supervisory Board. The Committee makes decision by the Executive Board, those to be brought to the decisions on matters delegated to it by the Executive Board. attention of the Executive Board and other matters within the remit of the Committee. Control and Compliance Committee work in 2016 ALM and Risk Management Committee work in 2016 The Control and Compliance Committee held 12 meetings in 2016. At its meetings, the Committee regularly discussed, for The ALM and Risk Management Committee held 13 meetings example, issues related to cooperative banks' risk in 2016. categorisation and bank-specific control as well as groups of connected clients related to structural development and problem situations. In addition, the Committee put on the table issues related to cooperative banks' audits, control and Management team of the central corporate coherence within the Group as well as All come along reports. The Committee regularly received reports on cooperative consolidated how the project of transferring cooperative banks proceeded. After an alteration of its rules of procedure, the Committee’s The central cooperative consolidated has no separate Group duties was extended to cover the central cooperative management team but the central cooperative's Executive Board attends to its tasks. 52 OP OP Year 2016 Management system Board, whose control and supervisory responsibility covers 53 OP OP Year 2016 Management system Board, whose control and supervisory responsibility covers the entire Group. Core values and the role of the Management system of the Code of Ethics central cooperative consolidated, and central OP Financial Group has defined core values guiding its operations, which, for their part, also serve as the Group’s cooperative subsidiaries code of ethics. The Group’s core values are as follows: People-first Approach, Responsibility, and Prospering together. In its operations, OP Financial Group also applies its In the entire central cooperative consolidated, decisions are Code of Business Ethics. The Code of Business Ethics made as extensively as possible at Group level by the central provides an ethical framework for the conduct of all cooperative's Executive Board. The board of directors of each employees and members of governing bodies of OP Financial subsidiary discusses issues related to them primarily on the Group. In addition, ethics is guided by the general principles basis of the policy guidelines issued by the central and guidelines governing the management of conflict-ofcooperative's Executive Board or after hearing the Executive interest cases updated every year. Board. These principles contain more detailed regulations and The central cooperative's Executive Board decides on guidelines governing, for example, the identification and candidates for the subsidiaries' boards of directors, after management of conflict-of-interest situations, compliance which the board of directors is elected in a manner specified with good practice, acceptance of gratuities related to in the Articles of Association and laws in force from time to business, commitments and extramural activities of time. Basically, the subsidiaries' boards of directors comprise management and personnel, personal and related-party members of the central cooperative's Executive Board. Board transactions and decisions, and measures required in a members must demonstrate adequate knowledge of financial conflict-of-interest situation. issues and the company's business or other qualifications required in the position as well as to have the opportunity to OP Financial Group's core values › are presented in greater allow sufficient time to perform their duties. detail on OP Financial Group's website. The rules of procedure of the subsidiaries' boards of directors describe the tasks that each board carries out. The OP Cooperative's structure and boards of directors also annually draw up an action plan showing a meeting schedule and the most important items management system on each meeting's agenda. The boards of directors assess their performance and working methods on a regular basis. The operations manager of the subsidiary's Managing The Supervisory Board confirms the division of Director chairs the subsidiary's board of directors. responsibilities between the Executive Board’s members while the Executive Board confirms the operational organisation of the central cooperative. Operational decision-making combines with legal decision-making through the Executive 54 OP OP Year 2016 The board of directors and Managing Director/President of major subsidiaries in 2016 Managing Company Board of Directors Director/President OP Corporate Bank plc Karhinen Reijo, Chairman Pölönen Jouko Luhtala Harri Himanen Jari (since 15 March 2016) Palmén Erik (until 15 March 2016) Vepsäläinen Tony Helsinki Area Cooperative Bank Karhinen Reijo, Chair Pölönen Jouko Luhtala Harri Vepsäläinen Tony OP Mortgage Bank Luhtala Harri, Chair Iloniemi Lauri 55 OP OP Year 2016 Hirvinen Hanno Ronkanen-Minogue Elina OP Card Company Plc Huttunen Jussi, Chair Patovirta Kai Jaatinen Hannu Pölönen Jouko OP Insurance Ltd Karhinen Reijo, Chair Lehtilä Olli Luhtala Harri Himanen Jari (since 24 February 2016) Palmén Erik (until 24 February 2016) Vepsäläinen Tony OP Asset Management Ltd Karhinen Reijo, Chair Alameri Karri Luhtala Harri Himanen Jari (since 14 March 2016) Palmén Erik (until 14 March 2016) Vepsäläinen Tony OP Life Assurance Company Ltd Alameri Karri, Chair Kuisma Jarmo Luhtala Harri Himanen Jari (since 24 February 2016) Palmén Erik (until 24 February 2016) OP Fund Management Company Ltd Jormalainen Sami, Chair Saariaho Kalle Kuisma Jarmo Vanha-Honko Vesa-Matti 56 OP OP Year 2016 Internal and external control Internal control in 2016 57 OP OP Year 2016 Internal and external control Internal control in 2016 Internal guidelines are used to support operational Internal control management and compliance with these guidelines is subject to continuous supervision. In 2016, the Group updated its internal control guidelines and specified the set of Effective and reliable internal control forms the basis for instructions related to internal control practices. compliance with sound and prudent business practices. The Supervisory Board's Audit Committee, in particular, has a Internal control refers to procedures or practices within an major role in ensuring that internal control performs organisation to ensure that the organisation achieves the effectively and in compliance with regulation. Internal control targets set in the strategy, uses resources economically and observations, recommendations given to the business the information in support of management decisions is line/division concerned and the progress of the reliable. Internal control also ensures that risk management, implementation of such recommendations are reported to custody of client assets and protection of property are the Committee on a regular basis. adequately arranged. Conformance to regulations and approved ethics principles, too, are ensured through internal control. Internal audit OP Financial Group’s internal control principles shall be approved by the central cooperative’s Supervisory Board. Internal Audit is responsible for Group-level internal auditing Internal controls cover all operations, involving all OP within OP Financial Group. Internal audit is based on an Financial Group entities and sites. The nature and extent of independent and objective assessment, assurance and operations and, whenever necessary, special characteristics consulting activities. Internal Audit helps OP Financial Group related to international operations are taken into to reach its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined consideration in specifying internal controls. Internal control approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of covers all organisational levels. Internal control in its most risk management, supervision and governance processes. extensive form primarily takes place at the operational level, characterised by continuous processes and forming part of Internal audit is conducted in compliance with good internal daily routines. auditing practice. The International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, issued by the Internal control is complemented by the opportunity of Institute of Internal Auditors, and professional standards, anyone employed by OP Financial Group to report through issued by the Information Systems Audit and Control an independent channel if they suspect that rules or Association, and the code of ethics provide the conceptual regulations have been violated (whistle blowing). framework for good internal auditing practice and the independence of objectivity of internal activities. The planning, implementation and reporting of audit are an Internal control responsibilities and independent function. Internal audit performance is subject to external quality assessment every five years. Internal Audit organisation reports on audits to the Audit Committee of the central cooperative’s Supervisory Board. It has no operational responsibility or powers with respect to the functions subject The board of directors of each OP Financial Group entity is to auditing. tasked with ensuring that internal control is duly organised, taking account of the Group-wide internal control principles The Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative confirms the and the supplementary central cooperative guidelines. Each operating principles of OP Financial Group’s Internal Audit. entity’s managing director and executive management are The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee adopts the Internal responsible for ensuring internal control execution in practice Audit action plan. The Chief Audit Executive regularly reports and that duties are duly segregated among employees. his/her audits and any resulting observations to the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee. Furthermore, the The centralised Compliance function, Risk Management and central cooperative’s Executive Board discusses his/her Finance and Treasury functions assist Group entities in observations. ensuring internal control effectiveness. In addition, Internal Audit assists in ensuring internal control effectiveness. Moreover, external auditors in particular ensure that financial information is correct in this respect. Internal audit in 2016 Compliance in 2016 58 OP OP Year 2016 Internal audit in 2016 Compliance in 2016 Approved by the central cooperative's Supervisory Board, the In 2016, risk-based focus areas in compliance continued to Internal Audit action plan for 2016 covered audits performed include, as in prior years, KYC regulation and ensuring in both the central cooperative consolidated and Group compliance with legislation and official instructions related to member cooperative banks. The audits focused on the the provision of investment services and with related Groupidentification of risk factors and the assessment of the level guidelines and the performance of processes. performance of internal control processes. In its reports, Internal Audit issues recommendations for remedying any Compliance advisory activities and business support also defects discovered. Internal Audit performed audits according focused on solving any problems emerged from regulatory to the action plan and reported the audits to the Audit compliance related to KYC and investment services. The same Committee of the Supervisory Board, the Executive Board of risk-based prioritisation was also observed in providing the central cooperative consolidated, the management teams support related to training for business lines/divisions. of business segments and certain functions and subsidiaries' Training is also aimed at enhancing knowledge of Group and boards of directors as well as, with respect to Group member entity-specific guidelines. cooperative bank audits, to the banks' management. During 2016, OP Financial Group prepared a risk assessment Internal Audit regularly monitored the progress of the relating to AML/CTF. Furthermore, it prepared a new systemimplementation of the recommendations issued on a halfsupported internal control tool that enables the control of yearly basis and regularly reported its monitoring the performance of the duties of supervisory control at observations to the Supervisory Board's Audit Committee Group level. The Group developed follow-up related to and the management of the central cooperative consolidated. future regulatory changes and preparing for these. The aim was to improve the conditions of the business lines/divisions to prepare for upcoming regulatory changes and to ensure that they take measures required by the changes before they Compliance enter into force. Particular attention was paid to the EU Data Protection Regulation, the transposition of the 4th Money Laundering Directive into national law and the progress of Managing compliance risks forms part of internal control and the preparedness for MiFID II legislation. good corporate governance practices and, as such, an integral part of business management duties and the corporate Compliance activities and observations were regularly culture. Responsibility for regulatory compliance and its reported to the entities' and Group's senior and executive supervision within OP Financial Group entities rests with the management in accordance with the Group-level guidelines. senior and executive management and all supervisors and managers. In addition, everyone employed by OP Financial Group is responsible for his/her own part for regulatory Risk management and capital adequacy compliance. management The Compliance function assists senior management and executive management and business lines/divisions in the management of risks associated with regulatory nonOP Financial Group's mission and core values as well as compliance, supervises regulatory compliance and, for its strategic goals and financial targets form the basis for risk part, develops internal control further. Guidelines, advice and management and capital adequacy management. The strategy support concerning compliance activities within OP Financial outlines the Group’s risk appetite and risk management Group are the responsibility of the Compliance unit within priorities that help to ensure strategy implementation. The the Internal Control Support department of the risk objective is to help achieve the targets set in the strategy by management function independent of the central cooperative. controlling that risks taken are proportional to risk-bearing Group member cooperative banks have their own designated capacity. compliance officers. Control, support and supervision of compliance activities for member cooperative banks are Risk and capital adequacy management falls under internal performed through the network of contact persons formed control. Its purpose is to ensure the risk-bearing capacity and by the designated compliance officers. As part of the central liquidity of OP Financial Group and its entities and, thereby, cooperative’s Risk Management, the OP cooperative banks’ ensure business continuity. Risk and capital adequacy operational risk management and compliance support management has been integrated as an integral part of the supports the attendance of compliance duties at OP Group's business and management. cooperative banks. Risk-bearing capacity is made up of effective risk Any observations made within compliance are reported regularly to the business line/division concerned, OP Cooperative's Executive Board and the Supervisory Board's Risk Management and Audit Committees. management that is proportionate to the extent and cooperative's Executive Board confirms annually risk59 OP OP Year 2016 management that is proportionate to the extent and cooperative's Executive Board confirms annually riskcomplexity of operations and of adequate capital resources management principles, actions, objectives, limits and control and liquidity based on profitable business operations. limits to be applied by all Group business segments and entities that are used to guide business to implement the The most significant risks of OP Financial Group include policies confirmed in the Group's strategy and the principles credit risks, market risks, liquidity risks, underwriting risks, of the risk tolerance system. concentration risks and strategic and operational risks, including compliance risks associated with all business Confirmed annually by the central cooperative's Supervisory operations, and reputational risk. OP Financial Group adopts Board, risk limits ensure that OP Financial Group does not a policy of moderate risk-taking. take excessive risks to jeopardise its capital adequacy, profitability, liquidity and business continuity. The Executive OP Financial Group’s principles governing the risk-taking and Board annually confirms limits for the central cooperative risk tolerance system, adopted by the central cooperative’s consolidated's entities and control limits for Group member Supervisory Board, define how the Group’s risk-taking is cooperative banks derived from the Group's limits. controlled, restricted and supervised and how the risk management and internal capital adequacy assessment Risk and capital adequacy management's three lines of process is organised. defence Risk management and internal capital adequacy assessment The organisation and responsibilities of the Group's risk process (ICAAP) involves: management and capital adequacy management are founded on three lines of defence shown below. – Identifying, measuring, assessing and mitigating risks; – Determining reliably and independently how much capital and liquidity is required for various risk types and business operations; and – Allocating capital and liquidity systematically by business segment in line with current and planned risk-taking. In OP Financial Group's risk policy, the central 60 OP OP Year 2016 The first line consists of risk management applied within The auditors are tasked with auditing the accounting, financial 61 OP OP Year 2016 The first line consists of risk management applied within The auditors are tasked with auditing the accounting, financial business and other operations. It supervises risk decisions statements and governance of OP Financial Group and its and ensures that risk exposure and risk-bearing capacity are entities and sub-groups in order to obtain assurance that the under sufficient entity-level control. Risk management is Group and its entities and administrative bodies act in included in business models and processes. compliance with applicable laws and that the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the rules The second line of defence consists of risk management and regulations in force and give OP Cooperative's independent of operational business organisations that is run shareholders and other stakeholders a true and fair view of from the central cooperative. It is in charge of the Group's the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of risk management framework, supervises the risk-decision the Group. In addition, the auditors regularly issue other process and is responsible for the Group's consolidated risk statements on the basis of specific regulation applicable to exposure and risk-bearing capacity monitoring. the sector. The Supervisory Board’s Audit committee annually The third line of defence is centralised internal audit. It audits assesses the quality of the auditor’s performance and and evaluates both the Group's risk management framework ancillary services and the independence of auditors and the and its application in the central cooperative and other Group statement of the ancillary services. The auditors annually entities. issue the Auditor's Report to the members of OP Cooperative in which they express their opinion on the financial statements and the Report by the Executive Board. Based on their observations, they also draw up audit memoranda Risk management in 2016 delivered to the OP Cooperative's Executive Board, the President and Group Executive Chairman, the Supervisory Board's Audit Committee, the CRO, Internal Audit and the In risk management of the central cooperative, 2016 included Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority, according to the monitoring external regulatory changes and continuing to subject matter concerned. Whenever necessary, auditors also prepare for regulatory changes. Significant changes relevant issue oral reports to the aforementioned persons and bodies. to OP Financial Group included the EU Solvency II Directive applying to insurance companies and the EBA (European The Supervisory Board's Audit Committee consults the Banking Authority) technical guideline on the management of auditor when dealing with the Group's annual accounts and interest rate risk in the banking book effective since the interim accounts, as well as the accounting policies. The beginning of 2016. auditors have a statutory obligation to notify the Financial Supervisory Authority of any matters or decisions that put The Group continued to further develop its risk management operations and the existence of licence requirements at risk, assessment processes and operational processes in order to or that result in an opinion in the Auditor’s Report other ensure that risk management has been integrated as part of than the unqualified opinion, as referred to in the Auditing all business. In addition, the Group updated its risk Act, or result in an auditors’ remark as referred to in Chapter management guidelines, risk reporting and risk limitation. 3, Section 5 and Paragraph 4 of the Auditing Act. Risk Management has also developed significantly OP Financial Group’s internal stress testing methods. Audit in 2016 External control KPMG Oy Ab, a firm of authorised public accountants, has acted as OP Cooperative's auditor since 2002, with authorised Audit public accountant Raija-Leena Hankonen as the Chief Auditor since 2014. KPMG Oy Ab, a firm of authorised public accountants, acts as the auditor of OP Cooperative OP Cooperative has one auditor, which must be a firm of Consolidated, i.e. the central cooperative consolidated, with authorised public accountants certified by the Finland auditors appointed by KPMG Oy Ab acting as chief auditors. Chamber of Commerce. The auditor shall also audit the Auditors acting as OP Financial Group member cooperative consolidated financial statements as referred to in Section 9 banks' auditors also include other firms of authorised public of the Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks. accountants and authorised public accountants, in addition to KPMG Oy Ab. The Cooperative Meeting shall elect the auditor. The term of office of the auditor expires upon the closing of the Annual Audit is based on audit plans. Statutory audit of separate Cooperative Meeting following its election. The Audit companies and their groups involves the audit of the entity's Committee of OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board puts audit accounting, financial statements, report by the board and services out to tender at some five years’ interval (last time at governance for the financial year. Aspects relevant to the end of 2011), on the basis of which it proposes eligible statutory audit included receivables from customers, auditors to the Annual Cooperative Meeting. investment assets and derivative contracts, insurance liabilities and the control environment related to financial reporting as The auditor's remuneration is based on the invoiced amount. well as information systems. All interim reports and financial statements bulletins are unaudited. OP Cooperative Consolidated has used KPMG Oy Ab's operations and provides the companies within the 62 OP OP Year 2016 OP Cooperative Consolidated has used KPMG Oy Ab's operations and provides the companies within the advisory services related mainly to the comfort letters of amalgamation with guidelines for risk management, good bond programmes, ISAE 3402 verifications from centralised corporate governance and internal control with the aim of services, structural changes in the central cooperative as well safeguarding their liquidity and capital adequacy. The central as tax services and counselling. cooperative may also confirm general principles to be followed by the member credit institutions in operations Audit fees for statutory audit are based on an annual plan. relevant to the amalgamation. Audit fees paid to auditors totalled EUR 1.9 million (2.2), In addition, the central cooperative supervises the operations whereas assignments as referred to in Chapter 1, Section 1(1) of its member credit institutions in the manner as referred to of the Auditing Act totalled EUR 0.2 million (0.3), fees for in the Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks. legal counselling EUR 0.1 million (0.0) and fees for other services EUR 0.7 million (0.7). Regulatory supervision Control within the amalgamation of OP Financial Group cooperative banks OP Financial Group as a credit institution is supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB). The Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority oversees OP Financial Group's The amalgamation comprises OP Cooperative as the central investment firms and insurance companies in Finland as cooperative together with its member credit institutions and prescribed in legislation governing financial and insurance financial institutions and service companies over which they markets. OP Financial Group's operations in Estonia, Latvia exercise control. OP Cooperative controls the amalgamation's and Lithuania are supervised to an applicable extent by the national regulators. Financial reporting process Organisation of financial 63 OP OP Year 2016 Financial reporting process Organisation of financial reporting The different financial management units subordinate to OP Financial Group's CFO take charge of not only the preparation of interim and annual accounts for OP Financial Group and OP Cooperative's Executive Board is the highest decisionGroup entities, as required by financial accounting, but also making body in matters associated with business control. The of the production of management accounting reports, such as Executive Board must ensure that supervision of accounting monthly reports on business performance. The Control and treasury is duly organised. It decides on reporting, function within OP Financial Group also produces earnings procedures and qualitative and quantitative indicators used to forecasts and analyses the actual outcome in comparison with assess operational efficiency and performance, discusses and the forecasts and reports on any deviations. approves the consolidated financial statements and interim reports. This chapter, Financial reporting process, describes the main features of how OP Financial Group’s internal control and risk The Supervisory Board's Audit Committee is tasked with management work with a view to ensuring that the assisting the Supervisory Board to ensure firstly that the consolidation group’s financial reports give substantially true central cooperative and OP Financial Group have in place an information on the company’s and its consolidation group’s adequate and well-functioning control system to cover all financial performance and position. Group-level financial operations and secondly that the OP Cooperative's accounting information correctly consolidated using sub-ledger and treasury control is organised appropriately. To perform accounting and OP Financial Group companies’ information its tasks, the Committee discusses the Group's accounting forms the basis of reliable financial reporting. policies and capital adequacy assessment principles to be submitted to the Supervisory Board for adoption. It also OP Financial Group uses Group-wide financial reporting and supervises for its part financial reporting by risk reporting to monitor the achievement of its business goals and financial targets, and these reports are regularly – assessing the Group's financial statements and interim reviewed at executive management and OP Cooperative's reports and the financial statements of central cooperative Executive Board meetings. Financial information in financial consolidated; reports is compared with related plans and any differences – assessing the Corporate Governance Statement issued are analysed and the report also describes earnings outlook annually; for the current year and for a longer period of time. The very same principles apply to the monthly financial performance and risk report prepared by the management. – assessing major or exceptional transactions and the When preparing and examining the report, the management related management judgement and estimates; and ascertains the accuracy and correctness of the financial results and reporting by analysing the performance and risk – monitoring the financial statements process and exposure and any deviations from targets. supervising the financial reporting process as well as External reporting is based, for example, on the International assessing the accuracy of financial reporting and its Financial Reporting Standards, the Finnish Limited Liability regulatory compliance. Companies Act, the Act on Credit Institutions, the Insurance Companies Act, the Accounting Act, and the standards and The President and Group Executive Chairman must ensure in regulations issued by the Financial Supervisory Authority. OP accordance with the Co-operatives Act that the company's Financial Group’s shared principles are applied in the accounting is in compliance with applicable laws and treasury accounting, financial statements and consolidated financial has been organised in a reliable manner. The OP Cooperative statements of OP Financial Group companies. Responsibility Finance and Group Treasury function is in charge of OP for the interpretation of, guidelines on and advice on Financial Group's financial reporting. standards, other laws governing the preparation of financial statements and official accounting requirements as well as the The Group has centralised the preparation of financial preparation of and compliance with common accounting statements and interim reports independent of business policies rests with OP Cooperative, OP Financial Group’s lines/divisions. OP Financial Group's shared systems are central cooperative. Whenever necessary, OP Cooperative primarily used in reporting. Operational duties related to turns to auditors who give a statement of the selected financial and management accounting have also been principles and interpretations. centralised at central cooperative consolidated level. Independent assessment of In 2016, OP Financial Group adopted the following standards 64 OP OP Year 2016 Independent assessment of In 2016, OP Financial Group adopted the following standards and interpretations: financial reporting – Amendment to IAS 1 was aimed at enhancing the understandability of financial statements by focusing on presenting relevant items. The adopted new income As provided by law, auditors shall assess the accuracy of statement and balance sheet format better reflects the financial reporting. The auditors are tasked with auditing the current business model than the previous one. In addition, accounting, financial statements and governance of the OP Financial Group has removed irrelevant information company and its consolidation group in order to obtain from the notes. assurance that the Company and its administrative bodies act in compliance with applicable laws and that the financial – Annual improvements to IFRS for cycles 2012‒2014 statements have been prepared in compliance with the rules (applicable mainly to accounting periods beginning on or and regulations in force and give owners and other after 1 January 2016.) Minor amendments are annually stakeholders a true and fair view of the financial performance made to standards through the Annual Improvements and the financial position of the Company and its process. The effects of the amendments vary by standard consolidation group. but they are not significant. In its audits or processes, Internal Audit also assesses, when – In addition, amendments have been made to IFRS 10, applicable, the effectiveness and adequacy of financial IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 16, IAS 28 and IAS 38, effective reporting, and reports these audits to the executive since 1 January 2016. The amendments did not have any management and the Supervisory Board's Audit Committee. major effect on OP Financial Group’s financial statements. During its inspections, the Financial Supervisory Authority also oversees the financial reporting process and its In addition to the standards adopted, the grouping of the effectiveness. income statement and balance sheet formats has been As part of the independent financial reporting assessment, revised in the financial statements. This has no effect on auditors supplement the actual audit by inspecting the equity capital, balance sheet total or profit for the financial planning and effectiveness of controls within centralised year. Segment reporting has been updated accordingly. functions according to ISAE 3402. Auditors report separately Comparatives have been restated to correspond to the new on this specific audit in accordance with this standard. grouping. Financial reporting in 2016 OP Financial Group's financial statements were prepared in accordance with IFRS, applying IASs, IFRSs and SIC and IFRIC interpretations effective on 31 December 2016. Remuneration A sufficiently large amount of the total remuneration must 65 OP OP Year 2016 Remuneration A sufficiently large amount of the total remuneration must remain fixed. The proportion of variable remuneration may not exceed 100% of the total amount of each beneficiary's fixed remuneration. OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board Remuneration within OP defines this appropriate, reasonable balance between the fixed and variable pay. Financial Group Within OP Financial Group, financial remuneration consists of fixed and variable remuneration. Variable remuneration involves both short-term and long-term performance-based bonuses. Variable remuneration comprises a long-term management and the business strategy, and agree with the Group’s longremuneration scheme common to OP Financial Group term interests. Remuneration may not lead to a situation that member cooperative banks and the central cooperative could jeopardise the general reliability of the incentive consolidated and the personnel fund for all personnel as well scheme, an owner-customer's or customer's interests or the as short-term schemes for each target group. reputation of OP Financial Group or a Group company. In its remuneration, the Group complies with provisions based on EU and national laws and guidelines issued by the European Central Bank, the Finnish Financial Supervisory Decision-making related to Authority and other regulators. Remuneration policies governing OP Financial Group’s employees and management remuneration are based on laws, provisions and recommendations applicable to the financial sector and on the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board and, depending on the matter concerned, OP Financial Group's Remuneration OP Financial Group’s remuneration policy is consistent with Committee, the Supervisory Board's presiding officers or the sound and effective risk management and does not Nomination Committee of the central cooperative’s Executive encourage excessive risk-taking. The remuneration schemes Board and boards of directors as well as the relevant are in line with the core values, goals and targets, Remuneration or HR Committee, which reviews the application of the schemes and asses their Internal Audit reviews annually compliance with the 66 OP OP Year 2016 reviews the application of the schemes and asses their Internal Audit reviews annually compliance with the effectiveness, deal with remuneration principles and policy remuneration and incentive scheme approved by the lines within OP Financial Group. Supervisory Board. For schemes applying to the entire Group, the decisions are made by the Supervisory Board or OP Financial Group's Remuneration Committee. A Supervisory Board member, Remuneration of management and who has no employment or executive contract with an OP administration Financial Group company, may be a Remuneration Committee member. Within the member cooperative banks, remuneration-related decisions are ultimately made by each OP Financial Group's Remuneration Committee annually bank's board of directors. issues a recommendation to member cooperative banks on management remuneration. Such statement involves a The Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative shall approve the recommendation on monthly emoluments and meeting Group's remuneration principles, decide on the long-term attendance allowances of chairmen and members of member incentive scheme, confirm the general terms and conditions cooperative banks' supervisory boards and boards. of the Group’s remuneration schemes and issue recommendations for short-term incentive schemes. The The Cooperative Meeting decides on emoluments and other Supervisory Board owns the long-term management benefits payable to the members of OP Cooperative's remuneration scheme and decides on its metrics, target levels Supervisory Board. and maximum bonuses. Similarly, the Supervisory Board Monthly emoluments for 2016 confirmed by the Cooperative determines the metrics, target levels and maximum bonuses Meeting and payable to the Supervisory Board Chair, Vice in respect of OP Financial Group’s personnel fund as well. Chairs and members are as follows: Chair 6,600 euros, Vice The presiding officers of the Supervisory Board decide on Chair 3,300 euros and other members 400 euros. Chairs issues related to OP Cooperative Executive Board other than those of committees acting under the Supervisory remuneration. Board Chair receive 1,650 euros in monthly emoluments. In By order of the Supervisory Board, OP Financial Group's addition, all Supervisory Board members receive an Remuneration Committee set up by the Supervisory Board attendance allowance of 600 euros for each meeting. shall monitor and supervise the effectiveness and Management and administration emoluments are paid in competitiveness of the remuneration schemes and the ability cash. of the remuneration structures to support the Group’s longThe Chair, Vice Chairs and members of the Supervisory term goals and targets. The Remuneration Committee shall Board are covered by voluntary pension insurance, as annually approve and revise the Group’s remuneration referred to in the Employees’ Pensions Act (395/2006), policies. through OP Bank Group Pension Fund. The HR Committee of OP Cooperative's Executive Board and the presiding officers of OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board act as bodies in charge of preparing remuneration issues. The Remuneration Committee of OP Financial Group acts as a body in charge of preparing remuneration issues for Group member cooperative banks’ management. Remuneration of OP Cooperative Supervisory Board Chair and members in 2016 (€) Vice Chair and other Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Chair members Total Regular monthly emoluments 79,200 237,300 316,500 Meeting allowance 24,200 234,000 258,200 Principles governing the remuneration Group’s common management remuneration scheme, based 67 OP OP Year 2016 Principles governing the remuneration Group’s common management remuneration scheme, based on the achievement of the Group’s shared strategic goals and and other benefits to the President and targets). Group Executive Chairman The Board members, deputy members and the Chief Audit Executive retire at 63. Pension benefits are determined in accordance with pension laws and OP Financial Group’s own The Nomination Committee of OP Cooperative's Supervisory pension plans. Board determines the remuneration and other benefits to OP Financial Group's President and Group Executive Chairman, Executive Board members' supplementary pension cover has and other Executive Board members, deputy members and been arranged through OP Bank Group Pension Foundation the Chief Audit Executive. A written executive contract, and supplementary pension taken out with OP Life Assurance approved by the Supervisory Board, stipulates the terms Company. governing the President and Group Executive Chairman's The period of notice followed by the employer for Executive employment. Board members, deputy members and the Chief Audit His remuneration consists of the following three parts: 1) Executive is 6 months. Upon termination of their Basic pay (salary and fringe benefits, based on the job grade, employment in cases specifically stipulated in their executive skills and performance); 2) short-term remuneration based contracts, Executive Board members are entitled to a on short-term performance (performance-based bonuses, severance pay and a sum equivalent to a maximum of 6 based on the achievement of targets under the annual plan); months’ pay. and 3) long-term remuneration (OP Financial Group’s common management remuneration scheme, based on the achievement of the Group’s shared strategic goals and targets). The President and Group Executive Chairman's OP Financial Group's short-term retirement age is 63. Pension benefits are determined in remuneration schemes accordance with pension laws and OP Financial Group’s own pension plans. The President and Group Executive Chairman is covered by OP Bank Group Pension Foundation’s Short-term remuneration is aimed at guiding, engaging and supplementary pension scheme. Pension accrued under the encouraging employees to achieve annual goals and targets supplementary pension scheme may begin to be disbursed as and perform successfully, ensuring the achievement of the a paid-up pension before the old-age pension if employment goals and targets deriving from the strategy, and rewarding with OP Financial Group terminates. them for achieving and exceeding challenging targets. The period of notice applicable under the President and The short-term remuneration schemes are based on metrics Group Executive Chairman’s executive contract is six months. deriving from annual targets. Such metrics may be Upon termination of employment in cases specifically determined at Group-, company-, departmentand stipulated in the executive contract, the executive is entitled employee level. Bonuses based on the short-term scheme to a severance pay and a sum equivalent to his 12 months’ come from achieving or exceeding the targets set for the pay. metrics. In addition to personal performance, bonus payout requires the fulfilment of the conditions set for Groupand/or company-level remuneration. Principles governing OP Cooperative's Every OP Financial Group member cooperative bank decides Executive Board remuneration for its part the objectives and metrics of short-term remuneration on the basis of the recommendations issued by OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board. OP Cooperative's The Nomination Committee of OP Cooperative's Supervisory Executive Board determines remuneration for the central Board determines the remuneration and other benefits to OP cooperative consolidated and the board of directors of each Cooperative's Executive Board members, deputy members central cooperative consolidated entity confirm the inclusion and the Chief Audit Executive. A written executive contract, of the entity in the remuneration scheme of the central approved by the Supervisory Board, stipulates the terms cooperative consolidated. governing each of the above-mentioned persons' Short-term bonuses are mainly paid in cash. With respect to employment. its identified staff, OP Financial Group complies with the legal Remuneration payable to the members and deputy members requirements for the deferral of bonuses and their payment of OP Cooperative's Executive Board and the Chief Audit using an instrument other than cash in case variable Executive consists of the following three parts: 1) Basic pay remuneration exceeds a defined level. (salary and fringe benefits, based on the job grade, skills and Within each organisation, the decision-making body in charge performance); 2) short-term remuneration based on shortof the remuneration scheme may change their terms and term performance (performance-based bonuses, based on conditions of the short-term scheme, cancel it during the the achievement of targets under the annual plan); and 3) year or defer the payment of bonuses if there has been long-term remuneration (OP Financial a change in circumstances which would place the company in OP Financial Group's long-term 68 OP OP Year 2016 a change in circumstances which would place the company in an unreasonable situation were the scheme implemented. A OP Financial Group's long-term Group member cooperative bank or the central cooperative remuneration scheme for other consolidated may withhold payment of bonuses partly or fully citing its financial position. Paid bonuses may also be employees fully or partly reclaimed if the recipient is found guilty of misdemeanours, of intentionally endangering the future of The long-term remuneration scheme for other employees is business, or of breaking the law. based on OP Financial Group Personnel Fund. Membership of the Fund is based on an employment contract. All those who have concluded an employment contract for an OP Financial Group's long-term indefinite or fixed term with an OP Financial Group company belonging to the Fund are members of the Fund (excl. those management remuneration scheme included in the long-term management incentive scheme). This long-term remuneration scheme is grounded on the OP Financial Group's shared long-term management achievement of OP Financial Group’s shared strategic goals remuneration scheme consists of three performance periods. and targets. The Group-level targets and performance The first period covered 2011–2013 and the one 2014– metrics under the scheme based on the Personnel Fund are 2016. The third performance period started at the beginning congruent with the targets under the long-term management of 2017, covering 2017–2019. remuneration scheme. The board of directors of the company belonging to OP Financial Group’s Personnel Fund The long-term management remuneration scheme has shall annually decide on the amount of profit-based bonuses Group-level targets. The primary performance metrics for transferred to the Fund. the performance period of 2014–2016 include growth in the number of customers using OP as their main bank and insurer, OP Financial Group’s EBT and Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio. In addition, the scheme takes account of Remuneration to OP Financial Group's profitability (return on economic capital) and capital identified staff adequacy under the Act on the Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates. No bonus will be paid if capital adequacy under said Act is less than the minimum 130% on Information required by the EU capital requirements the date of payout. regulation and directive concerning the remuneration of OP Financial Group's identified staff are published annually on Some 320 OP Financial Group employees are included in the OP's website. long-term management remuneration scheme for the performance period of 2014–2016. Those included in the long-term management remuneration scheme for 2014–2016 may receive a specified quantity Remuneration and fringe (staggered according to the job position) of debentures issued by OP Corporate Bank plc if the strategic targets set for OP benefits paid to the Executive Financial Group are met during the performance period in Board in 2016 question. The bonus based on the scheme will be paid out to the beneficiary in terms of debentures and cash and in three instalments in 2018, 2019 and 2020 after the performance In 2016, OP Financial Group’s President and Group Executive period, provided that OP Financial Group’s capital adequacy is Chairman received EUR 754,392 in salary, EUR 18,480 in higher than the minimum requirement on the payout date. fringe benefits and EUR 218,838 in bonuses for 2015 based Taxes and tax-like charges incurred by the beneficiary will on the short-term scheme, i.e. a total of EUR 991,710. In form the portion paid in cash. Bonus payout includes 2016, the amount of deferred bonuses earned for 2011, conditions relating to the duration of employment or 2012, 2013 under the short-term and long-term schemes executive contracts and stipulations governing the hedging totalled EUR 628,658. prohibition and the retention period. The hedging prohibition refers to a prohibition against use of financial instruments or Other Executive Board members, deputy members and the insurance under the incentive scheme for hedging personal Chief Audit Executive received a total of EUR 3,430,193 in risks. The retention period means that the beneficiary must salary and EUR 161,997 in fringe benefits. The amount of hold the debentures that he has received under the scheme bonuses earned for 2011–2015 under the short-term and for one year from the payout date. long-term schemes totalled EUR 2,352,938. Salaries and bonuses paid to other Executive Board members, deputy members and the Chief Audit Executive totalled EUR 5,945,128. Salaries and bonuses include the amount of the Supplementary pension costs have been published in the 69 OP OP Year 2016 Salaries and bonuses include the amount of the Supplementary pension costs have been published in the performance-based bonuses earned for 2012, 2013 and credit institutions’ remuneration data collected annually by 2015 and paid in 2016. Payment of performance-based the European Banking Authority (EBA) in accordance with the bonuses earned by the President and Group Executive capital requirements regulation (EU 575/2013) and directive Chairman and Executive Board members for 2015 under the of the (2013/36/EU, CRD IV) of the European Parliament and short-term scheme has not been deferred. The deferral of the Council. procedure is based on a procedure prescribed in the Act on Credit Institutions (610/2014), which is described in Note 53 The period of notice for the President and Group Executive of OP Financial Group's 2016 IFRS Financial Statements on Chairman, other Executive Board members, deputy members variable remuneration. and the Chief Audit Executive is 6 months. Upon termination of employment in cases specifically stipulated in their The President and Group Executive Chairman, the other executive contracts, the President and Group Executive Executive Board members, deputy members and the Chief Chairman is entitled to a severance pay and a sum equivalent Audit Executive retire at 63. Pension benefits are determined to a maximum of 12 months’ pay, while other Executive in accordance with pension laws and OP Financial Group’s Board members, deputy member and the Chief Audit own pension plans. Executive are entitled to a sum equivalent to a maximum of 6 months' pay. Supplementary pension insurance payments for 2016 totalled EUR 829,698. In 2016, no costs were recognised under the OP Bank Group Pension Foundation supplementary pension scheme. 70 OP OP Year 2016 Deferred amount of Total salaries, performancebonuses and based bonuses fringe benefits, Short-term Total salaries, earned for and deferred performancebonuses and 2011, 2012 performancebased bonus fringe benefits and 2013, and based bonuses Regular pay Fringe benefits for 2015 paid in 2016 paid in 2016* paid in 2016 Reijo Karhinen 754,392 18,480 218,838 991,710 628,658 1,620,368 Tony 594,681 14,436 146,985 756,102 492,794 1,248,896 Vepsäläinen Karri Alameri 291,592 12,420 60,000 364,012 122,105 486,117 Carina Geber197,420 12,100 56,718 266,237 92,394 358,632 Teir Jari Himanen 280,386 23,437 52,800 356,623 92,173 448,796 Olli Lehtilä 293,795 36,348 57,200 387,343 129,530 516,873 Harri Luhtala 250,637 10,077 45,100 305,813 134,992 440,805 Harri Nummela 336,159 12,720 60,830 409,709 173,922 583,631 Erik Palmén 238,876 46,815 285,691 114,583 400,274 Jouko Pölönen 388,622 13,200 112,000 513,822 143,107 656,929 Outi Taivainen 194,164 5,198 8,000 207,362 207,362 Markku 182,985 11,100 26,347 220,432 74,171 294,603 Koponen Leena Kallasvuo 180,876 10,961 33,187 225,024 77,185 302,209 Total 4,184,585 180,477 924,820 5,289,881 2,275,614 7,565,496 * Include the amount of performance-based bonuses earned for 2012 and 2013 and paid in 2016 as well as the amount of long-term performance-based bonuses earned for 2011–2013 and paid in 2016. Payment of deferred amounts requires a separate decision. Insider management Access to insider registers and 71 OP OP Year 2016 Insider management Access to insider registers and lists of insiders and their display Entities providing OP Financial Group's investment service, such as member credit institutions, have their own Guidelines for public inspection for Insiders and Insider Trading. The Guidelines contain regulations governing inside information, prohibition against abuse and improper disclosure of inside information, public Anyone has the right to access the public register of insider insider registers, non-public lists of insiders, list of executives holdings and receive extracts and copies of the information in as well as reporting and disclosure of transactions, trading the register against a charge. However, a natural person’s restrictions applicable to insiders as well as insider personal ID code and address and the name of a natural management. The Guidelines also cover restrictions imposed person other than the insider are not publicly available. on relevant persons and the organisation of supervision of Information included in the list of permanent insiders is not compliance with the restrictions. publicly available. Extracts from and copies of the public insider register can be ordered from Wealth Management In addition, OP Corporate Bank plc and OP Mortgage Bank as Legal Support, OP Legal Services. OP Financial Group's issuers of securities have their own equivalent guidelines. Those with access to inside information Written requests for such information specifically describing on securities issued by OP Corporate Bank plc and OP the information sought should be submitted to: Mortgage Bank are included in the non-public companyOP LakiasiatVarallisuudenhoidon juridinen tukiP.O. Box specific insider lists of these companies. Insider management 106800013 OP also maintains the lists of the executives of OP Financial Group’s securities issuers OP Corporate Bank plc and OP Mortgage Bank. The Guidelines for Insiders and Insider Trading are based on laws governing securities markets, regulations issued by the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority and the recommendation for listed companies’ insider guidelines issued by Nasdaq Helsinki. The Guidelines are aimed at fostering stock market players' trust in OP Financial Group, OP Corporate Bank and OP Mortgage Bank. OP Legal Services maintains the public insider lists and company-specific insider lists of OP Financial Group entities. Such maintenance is organised through the SIRE system maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd and through OP Financial Group’s SIPI system. OP Legal Services manages the practicalities related to maintaining the lists. Whenever necessary, OP Financial Group companies keep project-specific insider lists. As credit institutions, OP Financial Group’s member cooperative bank operations include participation in securities trades performed by clients or in other transactions related to securities. In connection with financing arrangements or as part of the bank’s other ordinary operations, member cooperative banks and their executives and salaried employees may also receive inside information on client companies. For the abovementioned reasons, among other things, member cooperative banks and their executives and salaried employees are subject to insider regulation as referred to in the applicable law. Training in insider issues is available on a regular basis. In particular, training takes place as a result of changes in the insider-related guidelines. Disclosure policy statements and reports by the board of directors. OP 72 OP OP Year 2016 Disclosure policy statements and reports by the board of directors. OP Cooperative discloses information for and on behalf of its subsidiaries that falls under its disclosure obligation. In practice, the central cooperative issues bulletins and releases OP Cooperative's subsidiaries OP Corporate Bank plc and OP in the name of OP Financial Group or the issuer. Mortgage Bank are in charge of OP Financial Group's funding Communication with regard to securities issued by OP from money and capital markets. Securities issued by OP Corporate Bank and OP Mortgage is decided upon on a caseFinancial Group entities are traded on the London Stock by-case basis with the issuer. Responsibility for the issuer's Exchange, SIX Swiss Exchange or other stock exchanges, in disclosure obligation rests with each issuer. addition to or in place of Nasdaq Helsinki. OP Corporate Bank has also issued unlisted bonds and/or certificates of The disclosure policy describes the key principles and policies deposit the Finnish, UK and Japanese markets. followed by OP Financial Group and issuers in their communication with capital market participants and other In their disclosure policy, OP Financial Group, OP Corporate stakeholders. In addition, the policy describes the disclosure, Bank and OP Mortgage Bank comply with legislation, decrees dissemination and storage of the information within the and other binding regulations and the rules of Nasdaq scope of the disclosure obligation as prescribed by law. OP Helsinki and, to the appropriate extent, those of other stock Financial Group assesses its disclosure policy's consistency, exchanges and the regulations and guidelines issued by the suitability and sufficiency on a regular basis, at least once a Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority and the European year. Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). OP Financial Group's Communications takes into account not only the OP Financial Group's communications are tasked with above but also the Corporate Governance Recommendations promoting the Group's business by providing all stakeholders and the Code of Business Ethics. with accurate information on the Group's goals, targets and operations. External and internal communications aim to This disclosure policy approved by OP Cooperative's support the Group's strategic and business goals and enhance Executive Board on 14 June 2016 and the boards of and maintain the Group's strong corporate image while directors of OP Corporate Bank and OP Mortgage Bank on fostering cooperation within the Group. Both external and 21 June 2016 applies to the disclosure principles and internal communications are based on facts and provide a practices of bond issuers (OP Corporate Bank plc and OP true picture of the state of affairs. Mortgage Bank) and OP Financial Group. Disclosure Policy is available at www.op.fi ›. OP Financial It is the duty of OP Cooperative to ensure that OP Corporate Group's web address is www.op.fi ›. Bank and OP Mortgage too disclose, distribute and make information available on matters covered by the disclosure obligation as prescribed by law. The subsidiaries report and publish their own interim reports, financial Corporate social responsibility in the implementation of the CSR programme and in the 73 OP OP Year 2016 Corporate social responsibility in the implementation of the CSR programme and in the dialogue with stakeholders and, whenever necessary, may communicate their concerns to the Executive Board. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) forms an integral part of OP Financial Group complies with the Code of Business Ethics OP Financial Group’s business and part of the Group’s approved by the Supervisory Board. OP Financial Group strategy. The Executive Board of OP Cooperative decides on respects and conforms to international economic, social and the CSR guidelines and approves the Group’s CSR environmental responsibility principles. The Group is programme. On the Executive Board, CSR falls within the committed to promoting the principles of the United Nations area of responsibility of the Executive Vice President, Global Compact initiative. OP Wealth Management has signed Corporate Communications. In appointing Executive Board the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). OP members, the Supervisory Board pays attention to the fact Financial Group reports regularly on its corporate social that the Executive Board has adequate CSR expertise. responsibility issues according to the Global Reporting Performance assessment is based on the achievement of CSR Initiative (GRI) guidelines. KPIs reviewed regularly according to the Executive Board’s meeting cycle. CSR activities are guided by the CSR principles adopted by Updating Corporate Governance the central cooperative’s Executive Board. Responsibility for practical CSR activities rests with the boards of directors and executive boards of OP Financial Group companies, which OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance section, updated implement corporate social responsibility in accordance with regularly, is available at op.fi ›. their own decision-making processes. Identity and Communications supports Group entities and functions OP Financial Group Supervisory Board members 74 OP OP Year 2016 OP Financial Group Supervisory Board members by the federation of cooperative banks as of 15 March 2016 (members elected on the basis of capital adequacy and whose term is marked with parentheses) Position on OP Cooperative's Supervisory Board (number of Position of the person Name, year of birth Federation and managerial with an administrative and place of member's term of positions in Full-time position, job staff background at a residence office parentheses)* title, degree cooperative bank Aronen Ilmo, 1958, Satakunta, 2015– Member (4) R&D Director, Chair of the Board of Eura (2018) Raisioagro Ltd, D.Sc. Directors, Euran (Agriculture and Osuuspankki Forestry) Arvio Kalle, Pohjois-Pohjanmaa, Member (3) Managing Director, 1964,Siikajoki 2015–(2018) Ruukin Osuuspankki, Diploma in Business and Administration, MBA, LKV (authorised real estate agent), APV1 degree Eklund Ola, 1952, Sydkusten, 2016– Member (3) Managing Director, Chair of the Board of Raasepori 2019 Wintem-Agency Oy, M. Directors, Andelsbanken Eng. Raseborg Enberg Leif, 1954, Österbotten, 2016– Member (3) Entrepreneur,Mapromec Chair of the Board of Korsnäs 2019 Ab, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Directors, Korsnäs Adm.) Andelsbank Eskola Tapani, 1953, Kaakkois-Suomi, Member (3) M.Sc. (Tech.) Chair of the Board of Kotka 2015–(2018) Directors, Kymenlaakson Osuuspankki Harju Anne, 1969, Lappi, (2016-2018) Member (2) Managing Director, Salla Sallan Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Agriculture & Forestry) Heinonen Jarna, Varsinais-Suomi, Member (3) Professor in Chair of the Board of 1965, Kaarina 2015–(2018) Entrepreneurship, Turku Directors, Turun Seudun School of Economics, Osuuspankki University of Turku, D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) 75 OP OP Year 2016 Hyrskyluoto Jorma, Pirkanmaa, 2015– Member (3) M.Sc. (Econ.) Chair of the Board of 1950, Tampere (2018) Directors, Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki Hällfors Terttu, 1955, Satakunta, 2016– Member (2) Health Centre Chair of the Board of Ulvila 2017 Physician, Ulvila Directors,Länsi-Suomen Health Centre, Lic. Osuuspankki Med. Jurmu Taija, 1976, Lappi, 2016–2019 Member (2) Deputy Director, Vice Chair of the Board of Rovaniemi Lapland Chamber of Directors, Pohjolan Commerce, LL.M, Osuuspankki Degree of Bar Järvi Ulla, 1952, Keski-Pohjanmaa, Member (3) Certified public Supervisory Board Chair, Kokkola 2015–(2018) accountant, M.Sc. Kokkolan Osuuspankki (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Kaakko Marja-Liisa, Keski-Pohjanmaa, Member (2) Senior Lecturer, Member of the Board of 1965, Kalajoki 2016–2019 Centria University of Directors, Kalajoen Applied Sciences, Osuuspankki M.Sc. (Econ.), M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Kakkori Ari, 1955, Pirkanmaa, 2014– Member (3) Managing Director, Virrat 2017 Virtain Osuuspankki, Bachelor of Agriculture Kiander Jaakko, Other member Member (2) Director, Ilmarinen 1963, Helsinki (elected without not Mutual Pension following the regional Insurance Company, principle) 2015-2018 Dr.Soc.Sc. Kietäväinen Seppo, Suur-Savo, 2015– Member (3) M.Sc.(Agric.) Chairman of the Board of 1959, Juva 2018 Directors, Suur-Savon Osuuspankki Kiiskinen Juha, 1956, Suur-Savo, 2015– Member (2) BA Chair of the Board of Sulkava (2018) Directors, Sulkavan Osuuspankki Korkonen Jaakko, Etelä-Pohjanmaa, Member (2) Lecturer, Seinäjoki Chairman of the Board of 1966, Seinäjoki 2015–2018 Joint Municipal Directors, Peräseinäjoen Authority for Osuuspankki Education / Vocational Adult Education Sedu, M. Eng., certificate in educational administration Krohns Petri, 1964, Kaakkois-Suomi, Member (3) Managing Director Lappeenranta 2015–2018 Etelä-Karjalan Osuuspankki, LL.M, Trained on the bench, MBA 76 OP OP Year 2016 Kuosa-Kaartti KatjaEtelä-Suomi, 2016– Member (3) Authorised public Chair of the Board of Riina, 1973, (2018) accountant, Directors, Orimattilan Orimattila Tilintarkastus KuosaOsuuspankki Kaartti Oy, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Kupsala Tuomas, Keski-Suomi, 2015– Member (3) Managing Director, 1967, Korpilahti (2018) Korpilahden Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), eMBA Kääriäinen Jukka, Pohjois–Savo, 2015– Member (2) Planner, Social Supervisory Board Chair, 1953, Iisalmi 2018 Insurance Institution Pohjois-Savon of Finland, M.Soc.Sc. Osuuspankki Laaninen Seppo, Pohjois-Karjala, Member (3) M.A. Supervisory Board Chair, 1950, Nurmes 2014–2017 Pielisen Osuuspankki Laine Timo, 1959, Etelä-Suomi, 2016– Member (3) Managing Director, Lahti 2017 Päijät-Hämeen Osuuspankki, kauppaneuvos (Finnish honorary title) LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA Mikkola Ari, 1955, Varsinais-Suomi, Member (2) Unit Director, Häme Vice Chairman of the Tammela 2015–(2018) University of Applied Board of Directors, Sciences Oy, Bachelor Lounaismaan Osuuspankki of Agriculture Mononen Esko, 1957, Pohjois-Karjala, Member (3) Managing Director, Joensuu 2015–(2018) Pohjois-Karjalan Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Agriculture & Forestry) Nikola Annukka, Etelä-Suomi, 2015– Member (4) Director, Supervisory Board 1960, Kirkkonummi (2018) Administration, Chair,Länsi-Uudenmaan Konehuone Oy, M.Sc. Osuuspankki (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. (Econ.) Näsi Olli, 1963, Satakunta, 2016– Member (3) Managing Director, Huittinen (2018) Satakunnan Osuuspankki, LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA Parmasuo Timo, Other Member (2) Teollisuusneuvos 1950, Espoo member(elected (Finnish honorary without not following title), Board member, the regional principle) Meconet Oy, graduate 2014–2017 in engineering 77 OP OP Year 2016 Pehkonen Jaakko, Keski-Suomi, 2014– Chair of the Professor of Chair of the Board of 1960, Jyväskylä 2017 Supervisory Board (5) Economics, University Directors, Keski-Suomen of Jyväskylä, D.Sc. Osuuspankki (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Pullinen Juha, 1963, Varsinais-Suomi, Member (3) Managing Director, Pöytyä 2015–2018 Loimaan Seudun Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Agriculture & Forestry), M.Sc. (Forestry) Sahlström Petri, Pohjois-Pohjanmaa, Member (3) Dean, University of Vice Chairman of the 1971, Oulu 2016–2019 Oulu, Oulu Business Board of Directors, Oulun School, D.Sc. (Econ. & Osuuspankki Bus. Adm.) Tarkkanen Olli, 1962, Etelä-Pohjanmaa, Second Vice Chair of Managing Director, Seinäjoki 2015–(2018) the Supervisory Etelä-Pohjanmaan Board (3) Osuuspankki, LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA Väisänen Mervi, Kainuu, 2016–2019 First Vice Chair of the Senior lecturer in Vice Chair of the Board of 1963, Sotkamo Supervisory Board (5) marketing, Kajaani Directors, Kainuun University of Applied Osuuspankki Sciences, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. (Econ.) Väänänen Ari, 1973, Pohjois-Savo, 2015– Member (3) Managing Director, Maaninka (2018) Maaningan Osuuspankki, LL.M, Trained on the bench * All managerial duties in OP Financial Group are counted in the number of managerial positions. Executive Board members 78 OP OP Year 2016 Executive Board members Reijo Karhinen, President and Group Executive Chairman b.1955 President and Group Executive Chairman, CEO of OP Cooperative Member of the Executive Board since 1994, Chair since 2007 Vuorineuvos (Finnish honorary title), M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), Honorary Doctor of Turku School of Economics and University of Eastern Finland Relevant previous experience: OP Bank Group Central Cooperative: President 1997–2006, Executive Vice President 1994–1996 Kuopion Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1990–1994 Savonlinnan Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1988–1990 Varkauden Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1985–1988 Juvan Osuuspankki: Assistant Director 1979–1984 Other relevant positions: Foundation for Economic Education: Chair of the Board of Directors Maanpuolustuksen Tuki ry: Chair of the Board of Trustees New Children’s Hospital Foundation: Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees HelsinkiMissio: Chair of the Delegation Savonlinna Opera Festival Patrons' Association: Chair of the Board of Trustees Unico Banking Group: Member of the Board Service Sector Employers Palta: Member of the Board and its Executive Committee Tony Vepsäläinen, Executive Vice 79 OP OP Year 2016 Tony Vepsäläinen, Executive Vice President, Operations b.1959 Executive Vice President, Operations and Deputy to President and Group Executive Chairman Vice Chair Member of the Executive Board since 2006 LL.M, eMBA Relevant previous experience: OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Executive Vice President 2011–2014 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Managing Director 2007–2010 Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1998–2006 Turun Seudun Osuuspankki: Deputy Managing Director 1996–1998 Kuopion Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1993–1996 Suomen Säästöpankki SSP Oy: Deputy to Area Manager 1992–1993 Pohjois-Savon Säästöpankki: Managerial duties 1985–1992 Other relevant positions: Housing Fair Finland Co-op: Member of the Supervisory Board Automatia Pankkiautomaatit Oy: Vice Chair of the Board of Directors Karri Alameri, Executive Vice President, 80 OP OP Year 2016 Karri Alameri, Executive Vice President, Wealth Management b.1963 Executive Vice President, Wealth Management Member of the Executive Board since 2015 B.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), CEFA Relevant previous experience: OP Cooperative: Executive Vice President, Wealth Management, Investment Pohjola Asset Management Ltd: President 2012–2014 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Executive Vice President, Wealth Management 2013–2014 OP Life Assurance Company Ltd: Deputy CEO, Chief Investment Officer 2009–2012 Danske Capital, Sampo Bank plc: Deputy CEO 2007–2008 Mandatum Asset Management Ltd: Deputy CEO 2004–2006 Carnegie Asset Management Finland Ltd: Chief Investment Officer 1997– 2003 Other relevant positions: Access Capital Partners Group SA: Board member Cinia Group Ltd: Board member Carina Geber-Teir, Executive Vice 81 OP OP Year 2016 Carina Geber-Teir, Executive Vice President, Customer Experience and Communications b.1972 Executive Vice President, Customer Experience and Communications Member of the Executive Board since 2009 M.Soc.Sc. Relevant previous experience: Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: Communications Director 2002–2009 Other relevant positions: Yle, Finnish Broadcasting Company: Member of the Board of Directors Unico Banking Group: Member of the Communication Committee Jari Himanen, Executive Vice President, 82 OP OP Year 2016 Jari Himanen, Executive Vice President, Group Steering and Customer Relationships b.1962 Executive Vice President, Group Steering Member of the Executive Board since 2014 Diploma in Business and Administration, eMBA Relevant previous experience: Etelä-Karjalan Osuuspankki: Managing Director 2009–2014 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Bank Manager, Sales channels and sales support 2007–2009 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Bank Manager, Member bank steering 2002–2006 Kuusamon Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1997–2001 Pohjolan Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1994– 1997 Iisalmen Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1989–1994 EteläSavon Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1986–1989 Koillis-Savon Osuuspankki: Credit Manager 1985–1986 Other relevant positions: Olli Lehtilä, Executive Vice President, 83 OP OP Year 2016 Olli Lehtilä, Executive Vice President, Non-life Insurance b.1962 Executive Vice President, Non-life Insurance Member of the Executive Board since 2014 M.Sc. (Agr. & For.), eMBA Relevant previous experience: Helsinki OP Bank Plc: Managing Director 2011–2014 Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki: Managing Director 2006– 2010, deputy Managing Director 1999–2006 Päijät-Hämeen Osuuspankki: Bank Manager, Corporate Banking 1997–1998 Postipankki Oy: Various managerial and expert duties 1993– 1997 Suomen Säästöpankki SSP Oy: Various managerial duties 1992–1993 Sp-Palvelu Oy: Management Trainee 1990–1992 Other relevant positions: Helsinki Region Chamber of Commerce: Member of the Delegation Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company: Member of the Board of Directors Pellervo Economic Research PTT: Member of the Board of Directors Unico Banking Group: Member of the Bancassurance Committee Harri Luhtala, Chief Financial Officer 84 OP OP Year 2016 Harri Luhtala, Chief Financial Officer b.1965 Chief Financial Officer Member of the Executive Board since 2007 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Relevant previous experience: OP-Pohjola Group: Various expert and managerial duties 1989–2007 Other relevant positions: VTS Fund: Chair of the Board of Directors Financial Stability Fund: Member of the Board of Directors Harri Nummela, Executive Vice 85 OP OP Year 2016 Harri Nummela, Executive Vice President, Digital Business and New Businesses b.1968 Executive Vice President, Digital Business and New Businesses Member of the Executive Board since 2014, and previously between 2007 and 2010 LL.M, eMBA Relevant previous experience: OP Cooperative: Executive Vice President, Wealth Management 2014–2015 OP-Services Ltd: Chief Executive Officer 2011–2014 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Member of the Executive Board; Executive Vice President, Banking and Investment Business 2007–2010; Department Manager 1998–2006 OP Fund Management Company Ltd: Managing Director 1997–2006 Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki: Department Manager 1992–1997 Other relevant positions: Service Sector Employers Palta: Member of the Economic Policy Committee Finnish Ice Hockey Association: Chair Erik Palmén, Chief Risk Officer 86 OP OP Year 2016 Erik Palmén, Chief Risk Officer b.1959 Chief Risk Officer Member of the Executive Board since 2010 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. (Eng.) Relevant previous experience: Nordea Bank Finland Plc: Various expert and managerial duties 1987–2009 Other relevant positions: VTS Fund: Vice Chair of the Delegation Investors' Compensation Fund: Vice Chair Unico Banking Group: Member of the Country Risks Managers Committee Jouko Pölönen, Executive Vice 87 OP OP Year 2016 Jouko Pölönen, Executive Vice President, Banking b.1970 Executive Vice President, Banking Member of the Executive Board since 2014 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), eMBA Relevant previous experience: Helsinki Area Cooperative Bank (formerly Helsinki OP Bank plc): Managing Director since 2014 OP Corporate Bank plc (formerly Pohjola Bank plc): President and CEO since 2013 Pohjola Insurance Ltd: President 2010–2014 Pohjola Bank plc: CFO 2009–2010 and CRO 2001–2008 PricewaterhouseCoopers: Authorised Public Accountant 1999–2001 and auditor 1993–1999 Other relevant positions: Unico Banking Group: Member of the Board Outi Taivainen, Executive Vice 88 OP OP Year 2016 Outi Taivainen, Executive Vice President, Human Resources b.1968 Executive Vice President, Human Resources Member of the Executive Board since 2015 (deputy member until 1 April 2016) M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Relevant previous experience: Kone Corporation: Head of HR, Central and North Europe 2012–2015 HR House Oy: Managing Director 2009–2011 Nokia Corporation: HR Director of different units 1993–2008 Other relevant positions: Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: Member of the Skilled Workforce Committee Service Sector Employers Palta: Member of the Labour Market Committee Leena Kallasvuo, Chief Audit Executive 89 OP OP Year 2016 Leena Kallasvuo, Chief Audit Executive b.1956 Chief Audit Executive Attending Executive Board meetings since 2010 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Relevant previous experience: Financial Supervisory Authority (Financial Supervision Authority): Various expert and managerial duties 2005–2010 Trema Finland Oy: Project Manager 2000–2005 Aktia Savings Bank: Head of Department 1997–2000 Säästöpankkien Keskus-Osake-Pankki: Various expert and managerial duties 1983–1996 Other relevant positions: Risk management 90 OP OP Year 2016 Risk management OP Financial Group’s operations are based on cooperative ideals, a strong capital base and capable risk management. OP Financial Group's mission and core values as well as strategic and financial targets form the basis for risk management. The strategy outlines the Group’s risk appetite and risk management priorities. Risk management, on the other hand, A major player faces a variety of helps to achieve the targets set in the strategy by controlling that risks are proportional to risk-bearing capacity. In the risks long term within moderate risk-taking, the Group seeks above-market-average growth. This requires controlled riskRisks associated with OP Financial Group’s business segments taking relying on strong risk management. differ in terms of weight. Credit risks, structural interest rate and funding risks and funding liquidity risks play a major role in Banking. Meanwhile, interest rate and other market risks Integral part of daily business are highlighted in Non-life Insurance and compliance risks and corporate culture and life insurance market risks in Wealth Management. Operational risks apply to all business segments alongside the trend towards automated and digitised services. The extent of OP Financial Group provides significant risk diversification Risk management is part and parcel of daily business and its benefits. Meanwhile, however, the role of various management. Risk awareness and a moderate risk-taking concentration risks will increase. approach are reflected in every business decision and form an integral part of corporate culture. OP manages customer According to its new strategy, OP will invest in creating new relationships on a long-term basis and responsibly from the types of service packages and business models in the years to perspective of risk management. An example of the role of come. Before the company launches any products or services risk management in banking is that a borrower’s repayment or adopts new operating models or systems, it assesses their capacity is a key prerequisite for loan approval. Robust risk risks using procedures as laid down by the central management is in the interests of both customers and OP cooperative’s Risk Management. OP Financial Group only Financial Group. offers products to customers and applies business models that have been approved at Group level. The most significant business risks affecting OP Financial Group and their most common management tools are detailed in the table below. 91 OP OP Year 2016 Risk description Risk management tools Strategic risks Risk caused by changes in the competitive The Group assesses strategic risks as environment, slow reaction to changes, poor part of the strategy process while choice of strategy or poor strategy identifying related control measures implementation. and assessing their effects, for example, on the Group's overall risk exposure and economic capital requirement. The Group takes account of risks associated with its operating environment by implementing proactive risk management and systematically monitoring its operating and competitive environment. Strategic risk is reduced by regular planning, based on analyses and forecasts of customer future needs, developments in different sectors and market areas, and of competition. Operational risks Risk of financial loss or other detrimental The key area of operational risk consequences caused by inadequate or failed management involves identifying and processes, inadequate or flawed procedures or assessing risks and assessing the systems or some external factor. Operational effectiveness and adequacy of risk risks also include ICT, security, data security, control and management tools. Risks procedural and model risks. that may disrupt business continuity are prepared against by means of business continuity planning in key business divisions. Compliance risk Risks caused by non-compliance with external Managing compliance risks forms part regulation, internal policies, appropriate of internal control and good corporate procedures or ethical principles governing governance practices and, as such, an customer relationships. integral part of business management duties and the corporate culture. Compliance risk management tools include monitoring legislative developments, providing the organisation concerned with guidelines, training and consultation in respect of observing practices based on regulation as well as supervising the regulatory compliance with procedures applied within the organisation. 92 OP OP Year 2016 Reputational risk Risk of deterioration of reputation or trust Reputational risk is managed caused by negative publicity or realisation of proactively and in the long term by some other risk. complying with regulation, good practices of the financial sector and OP’s Code of Business Ethics and by emphasising transparency of operations and communications.OP adheres to international financial, social and environmental responsibility principles and international commitments. Credit risks Risk of a counterparty failing to fulfil its Credit risk management in banking is obligations arising from debt relationship. Nonbased on good knowledge of fulfilment of other obligations of a counter-party customers, strong professional skills is also known as counterparty risk. and comprehensive documentation. The day-to-day credit approval process and its effectiveness play a key role in the management of credit risks. OP mitigates credit risks by using collateral, financial covenants, central counterparty clearing, netting agreements and exchange-traded products. Market risks Risk of loss resulting from interest rate, price, Banking interest rate risk is primarily volatility and market liquidity changes in the managed by the choice of the range of financial market. Market risks consists of borrowing and lending products and structural market risk associated with the the terms and conditions offered as balance sheet (market risks associated with the well as by limits and control limits. banking book and insurance liabilities) and Moreover, derivatives may be used for market risks associated with trading and longhedging purposes. Managing term investment. investment risks is based on diversification through effective allocation. Risks are managed through limits (e.g. VaR limits, allocation, credit rating and country risk limits) and investment plans. Insurance companies manage market risks associated with investment and insurance liabilities by means of various investment instruments and derivative contracts. VaR limits are used to limit market risks associated with trading. 93 OP OP Year 2016 Liquidity risks Liquidity risk comprises funding liquidity risk, OP Financial Group manages its structural funding risk and funding concentration liquidity position through the proactive risk.Funding liquidity risk refers to the risk that planning of the funding structure, limits OP Financial Group will not be able to meet its and target levels, the monitoring of the current and future cash flows and collateral liquidity status and a well-balanced needs, both expected and unexpected, without liquidity buffer, planning and affecting its daily operations or overall financial management of daily liquidity, the position. Structural funding risk refers to business continuity and contingency uncertainty related to long-term lending, arising plan based on emergency from the refinancing risk due to the structure of preparedness, as well as the effective funding. Funding concentration risk refers to the and ongoing control of the Group's risk that funding becomes more difficult due, for liquidity status. example, to a transaction related to an individual counterparty, currency, instrument or maturity band. Non-life Insurance risks Non-life Insurance risks comprise risk of loss or Risk selection and pricing, the damage, and provision risk. Risk of loss or acquisition of reinsurance cover, the damage occurs when there are an abovemonitoring of claims expenditure and average number of losses or they are excepthe analysis of insurance liabilities are tionally large. Provision risk arises when the highlighted in underwriting risk claims incurred due to already-occurred losses management. are higher than anticipated on the balance sheet date. Life Insurance risks Life Insurance risks comprise biometric risks, Life Insurance underwriting risk cost risk and customer behaviour management tools include prudent risks.Biometric risks occur when claims paid out premium rating, careful selection of are higher than expected or for a longer period exposure and reinsurance. Diversifying than expected. Customer behaviour risk means insurance between different insurance early termination of insurance premium types also reduces risks. Life Insurance payment or the insurance contract or its change reinsures, when necessary, any major on the basis of the option included in the individual risks and risk contract. Expense risk refers to a situation in concentrations.Customer behaviour risk which incurred insurance contract management is managed by means of a competitive expenses differ from those estimated in rating. product range, suitable product structures and incentives and sanctions in the insurance terms and conditions. Concentration risks Risks that may arise of a business’s excessive The management of concentration risks concentration on individual customers, products, is closely integrated with other risk lines of business, maturity periods or management, with the related tools geographical areas. including limits, maximum allocations, diversification and economic capital requirement. 94 OP OP Year 2016 In-depth customer knowledge as The second line of defence consists of risk management independent of operational business organisations. In charge the core of risk management of general risks management conditions within OP Financial Group, it controls, supports and supervises the implementation of the risk management principles, OP Financial Group’s risk management is based on three lines confirmed by the Supervisory Board, at OP Financial Group of defence. The first line of defence consists of risk and its entities. management applied within business and other operations. It The third line of defence involves centralised Internal Audit, controls risk decisions and monitors risk exposure. Customer which audits and assesses risk management performed by knowledge acquired through active customer relationship both the central cooperative and member entities. management ensures that risk-taking is moderate and guarantees the prerequisites for successful risk management. 95 OP OP Year 2016 Corporate social responsibility highlights 2016 Establishment of Exclusion of highSignature of the OP Asset carbon companies Equator Principles Management’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) unit Purchase of 100% The first externally Record-high renewable assured GRI report donations of EUR electricity for the 6.3 million to Vallila offices universities CSR audits of Launch of the Update of the procurement revision of OP’s CSR materiality analysis partners Programme & Stakeholder survey 96 OP OP Year 2016 100 person-years Alignment of the Putting Finland on of volunteering Sustainable a new growth path project Development Goals (#suominousuun) www.hiiop100.fi (SDG) with OP’s initiatives: CSR goals #sijoitasuomeen (Invest in Finland), #perheenlisä (Addition to the family),funding from the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) Stakeholder engagement 97 OP OP Year 2016 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is deeply embedded into OP’s an informal stakeholder forum in order to ensure even cooperative business model. Dialogue with stakeholders is a better dialogue with stakeholders. In 2016, OP carried out a prerequisite for OP to succeed in its social role. By listening stakeholder survey on CSR themes as part of its CSR to our stakeholders, we want to understand their Programme update, read more about the materiality expectations towards OP and then find ways to promote analysis. wellbeing in our operating environment. Indeed, one of our priorities in stakeholder engagement is to identify The following table lists OP's major stakeholders and development targets in OP's corporate social responsibility. examples of their expectations and our cooperation models: We assess stakeholder views and engagement through various surveys and feedback requests. OP has established Examples of our cooperation models and Stakeholders Expectations meeting expectations Personnel OP employees expect their The whole OP personnel in Finland and abroad employer to provide training and is covered by performance and career development opportunities and development reviews. The Group wants to equal treatment. provide equal working opportunities for women and men. Employees’ experiences of equality are regularly monitored using personnel surveys. Owner-customers and customers Owner-customers expect to As a cooperative company, we maximise the benefit from OP's success by, for financial benefits for our owner-customers in instance, receiving OP bonuses proportion to their use of our services. We and other loyalty benefits. want to offer the sector's best loyalty benefits. Customers expect us to deliver Through participation in administrative bodies, the best possible customer our owner-customers have a strong experience. representation in OP Financial Group's decision-making.In addition, our customers are at the core of all our product and service development. Investors Investors expect OP Financial OP Financial Group's investors include holders Group to demonstrate strong of Profit Shares issued by cooperative banks creditworthiness, a stable and holders of debt instruments issued by financial position and reliable Group companies. After the delisting of Pohjola repayment capacity. shares, the Group has continued its financial reporting to the same extent as listed companies, while the IR function is responsible for maintaining relations with debt investors. 1 OP OP Year 2016 Representative assembly and Members of cooperative banks' An extensive skills enhancement project is administration administrative bodies expect upunderway in OP Financial Group, with the aim to-date information and training of creating a comprehensive competence in financial issues and matters development package for various administrative affecting the bank's operations. positions. The objective is to provide members of administrative bodies a real window and opportunity to increase their competencies and build a career path within administration and governance. Local and regional communities Local and regional communities The banks organise a variety of events for expect OP to demonstrate a different stakeholder groups, including school strong local approach and visits to promote financial literacy, lectures, community spirit, manifesting customer events and traditional Hippo sports particularly through the competitions for children. Many cooperative cooperative banks. banks also support local sports clubs, cultural events, charity causes and entrepreneurship. OP is taking part in banks’ joint project to improve young people's financial literacy. Media The media expects timely OP executives and experts meet media transparency and service, and representatives, answer questions and initiate dissemination of material discussions in various channels. OP has an information. active social media presence. Mainly present on Facebook and Twitter, OP is also developing its own media. Schools, universities and the Educational institutions expect OP We participate in several cooperation and scientific community Financial Group to share its recruitment events of universities and professional knowhow and universities of applied sciences throughout provide opportunities for practical Finland. In 2016, we provided numerous training and thesis work, among practical training and summer job positions and other things. thesis opportunities for students. OP supports educational innovations through the HundrEd project as one of its main partners. In 2016, we decided to donate a record high of EUR 6.3 million to Finnish universities. Non-governmental organisations NGOs expect OP to demonstrate OP is seeking to maintain active CSR transparency and an active communications and to respond to information approach in corporate social and discussion requests. If necessary, the responsibility matters. Group's Identity and Communications function reports stakeholder concerns to the senior management. In 2016, OP announced its gift to the 100-year-old Finland: 100 person-years of volunteering, through which OP cooperates extensively with NGOs. 2 OP OP Year 2016 Industry associations and labour Through cooperation, the financial Based on its new strategy, OP is gradually market organisations sector expresses its views on transforming from a financial services group pending legislative changes and into a diversified services company. In 2016, proposals for authority rules and OP withdrew from the Federation of Finnish regulations and aims to increase Financial Services and joined the Service the sector's influence with Sector Employers Palta. OP also has an active common projects. role in international industry associations, such as the European Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB). Decision-makers and authorities OP Financial Group annually OP Financial Group actively conducts dialogues receives numerous requests for and cooperates with Finnish authorities, statement and expert invitations ministries and government officials regarding to hearings, enabling the Group to topical legislative projects. The Group also express its views on proposed meets and informs members of the European amendments affecting its and Finnish Parliaments concerning the effect operations. of legislative projects on the Finnish financial sector. In 2016, OP establish a Regulatory Affairs Management unit that will supervise OP’s interests in legislative projects. In its social role, OP aims to identify influencing methods generating positive effects on Finnish society and economy, too. Tax footprint million € Direct taxes and tax-like charges Since OP wants to increase transparency, it reports for the first time its tax footprint in its major tax categories. OP’s Social security and pension contributions 161 taxes consist of indirect and direct taxes and taxes collected. Indirect taxes include income tax, real estate tax and fiscal Income tax/FPM 170 charges paid directly by OP. Indirect taxes include the value added tax and the insurance premium tax. Taxes collected Real estate tax 3 include taxes collected by OP as the remittance payer and forwarded to the state, such as tax withheld from payroll and Indirect taxes treated as expenses tax at source withheld from interests. Value added tax 115 The mediation and sales of financial services is free of VAT. Thus, it does not generate the obligation to pay VAT, nor Indirect taxes does it entitle to make VAT deductions on purchases. However, OP Financial Group member cooperative banks and Insurance premium tax 228 other companies are liable to pay VAT on their other business. Value added tax 45 Taxes included in the tax footprint were calculated on an Taxes collected accrual basis. PAYE tax 180 Tax at source 34 3 OP OP Year 2016 4 OP OP Year 2016 Corporate social responsibility management at OP Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of OP's business and strategy. CSR is based on our mission, joint values, solid capital adequacy and good risk management, supported by our customer-owned business model. Our CSR measures encompass economic, social and environmental responsibility. Our aim is to be a forerunner in CSR within our sector in Finland. The Code of Business Ethics › provides a foundation for all those employed by OP Financial Group, whatever their role, Organisation of responsibility position or location. These principles, which apply to the whole Group and its administration, are firmly based on our issues basic mission and values and form an important part of the responsibility of our operations. CSR policies and guidelines are approved by the Supervisory OP Financial Group’s corporate governance practices mostly Board. Strategic CSR management is the responsibility of the cover actions related to CSR management. The main Executive Board of OP Cooperative, which also makes management approaches are defined in OP Financial Group's strategic decisions on CSR matters. On the OP Cooperative Corporate Governance Principles ›. Our operations are guided Executive Board, CSR comes under the Chief by good banking and insurance practices. We comply with Communications Officer’s remit. CSR issues are discussed laws, standards and regulations and adhere to the principles regularly, not only in the Executive Board but also in of honest and fair operations. The Operational Risk and business division's executive boards. Day-to-day work Compliance function oversees risks and compliance related to concerning CSR is carried out by CSR working groups in the CSR, and it also bears overall responsibility for providing business divisions, chaired by the Head of CSR. advice on CSR principles. The function operates independently of the business areas. As reporting principles, OP follows the GRI G4 framework Corporate social responsibility (core) and the UN Global Compact and is developing its reporting in the direction of the IIRC framework. OP also programme takes into account the Financial Services Sector Supplement of the GRI Guidelines. OP Financial Group’s sustainability OP's CSR targets are guided and coordinated by the reporting is mainly performed within the same boundaries as Corporate Social Responsibility Programme, which brings the Group’s financial reporting. Any deviations or limitations together Group-level CSR results concerning key areas. in the boundary are reported next to the applicable data. Targets were set for the KPIs in the CSR Programme until the end of 2016, and the results for these are presented in this report. The CSR Programme was updated during 2016. This was based on two identical stakeholder surveys, one for external and one for internal stakeholders. Based on the survey results, we updated the CSR materiality analysis. We will publish our updated CSR Programme and the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) based on our targets in 2017. KPIs of corporate social responsibility 102 OP OP Year 2016 KPIs of corporate social responsibility Initial level 2011 2015 2016 Target 2016 Local presence and society Capital Adequacy Ratio under the Act on the Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates 180 191 ¹ 170 ¹ 160 Customer service performance reliability (%) 99.78 99.90 99.92 99.89 Support for local projects (EUR mill.) 3.1 2.8 6.1 Stakeholder responsibility Bonuses to owner-members (EUR mill.) 163 197 208 OP Corporate Bank's dividend payout ratio (%) 60 30 50.4 ≥50 Average retirement age 61.5 61.5 61.7 Job satisfaction (scale 1–5) 3.9 3.91 ² Share of the Representative Assembly members of all member banks (%) 71 84 87 Responsible products and services No. of private customer e-invoices (1,000) 2,955 37,132 ³ 41,769 ³ 30,000 No. of corporate customer e-invoices (1,000) 5,519 31,339 36,372 32,000 Ethical business Recommended by private customers Banking services ⁴ 50 67 Insurance services ⁴ 32 44 Recommended by corporate customers 31 Banking services ⁴ 40 64 Insurance services ⁴ 27 45 Environment -5% since 23,451 18,559 Carbon footprint of our own operations (tonnes of CO2) 34,847 2015 103 OP OP Year 2016 Number of employees in Green Offices 2,550 3,546 3,246 5,000 ¹ The Capital Adequacy Ratio under the Act on the Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates has been calculated on the basis of the transitional provisions of Solvency II, and the comparatives have been restated correspondingly. ² The job satisfaction survey is carried out every two years. ³ Including direct payments ⁴ The degree of monitoring regarding recommendations has evolved between the years. Assessment of management guidelines comprise voluntary CSR principles and standards, as well as instructions for applying legislation to international business operations. Leadership methods will be assessed as part of general In 2016, OP signed the Equator Principles initiative in order leadership practices. Targets and operating principles will be to ensure the responsibility of its project financing. updated should there be any changes in the operating As in previous years, OP responded to the CDP survey, which environment, for example. gathers information from large corporations on the effect of climate change on their business and any actions they have taken to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse International commitments and gases. In 2016, OP achieved score B on a four-step scale participation in organisations from A to D.Score B means that the Company has taken actions to address environmental issues beyond initial screenings or assessments. In addition to laws and regulations, OP undertakes to comply with international commitments that guide operations. OP In its role as an investor, OP Wealth Management has signed signed the Global Compact initiative in 2011, becoming CDP’s climate change and water initiatives and, most recently, committed to the Initiative's ten principles on human rights, the deforestation initiative. labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. The Key CSR guidelines and principles Global Compact principles have been integrated into OP's new supplier contracts. The principles of Global Compact – OP Financial Group's Corporate Governance have also been taken into account in online training for – OP Financial Group's CSR Policies personnel concerning the Code of Business Ethics and corporate social responsibility. – UN Global Compact principles OP was among Finland's first asset management companies – Code of Business Ethics to sign the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in 2009. Since then, the Group has developed responsible investment – OP Financial Group's Corporate Social Responsibility practices with even greater determination, and participated in Programme wider development efforts in the sector. OP is also one of the founding members of Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum (FINSIF). OP is also involved in the Global Compact Nordic Network, the corporate responsibility network Finnish Business & Society (FIBS), the Corporate Social Responsibility Risks and control and Co-operative Affairs Working Group of the European Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB) and the CSR working group of the Association of Mutual Insurers and No products, services, business models and systems will Insurance Cooperatives in Europe (AMICE). introduced before they have been assessed for potential risks and changes. Major new products, services and operating We actively follow the development of guidelines intended models or significant changes to existing ones are, when for the financial sector as part of the OECD Guidelines for necessary, assessed by OP Cooperative's Executive Multinational Enterprises. The OECD Board, which ultimately decides on whether they should be in 2014 in accordance with the requirements of the GRI G4 104 OP OP Year 2016 Board, which ultimately decides on whether they should be in 2014 in accordance with the requirements of the GRI G4 adopted. The Executive Board is informed of significant Reporting Guidelines with the viewpoints of both OP and its realised risks as a part of monthly risk reviews. Risk maps, stakeholders included. As a result of the analysis, the updated annually, are used to identify the critical risks reportable aspects were identified. The aspects, their affecting operations, including environmental, social and boundaries and a description of how each aspect was corporate governance (ESG) risks. These maps are used to managed are presented in the table ‘Disclosure on conduct an analysis on the basis of which the executive management approach for material aspects’. The material management are informed of critical phenomena. The aspects have been accepted by OP Cooperative's Executive effectiveness of the risk and solvency management efforts of Board. OP and its organisations is evaluated on an annual basis. Internal audits are conducted each year to examine the state of internal controls and capital adequacy management. Materiality Internal controls cover all operations, involving all OP Financial Group entities and sites. The nature and extent of operations and, whenever necessary, special characteristics Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of related to international operations are taken into OP's business and strategy. The basis of CSR is built around consideration in specifying internal controls. Internal control our joint values, strong capital base and professional risk covers all organisational levels. Internal control in its most management. Our CSR measures encompass economic, social extensive form primarily takes place at the operational level, and environmental responsibility. Our aim is to be a characterised by continuous processes and forming part of forerunner in CSR within our sector in Finland. daily routines. Internal control is complemented by the The purpose of the CSR materiality analysis is to identify the opportunity of anyone employed by OP Financial Group to aspects of CSR that are the most central to OP and its report through an independent channel if they suspect that stakeholders. The CSR materiality analysis was carried out in rules or regulations have been violated (whistle blowing). late 2016. Stakeholders’ opinions were collected with two OP Financial Group as a credit institution is supervised by the stakeholder surveys in which the respondents were asked to European Central Bank (ECB). The Finnish Financial evaluate, for example, the materiality of responsibility-related Supervisory Authority oversees OP Financial Group's aspects and OP’s role in this work. This materiality analysis investment firms and insurance companies in Finland as guides the updating and goals of the CSR programme. The prescribed in legislation governing financial and insurance CSR programme and materiality analyses for 2011–2016 are markets. The Group's operations in Estonia, Latvia and available in the Corporate Responsibility section of the op.fi Lithuania are supervised to an applicable extent by the website. national regulators. Identifying material aspects for reporting The material aspects for reporting were identified 105 OP OP Year 2016 Disclosure on management approach for material 106 OP OP Year 2016 Disclosure on management approach for material aspects Corporate social responsibility programme codes: Local presence and society Stakeholder responsibility Responsible products and services Ethical business Environment Economic Impacts Impacts of material aspects and approach to management OP as a whole has major direct and indirect economic impacts on both Finnish society as a whole and on local households. OP Financial Group's operations are based on cooperative values, a strong capital base, capable risk management and customer respect. Based on its mission, OP Financial Group creates sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing for its owner-customers and in its operating region by means of its strong capital base and efficiency. In its business role, the Group provides its customers with competitive products and services while ensuring its profitability.Such indirect financial impacts are created through contributions to local and regional economic vitality, as well as social contributions. Examples of indirect financial impacts include hiring of new employees, purchases, investments, financing and tax payments. The role as a financier and insurer and responsibility for customers are emphasised during difficult economic times in particular.OP Financial Group is one the largest tax payers in Finland measured by tax on profits. All of the 178 independent OP cooperative banks pay their corporate tax locally in their operating region. By paying taxes in Finland, the Group is contributing to prosperity in the whole of Finland.    107 OP OP Year 2016  Goals and targets  Policies and  Management commitments OP Financial Group, with a Economic impacts are managed as cooperative foundation, aims not to part of our strategy and business. External reporting is based, for maximise profits for its owners but example, on the International to provide, as efficiently as possible, Financial Reporting Standards, the the services which the cooperative's Finnish Limited Liability Companies owner-customers need. A Act, the Act on Credit Institutions, the considerable part of business Insurance Companies Act, the earnings are returned to the ownerAccounting Act, and the standards customers. What remains of the and regulations issued by the earnings is used to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority. OP Group’s balance sheet and to ensure Financial Group’s shared principles our ability to provide credit. We are applied in the accounting, must operate efficiently and financial statements and consolidated competitively while being profitable financial statements of OP Financial and having a strong capital base. We Group companies. must produce the services our customers need at a competitive price. Financial targets ›  Extent of reporting  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS and restrictions Programme related to G4-EC1, G4-EC2, G4-EC3,G4-EC4, the material aspect G4-EC7, G4-EC8 OP Financial Group Environmental Impacts 108 OP OP Year 2016 Environmental Impacts Impacts of material aspects and approach to management Of the environmental impact of OP's own operations, heating and electrical energy consumption have the most impact. We aim to reduce our energy consumption and to work in a energy-efficient manner, thereby also saving in costs. OP’s primary objectives are to prevent waste creation, recycle waste, convert waste into energy by burning it, and only if no other alternative is available, take waste to a landfill site. OP's own operations result in greenhouse gas emissions. OP also has indirect impacts through its operating environment, causing greenhouse gas emissions.  Goals and targets  Policies and  Management commitments OP takes into account environmental OP has in place the WWF's Green effects in all its operations, from Office system. Green Office is applied OP reports on its emission levels in product development to services. We at the Vallila campus and three accordance with the Greenhouse Gas will assess environmental risks as banks. Our target is to expand Green Protocol (GHG), and greenhouse part of general risk assessment. We Office into more banks. Green Office gases are indicated as CO2 strive to minimise our is one way of increasing our equivalents. Operations are environmental impact and to reduce employees’ environmental controlled through legislative means our carbon footprint, increase the consciousness. As practical tools, our by the Energy Efficiency Act and the number of personnel working in operating premises are also Waste Act, among others. OP's Green Office-certified offices, equipped with energy monitoring operations are not involved in prevent the generation of waste, system, waste reporting, and emissions trading. increase the recovery rate and environmental certification for material recycling. We develop buildings (LEED). OP has carried out opportunities for our customers to an energy audit, recommended for use our services digitally. large enterprises, in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Directive.  Extent of reporting  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS and restrictions Programme related to G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4the material aspect EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4OP Financial Group EN18, G4-EN23 Social Impacts: Labour practices and decent work 109 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts: Labour practices and decent work Impacts of material aspects and approach to management Impacts on labour practices and decent work are considerable because OP Financial Group is a large employer: the Group employs 12,227 people, 440 of whom work outside Finland.  Goals and targets  Policies and  Management commitments OP aims to be the most attractive The Group's practical management employer in the financial sector and tools include OP Financial Group’s Impacts related to labour practices among the most highly regarded Principles of Good Leadership, the and decent work are led through large employers in Finland. In HR remuneration system and policy, a strategic HR alignments and OP matters, we focus on the renewal common equal opportunities Financial Group’s HR Policy. and development of our framework plan, and competence Cooperation between personnel and competencies, management and development models. Group-level the employer is based on local corporate culture. Highly skilled and procedures have been agreed for legislation. Responsibility for motivated employees are a success threatening situations, to be applied occupational safety lies specifically factor, enabling OP to meet the locally. Procedures and reporting with the employer. Occupational challenges of the changing operating procedures have been agreed for safety is based on prevention and environment and digitalisation. OP bank robberies. Procedures have planned ways of working. considers diversity as an asset and been agreed for serious threats in guarantees equal opportunities, terms of aftercare arrangements and rights and treatment to all. protecting personnel. Customer Employees are treated equally in service personnel must go through areas such as remuneration, the procedures as part of the recruitment and career induction, with annual refresher advancement. We monitor on an training. Realised threat situations annual basis the distribution of are entered in the operational risk personnel in various task groups by management system and reported factors such as gender, pay and age. to the Executive Board at regular We take safety and security into intervals. The staff's experiences of account in all of our operations threatening customer service related to personnel and working situations are also monitored by conditions. means of personnel surveys. Serious threats are reported to the police. Bank robberies are reported to the Executive Board in real time and entered in the operational risk management system.  Extent of reporting  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS and restrictions Programme related to G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA4, G4-LA5, the material aspect G4-LA6, G4-LA11, G4-LA12 OP Financial Group Social Impacts: Human rights 110 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts: Human rights Impacts of material aspects and approach to management These principles, which apply to the whole Group and its administration, are firmly based on our basic mission and values and form an important part of the responsibility of our operations. OP’s own operations do not involve any direct human rights risks or impacts of significance. Indirectly, such impacts may arise from the supply chain or from the operations of investees and financed parties.  Goals and targets  Policies and commitments  Management OP aims to prevent discrimination in Personnel may report any suspected all its activities. OP seeks to prevent cases of discrimination to the Audit OP's operations are controlled by human rights violations and support function. Any deviations from the good banking and insurance the elimination of child labour and Code of Business Ethics should be practices and financial sector forced labour throughout its raised with HR, your immediate regulations. Prevention of business operations and supply supervisor or Compliance. You can discrimination and protection of chain. also make an anonymous report on human rights are referred to in, for a suspected breach of rules and example, the UN Global Compact, regulations to OP Financial Group’s UN PRI, ILO’s Declaration on Chief Audit Executive through the Fundamental Principles and Rights at so-called whistle blowing channel. Work, to which OP is committed, You can also report actions that are and OP’s Code of Business Ethics. against OP Financial Group’s core values. Any cases of discrimination reported by customers reach us primarily through requests for clarification sent to us by the authorities. OP expects product suppliers and service providers to conform with OP's Corporate Social Responsibility supplier requirements, Code of Business Ethics and any applicable legislation and international agreements.  Extent of reporting and restrictions  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS Programme related to G4-HR3, G4-HR12 the material aspect OP Financial Group Social Impacts: Society 111 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts: Society Impacts of material aspects and approach to management With regard to OP Financial Group, the major social impacts are related to active fighting of financial crime and abuses, including corruption, and removal of anti-competitive behaviour. OP's effect on society is also witnessed by the fact that OP has Finland's most comprehensive banking and non-life insurance service network. We are strictly against any anti-competitive behaviour, corruption and bribery. OP is very serious about conformance to laws and the Code of Business Ethics. OP Financial Group does not support political parties or contribute to the electoral campaigns of individual candidates.    112 OP OP Year 2016  Goals and targets  Policies and commitments  Management OP aims to prevent financial crime A compulsory online course for all and abuse and to enable free employees of the Group was OP Financial Group does not support competition. OP’s view is that the implemented to ensure political parties or contribute to the financial sector plays a central role in familiarisation with the Code of electoral campaigns of individual the wellbeing of the economy and in Business Ethics at all levels. The candidates.Our approaches are the provision of necessary basic guideline for Handling Conflicts of guided by the UN Global Compact services and opportunities for Interest in OP Financial Group is initiative and the OECD Guidelines citizens, companies and institutions. intended to prevent cases of for Multinational Enterprises, among OP Financial Group takes an active corruption. All of the Group’s others. The Code of Business Ethics part in developing local and regional member organisations are document ratified by the vitality. responsible for applying the Supervisory Board of OP guidelines internally. Each and every Cooperative specifies that employees executive and employee within the shall avoid any situation that may institutions must know the put them or OP Financial Group guidelines. Every manager is in under suspicion of bribery. Our fight charge of supervising compliance against money laundering and with the guidelines, with the CEO terrorism is guided by national and board of each organisation legislation, official regulations, having ultimate responsibility. The national practices and the antiguidelines concerning conflicts of money laundering and prevention of interests must be handled by each financing of terrorism operating organisation and its employees on a model approved by the senior regular basis, and whenever a new management. person receives job orientation. OP has a security staff designated for the prevention of abuses, dealing with abuses originating from both within the Group and from outside it. Incidents that fulfil the criteria for crime are always reported to the authorities, to be investigated, and any abuses are reported to the relevant authority, such as the Financial Supervisory Authority, and internally to OP’s Executive Board. As prescribed in the Act on Preventing and Clearing Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, we have put in place customer due diligence systems, ongoing customer due diligence methods and staff training, guidelines and protection. Any suspicious incidents will be reported to the Money Laundering Clearing House as required by law.    113 OP OP Year 2016  Extent of reporting and restrictions  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS Programme related to FS13, FS14, G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4the material aspect SO5, G4-SO6, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4OP Financial Group SO11 Social Impacts: Product responsibility 114 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts: Product responsibility Impacts of material aspects and approach to management OP's salaried employees and members of governance bodies are bound to confidentiality by law in terms of all customer data. OP is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. By law, customers have to be told certain conditions, properties or risks related to a product or service.  Goals and targets  Policies and  Management commitments Customer-related information is OP complies with industry processed with due care. OP aims to regulations, good banking and The Group complies with marketing provide all information on products insurance practices, and good stock legislation and the self-regulation and services that may be of market practices. In addition, OP guidelines of international importance to customers when adheres to several acts, as well as organisations, including those of the making decisions. OP encourages its regulations and guidelines issued by International Chamber of Commerce customers to improve their financial supervisory authorities. The Code of (ICC). OP also abides by the literacy. Marketing directed at Business Ethics provides an ethical marketing guidelines of the Finnish children and young people is highly foundation for all those employed Competition and Consumer restricted. OP takes account of this by OP, whatever their role, position Authority and the Financial group’s general inexperience and or location. Supervisory Authority. Instructions limited capacity to act. have been provided for conflicts of OP is taking part in a nationwide interest in the Code of Business project to improve young people's Ethics and in the Group-level financial literacy. The purpose of this guidelines “Managing Conflicts of is to prevent serious financial Interest at OP Financial Group”. The problems among young people and Act on Credit Institutions defines to support their financial obligations regarding bank secrecy, management. In 2016, the number encompassing the secrecy obligation of payment default entries reached a concerning a Group customer or record-high level. The right kind of personal data in connection with support helps to prevent financial other activities. OP's salaried problems and payment defaults. employees and members of Local banks give lessons at schools governance bodies are bound to to teach financial skills. Principles are confidentiality by law; bank and followed as part of normal insurance secrecy guarantees the processes. The principles are confidential processing of all updated whenever necessary. OP customer data. Employees may Financial Group's risk and capital process customer information only adequacy principles are confirmed to the extent required by their by the Supervisory Board. duties.  Extent of reporting  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS and restrictions Programme related to G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR5, G4-PR7, the material aspect G4-PR8, G4-PR9 OP Financial Group Social Impacts: Product responsibility – Active ownership 115 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts: Product responsibility – Active ownership Impacts of material aspects and approach to management OP manages customers’ assets worth in excess of EUR 74.5 (68) billion. Active ownership is an integral part of responsible investment.  Goals and targets  Policies and  Management commitments We take the role of active owners, Ownership policy is implemented by encourage our target companies and actively participating in the general OP Fund Management Company cooperation partners to do business meetings of companies listed in exercises the voting rights of the responsibly, and we promote Finland, in particular. One of the mutual funds managed by it, in responsible investment in the sector. most important ways for OP to accordance with the ownership obtain information on and assess policy approved by the company's the responsibility of companies to Board of Directors. The Group does invest in is through meetings with its best to discuss grievances directly the companies’ executives. with the companies prior to AGMs, Systematic monitoring and so that it will be possible to support supervision of ESG criteria of the Board’s proposal if it comes to potential and existing investments is voting. OP Wealth Management has carried out through an international signed the UN Principles for partner. If their investments include Responsible Investment (UNPRI). We companies with violations of expect our active investment targets international standards or other to conform with generally accepted operations which are not responsible international standards such as the or in line with the investor’s longGlobal Compact and OECD's term interests, we will address the guidelines for multinational situation to correct it. If this does companies. not produce the desired effect, the Committee for Responsible Investment may decide to sell the investment.  Extent of reporting  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS and restrictions Programme related to FS10, FS11 the material aspect OP Fund Management Company Social Impacts: Product responsibility – Auditing 116 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts: Product responsibility – Auditing Impacts of material aspects and approach to management CSR is integrated into daily operations, and the fulfilment of environmental and social responsibility policies and related risks are assessed within ordinary business processes. Compliance with CSR procedures is evaluated for instance when approving new products, business models and systems, and monitoring business ethics. Auditing related to ownership has been described under the subject of active ownership.  Goals and targets  Policies and  Management commitments The goal of OP's procurement Suppliers evaluate themselves in function is to ensure that any terms of corporate social OP’s purchases and orders are based products, services or rights that are responsibility for the first time when on Group-level framework acquired are on the whole costthey take part in competitive agreements negotiated by OP effective, of high quality and reliable tendering, and thereafter during Procurement or on OP Financial and ethical and that suppliers are cooperation with OP on a regular Group’s General Procurement Terms managed professionally to the basis in accordance with the and Conditions. These agreements benefit of OP Financial Group and its operating model agreed with OP require that suppliers comply not customers. Procurement. OP audits suppliers in only with OP’s CSR requirements for accordance the annual CSR auditing suppliers but also with OP’s Code of plan. OP’s CSR requirements for Business Ethics and with the Global suppliers have been incorporated in Compact initiative, as well as with all purchase agreements since 2015. the applicable laws and regulations. OP’s suppliers are mainly based in Finland, and they produce services mainly in Finland. Therefore, OP can manage the CSR risk level related to procurement through transparent and well-managed supplier cooperation.  Extent of reporting  Reporting indicators  Topics in OP’s CRS and restrictions Programme related to the material aspect Economic impacts 117 OP OP Year 2016 Economic impacts Economic Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the G4-EC1 Direct economic value organisation’s activities due to climate generated and distributed change OP's direct impact on climate change is minor. Environmental It follows naturally from OP Financial Group's dual role, risks, on the other hand, including climate risks, can have brought about by customer ownership, that business profits direct impacts on OP’s operations, as well as indirect impacts and added value are channelled, via customer relationships, through effects on customers and stakeholders. In emissions to its members and customers. Member cooperative banks and energy intensive sectors, climate change and related use their profits for the benefit of their customers by regulation may have significant financial effects. Indirect providing loyalty benefits and other financial benefits and by effects on climate change are created through OP financing maintaining and developing their service capabilities. In 2016, and investments. new OP bonuses totalled over EUR 200 million, up by 5% year on year. Furthermore a significant part of OP's economic Extreme weather is also an operational risk included in OP's impacts also involves indirect impacts on local and regional own contingency planning. Concerns related to climate economic vitality. Examples of indirect economic impacts are: change may pose reputation risks if any conflicts with climate change prevention efforts should be identified in the – Employment (creation of new jobs, work placements, operations of OP or even those of its partners or customers. summer jobs) On the other hand, the general improvement in – Procurement (purchases from local suppliers and environmental awareness is bringing new business service providers) opportunities, for example in the form of investment products that emphasise environmental responsibility, and – Investments (properties, maintenance, local diverse property insurances. Our non-life insurance business infrastructure and building projects) continuously monitors the development of risks posed by – Financing (financing for start-ups, local financing, ethical climate change from the viewpoint of our existing and future lending criteria by sector) insurance products. Our aim is to cover all insurable risks as extensively as possible, also in constantly changing circumstances. OP assesses the financial implications of The member banks are often some of the largest taxpayers climate change risks in its annual response to the CDP survey. in their local municipalities, and OP as a whole is one of the biggest taxpayers in Finland. OP Financial Group's income taxes for the financial year 2016 totalled EUR 223 million (249). The effective tax rate was 19.6% (22.6). OP’s tax footprint › 118 OP OP Year 2016 Finland 2013 2014 2015 2016 Direct economic added value created a) Income 2,450 2,657 2,808 2,910 Breakdown of economic value added b) Operating expenses 619 661 574 640 c) Personnel costs 791 741 781 762 d) Returns to owner-customers 193 195 195 206 e) Income tax 36 308 249 223 f) Donations and other community investments 3 4 3 6 For strengthening capital base and developing business 807 749 1,007 1,073 Indirect economic impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic infrastructure investments and service impacts, including the extent of impacts provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or proOn 31 December 2016, OP Financial Group had 12,227 employees (12,130). Of these, 93 (93) per cent were bono engagement permanently employed and 7 (7) per cent were fixed-term employees. OP has Finland's largest network of banking and non-life Furthermore, the Group employed a total of 492 summer insurance services. This network seeks to ensure that employees and trainees during the year. OP is also a customers have equal opportunities to carry out transactions. significant purchaser of goods and services. In 2016, the The service network covers both digital service channels combined purchase volume of products, services, rights and (op.fi, OP-mobile and Pivo), telephone services and the the claims service partner network was approximately EUR network of branch offices. We are further developing our 954 million (615), provided by over 20,000 suppliers. Apart services by listening to our customers and their changing from this, the Group’s functions look after their own needs. fundraising and investment-related acquisitions. OP is currently creating indicators for the assessment of its economic impact at community and regional levels. The purpose of this is to identify ways of measuring the economic impact of an individual bank or the whole Group at community and regional levels. Environmental Impacts 119 OP OP Year 2016 Environmental Impacts Energy Emissions G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) organisation and G4-EN5 Energy emissions (Scope 1)G4-EN16 Energy intensity indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2)G4-EN18 The total energy consumption covers OP Financial Group's Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions heat, electricity and fuel consumption in all countries where the Group operates. In 2016, the total energy consumption intensity was 138 230 (142 360) MWh, down by 2.9% from the previous year. Consumption on sites not covered by consumption monitoring has been calculated on the basis of specific consumption by type of real property. These sites Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) are created by fuel account for approximately half of the consumption. consumed by standby generators for OP’s own premises. The electrical energy for the Vallila campus and the data Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) centres is generated entirely through wind power. are the result of electricity and heating energy consumption in the premises. In 2016, electricity for the Vallila campus was The energy intensity, or total energy consumption per generated entirely by renewable energy forms. employee, of OP Financial Group offices decreased to 11.3 (11.7) MWh/year/person. The energy emission factors used in emission calculations are based on the 2015 Electricity generation statistics by Statistics 2014 2015 2016 Finland, the 2015 District Heating Statistics, the IEA district heating and electricity data for 2014 (excluding Finland), the District heating 77,716 73,400 72,050 Ecoinvent 3.3 database and, with respect to green electricity, data provided by the Finnish Green Building Council (FIGBC). District cooling 2,868 2,670 5,360 Scope 1 and 2 emissions (tonnes CO2e) Fuels (Heating and 6,946 7,060 3,780 reserve power) 2014 2015 2016 Electricity 80,311 59,230 57,040 Scope 1 1,800 5 3 Total (MWh) 167,841 142,360 138,230 Scope 2, market-based 37,114 23,446 18,556 Scope 2, location-based 27,178 26,088 Intensity, CO etonnes/person 3.00 1.93 1.52 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Purchased products and services include emissions generated by office stationery, mail transport services, external data centres and customer magazines. With respect to indirect emissions, we also calculate emissions generated by equity funds. Read more at op.fi (in Finnish) ›. Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO e) The CO emission limit for the OP Central Cooperative's 120 OP OP Year 2016 Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e) The CO2 emission limit for the OP Central Cooperative's company cars is 150 g/km. At the end of 2016, the average 2014 2015 2016 CO2 emissions of company cars equalled 125 g/km (130). In 2016, business travel caused 3,841 tonnes of CO2 emissions Purchased products and (2,622). OP uses video and online conferencing technology to services 2,266 2,508 2,612 reduce business travel. Its travel guidelines state that trains or buses must be favoured for travel within Finland. OP Waste from operations 598 609 129 Cooperative employees have a employer-subsidized commuter ticket to encourage the use of public transport for Business travel 2,408 2,622 3,841 commuting. Employee commuting 951 OP is an indirect opinion leader in encouraging customers to take environmental impacts into account when making financing, insurance and investment decisions, and in recommending the use of e-services and electronic G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas documents. (GHG) emissions OP's corporate social responsibility programme has set a Waste target to reduce the carbon footprint of its own operations annually. The direct greenhouse gas emissions from OP’s own operations (Scopes 1+2) totalled 18,559 CO2e-tonnes G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type (23,451) or 1.52 tonnes (1.93) per person. These emissions and disposal method (Scopes 1+2) have decreased by approximately 47 per cent from 2011 (comparative 2011 34,847 tonnes of CO2e). The main reason for this was the removal to new, energyIn 2016, the OP offices managed by OP-Services in the efficient offices and the increase in the use of renewable Helsinki Metropolitan Area generated a total of 289 tonnes of energy. In 2016, the electricity consumed by the Vallila waste (1,089). 82.5 per cent (79) was recycled or reused. premises was generated entirely by wind power. Social Impacts 121 OP OP Year 2016 Social Impacts Labour practices and decent Employment work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new G4-10 Total number of employees by employee hires and employee turnover employment contract, employment type, by age group, gender and region region and gender In 2016, OP Financial Group recruited 1,236 new employees (1,015). The annual turnover of permanent employees was The number of personnel employed by OP Financial Group 7.9 per cent (8.3). Voluntary staff turnover was 3.7 per cent grew by 97 in 2016. At year-end, the Group employed (3.8). During the year, a total of 42 (243) employment 12,227 persons (12,130). 93 per cent (93) were permanently relationships ended, 14 (63) for production-related reasons employed. 92 per cent (93) were full-time employees. and 28 (180) through voluntary arrangements. There were no business transfers in 2016. Of Group employees, 11,787 (11,695) were based in Finland, 191 (191) in Estonia, 113 (112) in Latvia, 134 (130) in In the summer of 2016, the Group employed a total of 492 Lithuania and two in the St. Petersburg Representative Office summer employees, whose average age was 24.4 years. 56 in Russia. OP Financial Group has no actual business per cent of the summer employees were women. operations in Russia. In 2016, a total of 388 (241) employees retired at an average age of 61.7 years (61.5). Men Women Total Permanent full-time 3 7 11 employees Permanent part-time 69 698 767 employees Fixed-term full-time 198 466 664 employees Fixed-term part-time 69 118 187 employees Total 3 9 12 Men Women Total Finland 3 8 12 Estonia 47 144 191 Latvia 26 87 113 Lithuania 46 88 134 Russia 0 2 2 Toal 3 9 12 In addition to its own employees, OP Financial Group employed 1,089 leased employees in development and service production tasks at the end of 2016. 122 OP OP Year 2016 Finland Entire Group Women Total Men (Finland) (Finland) (Finland) Men Women Total Under 30 years 255 400 655 267 436 703 30–39 years 107 156 263 110 176 286 40–49 years 61 94 155 61 102 163 Over 49 years 34 45 79 35 49 84 Total 457 695 1,152 473 763 1,236 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention Occupational health and safety 123 OP OP Year 2016 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention Occupational health and safety rates after parental leave, by gender G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce In 2016, a total of 1,089 (1,112) people were on parental leave, 793 (812) of whom were women and 296 (300) men. represented in formal joint 99 per cent (100) of men and 93 per cent (94) of the women management–worker health and safety whose parental leave ended in 2016 returned to work. The retention rate of those who had returned to work from committees that help monitor and parental leave in 2015 was 92 per cent (87) for men and 94 advise on occupational health and safety per cent (93) for women. The figures are for Finland, excluding the personnel of OP-Kiinteistökeskus. programs At OP Financial Group, the percentage of the total workforce Labour/management relations represented in health and safety committees is 88 per cent (87) of the entire Group personnel. The central cooperative has its own health and safety committee, and so do all banks G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods with more than 20 employees. regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of agreements injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and total number of OP Financial Group performs all cooperation procedures in work-related fatalities, by region and by compliance with the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings and other local legislation governing such procedures. OP gender Financial Group has arranged cooperation with employees through a cooperation group that convenes on a quarterly In 2016, sickness absences accounted for 3.5 per cent (3.5) of basis. The group discusses OP Financial Group's finances and regular working hours. For men, the proportion of sick leaves performance, along with other current matters concerning was 1.8 per cent (1.8) and for women 4.1 per cent (4.1). the entire Group. All Group companies have arranged their Sickness absences have remained at the same level own cooperation procedures in accordance with legislation. throughout the 2010s. The figures are for Finland, excluding OP Financial Group abides by local legislation in all its the personnel of OP-Kiinteistökeskus. operations. In Finland, the main regulations concerning corporate reorganisations are found in the Act on Cooperation within Undertakings. According to the Act, in cases G4-LA8 Health and safety topics of business transfer, staff representatives must be given one week’s notice. Written proposals for personnel negotiations covered in formal agreements with must be submitted to staff representatives five days prior to trade unions the start of negotiations. In Finland, 91 per cent (90) of OP Financial Group personnel OP Financial Group is a unionised employer. The Group are covered by universally binding collective labour companies apply three collective labour agreements: the agreements. No binding collective agreements exist in the collective agreement for the finance industry in banking sector in the Baltic region. operations, the collective agreement for the insurance industry in insurance operations, and the collective agreement for the medical services industry at Pohjola Hospital. These agreements contain regulations on, for example, the implementation of cooperation in occupational safety and health matters and the status of industrial safety delegates and ensuring their operating conditions. As a largescale employer, OP Financial Group plays a major role in developing the industry. 124 OP OP Year 2016 Education and coaching that supports his or her employment. Key 125 OP OP Year 2016 Education and coaching that supports his or her employment. Key employee wellbeing elements include the early support model, occupational health care, rehabilitation, flexibility at work and diversity management, among others. G4-LA10 Programs for skills OP updated its operating models for employee wellbeing management and lifelong learning that management in 2016. support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and OP offers all employee groups a variety of ways to develop career development reviews their competencies. The basis for each employee’s individual development is to understand OP’s strategy and how OP’s OP Financial Group implements its strategy and annual plan strategic transformation will affect one’s own work and through regular employee performance reviews. They are an competence needs. integral part of performance management and include the Competence development involves the use of all applicable goal-setting review, performance review and competence and learning methods and opportunities as part of the employee’s follow-up review. The first review of the year includes an work, either by providing new challenges and learning assessment of the employee’s performance during the past opportunities in their present work or by offering versatile period and setting targets for the coming period. The second career opportunities within the Group. New skills are learnt review deals with competencies and the realisation of targets primarily through knowledge sharing and by deepening one’s in the current period. The purpose of the competence review understanding through various interactive situations and is to draw up a development plan on the key areas in need networks. In addition to these, OP invested approximately of improvement. EUR 7 million in local employee training sessions and in OP Financial Group has two types of organisation-wide video and online study solutions in 2016. The entire OP personnel surveys: an extensive Personnel Survey and a personnel in Finland and abroad have annual performance more fast-paced Personnel Pulse. The Personnel Survey is and career development reviews. carried out every two years; the next survey will take place in The aim of OP Financial Group’s operating model for the 2017. The results of the 2015 Personnel Survey were good. management of employee wellbeing is to increasingly ensure, According to the survey, OP’s key success factors are through close and well-organised management of community spirit, value-based performance and customer occupational safety and health and wellbeing at work, the focus. The structure and content of the Personnel Survey was work ability of older employees and those at risk of work revised in 2016. disability and the labour market competency of those at risk of unemployment. If there is no more work due to production-related and financial reasons and an employee becomes under the risk of unemployment, he or she has the opportunity to get a support package 126 OP OP Year 2016 Diversity and equal opportunity OP wants to provide equal opportunities to all employees. At 127 OP OP Year 2016 Diversity and equal opportunity OP wants to provide equal opportunities to all employees. At the end of 2016, 71 per cent (72) of OP Financial Group’s personnel was women and 29 per cent (28) men. The average age of personnel was 43.6 years (43.8) with an G4-LA12 Composition of governance average employment time of 14.0 years (14.4). bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, Persons with an employment contract age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Men Women Total Of the members of OP Financial Group’s governing bodies, Under 30 years 494 1,092 1,586 64 per cent (64) were men and 36 per cent (36) women. At the end of 2016, the average age of these persons was 52.8 30–39 years 1,111 2,413 3,524 years (52.4). 31 per cent (33) of the members of the governing bodies were under 50 years old. 40–49 years 743 1,663 2,406 Over 49 years 1,150 3,561 4,711 Members of governing bodiesRepresentative Total 3,498 8,729 12,227 Assembly, Supervisory Board and Board of Directors Men Women Total Management 349 127 476 Men Women Total Supervisor 423 621 1,044 Under 30 years 40 35 75 Expert 1,673 2,021 3,694 30–39 years 347 271 618 Employee 1,053 5,960 7,013 40–49 years 744 604 1 Total 3,498 8,729 12,227 Over 49 years 3 1 5 Total 4 2 7 128 OP OP Year 2016 Human rights Society Non-discrimination Local communities G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of FS13 Access points in low-populated or discrimination and corrective actions economically disadvantaged areas by taken type No new cases of discrimination were reported through the OP Financial Group’s service network comprises branch, Non-Discrimination and Equality Board, or through HR or online, telephone and mobile services. The Group provides any audits. A claim made in 2014 against OP Financial Group personal customer service both at branches and digitally. OP about discrimination was appealed to the Administrative has Finland's largest network of banking and non-life Court of Helsinki. According to the Administrative Court’s insurance services. This network seeks to ensure that decision, no discrimination was involved in the case in customers have equal opportunities to carry out transactions. question. Our cooperative banks and their offices across Finland enable effective interaction with customers and the local community. At the end of 2016, the Group’s member banks had approximately 469 branches as well as some 1,376 Otto ATMs (shared between Finland’s banks) around the country. In December, OP-mobile was the main channel for each organisation identifies and evaluates the most important 129 OP OP Year 2016 In December, OP-mobile was the main channel for each organisation identifies and evaluates the most important customers' daily banking, with visits totalling over 13 million risks affecting its operations. To assist in identification, the during one month. The number of visits to op.fi amounted Group has a shared risk library which lists diverse risks to almost 10 million. In March 2016, the number of OPsubdivided into seven risk categories. The Internal Abuse mobile visits exceeded that of op.fi visits for the first time. category includes the risk ‘Giving and Receiving Bribes’. Bribery has not been a significant risk in any of the risk assessments. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and We provide comprehensive services in Finnish and Swedish, procedures but among corporate customers as well as in growth centres and the Helsinki Metropolitan Area in particular, there is a great demand for services in English. For our EnglishThe Code of Business Ethics document ratified by the speaking customers, we provide electronic services (op.fi, OPSupervisory Board of OP Cooperative specifies that mobile and Pivo) for carrying out their daily transactions for employees shall avoid any situation that may put them or OP banking and insurance. With respect to other services, we Financial Group under suspicion of bribery. A compulsory develop our service capabilities in English in line with online course for all employees of the Group was customer needs. Some OP-Kiinteistökeskus branches also implemented to ensure familiarisation with the Code at all offer service in Russian. In the Baltic countries, our branches levels.By the end of 2016, the course had been taken by serve customers in local languages, while our electronic 100% (80) of the personnel. services are available in English. The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP The text version of op.fi website (pda.op.fi) is widely used by Financial Group is intended to prevent cases of corruption. All people with vision impairments, enabling the use of disability of the Group’s member organisations are responsible for aids such as a speech synthesizer. Customers can log in to applying the guidelines internally. Each and every executive OP-mobile using fingerprint authentication. Furthermore, OP and employee within the institutions must know the provides key code lists in Braille, enabling the use of the guidelines. Every manager is in charge of supervising eService. compliance with the guidelines, with the CEO and board of each organisation having ultimate responsibility. The guidelines concerning conflicts of interests must be handled by each organisation and its employees on a regular basis, Anti-corruption and whenever a new person receives job orientation. G4-SO3 Total number and percentage Anti-competitive behaviour of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions identified for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their The organisations of OP Financial Group apply a guideline entitled Procedures for Managing Operational Risk. The outcomes Central Cooperative formulates a risk analysis plan indicating which entities are to be analysed. If necessary, the entities to be analysed can be agreed with the Group’s member OP has no pending legal actions related to anti-competitive organisations. OP Financial Group annually carries out risk behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices. assessments which also cover risks related to corruption. Late in 2015, OP was requested to respond to allegations Owing to a system update performed, part of these risk that it was engaged in monopoly practices. assessments will be completed in the first half of 2017. According to a competitor, OP has a monopoly position in The Group’s member organisations update their operational retail banking services and is abusing this position by risk analyses annually based on the procedural guidelines. combining retail banking services with non-life insurance The risk analyses are based on the organisations’ selfservices. OP has also been claimed to offer non-life insurance evaluations concerning operational risks and their services below production costs. This case is still under management. In line with the analysis process, investigation, and OP wants to cooperate with the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority and provide them with any information they may need. Product responsibility Active ownership 130 OP OP Year 2016 Product responsibility Active ownership Product and Service Labelling FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s G4-PR3 Type of product and service portfolio with which the reporting information required by the organisation has interacted on organisation’s procedures for product environmental or social issues and service information and labelling, OP Fund Management implements its ownership policy by and percentage of significant products actively participating in the general meetings of companies and service categories subject to such listed in Finland, in particular. One of the most important ways for OP to obtain information on and assess the information requirements responsibility of companies to invest in, are meetings with the companies’ executives. At year-end 2016, the OP funds managed by OP Asset Management contained shares from 70 OP Financial Group complies with legislation which requires companies listed in Finland. OP Asset Management discussed that customers be informed of certain terms, properties or environmental and social responsibility issues with 17 per risks related to a product or service. This notification cent of these during the year. obligation applies to all three business areas of the Group: banking, non-life insurance and asset management. OP also has other ways of influencing companies. If their investments include companies with violations of international standards or other operations which are not Marketing communtications responsible or in line with the investor’s long-term interests, OP will influence them to address the situation. If this does not produce the desired effect, the Committee for Responsible Investment may decide to sell the investment. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes On 13 June 2016, the Financial Supervisory Authority gave OP Helsinki a public warning concerning the misleading marketing of the Customer-owner Deposit Account. Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data There were six cases of error in data processing or storage and five cases of error in the processing of customer data. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to Negative screening 131 OP OP Year 2016 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to Negative screening positive and negative environmental or social screening OP actively monitors the fulfilment of international standards by investment targets in line with OP Asset Management’s Principles for Responsible Investment, both when making the investment Positive screening decision and during the time of ownership. Investment vehicles are screened for violations of international standards. Furthermore, OP ensures that its portfolios do not include OP Financial Group encourages its investees and partners to manufacturers, sellers or marketers of weapons (anti-personnel operate responsibly and in line with international standards. mines, cluster and nuclear weapons) banned by certain treaties. Primarily, the most attractive investment targets in any fund This screening is performed biannually by an external analysis are issuers whose operations are irreproachable in relation to company. The screening applies to all active OP equity funds and international ethical standards. Positive screening is corporate bond funds that make direct investments as well as particularly visible in the OP Climate, OP Clean Water and OP discretionary client portfolios that make the above-mentioned Low-carbon World funds. The OP Climate Fund portfolio investments. In 2016, OP excluded dozens of high-carbon includes companies that will be in a good position when companies from the above-mentioned funds and client societies and businesses adapt their energy solutions and use portfolios. This applies to, for example, coal mining companies of materials towards lower-carbon alternatives. OP Clean that make more than 25% or their net sales from energy coal Water, in turn, invests in companies operating sustainably in production, and to electricity producers that use plenty of coal the water resource management field, especially within to produce electricity. A high-carbon company can avoid development of water-saving technology, water treatment exclusion if it takes measures or has a plan in place to and construction of reliable water infrastructures. OP Lowconsiderably reduce its coal dependency. A list of the excluded carbon World Fund invests in companies which stand out companies is available on OP’s website. from the competition on the basis of lower carbon intensity. In 2016, OP Fund Management introduced the OP-Sustainable At the end of 2016, the total value of these funds was EUR World balanced fund. The fund applies negative screening to 313 million or 4.2 per cent of OP Fund Management’s equity various products and functions. For example, the fund does not fund capital. invest in tobacco or alcohol manufacturers. At the end of 2016, capital invested in the fund totalled EUR 35.7 million. G4 Content Index 132 OP OP Year 2016 G4 Content Index This report contains OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility indicators and disclosures on management approach in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 framework (core). The reporting also conforms with the GRI reporting recommendation for the financial sector. It also encompasses information required by the United Nations Global Compact, with regard to the promotion of principles related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption activities. GRI CONTENT INDEX Location Further information STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS OP Year 2016: Review by the President, Group Executive G4-1 CEO’s statement Chairman OP Year 2016: Strategy, Risk management, Value creation G4-2 Key Impacts, risks and opportunities model ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Financial Statements, Appendix 1: G4-3 Name of the organization General information G4-4 Primary brands, products and services OP Year 2016: Business segments G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters Helsinki Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to G4-6 the sustainability topics covered in the report Financial Statements, Appendix 51 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Financial Statements, Appendix 51 G4-8 Market areas OP Year 2016: Business segments G4-9 Scale of the organisation OP Year 2016: Key figures Total number of employees by employment G4contract, employment type, region and 10 gender GRI information, Social Impacts G4Percentage of total employees covered by 11 collective bargaining agreements GRI information, Social Impacts G4OP Year 2016: Value chain and 12 Organisation’s supply chain Economic Impacts 133 OP OP Year 2016 Significant changes during the reporting Financial Statements, Report by G4period regarding the organisation’s size, the Board of Directors: Changes in 13 structure, ownership, or its supply chain OP Financial Group’s structure Financial Statements, Appendix 2: Whether and how the precautionary Principles of OP Financial Group’s G4approach or principle is addressed by the Risk and Capital Adequacy 14 organisation Management Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, G4or other initiatives to which the organisation GRI information, Corporate social 15 subscribes or which it endorses responsibility management G4Memberships of associations and national or GRI information, Corporate social 16 international advocacy organisations responsibility management IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4Entities included in the organisation’s 17 consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements, Appendix 51 G4GRI information, Corporate social 18 Process for defining the report content responsibility management G4GRI information, Corporate social 19 Material aspects responsibility management List of entities or groups of entities within the G4organisation for which the aspects are GRI information, Corporate social 20 material responsibility management List of entities or groups of entities outside of G4the organisation for which the aspects are GRI information, Corporate social 21 material responsibility management Effect of any restatements of information Changes reported in connection G4provided in previous reports, and the reasons with relevant performance 22 for such restatements indicators. G4Significant changes from previous reporting 23 periods in the scope and aspect boundaries No restatements STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4List of stakeholder groups engaged by the GRI information, Stakeholder 24 organisation engagement G4Basis for identification and selection of GRI information, Stakeholder 25 stakeholders with whom to engage engagement G4The organisation’s approach to stakeholder GRI information, Stakeholder 26 engagement engagement G4Key topics and concerns that have been GRI information, Stakeholder 27 raised through stakeholder engagement engagement 134 OP OP Year 2016 REPORT PROFILE G428 Reporting period 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 G429 Date of most recent previous report 23 Feb 2015 G430 Reporting cycle Annual G4Contact point for questions regarding the 31 report or its contents Contact information G432 GRI content index GRI information, GRI content index G4Policy and current practice with regard to 33 seeking external assurance Assurance statement GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance: G4Supervisory Board and its 34 Governance structure, including committees committees BUSINESS ETHICS G4Corporate Governance: 56 Ethics and integrity Management System OP Year 2016: Strategy DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH General disclosure on management approach GRI information, Disclosure on (DMA) management approach GRI information, Disclosure on Aspect-specific disclosures on management management approach for approach material aspects Operational KPIs ECONOMIC IMPACTS Aspect: Economic performance G4Direct economic value generated and EC1 distributed GRI information, Economic Impacts 135 OP OP Year 2016 Financial implications and other risks and G4opportunities for the organisation’s activities EC2 due to climate change GRI information, Economic Impacts G4Coverage of the organisation’s defined EC3 benefit plan obligations Financial Statements, Appendix 35 OP Financial Group received no G4Significant financial assistance received from significant financial assistance EC4 government from the government in 2016. Aspect: Indirect economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and service provided primarily Local projects, investments G4for public benefit through commercial, in-kind in an active Finnish payment EC7 or pro-bono engagement GRI information, Economic Impacts traffic system. G4Significant indirect economic Impacts, EC8 including the extent of Impacts GRI information, Economic Impacts ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS Aspect: Energy G4Direct energy consumption by primary energy GRI information, Environmental EN3 source Impacts G4GRI information, Environmental EN5 Energy intensity Impacts Aspect: Emissions Emissions of company cars have been allocated to Scope 3 instead of Scope 1, G4GRI information, Environmental also retroactively since EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Impacts 2015. G4GRI information, Environmental EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Impacts Emissions of company cars have been allocated to Scope 3 instead of Scope 1, G4Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions GRI information, Environmental also retroactively since EN17 (scope 3) Impacts 2015. G4GRI information, Environmental EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Impacts G4GRI information, Environmental EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Impacts Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4Total weight of waste by type and disposal GRI information, Environmental EN23 method Impacts 136 OP OP Year 2016 SOCIAL IMPACTS Labour practices and decent work Aspect: Employment Total number and rates of new employee G4hires and employee turnover by age group, LA1 gender and region GRI information, Social Impacts G4Return to work and retention rates after LA3 parental leave, by gender GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Labour/management relations Minimum notice periods regarding G4operational changes, including whether these LA4 are specified in collective agreements GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and G4advise on occupational health and safety LA5 programmes GRI information, Social Impacts OP monitors accidental Accident types and frequencies, frequencies injuries, occupational of occupational diseases, lost days, diseases and work-related G4absenteeism, and total number of workfatalities but they are not LA6 related fatalities, by region and by gender GRI information, Social Impacts relevant for reporting. OP Financial Group’s business does not include positions with a G4Workers with a high incidence or high risk of recognised high incidence or risk LA7 diseases related to their occupation of specific diseases. G4Health and safety topics covered in formal LA8 agreements with trade unions GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Education Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4employability of employees and assist them in LA10 managing career endings GRI information, Social Impacts Percentage of employees receiving regular G4performance and career development LA11 reviews, by gender and employee category GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity 137 OP OP Year 2016 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, G4minority group membership, and other LA12 indicators of diversity GRI information, Social Impacts Human rights Aspect: Non-discrimination G4Total number of incidents of discrimination HR3 and corrective actions taken GRI information, Social Impacts No new cases in 2016. Aspect: Human rights grievance mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights G4filed, addressed and resolved through formal HR12 grievance mechanisms No cases in 2016. Society Aspect: Local communities Access points in low-populated or FS13 economically disadvantaged areas by type GRI information, Social Impacts Initiatives to improve access to financial FS14 services for disadvantaged people GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations G4assessed for risks related to corruption and SO3 the significant risks identified GRI information, Social Impacts Training on prevention of G4Communication and training on antimisuse. Training on the SO4 corruption policies and procedures GRI information, Social Impacts Code of Business Ethics. G4Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions SO5 taken No cases in 2016. Aspect: Public policy OP Financial Group does not support political parties or G4Total value of political contributions by contribute to the electoral SO6 country and recipient/beneficiary campaigns of individual candidates. Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for antiG4competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Compliance 138 OP OP Year 2016 Monetary value of significant fines and total G4number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSO8 compliance with laws and regulations No cases in 2016. Number of grievances about Impacts on G4society filed, addressed, and resolved through SO11 formal grievance mechanisms No cases in 2016. Product responsibility Aspect: Product and service labelling Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant products and G4service categories subject to such information PR3 requirements GRI information, Social Impacts Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4concerning product and service information PR4 and labelling, by type of outcomes No cases in 2016. G4Results of surveys measuring customer PR5 satisfaction GRI information, KPI Aspect: Marketing communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, G4including advertising, promotion and PR7 sponsorship, by type of outcomes GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints G4regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 losses of customer data GRI information, Social Impacts Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations G4concerning the provision and use of products PR9 and services No cases in 2016. Aspect: Active ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on FS10 environmental or social issues GRI information, Social Impacts Percentage of assets subject to positive and FS11 negative environmental or social screening GRI information, Social Impacts 139 OP OP Year 2016 Global Compact content index Location Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Management approaches to corporate internationally proclaimed human rights social responsibility Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human Management approaches to corporate rights abuses social responsibility, Human Rights Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Management approaches to corporate effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining social responsibility, Labour Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Management approaches to corporate and compulsory labour social responsibility Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Management approaches to corporate social responsibility Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Management approaches to corporate respect of employment and occupation social responsibility, Human Rights Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Management approaches to corporate environmental challenges social responsibility, Environmental responsibility Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Management approaches to corporate environmental responsibility social responsibility, Environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Management approaches to corporate environmentally friendly technologies social responsibility, Environmental responsibility Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Code of Business Ethics p. 6 including extortion and bribery Independent assurance report – translation 140 OP OP Year 2016 Independent assurance report – translation OP Cooperative management We have been engaged by OP Cooperative to provide a limited assurance on OP Group’s corporate social responsibility GRI indicators for the reporting period of January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. The information subject to the assurance engagement has been presented in the OP Year 2016 report in the section “Corporate Social Responsibility and GRI” (hereafter: Corporate Social Responsibility Information). Management’s responsibility A limited assurance engagement with respect to responsibility related data involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the Corporate Social Responsibility Information. The procedures performed depend on the Management is responsible for the preparation of the practitioner’s judgment, but their nature is different from, Sustainability Information in accordance with the Reporting and their extent is less than, a reasonable assurance criteria as set out in the OP Group’s reporting principles and engagement. It does not include detailed testing of source the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal Global Reporting Initiative. This responsibility includes: controls and consequently they do not enable us to obtain designing, implementing and maintaining internal control the assurance necessary to become aware of all significant relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of the matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance Sustainability Information that are free from material engagement. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, selecting and applying appropriate criteria and making estimates that are Our procedures on this engagement included: reasonable in the circumstances. – Conducting four interviews with senior management responsible at the OP Group to gain an understanding of OP Group’s targets for corporate responsibility as part of Assurance provider’s the business strategy and operations; responsibility – Reviewing internal and external documentation to verify to what extent these documents and data support the information included in the Corporate Social Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion Responsibility Information and evaluating whether the on the Corporate Social Responsibility Information based on information presented in the Corporate Social our engagement. We conducted our assurance engagement in Responsibility Information is in line with our overall accordance with International Standard on Assurance knowledge of corporate responsibility at OP; Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) to provide limited assurance on performance data and statements within the – Conducting interviews with employees responsible for Corporate Social Responsibility Information. the collection and reporting of the Corporate Social Responsibility Information and reviewing of the processes This Standard requires that we comply with ethical and systems for data gathering, including the aggregation requirements and plan and perform the assurance of the data for the Corporate Social Responsibility engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matters Information; come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Corporate Social Responsibility Information has not been – Performing analytical review procedures and testing prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the data on a sample basis to assess the reasonability of the Reporting criteria. presented Corporate Social Responsibility Information; We did not perform any assurance procedures on the – Assessing that the Corporate Social Responsibility prospective information, such as targets, expectations and Information has been prepared in accordance with the ambitions, disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Information. Consequently, we draw no conclusion on the Reporting Initiative. prospective information. Our assurance report is made in accordance with the terms of our engagement with OP Cooperative. We do not accept or assume responsibility to We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient anyone other than the OP Cooperative for our work, for this and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. Limitations of the engagement by a multidisciplinary team including assurance and 141 OP OP Year 2016 Limitations of the engagement by a multidisciplinary team including assurance and sustainability expertise with professional qualifications. Our team is experienced in providing sustainability reporting assurance. We have not performed assurance procedures in relation to financial information within scope of the financial audit. To the extent that audited information is presented in the Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting, the reader should read the financial audit statement to obtain necessary Conclusion assurance. On the basis of the procedures we have performed, nothing Our independence, quality has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to the assurance engagement is not control and competences prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core) of the Global Reporting Initiative or that the Corporate Social We complied with Deloitte’s independence policies which Responsibility Information is not reliable, in all material address and, in certain cases, exceed the requirements of the respects, with regard to the Reporting criteria. ​ International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in their role as independent Our assurance statement should be read in conjunction with assurance providers and in particular preclude us from taking the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness for financial, commercial, governance and ownership positions Corporate Social Responsibility Information. which might affect, or be perceived to affect, our Helsinki 27.2.2017 independence and impartiality and from any involvement in the preparation of the report. We have maintained our Deloitte & Touche Oy independence and objectivity throughout the year and there Lasse IngströmAuthorized Public Accountant were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair our independence and objectivity. Johan GroopAuthorized Public Accountant Deloitte & Touche Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. This engagement was conducted 142 OP OP Year 2016 2016 in brief This page shows OP Financial Group’s key figures for 2016 in summary. Download OP Financial Group's Report by the Executive Board and Financial Statements 2016 here. › OP Financial Group improved its Almost 160,000 new OP Financial earnings further, above-the-market Group banking customers and 260,000 average growth continued on a wide new owner-customers front – OP Financial Group received almost 160,000 new banking customers, or 21% more than a year ago. The – Earnings before tax totalled EUR 1,138 million (1,101). number of owner-customers increased by almost 260,000 – Earnings before tax in October-December were EUR to over 1.7 million. The number of joint banking and 218 million (175). non-life insurance customers increased by almost 100,000 to over 1.7 million. – Net interest income increased by 3% and net insurance income by 6% and total income grew by 3% on a year – New OP bonuses totalled over EUR 200 million, up by earlier. Expenses rose by 3%. The rise was entirely almost 5% year on year. The estimated interest payable on explained by higher development costs. Profit Shares totals EUR 83 million. – The CET1 ratio increased by 0.6 percentage points year – The Group launched several #Suominousuun (Putting on year to 20.1%. Based on the results of the stress test Finland on a new growth path) initiatives in its social role. conducted by the European Banking Authority, the During the financial year, the Group announced, for Group's capital adequacy clearly exceeded regulatory example, donations worth over EUR 6 million to Finnish requirements also in an operating environment of an universities. extremely adverse scenario. – OP Financial Group’s gift to the 100-year-old Finland is – The home loan portfolio increased by 4%, the corporate 100 years of volunteering. Hiiop100.fi, a new volunteer loan portfolio by 3% and deposits by 6%. New home loans work exchange site, brings together those in need of help drawn down were 8% and corporate loans 10% higher and volunteers. than a year ago. – In June, OP Financial Group confirmed an updated – Insurance premium revenue increased by 2%. strategy aimed at broad-based renewal which is being implemented on a wide front. – Assets managed by Wealth Management increased by 9% over the previous year. – Full-year earnings for 2017 are expected to be about the same as or lower than those for 2016 due to increasing development costs and other expenses arising from strategy implementation. OP Financial Group's key indicators 143 OP OP Year 2016 OP Financial Group's key indicators Q1–4/2016 Q1–4/2015 Change, % Earnings before tax, € million 1,138 1,101 3.3 Banking 596 642 -7.3 Non-life Insurance 230 259 -11.1 Wealth Management 232 213 8.8 New OP bonuses accrued to owner-customers 208 197 5.3 31 Dec. 2016 31 Dec. 2015 Change, % CET1 ratio, % 20.1 19.5 0.6* Return on economic capital, % ** 22.7 21.5 1.2* Ratio of capital base to minimum amount of capital base (under the Act on the Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates), % *** 170 191 -21* Ratio of impairment loss on receivables to loan and guarantee portfolio, % 0.09 0.10 0.0* Owner-customers (1,000) 1,747 1,491 17.2 Comparatives deriving from the income statement are based on figures reported for the corresponding period in 2015. Unless otherwise specified, balance sheet and other cross-sectional figures on 31 December 2015 are used as comparatives. * Change in ratio ** 12-month rolling, change in percentage *** The FiCo ratio has been calculated under Solvency II transitional provisions and the comparatives have been adjusted. 144 OP OP Year 2016 145
