UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress (COP) 2016 As a member of the UN Global Compact (GC) Roslagens Sparbank commits to annually disclose information on activities and results related to the ten principles for human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Roslagens Sparbank uses the yearly Sustainability Report (following the lines of GRI, Global Reporting Initiative) for this disclosure. The report for year 2016 (“Hållbarhetsredovisning” in Swedish) was published on www.roslagenssparbank.se on March 30, 2017, as an integrated part of the Bank’s Annual Report. As the report only is published in Swedish, this summary in English has been made in effort to live up to the Global Compact standards. With this summary, we express our continued support and commitment to the Global Compact and its principles. Norrtälje, July 28th, 2017 Sten Törnsten, deputy CEO, Roslagens Sparbank Roslagens Sparbank, communication on progress 2016 As a local savings bank, Roslagens Sparbank’s vision is “an attractive and open Roslagen in growth” – that is, our long term goal is intimately connected to sustainable long-term growth and development of our region. One important measure to ensure this, is the yearly contribution of about 10% of the bank’s net result to local projects, activities and initiatives in line with our vision. Since year 2000, over SEK 114 Million this way have been returned to our customers and our society, mainly via the bank’s foundations for support and development of education, research, culture and local business. Human Rights Principles Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Roslagens Sparbank supports the international declaration of Human Rights, 1 and works for them according to Swedish legislation, which is also reflected in our bank’s policy documents. We publish our support for the HRP on our website. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses internationally proclaimed human rights. Roslagens Sparbanks internal follow-up and both internal and external revision focuses on securing compliance to national laws, rules and regulations which in turn is meant to prevent any violations of Human Rights. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish labor laws, including full freedom of assembly and union. The unions SACO and Finansförbundet both have had a number of meetings during 2015, updated collective agreements (early 2015), and are since many years represented in the bank’s Board of Directors. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish labor law and the Swedish Finance market’s collective bargains which ensure the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Roslagens Sparbank follows and applies Swedish labor law, including age regulations for employment. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Roslagens Sparbank follows and applies Swedish anti-discrimination laws which are also part of the bank’s internal policies. No discrimination incidents have been reported in 2016. Environment Principles 2 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Roslagens Sparbanks policies and instructions focus on a preventative approach both internally and towards clients and stakeholders. For larger credit applications (> 5 MSEK), an environmental risk-analysis is obligatory as one way of encouraging businesses to undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Since 2002, Roslagens Sparbank as a holder of ISO-certificate 14001, has worked for an improved environment, both locally and globally. Recurring activities are the yearly “Sustainability week” with includes a number of customer and/or communication activities ecological sustainability during June (starting with the World Environment Day, June 5th); co-operation with local food producers promoting an annual “Harvest Market” in Norrtälje town; active participation in Earth Hour and the bank’s own local annual environment award to a company or organization (in 2016 the recipients were a local individual promoting local production of foodstuffs). Our environmental work is recognized by approximately 65% of our Customers according to our annual customer satisfaction report. In December 2016, the Board of directors decided that the Bank, due to the increased administrative demands, will not upgrade to the new ISO14001model and therefore will lose its certificate in 2017. The decision also emphasizes the importance to still continue with and structured environmental work with high priority. Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We do, but have no actual new case in 2016. Anti-corruption Principle Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Roslagens Sparbank follows Swedish legislation on corruption. Our internal rules and regulations include clear instructions and all co-workers are trained 3 on topics such as money laundering. No incidents of corruption have been reported in 2016. Measurement of achievements Goal 1: Reduction of CO-emissions. The bank’s emissions increased by 14 tonnes between 2015 and 2016, which mainly is explained by the opening of a new branch office (the Bank’s 5th) in December 2015. Goal 2: Reduce usage of cash. This goal is achieved in 2016. The amount of cash withdrawals has decreased by SEK 84 M; cards and internet services share of transactions has increased to 95.3%; and numbers of customers with Swish and/or PersonalTelephoneBanking services has also increased. Goal 3: Reduction of electrical power usage by 70MWH. The usage of electrical power has increased, mainly due to the added number of branch offices, but environmental effects have still been reduced as the Bank has change to locally produced “green” electricity. 4
