Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 Company Overview.......................................................................................4 Sustainability in ABM Operations.......................................................14 ABM in the Community ...........................................................................24 CSE Independent Assurance Statement........................................25 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 2 Company Overview G4-1 Statement from the most senior The year 2016 was a very important one in ABM’s history. One example of fulfilling our PVM is the launch of our decision-maker of the company We celebrated our 107th birthday and were named to ABMCares initiative in which we’ll match the donation of the Fortune 500 for the first time. Never a company any of our staff and management employees to a 501(c) Letter to Investors to sit on our laurels, we also began our 2020 Vision (3) charity of their choice, up to $1000 per employee per transformation—the most compelling, multi-phased, year (up to $1 million total). ABM Cares also provides a multi-year strategy in the history of the company. I’m paid day off per year for every staff and management proud to report we’re making great strides in going employee for volunteering. forward with this journey. As you can see, our Purpose, Vision, and Mission Along with the transformation of our business, we provide a strong foundation for our continued established a new Purpose, Vision and Mission (PVM) for commitment to corporate social responsibility, which ABM to keep us focused on our reason for being. includes our dedication to the UN Global Compact. This is our seventh year of reporting our sustainability Our PURPOSE is simple and yet vital—we take care of efforts, following the Global Reporting Initiative the people, spaces and places that are important to our (GRI) and the sixth year submitting our report for an employees, our clients, and their customers. This is the independent third party audit assessment by the Centre foundation for why ABM exists and is a natural guiding for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE). function for our commitment to sustainability. Corporate social responsibility is at the heart of ABM Our VISION is to be the clear choice in the industries we every day, whether we’re streamlining efficiencies serve. We do that through an engaged workforce that is for clients, keeping a keen eye on how our operations aware of the impact they have in the communities where impact our shared environment and reducing our carbon they live, work and play. footprint, creating new jobs, or giving back to the Our PURPOSE and our VISION are only realized through communities in which we serve. As we move forward in our core MISSION, which is to make a difference, every 2017 with our 2020 Vision transformation, I’m looking to person, every day. If our employees are focused on this, a very bright future, indeed. we will have a workforce that understands the value and I’m proud of all that we accomplished in 2016. importance of what they do every day—how it affects everyone and everything around them. Scott Salmirs President & CEO, ABM ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 3 Company Overview G4-3 Name of the organization buildings, health facilities, industrial buildings, retail Sustainability in ABM Services stores, sport event facilities, and transportation ABM Industries Incorporated We’ve built our strong reputation in part by hubs. continually striving to improve upon our client G4-4 Report the primary brands, Facility Services: Onsite mechanical engineering service offerings through the ABM GreenCare® products, and services and technical services and solutions relating to a program. As part of the program, we actively ABM is a leading provider of integrated facility broad range of facilities and infrastructure systems. work with our clients on a wide range of these solutions, customized by industry, that enable our Facilities we service include commercial office efforts, from energy reduction to green cleaning clients to deliver exceptional facilities experiences. buildings, educational institutions, high technology and Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design Our mission is to make a difference, every person, manufacturing facilities, shopping centers, and (LEED) certification. every day. We serve urban, suburban, and rural transportation hubs. Our mission critical solutions ABM GreenCare® areas and properties of all sizes—from schools ensure uptime and equipment reliability for facilities and commercial buildings to airports, data centers, such as emergency call centers, data centers, POP ABM GreenCare® helps clients make improvements hospitals, and manufacturing plants. sites, network facilities, and SCIF facilities. in four key areas: environmental and social responsibility, employee productivity and retention, As of November 1, 2016, we completed our Parking: Parking and transportation services for property protection, and fiscal responsibility. This organizational realignment (Phase 1 of our 2020 clients at various locations, including commercial program’s offerings span our businesses and the Vision), establishing five industry groups and one office buildings, educational institutions, health facilities, hotels, sport event facilities, and key industries we serve. As a member of the U.S. Technical Solutions group, which spans the five transportation hubs. Green Building Council (USGBC), we also continue to industry groups: offer specific products and procedures for buildings Building & Energy Solutions: Custom energy to maintain certification through the LEED Rating solutions, electrical, HVAC, lighting, and other system. Aviation Business & Education Healthcare High Tech Technical Industry Solutions general maintenance and repair services for clients in the public and private sectors. In 2016, Building ABM’s commitment to measuring its own Through these groups, we offer our full performance has led to some statistics relating to & Energy Solutions provided specialty solutions in complement of solutions on a standalone basis or its clients’ sustainability efforts, including: support of U.S. government entities. As part of our in combination with each other or with specialized 2020 Vision, we decided to sell our Government • ABM GreenCare® has been implemented at over mechanical and electrical technical services. Services business and classified it as held for sale in 1,000 buildings, totaling more than 460 million Following is a general description of the services the fourth quarter of 2016. square feet across the United States. we provide, organized by segment. Janitorial: A wide range of essential cleaning • ABM’s Energy Solutions program reduced clients’ services for commercial office buildings, data energy use by over 21 percent on average, saving centers, educational institutions, government them over $30M. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 4 Company Overview • ABM has installed over 10,000 EV charging transportation and storage issues associated with Solar stations across the United States with many more traditional chemicals. With the cost of solar installations declining expected in 2017. ABM continues to identify new products and dramatically and the number of government • ABM has assisted approximately 230 million methods to operate more efficiently for our and utility incentives increasing, we help clients square feet worth of client buildings with clients and stay on the forefront of sustainable understand that solar has become a viable financial products and procedures to maintain certification practices and new innovations in cleaning methods solution for companies to: through the LEED rating system. We service over and equipment. Through our strong, established • Reduce their energy spend, 450 USGBC LEED-certified and registered sites. relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical, • Stabilize electricity costs, and raw material manufacturers we are actively Sum of Gross Square Footage (in millions) implementing new solutions such as: • Improve their bottom line, LEED Certified ® 230,834,000 • Increase occupancy, and Initial Phase 163,689,000 • Bio-based cleaning alternatives • Increase their environmental responsibility. LEED® Registered 68,016,000 • Specialized cleaning solutions for various surface Grand Total 462,539,000 types that increase productivity ABM enables facilities to receive the financial Number of LEED Certified Buildings Total ® 459 and environmental benefits of adopting a solar Total in Program 1,092 For a 2016 case study example: ABM provides power solution, without having to assume the risks high-quality, sustainable cleaning services at some associated with the design, installation, financing Some of the key value-adds that ABM GreenCare® of AEG’s largest marquee entertainment venues and management of these systems. offers to clients include: including STAPLES Center, Nokia Theatre L.A. LIVE, and more. Energy Performance Contracting Program Green cleaning programs with Green Seal certified or environmentally preferable products and ABM’s energy efficiency programs—such as Our energy performance contracting program certified equipment improve indoor environmental solar, EV charging, and energy performance allows our clients to reallocate their energy and quality for building occupants. We also provide contracting—promote sustainability while saving operational budgets towards funding of their critical recycling, touch-free water conservation, and LEED clients money. We analyze, measure, and maintain facility improvements. Our bundled energy retrofit certification assistance for clients. upgrades for buildings to lower utility costs while services provide a turnkey offering with guaranteed providing the most comfortable and sustainable energy and operational savings that are then used Just as with our entire line of services, ABM is work environment for the building’s occupants. to finance the project. In 2016 alone, ABM was able utilizing technology to upgrade our sustainable Support for LEED certification, ENERGY STAR® to reallocate nearly $90M towards client’s facility offerings. This includes electrically activated benchmarking, rebate incentives, and Property improvements, all while saving them over $6M in water systems that produce general cleaning and Assessed Clean Energy (PACE) financing enables annual costs. Over the term of the contracts, this sanitizing solutions from water, salt and electricity. our clients to achieve their energy goals. will equate to over $100M in annual savings. These allow ABM to produce safe, non-toxic daily cleaning solutions onsite and reduce packaging, ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 5 Company Overview EV Charging As one of the leading installers of EV charging stations, ABM has now installed more than 10,000 stations, up 35% from 2015. ABM’s partnership with ChargePoint, creator of the leading EV charging network, brings us the first all-inclusive, affordable charging service plan. There’s no need to choose either DC or Level 2 Fast Charging Stations, which creates a value-added amenity for all of a clients’ customers. Parking For parking facilities, ABM provides LEED certification support, such as EV charging stations, solar panel installation, green cleaning, and energyefficient lighting. Our customized mobile app helps Landscape & Grounds G4-6 Number of countries where drivers save time, money, and gas through online the organization operates ABM uses alternative fuel and water-efficient, payments, a parking locator, a frequent parker “smart” irrigation systems with timers and Primary operations occur in the United States program, and online reservations. flow sensors to help keep clients’ properties and the United Kingdom. ABM operates in ABM parking also provides the incentive of sustainable. Our services include draught tolerant approximately 30 countries with those outside of discounted parking for people who share rides or plantings, integrated pest management, and LEED the US and UK being franchisees, subsidiaries and participate in van pools. We install bicycle parking certification support. joint ventures. for clients, and offer shuttle services to assist Air Travel G4-7 Report the nature of our clients’ customers to safely and sustainably ownership and legal form move from parking lots to facilities, or from public Green cleaning is a standard part of our janitorial transit centers to client facilities. More than half of services at airports. ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State our shuttles use natural gas or propane, running 11 of Delaware and is a publicly traded company, million miles a year. We wash our vehicles according Brands that are also part of the ABM family are governed by a board of directors. ABM common to local environmental regulations. listed on our website. stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange G4-5 Location of ABM’s headquarters [NYSE: ABM]. New York, NY ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 6 Company Overview G4-8 Report the markets served G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements including: The markets referenced are US only. ABM is party to approximately 200 active • Total number of employees: collective bargaining agreements across the • Aviation U.S. These collective bargaining agreements are • Banking & Financial Services • Total number of operations: periodically renegotiated through bargaining with • Biopharma • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net labor representatives. They also set terms for revenues (for public sector organizations) : wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of • Commercial Buildings employment. For single-site collective bargaining • Data Centers Number of employees 100,585 agreements, ABM bargains directly with labor • Education Net revenues $5,144.7 representatives. For area-wide agreements, ABM Diluted earnings per share $1.01 frequently bargains in a group of employers who are • Golf Courses (diluted) covered by the same agreement. • Government (classified as held for sale in the Dollar amounts in millions, except per share Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown* fourth quarter of 2016) amounts. Information relates to ABM’s the fiscal Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time • Healthcare year ending October 31, 2016. 100,585 60% 40% 73% 27% • Hospitality G4-10 Report the total number of employees • Improvement Districts by employment contract and gender G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period • Industrial & Manufacturing • Report the total number of permanent employees • Mission Critical by employment type and gender. Organizational Realignment • Retail In 2016, we completed Phase 1 of our 2020 Vision: • Report the total workforce by employees and • Senior Living supervised workers and by gender. We reorganized the delivery of our services through an industry-based go-to-market strategy that • Sports & Entertainment • Report the total workforce by region and gender. focuses on four verticals: Aviation, Business and As of November 1, 2016, we are serving the above Industry, Education, Healthcare, and High Tech, Age markets through our five new industry groups and Employee Total % % Age 30Age with a fifth group called Technical Solutions that Breakdown Male Female <30 >50 one Technical Solutions group, which spans the five 50 spans across the other groups. We believe this has Board 10 60% 40% 100% positioned us to deliver value-added solutions, industry groups: Mgt 5,985 64% 36% 5% 48% 47% establish clear competitive differentiation, and Non-Mgt 94,590 53% 47% 21% 43% 36% enable deep client penetration. Aviation Business & Education Healthcare High Tech Technical Industry Solutions ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 7 Company Overview Cost Optimization • Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad adverse effect on our financial position, results of range of items including labor standards, talent operations, or cash flows. This year, we began to consolidate certain of our management, diversity and inclusion, employee back office functions in our shared services center. ABM holds its suppliers and contractors to a high training and safety, and employee health; As of October 31, 2016, a portion of our back office standard. ABM is committed to complying with all functions have been transferred. • Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around laws prohibiting child labor, including adherence client safety, service quality, responsible sourcing to minimum age provisions of applicable laws Talent Development and supply chain management, and proper and and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal responsible marketing practices; workforce and our suppliers. ABM also expects its One of the key underpinnings of our 2020 Vision is the investment in people and the development • Responsibility in the environment is centered on subcontractors to commit to proper treatment of of personnel. To that end, we have created a Talent our energy and resource efficiency, reducing or their workers, specifically including human rights Management Group that will be responsible for eliminating drains on the environments we share and freedom of association. driving best-in-class talent development throughout and reusing or repurposing products we use and G4-15 Externally developed economic, the organization. distribute to maximize their lifecycle; and environmental and social charters, • Responsibility in the community is the culmination principles, or other initiatives to Acquisition of the first three principles as they feed directly which the organization subscribes ABM continued to accelerate our 2020 Vision with into how we affect the public at large within our or which it endorses the acquisition of Westway. circle of influence. UN Global Compact Our operations are subject to various federal, state G4-14 Report whether and how the and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials Green Parking Council precautionary approach or principle is into the environment or otherwise relating to the addressed by the organization Green Sports Alliance – Green Cleaning Playbook protection of the environment, such as discharge Enterprise risks are reviewed by ABM’s Enterprise into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, Healthcare without Harm Risk Management Committee on a periodic basis. storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and This committee includes divisional and functional hazardous substances. These laws generally have U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) leadership. The Enterprise Risk Management the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. Energy Star Partner Committee identifies key enterprise risks. The company’s Board of Directors receives regular In addition, from time to time, we are involved in SOC 3 reports from the Risk Management Committee. environmental matters at certain of our locations or in connection with our operations. Historically, ABM continues to move forward with the the cost of complying with environmental laws or integration of sustainability into our business resolving environmental issues relating to United strategy following the four key principles: States locations or operations has not had a material ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 8 Company Overview G4-16 List memberships of associations • National Association of Energy Service Readers can send feedback, comments or questions Companies (NAESCO) regarding our sustainability plans and progress We are a member of numerous trade and industry • National Association of Landscape Professionals to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at groups. Our group memberships include: (NALP) sustainability@abm.com. We welcome your insights • American Association of Airport Executives on how we can meet our shared commitment to a • Professional Retail Store Maintenance (AAAE) sustainable world. Association (PRSM) • American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Report Parameters • Society of American Military Engineers (SAME) Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) • Sports Turf Management Association (STMA) This is ABM’s seventh Sustainability Report and • Building Owners and Managers Association • Stadium Managers Association (SMA) covers activities related to our 2016 fiscal year that (BOMA) ended October 31, 2016. The development of this • Building Services Contractors Association G4-17 List all entities included in the report evolved from various internal discussions International (BSCAI) organization’s consolidated with key stakeholders as well as a materiality • Commercial Real Estate Women Network (CREW) financial statements assessment following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. An index of the GRI • Corporate Real Estate Network (CoreNet) ABM annually discloses a list of all consolidated indicators and metrics is provided here, linking the • Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) subsidiaries as of the fiscal year-end in Exhibit 21.1 applicable topics with the corresponding page(s). to ABM’s 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which • International Association of Corporate Real For the sixth year in a row, we submitted our report was filed with the SEC on December 21, 2016. Estate Executives (NACORE) to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence G4-18 Process for defining the report (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. • International Association of Venue Managers (IAVM) content and the Aspect Boundaries Additional information about the company can • International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) Corporate Sustainability Reporting be found at ABM.com and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), • International Downtown Association (IDA) Our approach to sustainability is based upon and can be accessed at the “Investors” section • International Facility Management Association addressing known and perceived stakeholder of the company website. The ABM Corporate (IFMA) needs. With ABM’s primary stakeholders being Sustainability Report covers the corporate • International Sanitary Supply Association (ISSA) clients, employees, vendor partners, shareholders activities and services provided by ABM and and the communities in which we serve, people its subsidiaries throughout North America and • International Electrical Testing Association drive our strategy, and understanding the varied various international locations. The report is (NETA) and sometimes intertwined needs of these designed to introduce ABM, our services, and • National Association of College and University groups is paramount to the success of ABM’s organizational structure. We identify our key Business Officers (NACUBO) sustainability program. impacts, risks and opportunities relating to ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 9 Company Overview our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders for whom our sustainability commitment is most impactful. We also discuss our governance for ensuring we perform with utmost integrity on behalf of our stakeholders. Also critical to our sustainability platform are: • Sustainability in ABM Operations • Sustainability in ABM Services • Our People • Social Responsibility G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content and G4-20  For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-21 For each material Aspect, report location where the Aspect is material for the The list of entities or groups of entities included the Aspect Boundary outside entities identified in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or the organization, as follows: • Report any specific limitation regarding the The list of entities or groups of entities included Aspect Boundary outside the organization • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material the organization For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is • Report any specific limitation regarding the considered relevant based on ABM stakeholders • If the Aspect is material outside of the Aspect Boundary within the organization feedback as well as our own perspective. organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 10 Company Overview G4-24  Provide a list of stakeholder groups Our next known need was identified as ABM’s portion G4-27 Report key topics and concerns engaged by the organization within our clients’ supply chain. While not a carbon that have been raised through intensive company, the decision to identify and track stakeholder engagement, and how the ABM identifies our stakeholders as our clients, organization has responded to those our emission levels using Greenhouse Gas (GHG) employees, shareholders, vendor partners, key topics and concerns, including Protocol toolsets and thinking of our company’s role, distributors, and the communities in which we serve. through its reporting. Report the risks and potential gains in relation to climate change G4-25 Report the basis for identification brought sustainability integration out of merely a stakeholder groups that raised each and selection of stakeholders service element and into a business component. of the key topics and concerns. with whom to engage ABM sought feedback from major stakeholders, Our employees continue to be the driving force and behind everything we do at ABM, and we seek to including various employees, clients and vendor G4-26 Report the organization’s approach deliver value for our shareholders each day. Finally, partners through a Materiality Survey, compiled to stakeholder engagement, including ABM feels a keen sense of responsibility to operate by CSE. frequency of engagement by type and responsibly both for and within the communities in G4-28 Reporting period by stakeholder group, and an indication which we operate and serve. of whether any of the engagement Unless otherwise indicated, this report covers our was undertaken specifically as part 2016 fiscal year which ended October 31, 2016. of the report preparation process. Key stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, vendor partners and the Material Issues 2016 – Based on ABM Stakeholder Feedback communities in which we serve. Labor Practices Product ABM’s services are generally provided at our Year Economic Environmental Human Rights Society and Decent Work Responsibility clients’ locations, and are often an integral part of 2016  conomic •E • Effluents & • Employment •N on•L  ocal •C ustomer our clients’ sustainability integration (e.g., cleaning, Performance Waste •O  ccupational Discrimination Communities Privacy facility maintenance, energy conservation, safety, • Supplier Health & Safety • Anti-Corruption •C ustomer Health Environmental & Safety etc.). Therefore, our approach to sustainability •T raining & •A  ntiAssessment begins within ABM’s service offerings and solutions. Education Competitive • Compliance  Behavior •D  iversity & Equal Opportunity •E  qual Remuneration for Women & Men ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 11 Company Overview G4-29 Date of most recent G4-34 Report the governance structure of ABM’s Compensation Committee has responsibility previous report (if any) the organization, including committees for providing direction to the company in the Fiscal 2015 of the highest governance body. area of executive compensation, and monitors (November 1, 2014 through October 31, 2015) Identify any committees responsible potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s for decision-making on economic, compensation programs. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as environmental and social impacts. annual, biennial) ABM’s Governance Committee is responsible Governance for identifying qualified candidates for Annual • Governance membership on the Board and for developing and recommending to the Board corporate • Committee Composition governance principles and policies. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions • Directors regarding the report or its contents. More information about ABM’s governance • Governance Documents structure can be found in ABM’s 2016 Proxy Readers can send feedback, comments or questions At ABM, our governance structure, along with our Statement. Additional information concerning our regarding our sustainability plans and progress Code of Business Conduct, provide the framework Board and governance can also be found at Investor. to ABM’s Corporate Communication team at for us to serve our clients, stakeholders and ABM.com. sustainability@abm.com. employees with integrity. ABM’s Board of Directors G4-32 GRI Content Index is responsible for overseeing the business and strategy of the company. ABM currently has 10 GRI G4 directors, including our Chief Executive Officer. All G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and of our directors, other than our Chief Executive current practice with regard to seeking Officer, are independent. One of our independent external assurance for the report directors serves as Chairman of the Board. For the sixth year in a row, we submitted our report ABM’s Audit Committee oversees the company’s to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence financial reporting process and assists the Board (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. with respect to the company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to its other responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviews policies with respect to risk management and the company’s major financial risk exposures. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 12 Company Overview G4-56 Values, principles, standards storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and and norms of behavior hazardous substances. These laws generally have Code of Business Conduct the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. ABM Vision & Core Values In addition, from time to time, we are involved in environmental matters at certain of our locations In 2016, we defined the following principles: or in connection with our operations. Historically, the cost of complying with environmental laws or resolving environmental issues relating to United States locations or operations has not had a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. G4-EC3 Report the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ABM Employee Benefits ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life and disability along with a 401(k) plan. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Note: Service Worker and union worker benefits are provided consistent with their employment and/or Financial information can found in ABM’s Annual client contract. Report on Form 10-K. G4-EC4 Financial assistance received G4-EC2 Financial Implications and other risks from government and opportunities due to climate change ABM does not receive significant financial Our operations are subject to various federal, state assistance from any host government. and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, such as discharge into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 13 Sustainability in ABM Operations Building Value through Our People The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate ABM is seeking to reduce its metric tons of CO2E per Accounting and Reporting Standard FTE Equivalent by 15% from our 2011 year baseline by Our people continue to be the driving force behind (Revised Edition) 2020. The types of energy included in the reductions everything we do at ABM. We take tremendous include purchased electricity, fleet fuel usage and pride in our skilled and knowledgeable workforce. Data of natural gas use in leased offices was natural gas used at our office locations. Spanning our wide array of service solutions and gathered through a survey. Offices in which the in a diverse set of markets, we firmly believe that utilities are included in common area maintenance For all of your targets, please our rich diversity of expertise and experience is (CAM) were estimated based upon similarity to provide details on the progress unmatched anywhere. other known offices of that size and region of the made in the reporting year. country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, Our Facilities and Operations ID % complete % complete Comment by model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases (time) (emissions) ABM is keenly focused on how our facilities and not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were Int1 55% 84.9% operations affect our shared environment. Just calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as we are building value for clients through worldas that is our primary vehicle type. class services, we continually seek to enhance our Actual data was gathered through our online survey organizational efficiencies and reduce ABM’s own when available. For offices that did not have readily carbon footprint across the enterprise. Every day, available data or the electricity is included within we walk the sustainability talk. CAM charges, estimations were made based upon G4-EN3 Energy consumption similar sized offices of the same region or previous year data (if available). MWh Electricity 14,800 EN-6 Report the amount of reductions Motor Gasoline 179,103 in energy consumption achieved Diesel 13,235 as a direct result of conservation Biogasoline 67 and efficiency initiatives Natural Gas 5,910 CNG 3 ID Scope % reduction Metric Base Normalized Target Comment from base year base year year year emissions Int 1 Scope 1+2 15% metric tonnes CO2e 2011 58120.15 2020 ABM has committed to reducing our metric tons of CO2E per FTE employee per FTE Equivalent by 15% from our 2011 year. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 14 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Scope 2 Actual electricity data was gathered G4-EN 8, 9, 10 Water emissions (Scope 1) through our online survey when available. For While ABM strives to minimize our water usage in and offices that did not have readily available data or the delivery of services (e.g., microfiber, automatic the electricity is included within CAM charges, G4-EN16 E  nergy indirect Greenhouse Gas scrubbing versus pressure washing, dilution control estimations were made based upon similar sized (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) systems, etc.) our water usage is primarily under offices of the same region or previous year data and the client’s control as required by the specifications (if available). within our contracts. Additionally, as our service G4-EN17 Other indirect Greenhouse Gas Scope 3 Employee Air Travel Miles, by passenger delivery occurs at our clients’ locations, we do not (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) mile, by flight length <300, 300 1000, >1000 miles have the ability to separately meter our usage from ABM’s direct and indirect GHG emissions from 2015 acquired through centralized booking. Added in the client’s usage. and 2016 are listed in the below table: 2014 was the mileage of aviation service fleet G4-EN23 Waste vehicles (buses, trucks, etc.) input into GHG Protocol 2016 2015 Transport tool. The actual gallons used were not From Nov. 2015 through Oct. 2016, ABM securely Scope 1 CO2 e Tonnes 47,780 47,309 able to be tracked as client supplies the fuel at their shredded and recycled 107.441 short (US) ton(s) Scope 2 CO2 e Tonnes 7,896 8,790 own fuel stations. Mileage per gallon was estimated (214,882.528 pounds) of paper, which resulted in Scope 3 CO2 e Tonnes 33,910 27,467 via percentage of vehicle types. the below estimated environmental benefits – ABM Fuel used MWh 198,319 190,333 works with Iron Mountain to accumulate this data. Electricity Used MWh 14,800 16,433 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions intensity • Carbon Footprint: 155,575 lbs of CO2 emissions Scope 1 Data of natural gas use in leased offices avoided = 15.04 cars off the road per year was gathered through a survey. Offices in which the ABM tracks and measures our emissions intensity with the following metrics. • Landfill Space: 537.21 Cubic Yards of landfill utilities are included in CAM were estimated based space conserved upon similarity to other known offices of that size Metric numerator Metric and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of Intensity (Gross global Metric denominator: Scope 2 • Trees: 1,802.86 trees preserved figure = combined Scope 1 denominator figure used Unit total fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. and 2 emissions) • Energy: 242,816.66 kWh of electricity saved = Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific full time 644.65 years of energy demand for a laptop equivalent Location0.678 metric tonnes CO2e 82136.04 vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (FTE) based employee • Water: 2,945,065.25 Gallons of water saved = (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. 0.000326 metric tonnes CO2e unit hour 1.71E+08 Location322.32 pools full of water saved worked based . . ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 15 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-12 Describe organization’s supply chain G4-EN29 Monetary fines from significant Turnover Data as of 10-31-16 environmental sanctions ABM Supply Chain Annualized Turnover Overall Voluntary Involuntary None. ABM uses strategically located distributors, Enterprise 76.1% 40.5% 35.6% providing an efficient locally-based way for our G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were COR Corporate 24.1% 10.9% 13.1% employees to order and receive the products used screened using environmental criteria CSS Shared Services 23.6% 11.8% 11.8% in our daily service delivery to clients. Having AFS Facility Services 33.8% 16.1% 17.7% As part of ABM’s network of 35 primary suppliers, strategic local vendors placed near various urban Air AirServ/OmniServ 98.0% 73.5% 24.6% our three new additions in fiscal 2016, Clorox, locations enables ABM to minimize the company’s ENG Building & 49.9% 33.9% 16.0% Millennium Mats and Spraymart, required Energy Solutions DV impact of transporting machines, cleaning materials, sustainability considerations in order to partner JAN Janitorial 62.3% 35.3% 26.9% et al. between work sites. with ABM. PRK Parking 44.2% 25.3% 18.9% ABM’s suppliers fall into several categories. These G4-PR8 T  otal number of substantiated SEC Security 399.8% 87.2% 312.6% include suppliers for internal operations (office complaints regarding breaches Staff & Mgmt 30.4% 15.8% 14.5% supplies, Information Technology, communications, of customer privacy and Service 79.0% 42.1% 36.9% utilities, etc.), suppliers for products used in our losses of customer data Compared to 2015 fiscal year data services (cleaning chemicals, cleaning equipment, Turnover Data as of 10-31-15 paper and plastic liner products, engineering HVAC, In 2016, ABM had zero known data breaches alternative energy components, fleet vehicles, involving client locations. Annualized Turnover Overall Voluntary Involuntary landscape materials) and suppliers for external G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Enterprise 63.2% 34.1% 29.0% marketing and communications (consultants, employee hires and employee turnover COR Corporate 11.9% 5.9% 5.9% printing, materials). by age group, gender and region CSS Shared Services 20.9% 14.5% 6.4% AFS Facility Services 35.3% 14.2% 21.1% Turnover Breakdown Chart % Turnover by Air AirServ/OmniServ 81.1% 49.5% 31.7% Classification ENG Building & 49.0% 30.5% 18.4% Energy Solutions DV Age % % % Age Age JAN Janitorial 64.7% 33.6% 31.2% Total 30Male Female Minority <30 >50 50 PRK Parking 41.1% 25.5% 15.7% Mgt 1,888 68% 32% 45% 11% 50% 39% Staff & Mgmt 24.4% 12.8% 11.6% NonService 65.6% 35.5% 30.1% 88,918 53% 47% 78% 38% 39% 23% Mgt ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 16 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-LA2 Benefits Here are some additional programs that we continue to employ: ABM Employee Benefits • Healthy Weight program ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. • Mynurseline-24 hour nurse line program The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, • Healthy Back program life and disability and a 401(k) plan. • Wellness coaching Note: Service Worker and union workers’ benefits • Healthy Pregnancy program are provided consistent with their employment and/ • Care for diabetes or client contract. • Health classes Serious Disease Prevention • Overcoming Insomnia class Through our health plan partners, we offer the • Overcoming depression following for covered employees and their families: • Nourish-nutritional counseling • Disease management programs which assist • Free will preparation if enrolled in life insurance members in the management of their chronic medical conditions such as coronary artery disease, diabetes and congestive heart failure • Transplant solution programs that provide specialized networks and support to members requiring transplant services • Health and Wellness coaching programs such as smoking cessation. Includes monetary incentive to complete a Health Risk Assessment. • Complex case management services which assist and coordinate the care of members with serious and complex medical issues • A 24-hour nurse line that assists with non-medical emergencies ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 17 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-LA6 T  ype of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Case Classification Other Claimant Days Away Job Transfer or Group Industry Super Region Recordable Grand Total Gender From Work Restriction Cases Business & Industry BNI Central Female 69 91 66 226 Male 36 77 49 162 BNI Central Total 105 168 115 388 BNI GLNE Female 76 32 75 183 Male 83 27 69 179 BNI GLNE Total 159 59 144 362 BNI Group OH Male 1 1 BNI Group OH Total 1 1 BNI Ind & Manu Female 44 56 55 155 Male 37 42 60 139 BNI Ind & Manu Total 81 98 115 294 BNI Sports & Ent Female 8 10 19 37 Male 8 1 6 15 BNI Sports & Ent Total 16 11 25 52 BNI West Female 185 111 212 508 Male 113 96 142 351 BNI West Total 298 207 354 859 Business & Industry Total 660 543 753 1956 Aviation AVI Ops 1 Female 83 96 85 264 Male 36 64 52 152 AVI Ops 1 Total 119 160 137 416 AVI Ops 2 Female 74 106 113 293 Male 51 51 67 169 AVI Ops 2 Total 125 157 180 462 Aviation Total 244 317 317 878 Education EDU Central Female 8 14 29 51 Male 7 13 23 43 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 18 Sustainability in ABM Operations Case Classification Other Claimant Days Away Job Transfer or Group Industry Super Region Recordable Grand Total Gender From Work Restriction Cases EDU Central Total 15 27 52 94 EDU East Female 11 8 23 42 Male 14 5 15 34 EDU East Total 25 13 38 76 EDU West/Midwest Female 31 12 20 63 Male 27 3 12 42 EDU West/Midwest Total 58 15 32 105 Education Total 98 55 122 275 Healthcare HLC Group OH Female 2 2 HLC Group OH Total 2 2 HLC Non-Acute Female 21 27 25 73 Male 18 5 15 38 HLC Non-Acute Total 39 32 40 111 HLC Patient Exp Female 11 7 32 50 Male 19 14 32 65 HLC Patient Exp Total 30 21 64 115 HLC Tech Serv Male 1 2 4 7 HLC Tech Serv Total 1 2 4 7 Healthcare Total 70 55 110 235 High-Tech TEC Central Female 13 11 11 35 Male 4 4 4 12 TEC Central Total 17 15 15 47 TEC GLNE Female 10 7 17 Male 4 4 7 15 TEC GLNE Total 14 4 14 32 TEC West Female 62 29 17 108 Male 14 13 4 31 TEC West Total 76 42 21 139 High-Tech Total 107 61 50 218 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 19 Sustainability in ABM Operations Case Classification Other Claimant Days Away Job Transfer or Group Industry Super Region Recordable Grand Total Gender From Work Restriction Cases ABES ABS Bldg Solutions (ABS) Female 2 2 Male 3 6 12 21 ABS Bldg Solutions (ABS) 5 6 12 23 Total ABS Elec Power Sol (APS) Male 3 3 6 ABS Elec Power Sol (APS) 3 3 6 Total ABS Elec Sol (AESL) Male 3 1 4 ABS Elec Sol (AESL) Total 3 1 4 ABS Franchising Female 1 1 ABS Franchising Total 1 1 Technical Solutions Total 12 6 16 34 Government GOV Healthcare Facility Svcs Female 1 1 Male 3 3 GOV Healthcare Facility Svcs 3 1 4 Total EML/EJB/JJ/DBourg/Infinite Female 1 1 Male 2 1 3 EML/EJB/JJ/DBourg/Infinite 2 1 1 4 Total Government Total 5 1 2 8 Corporate CSA CFO Summary Male 1 1 CSA CFO Summary Total 1 1 CSA Legal Summary Male 1 1 CSA Legal Summary Total 1 1 Corporate Total 1 1 2 Grand Total 1196 1039 1371 3606 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 20 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-LA9 A  verage hours of training per All ABM management level employees are eligible The second track is focused on rewards – year per employee by gender, to participate in the goal setting process and attend compensation practices that are aligned to and by employee category corporate sponsored training courses in addition to the performance of the company, industry, and courses offered at the divisional level nationwide individual. At this time, we are focusing on the first Approximately 10 hours of training are emphasizing customer service, safety practices, track – performance and development – to provide devoted to 25% of ABM leadership and business ethics, and professional development. a solid foundation going forward. management level employees while 80% Contractual training agreements are also offered by of ABM service level employees devote 25 Performance and Development-based ABM to its large client-base. hours on average to training annually. Conversations http://www.abm.com/careers/growth-mobility/ Employees are provided awareness training Rather than “managing” performance, the objective and https://www.abm.com/safety-healthmonthly in addition to regulatory related of GPS is to “fuel” employee performance by environment/ training as pertains to their jobs. These building a feedback-friendly, development-oriented include Bloodborne Pathogens, Safe Lifting, In 2016, we created a Talent Management Group culture. At the core of this new process are ongoing, Electrical Safety, Pushing/Pulling Safety, Fire that will be responsible for driving best-in-class open and honest, two-way conversations between Safety, and Situational Safety Awareness. talent development throughout the organization. every employee and their manager. G4-LA10 P  rograms for skills management G4-LA11 P  ercentage of employees receiving This conversational approach lays the foundation and lifelong learning that support regular performance and career for managers and employees to build trusting and the continued employability of development reviews, by gender respectful relationships. Both employees and employees and assist them in and by employee category managers play critical roles in this relationship: managing career endings Employees “own” their performance today and their With our 2020 Vision reorganization, ABM path for the future, while managers provide support a. Report on the type and scope of programs transitioned our performance review and career by helping employees be successful in their current implemented and assistance provided to upgrade development reviews to a new methodology and as role, as well as helping them navigate their journey employee skills. a result the 2016 reviews moved to the new format towards their career goals and aspirations. starting in FY2017. To support this effort, we are b. Report on the transition assistance programs introducing Grow. Perform. Succeed! (GPS). All How Does GPS Work? provided to facilitate continued employability and staff and management employees and managers the management of career endings resulting from Managers and employees are encouraged to take action in this important process and complete retirement or termination of employment. discuss performance and development throughout all conversations. the year through: Various learning and development programs at Grow. Perform. Succeed! ABM include annual harassment prevention training, • Real-time, ongoing feedback and coaching (e.g., regional supervisor training, ethic training, and wage The new GPS process has two tracks. One track daily, weekly) that supports employees in building and hour training. is focused on performance and development. upon their strengths and broadening their skill sets. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 21 Sustainability in ABM Operations • Quarterly “Check-In” Conversations focused and be rewarded for high performance, potential ABM is fully committed to equality. However, on the employees’ prior quarter’s performance, and great leadership. circumstances prevent us from providing our progress towards development and performance report at this time. Specifically, ABM has just G4-LA12 C  omposition of governance bodies goals/priorities for the upcoming quarter, and completed Phase I of a multi-phase reorganization and breakdown of employees interests and career goals. that, given the size of our organization, is per employee category • Year-End Conversations geared towards anticipated to take several years to complete. reflecting on performance for that year, setting (We have approximately 100,000 employees and Employee % Age Age Age Total % Male goals for the upcoming quarter/year, exploring Breakdown Female <30 30-50 >50 operations in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the interests and career goals, and identifying areas Board 10 60% 40% 100% District of Columbia, as well as in England and for development going forward. Mgt 5,985 64% 36% 5% 48% 47% the Middle East.) Under our current structure, we Non-Mgt 94,590 53% 47% 21% 43% 36% have more than 20 “employee categories” and The Quarterly and Year-End Conversations each at least 460 “significant locations of operation.” G4-LA13 R  atio of basic salary and consist of the following 4 parts: Much of this is in flux due to the reorganization. remuneration of women to • Performance: Performance (accomplishments) men by employee category, by G4-HR3 Total number of incidents during the year or quarter significant locations of operation of discrimination and • “Go Forward” Goals: Goals/priorities for next year corrective actions taken ABM is an Equal Employment Opportunity/ or quarter Affirmative Action employer operating in Professional behavior is expected and required • Career & Well-Being: Career aspirations, interests compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended, of all ABM employees. The company’s intent and overall well-being Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended, and is to provide all employees with a workplace The Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended. Our environment consistent with ABM’s core values of • Development: Opportunities identified to “Dial Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, which Respect, Integrity, Collaboration, Innovation and Up” (do more of) and “Dial Down” (do less of) states ABM’s zero tolerance policy toward Excellence. Accordingly, ABM does not tolerate We recognize that this is a new and very different discrimination, is signed and supported by Chief workplace discrimination or harassment based on approach to performance and development. While Executive Officer Scott Salmirs and applies to “all age, ancestry, color, religious creed, request for/use it may be challenging at first, with practice each employment practices, including recruitment, hiring, of family and medical care leave, disability (mental quarter, the conversations will become increasingly promotion, layoff or termination, compensation or physical) including HIV and AIDS, marital status, richer and more impactful. While we each evolve and training programs.” We are committed to medical, genetic information, military and veteran in our capabilities, the process itself will also providing a workplace free of discrimination status, national origin, race, sex, gender, gender evolve over time. What remains constant is ABM’s based on race, gender, religion, age, disability, identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, commitment towards ensuring that each employee sexual orientation, gender identity and status as a or any other status protected by law. To ensure receives feedback and coaching to help them protected veteran, among other characteristics. that all employees have a confidential channel for perform at higher levels, advance in their careers, reporting incidents of misconduct and unlawful ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 22 Sustainability in ABM Operations business practices, ABM provides a Compliance G4-SO1 P  ercentage of operations with Hotline (“Hotline”), a reporting system that allows implemented local community employees to report a variety of concerns, including engagement, impact assessment but not limited to: harassment, discrimination, and development programs retaliation, wage and hour issues (such as not and being paid properly for all hours worked, not being paid properly for overtime, paycheck problems, G4-SO2 Operations with significant etc.), accounting irregularities, corporate abuse actual or potential negative and fraud, theft, safety concerns, workers’ impacts on local communities compensation fraud, or other suspected violations of law or company policy, that they observe or Foremost, all ABM HR recruiting for site level encounter in the workplace. The Hotline is staffed employees starts in the local communities in which by professional, trained specialists 24 hours a day, 7 that site is located. We want our people who work at days a week. Reports may be made in any language client locations to be members of that community, if and callers may remain anonymous if they wish. All at all possible. completed reports to the Hotline will be assigned to an investigator. ABM conducts a prompt, objective, thorough and confidential investigation of the reported concern. The investigation process will reach reasonable conclusions based on the evidence collected. If ABM determines that conduct violating its policies has occurred, it will take prompt and appropriate remedial action which can include termination of the individual who engaged in inappropriate conduct and/or other measures designed to prevent future discrimination or harassment. In order to encourage employees to utilize the Hotline and report concerns, ABM does not publicly disclose information about complaints, the status of the investigations related thereto, or the specific remedial measures taken. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 23 ABM in the Community ABM is committed to operating under a core set of least 18 cities across the United States. Click here personal relationships, information systems usage fundamental values: to read more about ABM’s commitment to our local and the overall ethical environment at ABM. communities. • Respect G4-SO7 T  otal number of legal actions for • Integrity We also celebrate these activities on our Facebook anti-competitive behavior, antipage and other social media sites. trust and monopoly practices • Collaboration and their outcomes • Innovation Individuals, ABM service teams, and clients have received international and local recognition for their None • Trust contributions to sustainability, service excellence, • Excellence G4-PR2 T  otal number of incidents of nonand community. compliance with regulations and These values intertwine to provide a baseline Click here to read more about ABM’s Awards and voluntary codes concerning the mentality for how we operate, and nowhere Recognitions. health and safety impacts of is that more evident than in how we take products and services during their responsibility for our activities which impact G4-SO3 T  otal number and percentage life cycle, by type of outcomes stakeholders and the environment. of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the For FY16, ABM received five OSHA Citations of How We Give Back significant risks identified Other than Serious Violations. ABM’s continued attention to safety and aggressive claim We’ve launched our ABMCares program to ensure and management has sustained our Experience Mod that every management and staff employee can G4-SO4 C  ommunication and training on antiRating (EMR) of 0.86. These efforts help reduce take a day to do community work, if they choose. We corruption policies and procedures the number of citations with penalty and result in have also formalized a charitable donation matching ABM’s OSHA Days Away From Work (DAFW) being policy to help our management and staff employees ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and 45% better than industry averages; Days Away and continue to give back to the communities in which Anti-Harassment Training are required for all Restricted Activity or Job Transfer (DART), 14%; and they work, play, and live. A new ABMCares web portal staff and management employees – our Code of Total Rate Case (TRC) at industry averages. makes it simple for our employees to find charities, Business Conduct was last updated in September donate their time and resources, and electronically 2015. The Code of Business Conduct training tool enable donations with company matching. also has been modified and updated to include In 2016, our employees engaged in their local questions specifically concerning anti-bribery and communities through philanthropic projects in at anti-corruption compliance, political contributions, ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2016 | June 2017 | 24
