HIGHLIGHTS REPORT Contents our contribution 1 our people 5 From Our Leadership 1 A Visible Sign of Diversity 5 Why Sustainability? 2 Balance & Perspective 6 About Us 3 Health, Safety & Security 7 Charting a Future 4 Demographics this is us 8 our planet 9 our actions 13 Environment Management 9 Project Profiles 13 Carbon Footprint 10 Industry Recognition 15 Materiality 11 Feedback 12 our communities 16 our approach 20 Local Initiatives 16 Meet Golder 20 Front cover image taken by Andrea Anchor – McLaren Falls, Lower Kaimai, New Zealand Golder Trust for Orphans 17 Operations 21 GTO 2015 Overview 18 Countries We Operate In 22 Golder Foundations Awards 19 Golder Associates ii our contribution our contribution From Our Why Sustainability? our contribution Leadership Working with our clients In 2015, the Global Agenda Council environments understand this and are Members at the World Economic seeking to minimise their impacts while to achieve sustainable Forum identified 10 issues they bringing much needed jobs to the development goals is believe will have the biggest impact people and increasing their quality of on the world. With economic and life. The path to sustainability, is the call always a rewarding effort. At environmental factors as two of the to arms we all commonly heed. Golder, we are encouraged major areas of concern dominating At the heart of things, As I reflect on the challenges of 2015, to see the growing trend this list, a clear trend is evident: the there is a quote that resonates for me. engineers and scientists are long-term economic prosperity of of business serving as dedicated problem-solvers. the world absolutely depends on “We are at a critical fork in the road, a mediators, or even drivers, environmental sustainability. The period of decision that will dictate the We pursue this field of study demand for innovative solutions has health and viability of our civilization for of change – addressing the and profession specifically been accelerating in recent years as decades to come.” challenges of economic and our clients are confronting not only because we believe there is Council World Economic Forum environmental sustainability. the declining natural resources and always a better way to do a changing climate, but the related Companies like Golder have the ability, Our 2015 Sustainable and perhaps the responsibility, to work things – through innovation, business drivers of a rapidly changing Development Report population growth in cities, and a with our clients in a way that balances through calculation, through economic, social, and environmental showcases those most constrained commodities market. experimentation. Because needs. We can help choose the interesting and significant At the same time, we as a society have direction of the future, taking the of this, the businesses been confronted with some alarming projects where Golder has right fork in the road to solve some of engineering and changes, many unprecedented in our of the most pressing problems facing partnered with our clients to modern history. Millions of people are environmental consultancies the environment and today’s society, provide sustainable solutions being displaced from their homelands whether it’s through restoration of are well-placed to solve by war and drought. The gap between to business needs. environments or innovative design some of society’s most the economic classes continues to that attends to the needs of the widen. Cities are facing chronic housing triple bottom line, paving the way for pressing problems. shortages as they struggle to deal with sustainable economic prosperity. Golder urban migration. is answering the call, working with our Hannah Hamling The changing climatic conditions clients to achieve economic growth President Asia Pacific Global Lead Sustainable Development have had the most profound effect through development and application on water resources, and while this of sustainable solutions. has most significantly impacted Asia We have worked at leveraging the and Sub-Saharan Africa in the past, amazing skills and innovative thinkers the effects are expanding to be felt we have in Golder to enable our clients worldwide and across all economic, to succeed. At the same time we have urban, and rural environments. been focusing on “walking the talk” Significantly, aquifer decline, is causing within our own house, working hard land to sink. Most recently, Beijing has to be a good corporate citizen and lost so much water from its aquifer minimise our direct impacts on the it’s sinking 11cm a year while parts of planet. For over a dozen years now, we California’s Central Valley are dropping have worked to alleviate the desperate as much as 5cm per month. situation of orphans impacted by Developing countries continue to suffer AIDS/HIV and Ebola in Africa through the most from weather-related disasters our Golder’s Trust for Orphans. In and increased water stress caused by addition, our passionate and committed climate change. We are unfortunately people are actively volunteering, as reminded that much of the world’s well as funding causes that make a most biodiverse environments are difference in our local communities located in the most impoverished wherever we work and live. regions of the world and it’s the Our efforts are ongoing on all of poorest people on earth who make these fronts. We know this is a path sacrifices to conserve these areas for of continuous improvement. Our future generations. Those businesses goal, and our commitment, is to make who have commercial interests in these strides every year. 1 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 2 our contribution our contribution About Us Charting a Future The 2015 Sustainable Who We Are Throughout Golder’s history, Sustainability at Golder, both in practice Golder’s commitment to sustainability and standpoint, is being further was refined in 2015 and builds upon Development Report describes We are scientists and engineers, we have recognised that amplified, and this is evident in our existing commitments formally ecologists and economists, geochemists and reports on our work, success comes from strong commitment to the Global Compact, established in 2012 and detailed in and geologists, planners and builders, decided upon at a meeting of global two documents: “Our Commitment environment, governance and much more. We are approximately principles and shared leaders in late 2015 and enacted in to Sustainable Development” model and contributions to 6,500 employees working from 185 ownership, not merely the 2016. The theme of the 2015 report, and “Sustainable Development offices on six continents. our community. In particular, pursuit of profit. “Owning the Future” reflects our Desired State”. experience responding to challenging it considers our progress in What We Do market conditions and the beginning of embedding sustainability into our transition to a new destination and Golder delivers design, construction, our operations as well as in a redefined organisation. ground engineering and environmental the work we do for our clients. solutions that help our clients in oil and gas, mining, manufacturing, power, and The theme of the report, urban development and infrastructure Owning the Future, reflects achieve their sustainable development our experience responding to goals. We do this by providing a wide range of services in our specialist areas challenging market conditions of earth and environment. and the beginning of our transition to a new destination Our Vision Our Imperatives Our Destination and redefined organisation. Where our business is going The goals we absolutely must What it will look and feel accomplish to achieve Our Vision like when we have arrived We have recently completed Our Commitment to Sustainability an internal program to restate As an enterprise: As a service: our values and commitments »» We are a leader in sustainable »» We pro-actively embed sustainable and sustainability was one development and social responsibility development in the services »» We actively strive to reduce impacts we offer clients of the highest ranking values to the environment from our »» We strive for innovation in identified by our people and internal activities sustainable solutions confirmed by our Board, our »» We uphold our commitment »» We provide long-term innovative leadership, and our clients. to human rights solutions to our clients’ problems »» We demonstrate our commitment and assist them in achieving their As such, we have renewed to our people and our clients, aspirational goals on sustainability our commitment to programs and motivate ourselves to and social responsibility such as the UNGC, continuing continually improve »» Through our innovations, we adapt to changing economic conditions our annual reporting on »» We will commit to the UN Global Compact and its requirements and the demands of a growing sustainability under the GRI(4) global population. »» We will report on our performance standards, and complying with through our Sustainable in country programs such as Development Report. the UK Modern Slavery Act. Hisham Mahmoud Principal, Global President & CEO 3 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 4 A Visible Sign Balance & Perspective our people our people of Diversity It has been said that gender All of the senior women are strong believers in the value and the Champions of Change is a business issue, not a effectiveness of high-performing teams. women’s issue – the business Consult Australia, the peak “I’m passionate in working with people, body for the consulting industry case for the advancement understanding individual and collective in Australia, actively works to and promotion of women is challenges and needs to take the best increase the participation of Women in Leadership – Shattering the Glass Ceiling at Golder Hannah Hamling is President of the of every one with a collective sense of women in positions of leadership Asia Pacific region. Based in Auckland, compelling. Organisations success,” says Maria Eugenia. When Golder moved from seven the global economy is in a recession in this business sector. Through New Zealand, Hannah joined Golder with diversity in top positions their Champions of Change operating regions to four in 2015, and Golder has undertaken a major 10 years ago through the acquisition The value of teamwork is a common the result was an organisation rich in rebuilding under a new CEO, it is a better reflect the perceptions thread among all the members of initiative, Consult Australia of her own company, where she diversity. As Golder entered this new crucial time in the company’s history. the Executive Committee. “We need members work to promote gender was the managing director and the of their clients and their own phase, four women were selected to The selection of leaders was done with to lead as a team,” says Anna-Lena, equity and influence change only woman among five owners. A employees, and benefit from a key leadership roles. All are members a vision to the skills, capabilities, and “building consensus wherever we can.” in what are unacceptably low biologist by training, over her 30-year of the company’s Executive Committee, passion that could take Golder forward career, she has been focused primarily broader view of the business. levels of women in leadership where with women holding 6 of 11 to a strong and resilient future. in Australia’s consulting industry. on permitting and due diligence and roles, they are actually in the majority. Members of the Champion What are the challenges for these environmental liability management “Women often bring the need to analyse “The women in our team pick up the This gender diversity is unique in the of Change network comprise women leaders? What do they bring related to mergers and acquisitions. She situations from different angles before complexity of the problems with regard engineering/environmental consulting CEOs and Managing Directors to the table that could potentially give has held a number of leadership roles in making a decision,” says Maria Eugenia. to people management, the markets industry where traditional science, of leading consultancy firms Golder a strategic advantage over Golder, including a 5-year term on the “In our current team we value direct and the strategy.” Hannah agrees. “As technology, engineering and math across Australia. Members share its competitors? For a start, the four company’s Board of Directors. feedback and productive debate.” a result, I think our leadership team (STEM) fields are dominated by experiences, best practice, data women are highly-accomplished in their Anna-Lena Oberg-Hogsta is reaches decisions more quickly.” and strategies. They advocate males from early education through “It is a question of balance,” says Louise. technical fields, and all have proven President of the European and Middle and take practical action to to business leadership. Considering “I think with diversity in a team, we “I definitely see it as a strategic themselves as outstanding leaders. East region for Golder. She holds a PhD advance this issue. Actions explore issues in a broader way, looking advantage,” says Anna-Lena. “The in geotechnical engineering, and is a at them from a number of angles. I diversity brings different perspectives to include sponsoring and mentoring former professor at the University at believe there is more richness in the the decision-making process. That puts women into leadership positions, Gothenburg in Sweden. She has been discussion, better listening. And at us ahead of the game.” partnering with schools and with Golder for 14 years, and served in the end of the day, I think we arrive at universities to raise the level a number of leadership roles in Golder’s better decisions.” of women in our industry, and European operation. encouraging a greater focus on STEM (science, technology, Louise Menard is President of the engineering and maths) Americas, Golder’s largest region. subjects in schools. A geologist by training, her 20+ year Leading Next Generation in career has seen her move from her Tunnelling – Nichole Boultbee Hannah Hamling, President native Quebec, where she gained Asia Pacific, is a member of the Nichole Boultbee was quite busy in 2015. experience in environmental consulting Champions of Change network As an Engineering Geologist based in British with a focus on contaminated and in her words describes her Columbia, Canada, she has been intensely sites management, to increasinglyinvolved at engaging young professionals in support for gender equity. “It is Hannah Hamling Louise Menard President Aisa Pacific – Principal President Americas – Principal responsible leadership roles, including the tunnelling industry. As well as being on well understood that successful Chief Operating Officer for Canada and the Board of Directors with the Tunnelling companies have diversity in leader of global business support. Association of Canada (TAC), she has also gender and race. Having firsthelped found a young members’ group hand experience of the upside Maria Eugenia Parot is Vice President with the International Tunnelling and NICHOLE BOULTBEE of fostering a diverse workforce Latin America, a biochemical engineer Underground Space Association (ITA) and Engineering Geologist, Canada and the debilitating nature of by profession and an environmental now sits on the steering board for the group uniformity, I am passionate consultant by experience. Early in A Week in My Life article spread from the about this issue. We can achieve her career, she had the opportunity BREAKTHROUGH Breakthrough June/July edition. much more by working together to work with outstanding mentors One of their initiatives was creating a new to effect positive change than who encouraged and supported her magazine aimed at young ITA members by a singular effort, and I am development as a consultant and entitled Breakthrough. Alongside folks from pleased to be part of a cohort of project manager. She joined Golder the Tunnelling Journal, Nichole and the team like-minded people.” in 2005 through the acquisition of helped produce the inaugural issue. She has her own company where she was the since contributed several articles including A managing director. Week in my Life feature detailing her day to day activities. Anna-Lena Oberg-Hogsta Maria Eugenia Parot President European & Middle East – Principal Vice President Latin America – Principal 5 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 6 Health, Safety Demographics this is us our people our people & Security Achievements 12,851 Reported global In 2015, a global dialogue on learnings psychologically-healthy workplaces began with participation from every Golder region. This was directly correlated to the introduction of Workplace Wellness in our Golder 887 28 Global Total number of Recordables for 2015 Global HSSE Policy in 2014. P&A site visits Global best management practices, 6, 4 9 8 pertaining to high-risk work, were developed and communicated for use throughout the organisation including aviation safety, marine safety, malaria prevention and thermal stress. In response to user needs, the electronic HaSEP tool was improved and implemented globally. 6,300+ International trips 0.44 Global Total Recordable with Internatioanl SOS Case Rate – 12% Travel continued to be one of our decrease from 2014 supporting our needs greatest risks to our people’s health, safety and security. Golder completed over 6300 international trips in 2015, total employees in 2015 successfully managing security and medical risk to keep our people safe. 94 % Audited Projects had To serve clients, Golder deployed 73 an approved HSE Plan staff to complete 151 trips to high security risk locations and 112 staff Wave of Juniors We’re Staying Longer 11 % to complete 205 trips to extreme There was significant restructuring The average tenure for Golder medical risk locations. No work-related 12,608,034 during 2015 in response to prevailing staff increased in 2015 for both security or medical evacuations were required in 2015. market conditions and ensuring the increase men and women. Men stay on ongoing success of the business. average 7.71 years, whilst women in junior staff since 2014 During this time our employee stay for 6.22 years for a total Global total working hours for 2015 numbers decreased by 23% – the average of 7.13 years – a 4% In 2015, Golder launched biggest decline for many years. 2,252 2,407 increase from 6.85 years in 2014. Learnings & Improvements 7,144 7.13 its first Global Malaria However, the percentage of juniors 1,796 Reporting HSE learnings is an important increased as we see a new wave of Awareness & Travel Risk process used by Golder to prevent talent enter the workplace. In 2015 Awareness campaigns. injury, illness and loss, improving risk juniors made up 35% of Golder’s mitigation and hazard control, and 2,886 global staff – an increase of 11% from years strengthening our health and safety 1,186 1,232 the previous year. is the average tenure of our staff culture. Golder also uses reported 405 Highlights learnings as a measure of employee Home Laboratory Field Commendation A notable highlight of 2015 was the engagement in HSE. Total learnings posted by incident location redefinition of our HSSE purpose. Diversity In 2015, 12,851 learnings related We recommitted to our journey The overall percentage of women to HSE losses, near misses, 1.6 38% 62% to interdependence as well as in Golder has essentially been potentially hazardous conditions and new opportunities for employee constant, fluctuating less than 2% commendations were reported in the engagement, visible felt leadership, learnings per person year over year. A slight decrease in Learnings Database. This represents and improvement. administrative and scientist positions 66% of our target of 3 learnings per Global total 2015 – target is 3 per person In 2015, Golder employees participated person per year (based on a total was balanced by a similar increase in in 92 corporate HSSE-related employee count of 6,500). The 2015 women in geology, engineering and 48,878 committees, across all of our operating number represents 1.6 learnings per finance positions. Total number of Total number of regions, in support of our commitments person relative to the reported learnings female workers in male workers in to health, safety, environment, wellness target of 3 or more reported learnings hours 2015 was 2,464. 2015 was 4,017. and sustainability. per person per year. Total health & safety training for employees 7 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 8 Environment Carbon Footprint our planet our planet Management Managing Energy Use & Carbon Emissions Across our operations, we are committed to the responsible use of energy and energy resources. We are also committed to the continual Our Global Health, Safety & Global HSSE Work Plan improvement of our facilities to Environment Policy commits As a services company, the work we optimise energy consumption. In each do for our clients offers us a great of our geographic regions, Golder us to protect the environment tracks energy use in our workplaces opportunity to address impacts that can and prevent pollution, and is lead to climate change, water scarcity and this is reported into our carbon realised in our management of and water quality issues, biodiversity data collection database. 36,923 losses, desertification, and many other our operations and our service Golder operations and work activities issues. As scientists and engineers are dependent upon the use of energy delivery to our clients. we use our knowledge to help our and fuels for travel by air, rail, road clients meet their business needs and and ship, and office, laboratory and devise and design solutions to the warehouse utilities. Tonnes CO2 emissions problems they face, evaluating inherent Total 2015 Golder Emissions risks and taking actions that mitigate impacts to the environment. We are equally committed to minimising Our emissions intensity for the environmental impacts of our 2015 was 5.7 tonnes CO2e own operations. per person. An 18% global We successfully completed our decrease from 2014 in 2015 Global HSSE work plan in Management of the Environment in the total CO2 emissions. following areas: »» Review and amendment of the existing Global HSE Policy and At the end of 2015, Golder had Global Procedure 5: Management of 6,500 employees in 185 offices and Environmental Issues laboratories in 44 countries. Our »» Continued discussions with the staff facilities occupied approximately Employee Travel – Business & Commuting Global Sustainable Development 180,000 square metres around the Leader and allocated resources to world. Our 2015 electricity usage During 2015, we travelled to a committed focus on essential the environment-related sustainable decreased by 9% as compared to the approximately 80 million km to support business travel only. development work previous year. Total energy usage, and deliver services to our clients. This Golder maintains a fleet of vehicles in which includes natural gas, heat compares to 75 million km in 2014 »» Tracking, reporting and analysis order to facilitate business travel and to and steam, and electricity, in 2015 and represents a 7% increase in total of carbon footprint data on our improve the safety, maintenance and decreased 46% when compared with business travel (i.e., air, road and rail current database. environmental sustainability of vehicle 2014. Golder is proud of this decrease travel) or approximately 770 km/person travel. Carbon emissions associated Building of shared resources and for two distinct reasons: it reflects in 2015. Our business travel emissions with the fleet operations represents 6% information between regions on an improvement of natural gas data intensity is approximately 1.75 tonnes of our total emissions. Fleet emissions environmental learnings, alerts, training collection in some regions and also CO2e km/person with business travel 2015 Winter Drilling & Sampling Program for the Dominion Diamond Jay Project, Canada experienced a negligible increase in and other relevant information. greater clarity in our estimates through by air contributing 25% of the carbon 2015 from the previous year. However, a revised process using vendor invoices emissions produced as a result of emissions from business travel in rather than estimates based on office our operations’ activities, increasing personal and rental vehicles decreased size and occupancy. We also believe by approximately 1800 km/person. by 40%, from 2014 to 2015. this means our energy management Although we have experienced a 33% was better than reported in 2014 as increase in emissions from air travel, While 31% of our 2015 emissions are our estimates were likely above actual we are still well below our emissions associated with employee business use. In 2015, our total energy usage produced prior to implementation travel in airplanes, vehicles, and intensity was 21 GJ/person or 0.7 GJ/m2 of our travel reduction program trains, an additional 28% of emissions of occupied workspace compared and overall our totals still reflect a result from employee commuting. to 34 GJ/person or 1.2 GJ/m2 of significantly lower number than our The estimated commuting emissions occupied space in 2014. 2013 marker of 190 million km due intensity is 1.6 tonnes CO2e/person. 9 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 10 Materiality Feedback our planet our planet A materiality survey and an Again we sought to better understand Materiality – Opportunities As noted in our Energy and Carbon our position in terms of what Golder for Education and Growth Emissions notes, the very nature of analysis of the findings, guided Sustainability and being stakeholders identify as material items our consulting business will always by the Global Reporting of importance to our people, business, Based on responses, our employees require travel, the largest contributor an environmentally conscious clients and communities. To encourage understand and support our desire to our carbon footprint. However company is a big key to being a Initiative (GRI) G4 standard of to be cost effective in all aspects of engagement by our people, the survey we are looking at ways to offset our successful company reporting, has been included was simple and concise and provided our business. Some understand that carbon footprint through participation sustainability is more than the triple today, in my opinion. in each of Golder’s annual a good measurement opportunity as in carbon credit and sustainable the same eight short questions asked bottom line, while others question the social programs. Sustainable Development need to spend additional resources in 2014 were repeated. The survey was Reports. The 2015 materiality launched in both English and French on implementing best practice in language versions to accommodate our environmental sustainability. survey had a similar scope to Overall, results indicate large population in the French-speaking While sustainable development and More and more our that of the 2014 survey, and Province of Quebec. we must continue our sustainability can be a source of clients’ procurement practices engendered a response from a debate, Golder aims to be as “clean” communication and will reward companies that broad cross-section of Golder Materiality – Strengths as practicably possible in our own education efforts to better operation, and encourage our clients, I’m proud to work adhere to the highest standards employees. The survey was Overall, survey respondents support inform our employees where appropriate, to make decisions for a company that of sustainability. launched company-wide, with the need to balance sustainable about their own operations based on about our commitment a targeted invitation to 2,700 choices without compromising our principles of sustainability. to being recognised as a values our environment ability to service our clients’ projects. who represented a diversity and promotes They know that to be recognised by business that operates our clients as leaders in sustainability, Materiality – Our Clients sustainable practices. of rank, roles, responsibilities, sustainably and thinks we must demonstrate company-wide Our key clients were also invited location and years of service. commitment to a formalised company creatively to assist our to participate in the materiality sustainability agenda. survey. The purpose of seeking this clients in meeting their own 2015 MATERIALITY SURVEY RESEARCH Leadership means taking Some survey respondents noted information from clients is for Golder sustainability agendas. strong stands on issues important to 189 44 support for individual offices taking to gain a greater understanding of the responsibility for carbon offsetting in sustainability issues that are important people and our planet. While the last a local setting even if it amounted to to clients, and if Golder meets their Our stakeholders identified a need couple of years have been difficult for Golder, Associates Principals expectations in this regard. “just planting trees.” to look at ethical procurement we are still blessed with some of the smartest 344 193 All respondents considered it and formalise our Corporate Social Some respondents highlighted the minds in engineering and science, and we important that Golder operates as an Responsibility program and Human fact that clients want to work with should take a firm role in protecting our environmentally sustainable and socially Rights Policy. Respondents cited consultants with defined corporate Level 1-3 Level 4’s & above responsible organisation by minimising examples where clients, growing legacy and being role models for others social responsibility processes and waste and carbon emissions and paying in sophistication on sustainability around the world. policies and felt that we could improve 16 attention to the potential for human measurements, have requested in defining our commitments so it is rights abuses in the supply chain. these details as part of project bids, easier to demonstrate these to clients. demonstrating an understanding of Board & Executive Stakeholders demonstrated their Further, all respondents agreed it was the supply chain impacts. In addition, Committee commitment and challenged our important that Golder is recognised as respondents noted that when we leadership to unanimously support the a provider of sustainable solutions to complete social impact assessments strategy and identified their investment their businesses. As a company we have the we frequently commit our clients to as critical to our future. local procurement and other social ability to shape projects and have best practice measures, and would positive immediate and long terms like assurances that Golder itself has impacts on the environment and local these matters in hand. This represents We received a 29% response rate, our greatest to date, with an opportunity to improve internal economy. Allowing time for innovative a total of 794 employee responses from approximately communication about Golder’s own thinking and discussion of new ideas and procurement policies. techniques should be encouraged to 2,700 people invited to participate. A select group of clients The Materiality Survey will be revised prevent repetition of ‘old’ behaviours were also invited to participate in the survey and 12 client for 2016 to further align content with and design techniques. responses were received. contemporary sustainability issues. 11 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 12 our actions Project Profiles Project Profiles our actions Renewable Energy – Solid Waste Management Remediating an Industrial Enel Green Power Technology Roadmap Site for Agricultural Use EUROPE & SOUTH AMERICA SINGAPORE RIVAROLO, ITALY Golder is working with Enel Green In Singapore Golder is working with The introduction of advanced farming Power on the development of the National Environment Agency systems is a seldom explored solution renewable energy projects in Europe (NEA) to develop a Solid Waste for the redevelopment of contaminated Vancouver Island Bluefish Lake Managed Aquifer Recharge and South America. Enel Green Power Management Technology Roadmap brownfield sites. The environmental Pygmy Whitefish (MAR) Pilot Project VANCOUVER, CANADA is an Italian renewable-energy business that establishes pathways in achieving liabilities and economic constraints established in 2008. Together Golder Singapore’s 2030 vision goals. For connected to contaminated sites often On Vancouver Island, Golder is BLUEFISH LAKE, CANADA HINDS, ASHBURTON, NEW ZEALAND and Enel Green Power are preparing Singapore, a country challenged by make it hard to implement innovative helping one of our First Nation While monitoring fisheries at Bluefish In many parts of the world, Social Environmental and Economic the physical limitations of land space, urban land uses that go beyond communities, the Pacheedaht, upgrade Lake for the Northwest Territories communities are seeking to find Context Analysis (SEECA) for the the effective management of waste building new residences or commercial the water supply for the benefit of Power Corporation, Paul Vecsei, cost effective and environmentally development of renewable energy is an important priority. Singapore’s premises; in many cases these sites the community. The Pacheedaht and a Golder fisheries team from friendly solutions to issues of water plants, including solar, biomass and 2030 vision goals relating to waste remain empty and have no clear future. community of approximately 130 the Yellowknife office in Canada, scarcity. In the Hinds catchment and geothermal plants. A SEECA analysis management include; minimising the people live in a communal setting at have found evidence of the rare elsewhere in New Zealand, Golder is The idea with this project is to go Gordon River on the west coast of includes an environmental and land footprint and environmental Pygmy Whitefish. successfully developing this Integrated one step back, bringing abandoned Vancouver Island. The community is social baseline; stakeholder mapping impact of waste management; Water Management Systems (IWMS) industrial sites located in rural areas, 2km from the village of Port Renfrew The Pygmy Whitefish is the smallest and identification of community maximising manpower productivity approach through the development to the agricultural use they had before and one and a half hours from the member of the subfamily Coregoninae. relationships; an outline of competitors while maintaining high levels of of catchment-scale Groundwater industrialisation, but at the same nearest service centre. The community It has large scales, large eyes, a blunt and other industrial players in the public health; keeping the cost of Replenishment Systems (GRS). The New time go one step forward, by using is located on the relatively flat delta snout and a cylindrical body and rarely area; identification of international, waste disposal affordable; maximising Zealand national government is also innovative soil-less farming techniques. between the San Juan and Gordon exceeds 140mm in length. Curiously, institutional or other relevant projects recycling (waste to resource) in meeting interested in Golder’s approach, and This concept has been applied in a Rivers. The sand and gravel deposits extensive fisheries surveys in Great underway in the locale; stakeholder the national recycling target of 70% by has provided funding for two Golder feasibility study developed jointly by were highly vulnerable to potential Slave Lake have not yet detected interviews to understand their 2030; and maximising energy recovery. led projects as part of the national Golder and TRA (architects) for Eaton, contamination from surface sources this species. Golder was contracted interests, concerns and expectations water infrastructure program. Golder’s approach in developing the owner of the of the brownfield site and consistent access to drinking to undertake fisheries monitoring at of the projects; proposals of actions, Starting in 2014, Golder has led the the Roadmap included a review and in the Metropolitan City of Torino. water has been a problem for Bluefish Lake, which also acts as a and initiatives that will deliver a design, permitting and construction of assessment of current best practices in the Pacheedaht. reservoir for the Bluefish Hydroelectric shared value outcome. From an environmental point of view, the Hinds MAR pilot site, thought to waste management, and of emerging Plant, owned and operated by the site shows a residual contamination Golder was initially engaged to be the first project of its kind in New Enel Green Power has adopted a (global) trends in waste management Golder client, Northwest Territories due to past production activities, and conduct a groundwater exploration Zealand. Golder continues to be the Creating Shared Value (CSV) approach technologies relating to collection, Power Corporation. remediation of soil and groundwater program and find a confined aquifer to lead for both operations, technical to its business which is aimed at sorting, upcycling and treatment. Input are currently being performed, with enable a consistent and quality water Monitoring activity revealed six analysis and community outreach and promoting joint projects with local and feedback from local academia, no major risks or technical difficulties supply. Additional project work was individual Pygmy Whitefish, only the education. After only four months communities that are simultaneously industries and government agencies anticipated. In redeveloping the site the required including an environmental second observation of this species of operations for the MAR Hinds profitable, and adding value to the were gathered through a series of need for construction activities would assessment, an environmental in the Northwest Territories, and the pilot, results have indicated that both local economy. Through the SEECA stakeholder consultation workshops be minimised and the spaces and management plan, and monitoring of first report of their presence in the groundwater levels and contamination analysis, a profile of the communities organised by Golder. buildings already available would be the installation of the infrastructure. Great Slave Lake Basin. The finding is concentrations are improving in the and relevant stakeholders in a The roadmap and its recommendations reused, to create a hub for innovation The groundwater exploration program interesting because of the questions it area adjacent to the site. With these project is created, and becomes an will form the baseline for NEA to in the agricultural sector. The main included drilling and construction of raises regarding the uneven spread of positive results the community is now important resource for planning joint further evaluate their social, economic shed, approximately 12,000m2, one test well and a hydraulic testing fauna across the northern landscape setting up a governance structure to development activities. and technical relevance in Singapore. would suit indoor hydroponics program to assess the quantity and following the last ice age 8,000 develop a catchment-wide GRS and So far, SEECA analysis has been agriculture. The rest of the site can quality of the water from the test well. years ago. This discovery has caused include a diversity of stakeholder The Golder EHS team in Singapore undertaken on three proposed biomass accommodate activities linked to Golder identified an alternative aquifer much excitement for the scientific interests to ensure that the economic, collaborated with colleagues in the power plants in Italy, a photovoltaic advanced agriculture, such as a approximately 60m below ground level community with findings published environmental and cultural outcomes USA, Canada, UK and Australia to park in Peru, and a geothermal logistics hub, research and education which recharges naturally that could be in the Canadian Field Naturalist, and are balanced and sustainable. If prepare this roadmap, which was power plant in Germany, the first areas, recreational spaces and used to provide the community with a presented at the Canadian Conference successful, it is likely to be one of the presented at the Energy Innovation steps in becoming future sustainable accommodation structures. reliable and healthier water supply. for Fisheries Research in 2015. first community-based MAR systems in 2016 Symposium in Singapore. energy projects. the Southern Hemisphere. 13 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 14 our actions Industry Recognition Local Initiatives Local Initiatives our communities Best Workplaces for Waste Golden Gecko Awards Industry recognises Golder Prevention & Recycling – Finalist 2015 Excellence in Chile WASHINGTON, US WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA CHILE The Golder team in the Redmond office Launched in 1992 by the Western Golder Chile has been acknowledged Volunteering at the Animal Shelter – Turkey has been recognised for its waste Australia Department of Mines and as the Top Performer in the Specialised prevention and recycling effort in the Petroleum, the Golden Gecko Awards Engineering category of the Conceptual, GAT-GAIMS Coordinator Gizem works campaign with her colleagues working King County Solid Waste Division’s recognise excellence and leadership Basic and Detailed Engineering section as a volunteer at the animal shelter of in the Ankara office and collected 10th-annual Best Workplaces for in environmental practice, and of the 2015 Mining Contractor’s the Animal Rescue Association Turkey money to buy food for the other Waste Prevention & Recycling list. The acknowledge outstanding contributions Ranking. The purpose of the survey, (ARAT), which helps animals who need animals at the shelter as a celebration team has been included on this “list” industry has made to develop Western conducted by the local consultancy firm special care and rescues them from for Bambam’s first birthday. Golder for five consecutive years and was Australian resources in a sustainably Phibrand since 2012, is to recognise the streets. Stray animals are a major employees visited the shelter and gave recently awarded with “Honour Roll” responsible manner. the top firms operating in the single issue in Turkey and each year hundreds the food to the dogs, helped exercise status, for creative approaches to most important economic sector in of animals are rescued, treated and the dogs, and spent a time with the Golder was recognised as a finalist sustainability, waste prevention, and Chile – mining, and to provide quality adopted by the members of ARAT. animals in the shelter. for the work undertaken with Premier recycling, including establishing an information about services to the local Coal on the remediation of a mine Gizem adopted a little stray dog and (Right top) Bambam is almost 3 years old now environmental issues register, which mining industry. and frequently visits the Golder Ankara office. pit lake at Lake Kepwari in the named him “Bambam” and brought contains tactics to identify, manage, south-west of Western Australia. The him to the Golder Ankara office. A year and improve upon the environmental recommendation adopted by our client Léonard Environment Award after the adoption Gizem started a challenges in the Redmond workplace. has been to create a flow-through Challenges such as waste management, MONTREAL EAST, CANADA system by allowing degraded local river reducing corporate travel and waters to mix with the acidic waters, Golder was awarded a Léonard, improving their carbon footprint by greatly improving the environmental a “symbol of outstanding quality in promoting and encouraging the use of video-conferencing and instant conditions of the lake and allowing engineering”, in the environment Spudley September – Sustainability Calendar New Zealand for a range of beneficial uses for the category in recognition of its role in messaging, continuous improvement local community. the Dow Chemical and Petromont At Golder New Zealand we run a who knows what! The exciting part in recycling and composting programs, consortium project involving the 12 monthly Sustainability Calendar, is that you cannot see what is going using printers with eco-smart defaults Geckos are among the last species to remediation of contaminated soil at a encouraging our staff to participate in on in a bucket and it was not until the and delivering e-reports. Additionally return to an area after land disturbance, former manufacturing site. the health and wellbeing of themselves shoots started to emerge we had any incentives are offered to people and the presence of geckos are an and their environment. We have a idea our potatoes had survived. For that use alternative commuting to indicator of health of the environment. Petromont, is a former polyethylene very limited budget and try to be as 3 months, we watered and fed, the reduce single occupancy in vehicles, and petrochemical manufacturing plant sustainable as we can. display of buckets in the Auckland while also encouraging staff to in Québec. Golder was engaged to Admittance to the Chemistry office was quite impressive. On the eve “power-down” at the end of the day develop a treatment method that would ‘Spudley September’ has to be one of Industry Association of of our Christmas function we revealed and weekends to reduce unnecessary integrate sustainable development the most memorable events – for a our crops – they were awesome. Prizes energy consumption. Canada (CIAC) considerations into the remediation donation of $1 to cover costs, everyone were awarded for the Tallest Potato CANADA process of soil contaminated with was supplied with a bucket, some Plant, Biggest Crop, Most Effort with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons compost and a couple of seed potatoes. The Golden Pile (Guldpalen) In 2015 Golder was admitted as an Competition was fierce, feeding the Least Gain and Strangest Smelling Spud. (PAH) and heavy petroleum STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN associate member of the Chemistry hydrocarbons. More than 120,000m³ buckets with worm wee, compost and Industry Association of Canada (CIAC) of soil was required for excavation and The Commission on Pile Research, the first environmental consultant remediation. After laboratory and field together with the Swedish Association member in an association whose pilot treatability testing, a biological for Foundation Engineering, annually members are chemical producers. treatment process using innovative award The Golden Pile (Guldpalen) to Golder’s membership was sponsored technologies consisting of large-scale the person considered to have made by BASF and Dupont. The CIAC Abrigando Corazones – Anti-Frost Campaign – Peru biopile and co-composting treatment, the most significant contributions to membership requires members to be was designed and deployed on site. During July and August 2015, Golder children and young people in foster piling technology and piling industry committed to responsible care – which in Sweden. Mikael Creütz, Senior By opting for sustainable technologies, Peru launched the “Abrigando homes run by Fundacion Don Bosco is the program of health, safety and Ground Engineer at Golder received this the Dow-Petromont consortium is Corazones” (literally “heart warming”) in Arequipa and Ayacucho, where sustainability for the chemistry industry. honour in March 2015. significantly minimising its ecological campaign with the aim of lending a temperatures fall significantly. Golder has signed off on responsible footprint. The contaminated soil is helping hand to those living in southern Mikael has 20 years of experience in care commitment and as the first Golder employees collected 200 treated directly on the site and reused Peru, an area that is subject to intense ground engineering and his technical environmental consultant associate garments (warm clothes), 34 mugs as backfill, with the site’s future frost during winter. The goal was to skills are highly regarded by his clients member, CIAC will work with us to and 180 polar blankets (through the development needs in mind. donate warm clothing and bedding to and colleagues. develop a verification program for collection of money internally). associate members. 15 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 16 our communities our communities Golder Trust for Orphans GTO 2015 Overview Inspired by the “teach a man How did the Golder Trust Golder Trust for Orphans for Orphans begin? projects incorporate: to fish” theory, the Golder Trust »» Agriculture – cultivation of green for Orphans incorporates a Soon after the establishment of Golder USD peppers, dairy, bees, chickens in Africa in 2003, many employees business model which focuses became acutely aware of the havoc »» Food programs – breakfast feeding on improving lives through schemes, weekly community food $350,000 the HIV/AIDS pandemic was wreaking on the healthy development of packs, holiday food packs sustainable solutions to families and communities all over »» Manufacturing/production – water Donations made to NGO’s in 2015 16 NGO’s 9 countries ultimately create Sub-Saharan Africa. projects, honey, bakeries, cheese receive funding where GTO projects are located empowerment within the Living, working, and travelling all over »» Education – schools, bursaries, community. We are extremely the world has helped Golder employees vocational training proud that 100% of donations to understand that we have the ability »» Healthcare programs – general and responsibility to make a difference health care, X-ray machine go directly towards projects. in the world. Rather than standby for TB patients and watch, Golder decided to act – a »» Other Income generating business decision which resulted in the formation enterprises to ensure sustainability of of the Golder Trust for Orphans. support to the children. Golder’s vision is to support and partner 2015 Milestones with organisations that aim to improve The Golder Trust for Orphans provides »» Volunteer Trip to Rhotia Valley the quality of life of orphaned children one-time grant funding, enterprise 3,500+ 840 and young adults in communities development/investment funding, skills »» Appointment of a new children monthly employee impacted by the HIV/AIDS pandemic. development, and education funding. Trust Manager, Kim Lloyd are supported donors While we have a history of funding Inspired by the “teach a man to fish” the building of educational facilities, theory, Golder Trust for Orphans such as schools, in 2015 we recognised incorporates a business model the need to distribute our funding in a which focuses on improving lives Some 2015 GTO Projects more innovative way. We set strategic through sustainable solutions to objectives to adhere to our unique Acet ultimately create empowerment funding strategy of 20% grant funding, Zimbabwe, South Western Zimbabwe within the community. 40% skills development/education and »» Installed satellite internet for better communication as Willard has no signal of any sort 40% enterprise development. (phones or internet). Mission Station of Carlos Vilanculos Vilanculos, Mozambique Bulembu Swaziland »» Solar pump, tanks and stand for the borehole at the feeding center Bulembu, a small town in Swaziland, community especially those suffering »» Funding to build the feeding center. is redefining and rebuilding itself. The from HIV/AIDS, poverty, abuse and Bulembu local mine was closed down in 2001 abandonment, by creating health Bulembu, Swaziland and the future looked bleak for the services, orphan care, education, »» Providing monthly orphan care to Bulembu Babies community. The people of Bulembu and spiritual nurturing. Developing »» Funding for the expansion of the water bottling plant were left with nothing. As HIV/AIDS a thriving economic environment by Sierra Leone »» Installed solar heating systems for ravaged the country, children and creating employment, and generating Kenya phase 2 (10 houses) babies were abandoned. But a team income, Bulembu will create a Love Trust, Nokuphila School of entrepreneurs and social developers sustainable community and provide all saw the potential of Bulembu services required. Tembisa, South Africa Tanzania »» Funding for the building of the new and the spirit of its people. Today Nokuphila School. In 2015 Golder Trust for Orphans Bulembu has a goal to create a totally helped this project by: Hope Farm self-sustaining community. Zambia »» Providing monthly orphan care Cato Ridge, South Africa The balanced objectives of economic to Bulembu Babies Zimbabwe »» Funding of a new enterprise – a tented and community development in camp (glamping) Mozambique »» Funding for the expansion of the »» A scoot (type of wheelchair) for the one year old Bulembu is commendable. The ultimate Botswana adopted orphan. water bottling plant vision for Bulembu is to provide safety, Swaziland dignity and hope to everyone in the »» Installed solar heating systems Kwasizabantu Schulzendal for ten houses. South Africa Malelane, South Africa »» Funding for the building of the expansion for the school. 17 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 18 our communities Golder Foundation Awards Meet Golder Meet Golder our approach The Golder Foundation was Presenting the Winners created in 2013 to expand the The Golder Foundation Awards recognises students who have reach of the knowledge and undertaken research on important learning created through the topics in Golder core service Governance technical work undertaken areas of Ground Engineering and Site Contamination. The Board of Directors of Enterra by Golder by opening the up Holdings Ltd, the holding company the technical archives of our Presented for the first time in 2015, owning the Golder group of companies, 30 submissions were received from founders and some senior staff students in Australia, Canada, Europe is the highest governance body within the organisation. The Governance and to students to explore. and the United States. Compensation Committee of the Board takes responsibility for ensuring that an appropriate governance framework is in place and for monitoring its effectiveness. Decision-making within the governance framework is delegated Responding Managing subsurface Responding Sustainable remediation to our global President through a regularly reviewed Delegation to the topic risks and buildability to the topic technology solutions of Authority. The Principals and from design to for contaminants in Associates of the company, its majority construction. groundwater. shareholders, are actively involved in the decisions affecting their individual areas of responsibility. EHL Board, 2015 Composition of the Board and the Huu Duc Sai Rajasekar Board committees is transparent. At year-end the Board was reviewing Key responsibilities are to lead and University of Queensland, Chandrasekar Rajajayaval At December 31, 2015, the Board its committee structure in line manage Golder to ensure its long-term Brisbane, Australia McGill University, Montreal, structure consisted of the President/ sustainability and value, and thereby with its evolving and anticipated Canada Chief Executive Officer, seven directors look after the best interests of Suffusion Potential Assessment by workload. Work by the Governance selected by the shareholders from shareholders. These responsibilities are Self-filtration Criteria Enhanced Reductive and Compensation Committee around the world, and two external to be achieved while maintaining the Dechlorination of concluded that our Board composition directors. Except for the external effective management of the operating Trichloroethylene by Sulfidated reflects diversity in ethnic, cultural, directors, Board members are all affiliates, and actively promoting Nanoscale Zero Valent Iron and professional background, but Principals of the company. our culture and ownership model in its gender balance needs on-going Every year each director is required to attention. Board members who are accordance with the overall vision and Eren Komurlu Mohan Basnet formally identify any actual or potential employees received no recompense objectives approved by the Board. University of Queensland, McGill University, Montreal, conflicts of interest to the Lead Director, in 2015 specific to being a Board Brisbane, Australia (currently at Canada Karadeniz Technical University, who then advises the full Board. member, but there is alignment in their Principals & Associates – Nanotechnology Enabled Directors selected by shareholders hold compensation as an employee based on Trabzon, Turkey) Remediation Solutions for Leadership by Owners a four year term with the ability to seek regional and local market assessment. Improved Performance of Persistent Contaminants in an extension of two years. The terms The compensation for External Directors Golder’s Principals and Associates Rock Bolts using Sprayed Groundwater Environments are defined in advance and structured is assessed by the Governance and are responsible for achieving the Polyurea Coating to promote stability and continuity. Compensation Committee to ensure desired outcomes set out in our that it is market based. As part of our strategy, through leadership within The Board is organised into their own individual areas of practice Alejandro Martinez Valentina Yie Kuan Wong regular operations, Board performance five committees: and responsibility. Our Principals is reviewed annually. Georgia Institute of Technology University of New South Wales »» Governance and and Associates provide technical Atlanta, USA Sydney, Australia Compensation Committee leadership, direct and manage Exploiting Innovative Multi-Sensor Bioremediation of Executive Committee »» Investment Committee projects, interface with clients, conduct Technology for Geomaterial MultiChlorinated Solvents The Golder Executive Committee, business development, and mentor »» Finance and Audit Committee Scale Response Prediction and as outlined in Operating Structure, other employees. The Principals and Disturbance Isolation Studies »» Risk and Health, Safety and is responsible for implementing the Associates community forms the core of Environment Committee company strategy through the dayour employee ownership model and its »» Sustainability Committee to-day operations of the organisation. intergenerational sustainability. 19 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 20 our approach our approach Operations Countries We Operate In Promoting Compliance Operating ethically is a core value, fundamental to Golder’s Throughout the Organisation continued success and the actions and conduct of our staff, as Our reputation is an important part well as others acting on our behalf, are key to achieving this goal. of our competitive advantage and influences many aspects of our company from clients selecting us to solve their problems, to developing CANADA teaming relationships. Golder combats EUROPE ethical violations in the workplace ASIA by providing employees with two UNITED STATES mechanisms for reporting unethical behaviour in confidence and without fear of retribution. Employees can AFRICA report potential ethics and compliance issues to their management, or through an external “whistleblower” service provider. Employees who have been the victim of or have witnessed unethical behaviour can contact the SOUTH AMERICA hotline 24 hours a day, seven days AUSTRALASIA a week in multiple languages. All reports are treated as confidential and the individual reporting can track 185 Offices the concern throughout the process. The hotline prepares a report that is immediately forwarded to appropriate senior management in Golder who in 44 countries are responsible for investigating the allegations and seeing that appropriate actions are taken and documented. As part of our Strategic Plan, Operating Structure Countries We Operate In we continue to ensure that we Golder has operating subsidiaries doing »» Argentina »» Mexico are able to meet the needs of business in Africa, Asia, Australasia, »» Australia »» Mongolia Code of Conduct North and South America and Europe, »» Botswana »» Mozambique our clients by offering them represented by registered companies A plan to expand the annual »» Brazil »» New Caledonia review of the code of conduct the services they need in the and offices in 44 countries. »» Canada »» New Zealand to include our business ethics countries in which they operate. The President and CEO has overall Information Security the global guideline for Information »» Chile »» Norway policies was finalised in 2015 Security. These sit within our Integrated responsibility for operations and »» China »» Papua New for implementation in 2016. It At Golder, our clients, third parties, Management System and include is supported by a team consisting »» Colombia Guinea requires employees to undertake employees and other business partners specific guidelines for the handling of of the four regional Presidents of AFRIC A 3% SO »» DR of Congo »» Peru comprehensive training on various trust us to protect the information we confidential Client information. the operating subsidiaries, and five UTH aspects of the Code of Conduct in hold about them. To help maintain »» Denmark »» Philippines EU AM corporate Vice Presidents. Our global relation to the following policies: this trust, Golder established a At Golder, we believe that effective RO ERI management team works in a truly »» Poland PE 9% »» Finland CA dedicated Information Security Office information security is not just about “global” fashion, all based in their »» Portugal »» Anti-Bribery and Corruption ASIA 6% »» France in 2013, under the leadership of our compliance to a policy it’s about 3% office of origin. At the close of 2015, »» Gifts, Entertainment »» Germany »» Russia Chief Information Security Officer. having a security focussed culture, CANADA 42% Golder employed 6,498 people working and Contributions »» Ghana »» Singapore The Information Security Office is where all employees are aware of in 185 offices worldwide. »» Related Party Transactions the need to protect information, and AUSTRALASIA 13% »» Hong Kong »» South Africa responsible for working with the IT »» Insider Trading community in Golder, our Project Teams about having the tools and systems »» Hungary »» Spain and other business functions to help needed to protect it. In 2015 we »» Sweden »» India At the conclusion of the training, commenced “Project Safeguard”, a ensure that all sensitive information »» Turkey employees are required to »» Indonesia is handled in a safe and confidential program of security investments across UNITED STATES 24% acknowledge their understanding »» Ireland »» United Kingdom manner throughout its lifecycle. the global organisation that aim to as well as their agreement to »» Italy »» United States increase awareness of security and comply with all tenets of these Our information security policy and deliver technologies to help protect our »» Zambia »» Kazakhstan business ethics policies. procedures have been developed to employees, systems and information align with the ISO27000 standard, 2015 Revenue by Region from security threats. 21 2015 Sustainable Development Report | Highlights Golder Associates 22 HIGHLIGHTS REPORT Thank you for reading our 2015 Sustainable Development Report. We hope it has given you a sense of Golder’s commitment to sustainability and the practical nature of that commitment through the many and varied project profiles and the descriptions of our interactions with the communities we are part of. Golder’s commitment to sustainability is steadfast and we look forward to sharing our future successes with you over the coming years. www.golder.com
