13 April 2017 António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Sutherland supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. With this communication, we are reaffirming our commitment to these principles and sharing an update on how we are implementing them into our business practices. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations; particularly the Millennium Development Goals. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually per the Global Compact COP policy. We have five key Corporate Responsibility categories at Sutherland. I will now briefly update you on the progress of each and demonstrate our sincere drive to implement as well as comply with the ten principles of the Global Compact. 1. The Sutherland Foundation In 2014 Sutherland created a free-standing foundation aligned with the corporate parent to centralize and codify our Corporate Social Responsibility goals and objectives. The Foundation’s current focus includes the following home-grown initiatives:  Digital Literacy Program: This is Sutherland’s flagship corporate responsibility program, co-sponsored by Microsoft. This program offers a free digital literacy education to disadvantaged and underserved communities around the world. The goal is to empower participants with the ability to use computer technology in everyday life so better enabling them to pursue new social and economic opportunities. To date Sutherland has certified approximately 30,000 program participants in India, the Philippines, and Jamaica. The program continues to grow and expand with education interventions taking place in many inner-city schools in India and Jamaica where there has been a significant increase in employees volunteering to provide mentorship for marginalized youth. In Jamaica, there has been quantifiable economic impact from our corporate responsibility initiatives. Over 120 marginalized youth that have been certified through the Digital Literacy Program, have been employed either by direct hire to Sutherland or through a one year paid Internship at Sutherland. 30 St Mary Axe, 33rd Floor +44 207 1380920 London EC3A 8EP, United Kingdom  Sutherland Cares: Sutherland Cares is the charitable giving arm of Sutherland that makes donations to organizations around the globe to further our charitable mission.  The CSR Board of Directors meets at least quarterly to review charitable request submissions as well as strategic giving and then makes disbursements accordingly.  Sutherland Community Affairs: Overseen by the CSR Board of Directors it is primarily responsible for strategic charitable investments in local communities through advertising, marketing, and event sponsorship. 2. Verego Social Responsibility Standard Certifications Verego’s structured framework and certifications are specifically designed to be actionable for and by organizations of all sizes and scalable to meet each organization’s unique Social Responsibility objectives and shared value opportunities. http://verego.com/vision-values/  Leadership: must show a corporate commitment to social responsibility which includes structured policies and procedures for corporate governance and for our customer base that are clearly defined and communicated to relevant stakeholders. In addition, this certification requires attestation to governmental and legal compliance.  Ethics: policies and procedures to ensure ethical conduct when it comes to anticorruption, fair competition, a socially responsible supply chain and managing relationships with other organizations, including sub-contractors.  People: this certification focuses on the human rights policies and procedures including topics like use of voluntary labor, acceptable working hours, fair wages, humane treatment of works, harassment and discrimination, Human Rights monitoring and reporting and potential grievances. In addition, this certification looks at our labor and employment practices.  Community: this certification looks at our engagement and investments in the communities where Sutherland has a footprint.  Environment: looks at policies and procedures with regards to pollution, resources use, climate, and habitat. Sutherland completed full certification with Verego in the areas of Leadership, Ethics, People, and Environment for 2016, and has completed the recertification process for 2017. 3. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) – G4 Disclosure Report The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a leading organization in the sustainability field. GRI promotes the use of sustainability reporting as a way for organizations to become more sustainable and contribute to sustainable development. https://www.globalreporting.org/information/about-gri/Pages/default.aspx Sutherland is currently in the process of completing our first reporting period for public disclosure and aim to report all material topics at the end of our fiscal year 2017. 4. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) – CDP is an international, not-for-profit organization providing the only global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital environmental information. CDP works with market forces to motivate 30 St Mary Axe, 33rd Floor +44 207 1380920 London EC3A 8EP, United Kingdom companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and act to reduce them. https://www.cdp.net/en-US/Pages/HomePage.aspx Sutherland has been reporting to the CDP since 2013. The result of each CDP report is a quantitative and qualitative disclosure on Sutherland’s global footprint from an emissions and environmental standpoint. With a baseline to review we are then able to focus on areas where emissions reductions are possible. Sutherland continues to produce a CDP report at the end of each fiscal year, with the next iteration due in July of 2017. For the fiscal year ended June 30th, 2016 Sutherland had gross CO2 emissions of about 48,900 tons, or 0.91 tons per full time employee. While this results in a 3% increase in per-FTE emissions over the prior year, this increase is due to improved methodology that allows Sutherland to accurately measure more emissions sources than in prior years. Using the same methodology, FY2016 was a 3% decrease over the prior year, and Sutherland is committed to YoY intensity-based emissions reductions. 5. Impact Sourcing Metrics Development Project (ISMDP) Working Group Member and Sponsor Impact Sourcing (IS) is the socially responsible arm of the business process and information technology outsourcing industry that employs individuals, especially high potential, disadvantaged youth, women and marginalized people, who would otherwise not have an opportunity for sustainable employment. The ISMDP is a conglomerate of some of the top sourcing Buyers, Suppliers & NGOs whose mission was to identify and set an industry standard on approximately 25 metrics that cover meaningful, relevant, and measurable impact sourcing definitions, outputs, and outcomes. The ISMDP Working Group tied these metrics to the GRI and other relevant Corporate Responsibility reporting schemas and certifications. The process was managed by KPMG and sponsored in main part by the Rockefeller Foundation. The metric definitions were created to be used across all industries and are now used by Microsoft as part of their supplier questionnaires. Thank you for your time Mr. Secretary-General and once again I would like to stress Sutherland’s commitment to the Global Compact and the UN objectives at large. While we have been engaged in communities where we work and live for years, we are very excited as a corporation to step up our efforts and be a part of the solution on a global level in combating the many ills of the developed and undeveloped world. Sincerely yours, Dilip Vellodi Chairman & CEO Sutherland 30 St Mary Axe, 33rd Floor +44 207 1380920 London EC3A 8EP, United Kingdom
