Corporate Tenet: Healthy and environment-friendly, benefit the People Corporate Concept: Agriculture-oriented, low-carbon and environment-friendly Corporate Spirit: Harmonious, Honest, Diligent and Innovative Management Objectives: Implement, Communication, Practical and Frugal Social Responsibility Report Quality Objectives: Safe, Efficient, Quality and Quantity Assured 2016 Market Objectives: Standing on China, Embracing the World Tan Weiwen,Liu Dongsheng,Li Bingquan,Bai Yuqun,Fan Yichao, Yao Yuanqiong,Lu Shiqing,Li Kaijian,Huang Changsheng, Pan mingjian,Liang Fazhong,Chen Jun Liang Fazhong Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd Address from the Chairman In 2016, Penshibao Company faced severe marketing in the complexity of domestic and international situations. Under the leadership of the Board of Directors, we took active measures, adhered to green healthy development, earnestly fulfilled our corporate social responsibility, actively adapted to the economic new normal, gave play to the extraordinary intelligence and wisdom of various teams to face difficulties, and united and led all employees to struggle for development. With their respective division of function, all sectors strengthened organizing and coordination, fully exerted their initiatives and creativity, intensified product R & D and demonstration and experiment, strived to explore marketing modes, expanded market channels, proactively coordinated with local governmental and related departments for soil pollution control and restoration, completed many pioneering basic work, which continuously raised our popularity and influence domestically and internationally and promoted the sustainable healthy development of our business operation. In 2016, Penshibao Company was honored as “China Top 10 Brands Water-soluble Fertilizers” and “Good-faith Water-soluble Fertilizer Enterprise”, etc. 2017 is a crucial year in the process of building a well-off society in an all-round way. The national macro economy will keep the development trend of “being moderate in stability and stable and moving in a positive direction”. Our development faces severe challenges and meanwhile has favorable conditions. We will take “earnestly and further implement the agricultural supply-side structural reform put forward by the Central Government” as the guidance, center on the deployment requirements of optimizing Wang Jidong, Chairman and General Manager of Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd product and industry structures, promoting green production mode, further implementing actions on fertilizer and pesticide zero-increase and soil pollution control, and enhancing Executive Member of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region Federation agricultural sustainable development capacities, in order to strengthen our corporate of Industry and Commerce social responsibility management on the whole. We will research and analyze the new circumstances and opportunities in our business operation, adhere to the concept of Standing Vice-chairman of China Agro-technological Extension Association “intelligent, healthy, environmentally-friendly and benefit the mankind”, renew our ideas, enhance our confidence, forge ahead and struggle together for better development. Deputy General-Manager of China Pu'er Tea Professional Committee Besides, in accordance with the market demands, we will increase sci-tech input to develop more new functional products, and continue broadening cooperation with Chief-supervisor of China Agriculture Industry Chamber of Commerce agricultural technology extension sectors and scientific research institutes, expand product experimental demonstration ranges, attach importance to marketing team building, and adjust and innovate marketing modes, in order to strive for our established goals. ! Chairman: About the Report Contents This report is the 9th consecutively released social responsibility report of Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd (“Penshibao Company” or “Penshibao”) since Penshibao Company's entry into the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. Based on the principle of being real, objective and transparent, this report mainly sums up and reviews the Penshibao Company's corporate social responsibility management. Released in both Simplified Chinese and English languages, it aims to strengthen and improve communications with interested parties and sincerely to accept supervision from different sectors of the society. This report is compiled in accordance with the Corporate Law and referring to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)---Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, with the time range within the year of 2016 and related information and data coming from Penshibao Company. The Board of Directors of the Company ensures the truthfulness, accuracy and completeness of the information and data of this report, and that there is no any false records, misrepresentations or major omissions in this report. Address from the Chairman About the Report Ⅰ. Overview 1-8 (Ⅰ) Company Profile 1-3 Edition I Edition II Edition III Edition IV (Ⅱ) Organizational Structure 4 (Ⅲ) Main Business 5 (Ⅳ) Major Achievements 6 (Ⅴ) Corporate Events 7-8 2015年 Ⅱ.ResponsibilityManagement 9-18 (Ⅰ) Protection of Staff's Rights and Interests 9-10 Edition V Edition VI Edition VII Edition VIII (Ⅱ) Rights and Interests Protection of Dealers and Suppliers and Users 11-13 (Ⅲ) Environmental Protection and Sustainable Development 13-15 (Ⅳ) Participation in Public Welfare Undertakings 16-18 2016年 2015年 Ⅲ. Social Appraisal 19-26 (Ⅰ) Extracts of Media Reports 19-24 (Ⅱ) Honors and Awards 25 Ⅳ. Future Expectations 26 Edition IX Ⅰ. Overview (Ⅰ) Company Profile Established in 1985, Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd is one of the Through long-term experimental demonstrations, mechanism earlier, larger and influential water-soluble fertilizer enterprises in studies and popularization & application by National Agricultural China and is also one of the UNGC member enterprises. Besides, we are Technology Extension and Service Center (NATESC), China Agricultural the first company listed in the New OTC Market in the water-soluble University, Huazhong Agricultural University, Hunan Agricultural fertilizer industry in Guangxi. University, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University and Hunan For over 30 years, following the tenet of “Serve the Agriculture University and other scientific research institutions, it proves that and Benefit the Human” and the concept of “Agriculture-oriented, Penshibao products have a significant effect on increasing crops yields Low-carbon Life”, and in strict accordance with the ISO9001 quality and farmer incomes, and improving quality, enhancing resistance, management system and ISO14001 environment management system degrading pesticide residue, and reducing heavy metal pollution, and corporation intellectual property management system, we have reducing chemical fertilizer usage, preventing and solving soil pollution been specializing in the research and development of Penshibao and preserving the ecological environment. Penshibao products have organic water-soluble fertilizer products with independent property made an outstanding contribution in promoting food safety, protecting right and core competitiveness. Successively, we have been honored as the environment and controlling carbon emission as well as sustainable “China Well-known Trademark”, “China's Trustworthy Key Brand in development, playing an active role in solving the issues of agriculture, Environmental Protection and Quality”, and “China Top 10 Brands farmer and rural area. Water-soluble Fertilizers”. We were permitted to use the With fulfillment of our social responsibility, we have been offering “Certification Mark for Green Food Production Material”. Besides, we donations (accumulatively over 150 million yuan) of money and materials have been rated as “China Green Science and Technology Innovation for Hope Projects, risks resistance and disaster relief, targeted poverty Achievement” and “National Hi-tech Enterprise”. Penshibao alleviation, education development, hometown construction and other Company's concepts practical experiences in energy conservation and public utilities. We have obtained Outstanding Contribution Award of environment protection, carbon emission reduction, green healthy China Glorious Cause, and Poverty Alleviation Innovation Award, and modes and promoting sustainable agriculture are widely concerned Commemorative Plaque for Outstanding Achievements in Targeted and highly acknowledged at home and abroad. Poverty Relief Projects by the ACFIC, etc. 1 2 Ⅰ. Overview (Ⅱ) Organizational In 2016, according to development strategy and operating management, we established our current organizational structure--Structure under the leadership of the board of directors, the general manager is responsible for overall work, vice-general manager takes on responsibility by dividing works, general manager office is responsible for general coordination and all functional sectors perform their own duties, in order to ensure smooth and effective overall corporate operation. GM Office R&D and QC Dept Procurement Dept Marketing Center Storage and Transport Dept Penshibao Company is awarded the China Top 10 Water-Soluble Fertilizers Production Dept Financial Dept Executive Dept Penshibao Company takes an active part in ecological tea garden construction Penshibao Company presents at China Plant Protection Information Penshibao Company Headquarters Exchange & Pesticide and Sprayer Facilities Fair 3 4 Ⅰ. Overview (Ⅲ) Main Business As an agricultural corporation, Penshibao Company mainly produces and sells Penshibao organic water-soluble fertilizers, self(Ⅳ) Major AchIn 2016, Penshibao Company produced and sold 1,263 tons of highenriched organic water-soluble fertilizers with high-effective, safe, lowruns and acts on behalf import and export of various commodities and ievements carbon, environmentally-friendly functions, an increase of 9.62% over the technologies. previous year. Fertilizing for various crops reached 20 million mu-times, an increase of over 2 billion yuan in social economic benefits. 霾 Improve Ability of Resistance of Crops to Foliage Fertilization the External Environment Adjust Opening of Leaf Stomata and Increase Resistance to Drought and Dry Hot Wind Increase Chlorophyll Thicken Leaves Promote Fruit Fullness and Improve its Flavor Smearing Promote Flower Bud Differentiation and Increase Seed-setting Rate Raise Tree Tendency and Decrease Probability of Flushing Fertilization Decrease Rot, Gummosis and other Pests and Diseases Invasions and Drop Irrigation Physiological Diseases Soil conditioner 有机质 Zn Change Chemical Fertilizer Characteristics Adjuvant Biological Organic N Fertilizer Degrade Herbicide Residues Mo Nitrogen Fixation, Phosphate Solubilization Cu and Potassium Promotion p k Ha Fe B Promote Root System Meristem Promote Root System Activities & Bottom Bundling Mn and Capillary Bed Dense Distribution Propagation of Microbial Groups Special fertilizer Penshibao water Flush fertilizer for Improve Soil Granulation Build Soil Ecology System for aircraft spray soluble fertilizer drip and irrigation Moisture and Fertilizer Retention Soil Activation and Saline-alkali Soils Improvement & PH Adjustment middle element Formation of Protective Membrane Effect fertilizer Protect Root System fertilizer Micro element fertilizer Series of Penshibao Products 5 6 Ⅰ. Overview (Ⅴ) Corporate Events 2016penshibaoCorporate Events We were elected as vice-chairman unit of February 2016 China Soil Fertilizer Industry Alliance. We actively participated in targeted poverty March 2016 relief campaigns in accordance with national deployment. We held unveiling ceremony for Penshibao June 2016 Three-dimensional Fertilizing Research and Penshibao Products Experiment Summing-up Meeting by Control Center. China National Agricultural Technology Extension Service Center Chief expert prof. Gao Haixiang made a June 2016 speech at the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit. We decided to implement the mode of stock July 2016 ownership incentive + marketing innovation. We attended the opening ceremony of August 2016 “One Control and Three Reductions” High-level Forum & Water and Fertilizer Integration Series Public Welfare Activities. As the supporting unit, we attended the 18th NatiSeptember 2016 onal Fertilizer Information Exchange and Products Fair. Chen Shengdou and Other Leaders from China National Agricultural Technology Extension Service Center visit Penshibao booth We were honored as ““China Top 10 Brands WaterOctober 2016 soluble Fertilizers” and “Good-faith Water-soluble Fertilizer Enterprise”. Penshibao Field Experiment Technology Training December 2016 Class 2016 was held in Beijing. We were rated as National Intellectual Property December 2016 Advantage Enterprise. Group photo of Penshibao Company employees 7 8 Ⅱ. Responsibility Management (Ⅰ) Protection of Sticking to the “People-oriented” philosophy and adhering to the UNGC fundamental principles on human rights and labor standards, 3. Perfected Performance Evaluation Systems. Based on different job responsibilities, we established and perfected Staff's Rights we effectively protected the staff's lawful rights and interests and performance evaluation mechanisms. While protecting staff's rights and promoted their physical and mental health to enhance the corporate and Interests cohesion and grow together. interests sufficiently, we strengthened staff ideological work, and to the maximum extent mobilized and gave play to staff's initiative. 1. Protected Staff's Rights and Interests According to Law In strict accordance with Labor Law, Labor Contract Law and other laws and regulations, we established and completed social security systems and welfare systems. All employees were treated equally in hire, wages, training, promotion, demission and retirement, etc. Penshibao Company is celebrating the International Women's Day Penshibao Company attaches importance to ideology and culture construction 2. Paid Attention to Staff Skills Training. 4. Enhanced Corporate Culture Construction. According to our annual business objectives, we mainly worked on We organized diverse cultural activities to create and easy and pro fes s i o n al s ki l l s trai n i n g fo r i mpo rtan t po s ts an d n ew l y -h i red harmonious humanistic environment, enrich staff's spare time life, improve staff's relations with leaders and the emotion between staff, as employees. In 2016, we organized internal trainings and attended well as to strengthen staff's sense of belonging and corporate cohesion. external trainings for 36 times, which effectively improved staff's professional abilities and overall quality. Penshibao Company organizes employees to attend social cultural and sports activities Penshibao Company is holding production system operation skills contests 9 10 Ⅱ. Responsibility Management (Ⅱ) Rights and Interests Following the tenet of “Serve the Agriculture and Benefit the Human”, we strengthened technological innovation, ensured product 3. Implemented Stock Ownership Incentive Measures. With the opportunity from the NEW OTC Market, we carried out the quality and provided superior services, to maintain the legitimate rights stock ownership mechanism of “Product+Stock Right”, which caused Protection of Dealers and interests of dealers, suppliers and users to the maximum extent. wide concerns from dealers and users. Since last year, dealers and users 1. Strengthened New Products R&D. in Shaanxi, Shandong, Zhejiang, Sichuan, Guangxi, Fujian and Jiangsu and Suppliers and In 2016, we input special funds of over 1,560,000 yuan for signed stock rights incentive agreements with us, and obtained good enhancing products R&D and experimental demonstration, an increase economic benefits. of 2.55% over the previous year. We have developed a batch of new Users products including ZhuAn fertilizer, JiangGeBao fertilizer, ShiYiBao fertilizer (balanced type) and ShiYiBao fertilizer (high-K type), which greatly guaranteed soil restoration and agricultural product safety. Penshibao Company holds Marketing+Stock Ownership Incentive propaganda Agricultural technicians from the provinces and regions in 4. Adopted Control Measures on Ensuring Product Quality. China visit Penshibao experiment base We strengthened product standardization construction, completed product line standard compiling and implementation, carefully conducted 2. Popularized Penshibao Three-dimensional Fertilizing Mode. inspection and spot check for raw and auxiliary materials and finished By our Penshibao Three dimensional Fertilizing Research and products, and timely solved problems. In 2016, the qualified finished Control Center, we combined independent R&D and cooperated with product quality was 99.921%, an increase of 0.277% over the previous scientific research institutions, enriched product structure, explored year. new three-dimensional fertilizing modes, promoted high-yield fertilizing, economical fertilizing and eco-fertilizing, in order to create more value-added services for users. Penshibao three-dimensional fertilization experiment demonstrations are organized across China Penshibao Company intensifies brand promotion through exhibitions 11 12 Ⅱ. Responsibility Management 5. Provided Technical Support to Market Expanding. 2. Proactively Participated in Soil Control. According to market demands, we assisted in making product We brought our technology and brand advantages into full play, experiment demonstration technique programs, conducting on-site actively coordinated with the state in implementing soil pollution technical guidance and consulting service, timely addressing prevention and control action plans, conducted soil condition survey and customers' problems in using our products, and compiling product use study in villages and towns, assisted local government in drafting up technique materials according to market sales. programs on strengthening soil pollution prevention and control, improving soil environment quality and promoting sustainable agricultural development. In February 2016, we became vice-chairman unit of China Soil Fertilizer Industry Alliance. Guangdong Science and Technology Association system visits our company We seriously implemented the state-initiated green development (Ⅲ) Environmental concept, gave full play to Penshibao brand superiority to promote environmental protection and sustainable development. Protection and 1. Assumed Responsibilities for Environmental Protection. Penshibao Company attends the founding ceremony of the China Soil Fertilizer Industry Alliance We achieved new results in carrying out the principle of 3. Continued Promoting Experimental Demonstration. Sustainable D“increasing responsibility for environmental protection” by the UNGC. In June 2016, our chief expert prof. Gao Haixiang was invited to Since 2008, backed by the NATESC, we have conducted Penshibao the UNGC Leaders Summit, and made a speech on Penshibao products experimental demonstration within China for 9 consecutive evelopment Company's concepts and practical experiences in energy saving, years. In December 2016, Penshibao products summing-up meeting was environmental protection and carbon emission reduction, which was held in Beijing, with participation of representatives from agricultural highly concerned at the meeting. technology extension sectors and experts from relevant scientific research institutions from 18 provinces, regions and cities. 350 322.3 50 45.67 46 300 45 与常规对照增产（公斤/亩） 45 40.8 与清水对照增产（公斤/亩） 246.1 250 40 增产（公斤/亩） 35 增产（公斤/亩） 30 200 30 25 150 与常规对照增产（公斤/亩） 20 16.7 与清水对照增产（公斤/亩） 100 70.22 15 46.142.1 47.78 10 39.930.3 50 26.920.8 26.524.1 5 0 0 水稻 谷子 番茄 水稻 小麦 玉米 马铃薯 大豆 柑橘 年含腐植酸水溶肥料在各作物上应用的增产效果 2014-2016年含腐植酸水溶肥料在各作物上应用的增产效果 年富硒有机水溶肥料在各作物上应用增产效果 2016年富硒有机水溶肥料在各作物上应用增产效果 2016 7 50.2 50 6 45.7 44.6 40.5 5 40 增产（公斤/亩） 4 30 mg每千克 小麦 使用喷施宝残留量 水稻 3 对照残留量 20 2 10 The chief expert of Penshibao Company presents at the UNGC Leaders Summit 1 0 与常规对照增产（公斤/亩） 与清水对照增产（公斤/亩） 0 年含氨基酸水溶肥料在水稻和小麦上应用增产效果 2014-2016年含氨基酸水溶肥料在水稻和小麦上应用增产效果 氰戊菊酯 茚虫威 吡虫啉 喷施宝在蔬菜上的降农残效果 Some Experimental Results of Penshibao Products from China National Agricultural Technology Extension Service Center 13 14 14 Ⅱ. Responsibility Management 4. Strengthened Safety Management. (Ⅳ) Participation We consciously participated in and supported social welfare undertakings in fulfilling our corporate social responsibility, and actively We attached much importance to safety production management, participated in targeted poverty relief, education development, organized regular safety knowledge trainings and examinations, carried out fire drills, carefully had checks on workshops, key in Public Weenvironmental production and other public activities to establish our good corporate presence. equipments, raw materials and finished product warehouses, installed necessary sound-proof facilities for workshops with noises, in order to lfare Undert1. Actively Promoted Chemical Fertilizer and Pesticide Zero-Increase Campaigns. avoid occurrence of safety accident and environmental pollution In August 2016, the leaders of Penshibao Company attended the accident. opening ceremony of “One Control and Three Reductions” High-level akings Forum & Water and Fertilizer Integration Series Public Welfare Activities, and made a speech about Penshibao Company's experimental demonstrations and successful experiences in using Penshibao organic water-soluble fertilizers instead of chemical fertilizers. Penshibao Company Pays Attention to safety in production (Image: fire drill) 5. Strictly Controlled Costs. The procurement sector strengthened communications and information collection and improved procurement ways, saving Penshibao Company actively carries out “One Control and Two Reductions” campaign procurement costs down 8.98% year-on-year. The storage and transportation sector analyzed market logistics situations and explored 2. Actively Participated in Targeted Poverty Relief Activities. ways to improve logistics efficiency, achieving substantial decline in We went to the Poverty Relief Office of the State Council for transportation costs. deployment requirements on getting rid of poverty, and participated in targeted poverty relief activities together with the ACFIC, and we assisted Jinghong of Yunnan Province in implementing poverty relief projects, and supported Chixi Village of Beihai in the aspect of developing selenium enrichment industry, with an accumulated donations of agricultural materials of 1.5 million yuan in 2016. Penshibao Company is having a meeting on review of quality and environment systems Penshibao Company donates agricultural material products for villages in poverty 15 16 Ⅱ. Responsibility Management 3. Carried out Activities of Worshiping Culture Education and 5. Established Good Public Relations. In doing business, we kept to the principle of justice, equity, honesty Scholarship. and credibility, abided by social moral and commercial ethics, positively Bobai County Xianlin Charity Association and Beihai Penshibao accepted supervisions and checks from governmental and regulatory Xianlin Development Foundation together held “Scholarship sectors, paid attention to supervisions and comments of the public and Conference 2016” in Shahe Town in Bobai County, giving scholarships the news media, to obtained understanding and support from the society. of 65,000 yuan to excellent students admitted to universities and colleges, and “Three-good Students” and “Excellent Class Leaders”, encouraging them to study hard and serve the country. Penshibao Company holds activities of worshiping culture education and scholarship 4. Doing Business Abiding by Law and in Good Faith. We abided by national laws and regulations and fulfilled our obligations to pat tax. In 2016 we paid taxes of 5.08 million yuan to the Penshibao Company attended the News Conference of Guangxi CSR Report national and local taxation authorities, an increase of 12 times over the previous year. In October 2016, we were honored as “” by China Nitrogen Fertilizer Industry Association and Xinhuanet. Penshibao's chief expert is introducing our green development concepts Penshibao leaders are having a meeting with clients 17 18 Ⅲ. Social Appraisal (Ⅰ) Extracts of Media Reports 3. People's Network: 1. People's Network: 4. Xinhuanet: 2. People's Network: 19 20 Ⅲ. Social Appraisal 5. People's Network: 5. People's Network: 喷施宝 公 司首席专 家 高 海翔教授 在2 0 16年联合 国 全 球契约领 导 人 峰会作 大 会 发言 6. People's Network: 8. China Economic Herald: 21 22 Ⅲ. Social Appraisal 9. China News Web: 11. People's Network: 10. China News Web: 12.China Agricultural Material and Products Web: 23 24 Ⅲ. Social Appraisal Ⅳ. Future Expectations (Ⅱ) Honors and Awards In 2017, Chinese government focuses on further promoting agricultural supply-side structural reform optimizes product and industry structures, improves agricultural supply quality, carries out green production modes, especially proposes to further promote chemical fertilizer and pesticide zero-increase campaigns, further implements oil pollution prevention and control campaign plans, continues to carry out heavy-metal polluted farmland restoration, expands new industries and new types of business and strengthens scientific and technological innovation drives and other policies and measures. These will certainly play a great role in enhancing agricultural sustainable development abilities and speeding up rural allround well-off construction. Penshibao Company will firmly seize the new situations and new opportunities, keep to the concepts of “intelligence, health, environmental protection, serving the human” and fully give play to Penshibao technology and brand advantages, in order to make new contributions to promoting soil ecological environment protection and agricultural sustainable development. (1) Sum up and vigorously popularize Penshibao's scientific National Intellectual Property Advantage Enterprise achievements and practical experiences to continuously raise Penshibao brand reputation and influence, and promote China's green agricultural development and our corporate healthy sustainable development. (2) Keep on importing and digest advanced technologies, independently carry out research and seek supports from scientific research institutions. Increase scientific and technological inputs to develop more new products beneficial to agricultural structure optimization, ecological environment protection, and agricultural products safety. (3) Continue improving product quality and service quality, actively assist and work with governmental sectors in the campaigns on further promoting chemical fertilizer and pesticide zeroincrease, soil pollution control, heavy-metal polluted farmland restoration, and boost se-enriched industry development. (4) Continue improve and promote stock ownership incentive+marketing mode, focus on marketing team construction and management, strengthen market technique service, create new marketing layouts, research and work out soil restoration action implementation plans, and do a good job in experimental demonstration, in China Top 10 Brands Water-soluble Fertilizers order to achieve expected results. (5) Consciously fulfill our corporate social responsibility; actively participate in targeted poverty relief, disaster relief, education development, environmental protection and other public welfare activities. Pay taxes according to law, do business honestly, truthfully disclose information, and accept supervisions of governmental authorities and the public. 2017 is a crucial year in the process of building a comprehensive welloff society. The state has made great significant deployments on further promoting agricultural supply-side structural reform, and speeding up to cultivate new kinetic energy for agricultural and rural development. Leading all the employees, Guangxi Penshibao Co., Ltd will enhance confidence, seize the opportunities, exploit innovation, forge ahead, and fulfill our corporate social responsibility, to realize our established objectives and tasks and make a new contribution to creating a new situation of agricultural modernization construction. Good-faith Water-soluble Fertilizer Enterprise 25 26
