2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement of continued support and business challenges It is my pleasure to present to you our fifth Communication on Progress, as a demonstration of application and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact principles, covering the activities of Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. in the area of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in 2016. Responsible business operation has always been the strategic focus of our company, whether it concerns the relationship with employees, consumers, business partners, cooperators, social community or attitude towards the environment. Assuming the responsibility for the role and influence of our company on the local community, and wider, is an integral part of our business strategy and commitment to sustainable business operation. We systematically apply and promote the United Nations Global Compact principles in the area of human rights protection, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We also seek to incorporate the Sustainable Development Goals into our business strategy, to ensure the long-term sustainable growth of Dukat and all our stakeholders. Nevertheless, we emphasize that the context of Dukat’s socially responsible operations is significantly wider. Incentives to primary and sustainable agricultural production, especially milk production, are of great significance for the company and for the community in which we operate. Furthermore, we invest our knowledge and experience in promotion of proper and balanced nutrition and healthy habits. In 2016, the weakening of negative economic trends is recorded, as is the weakening of earlier negative sectoral trends in the last quarter of 2016. However, despite positive economic and sectoral trends, last year the key issue of domestic dairy sector was also connected to the increased entry of market surpluses at extremely low prices mostly UHT milk, semi-hard cheese and butter from other EU markets to Croatia. Despite difficult conditions in which it operates, in 2016 Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. continued to base its operations on the principles of sustainability, adjustment to the needs and possibilities of Croatian consumers, innovation, renovation and development of new products and investment in quality. At the same time, it continued to optimize business processes and costs, and to increase the efficiency on all levels of business operations. However, we are aware there is still room for further progress in responsible operations, and reporting to our stakeholders on implemented activities is an important part of acknowledging our contribution and motivation to continue improving our practice in this field. This report, therefore, together with the overview of activities related to the application of UNGC principles, provides the answer to a number of G4 sustainability indicators in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. This provides our stakeholders with a clear and relevant framework for comparing our activities with the previous and the future ones, that we will continue to report on. Despite numerous challenges we face, we remain committed to the improvement of our responsible business practices, presented to you in the text that follows. Alen Fontana Zagreb, May 2017 Director 2 Dukat leading dairy industry in Croatia with a century-old tradition Dukat is the leading dairy global dairy group and the leading 2016, 67 new products were introduced industry in Croatia with global cheese manufacturer, which to Croatian consumers. a century-old tradition in makes it the center for development and production of milk and dairy expansion of dairy industry in Croatia It is exactly the local milk of the highest products, which has grown into and South-East Europe. EU quality and investments into the a regional company. development of new technologies As the flagship brand for milk and dairy that contributed to Dukat’s entering Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. (hereinafter: products, Dukat successfully responds approximately 80 markets in Africa, Asia, Dukat), with registered office in Zagreb, is to demands and needs of consumers. Middle East, French Overseas Territories, the leading dairy industry in Croatia with Innovativeness, insistence on quality and a century-old tradition in production of implementation of the latest advancements Insistence on quality and milk and dairy products, which has grown in food and dairy industry have ensured implementation of the latest into a regional company as the result of Dukat would hold the position of market advancements in food and organic growth and acquisitions. With 8 leader and the pioneer of trends in the dairy industry have ensured production plants in Croatia, Slovenia, dairy industry. Dukat would hold the position Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and of market leader and the Macedonia, Dukat Group is currently Dukat bases its operations on the pioneer of trends in the dairy the leading regional dairy industry. In processing of top quality raw milk industry addition to Dukat, Dukat Group comprises produced by Croatian dairy farms. In 14 associated companies with registered 2016, Dukat cooperated with almost three Central America and Europe, where it offices in Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and thousand milk producers, purchasing has been exporting its thermized dairy Herzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Kosovo desserts produced at the Zagreb Plant and Bulgaria. since 2013. Dukat exports its products Since 2007, Dukat has been in 86 world countries, and export to the Dukat Group currently employs more than operating as part of Lactalis Netherlands, Sweden and Italy significantly 1500 people in three production plants: Group, the leading global dairy increased in 2016, resulting in export in Zagreb, Bjelovar and KIM Mljekara group and the leading global growth of 4 percent in comparison to Karlovac, which is also its associated cheese manufacturer. the year before. company, and in two associated companies LA LOG for transport and 199.1 million kilograms of fresh raw milk, Dukat has implemented international distribution and B.P.A.C. Auto for car 40.7 percent of total milk collection in standards that ensure top quality, rental and leasing. In 2016, Dukat has Croatia, thus confirming its status of the safety and food safety: ISO 9001 Quality achieved revenue from sales in the largest milk purchaser and processor in Management Systems, ISO 22000 Food amount of HRK 1,603.4 million, of which Croatia. Its production range consists of Safety Management, IFS, HACCP, as 86.1 percent on the domestic market. milk, fermented products, cream, dairy well as Kosher and Halal certificates for spreads, butter and cheese, and in 2016 specific product groups, and ISO 14001 Since 2007, Dukat has been operating its range comprised 434 Dukat, Sirela, Environmental Management System. as part of Lactalis Group, the leading President and Galbani brand products. In This report provides an overview of activities implemented in In addition to the overview of activities related to the 2016 (01/01 31/12/2016) in Dukat Dairy Industry Inc. and implementation of UNGC principles, the report also provides does not cover the activities of associated companies the answer to a number of G4 sustainability indicators of the operating within Dukat Group. Global Reporting Initiative in the area of labor, human rights, environment and society as a whole. 3 Dukat in Croatia in numbers (2016) No. 1 dairy industry 262 million 3 production kilograms of plants processed milk 1.497 40,7% of total milk proizvoda collection in employees Croatia 3.110 3 associated cooperators companies HRK KIM Mljekara Karlovac, 2.217 million La Log, B.P.A.C. Auto in revenue more than 400 products 4 umbrella brands 67 new products introduced to the Croatian market 4 1 HUMAN RIGHTS Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, laws and international conventions PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights within its area of influence human rights abuses Dukat fully respects human and labor rights based on the Constitution, laws and other regulations of the Republic of Croatia, as well as international conventions. Dukat guarantees and promotes human rights protection through good business practice and a number of internal documents Work Regulations, Ordinance on the protection of confidentiality of data, Collective Agreement and Code of Conduct. These documents are available to employees on the Intranet. Right to diversity and equal opportunities At Dukat, differences among people are entirely on performance and success regulations that prohibit child labor, forced accepted in an open and tolerant manner, of each individual. or compulsory labor, and protect dignity regardless of their age, nationality, ethnic of employees by guaranteeing equality origin, religion and gender, language In human resources management, and protection from sexual harassment and socioeconomic status. All employees we pay special attention to adherence of employees and persons undergoing have equal opportunity for success, and to the principle of diversity and equal the recruitment process. the position in the company depends opportunities. We respect all rights and Protection of employees’ dignity Dukat consistently implements regulations complaint and a request for protection Identical protocol is also planned for and directives of the European Union of dignity, the Management Board all forms of discrimination and sexual and Croatia related to suppression appoints a Commission consisting of three harassment. of discrimination and protection of independent members: a trade union employees’ dignity, and procedure representative, an administrative service There were no reported cases of violation protocol in case of violation of dignity representative and a person appointed of employees’ dignity in 2016, just like is embedded in Work Regulations and to receive and address employees’ there were none in 2015. Code of Conduct. In the event of a complaints related to protection of dignity. Code of Conduct Dukat has had the Code of Conduct standards and generally accepted civil including the attitude towards other since 1998, integrating the principles values. The code was amended in 2003 stakeholders. of employees’ conduct in accordance and it serves as a framework for daily with ethical, moral and professional activities and conduct in the workplace, 6 2 LABOR Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective abolition of child labor the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of discrimination in respect of the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor employment and occupation Dukat respects and guarantees all labor rights prescribed by law and the Constitution, and systematically works on improving the quality of work environment, education and development of employees, care for health and safety at work, and contribution to the community in which it operates. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Dukat has an almost 20-year-long tradition working full-time or part-time. Collective Furthermore, employees are entitled to of association and collective bargaining, Agreement signed in 2016 was printed the following bonuses on salary: bonus and 40 percent of its employees are as pocket edition and handed to each for years of service, bonus for work in members of the Trade Union of the employee of Dukat. shifts, bonus for work on Sundays and Employed in Agriculture, Food, Tobacco A set of employee benefits is available holidays, and meal allowance. All Dukat and Water Industries of Croatia (PPDIV). to employees based on the Collective employees are also insured against Partnership with the representatives of Agreement: accidents, regardless of them being workers is continuously improved through • Allowance for sick leave exceeding permanent or temporary, full-time or cooperation and communication with 120 days part-time employees. the local works councils and the Central • Allowance for annual vacation Dukat fosters regular and open Works Council. • Christmas bonus communication with the trade union and In 2016, 40 percent of employees belonged • Reimbursement of transportation the Central Works Council, and provides to the Union, the same number as the costs them with information about decisions year before. • Jubilee award of importance for the economic and Compared to similar companies in the • Assistance for days spent in the social status of employees. Management region, Collective Agreement ensures hospital Board informs the Works Council on the a higher level of rights arising from • Assistance in the event of an Act of business results, plans, organizational employment. The Agreement applies God changes and other important issues to all employees, regardless of them • Assistance to families in the event annually and when necessary. being trade union members, having of employee’s death permanent or temporary employment, • Gift in-kind for Easter Ambition, engagement and Our employees are the simplicity are the key values backbone of our business, of Dukat that are strongly corporate culture and woven into the corporate success. We inspire them to culture of the company and constantly learn and develop into everyday work of our by investing in education and employees. By applying development of specialized these values in their work, skills. In the desire to reach out employees contribute their full potential and to the vision that we share ambitions, we enable them with other employees of the to develop their career in Lactalis Group: to provide Dukat and other associated the best of milk to as many companies, as well as people as possible. international surroundings of the Lactalis Group. 8 Health protection and safety at work Dukat supports employee initiatives in employees were injured coming to work treatment of close family members, all forms of humanitarian work, provides or leaving work. Although there was a moving and natural disasters. incentives and additionally rewards significant decrease of work related Dukat shows social sensitivity by covering employees who are voluntary blood injuries from 2013 to 2015, due, among the cost of treatment and medical aids donors by granting them a day off work other things, to systematic education of that are not on the reimbursement and by organizing a joint excursion. employees in production, warehouses list of the Croatian Institute for Health Preventive seasonal influenza vaccination is and logistic centers, and the “Safety Insurance, when requested by lowerorganized at the company premises each and Health Protection Minute” program, income employees. year. In November 2016, 56 employees in 2016 the number of injuries at work Supporting the care for the health of its were vaccinated on three locations: almost doubled. Injured employees were employees, Dukat encourages them to Zagreb, Bjelovar and Karlovac. mostly those with less work experience participate in recreational and sports Preliminary and periodic medical and seasonal warehouse workers. activities, including coming to work by examinations are regularly carried out bicycle, co-financing such employee for all employees at workplaces with In 2016, the total number or work days initiatives, especially those in which special working conditions. In 2016, lost due to injuries also increased, in employees account for the majority of this included 265 employees (22.5 accordance with the increase of injuries members: percent compared to 38.7 percent the at work from 133 to 538 work days. • Sports Club Sirela year before). • Sirela Volunteer Fire-fighting Society Every three months, Health and Safety • Dukat Leisure Cycling Club Number of sick days at Work Committee holds meetings on the topic of safety and health protection to discuss the proposals of employees 29.048 on improvement of work conditions and 25.489 24.015 health protection at work. Two committees (Zagreb Plant and Bjelovar Plant) have 7 members, accounting for 0.6 percent of the total number of employees. Number of injuries at work 17 2014. 2015. 2016. 13 In 2016, the number of sick days increased by 21 percent compared to the year 9 before. Unfortunately, such increase in the number of sick days is the reflection of severe illness or operation procedure 5 that cannot be foreseen, such as organ transplants, cancer or heart attacks. In 2016, parental leave was used by 1 women and 1 man (one woman more 2013. 2014. 2015. 2016. than in 2015) who returned to work after their parental leave had expired. Nine minor injuries at work were registered In 2016, employees used 485 days of in 2016, which is 80 percent more than the paid leave (compared to 452 days in year before when there were five injuries 2015, or 7.3 percent more), based on at work. Eight men and one woman were their right to paid leave in the event of injured, and majority of injuries (seven) marriage, birth of a child, death of a family happened in the workplace, while two member, serious illness or emergency 9 Dukat Leisure Cycling Club During its fifth year, Dukat Leisure Cycling internal cycling championship “Fast & planning and organization process for Club continued to actively work on Safe”. The championship included five races held outside of Zagreb. encouraging everyday use of bicycles races on different locations in Zagreb and and promoting environmental, health its surroundings, with male and female As in previous years, in September 2016, and social benefits of recreational cycling, categories. Twenty-four employees of members of the Club participated in simultaneously inspiring cooperation Dukat participated in races from April the organization of Dukat’s fifth cycling and team spirit among employees. The to September, and first place winners in race Dukat Fit on Lake Jarun. They also club has 140 members employees of male and female categories of all races competed in the race. Dukat and its associated companies were rewarded. Save for acquisition of in Croatia. new biking uniforms carrying the Dukat Fit line visuals, Dukat also invested in Following a successful first season of acquisition of trailers for transporting 2016, the Club organized its second 12 bicycles, which greatly facilitated Tradition of blood donations by Dukat employees On 25 October, the World Blood Donor Day, 35 employees organized by Dukat is an almost 40-year-old tradition and of Dukat, volunteer blood donors, socialized during a onesort of a reward for employees who selflessly help others by day excursion for volunteer blood donors. In 2016, volunteer donating blood. In 2016, 50 employees donated blood in two blood donors visited National Park Risnjak. The excursion blood drives organized in the workplace. 10 In human resources management, Dukat remains true to its mission to recruit and retain capable, professional and motivated employees, who act proactively in constantly changing conditions, create new values and achieve personal and professional fulfillment. That is why significant means and efforts are invested into education and training of employees. Education and development of employees In 2016, specialized and development Internal education Induction of new employees to education accounted for 86 percent the company and its activities of the total number of educations at As part of internal knowledge transfer Dukat, same as 2015. Legally required practice, the total of 15 internal educations Following the already common practice, training accounts for 14 percent of total were held for 390 employees of Zagreb twelve new employees of Dukat and education, same as the year before. and Bjelovar plants in 2016, which is in from the countries of Dukat Group increase of 67 percent compared to the underwent induction training in 2016, In 2016, the average annual expenditure year before. The topics covered food to get acquainted with the strategy, per employee for education was HRK safety, product safety protection and organization, main business processes 1,490 (compared to HRK 1,700 the year hygiene, self-control on manufacturing and activities. During the individualized before), while 460 employees were lines, good manufacturing and hygiene induction program, employees visited included in some form of education practice, stress management in the key departments and were introduced (compared to 930 the year before). workplace, safe machinery operating, to milk and dairy goods processing and However, total number of education and handling electrical-manual forklifter. production in all three of the Croatian hours increased by 19 percent in 2016, Educations were held by Dukat’s inplants. employees participated in 12,041 hours house trainers. Training related to of education, compared to 10,100 hours hygiene and food and employee safety of education in 2015. is also continuously carried out for new employees in Production and Logistics (focusing on operators, auxiliary workers, warehouse workers and drivers). Educational program for Sales Employee development projects managers As a continuation of the development Dukat is systematically investing in development and professional training of program for Sales, called Development employees. We list the following educational and development projects that Center, that started in 2014, a series took place in 2016: of personal (soft) and technical skills training sessions were held for managers, supervisors and sales representatives Education and development program “The path of leadership” from all locations in Croatia. A total of 15 Operative Sales and Gastro Sales “Path of leadership” development about leadership styles, goal setting managers and 67 supervisors and program, that was initiated in 2015, and leadership roles as motivator, and sales representatives attended training for managers and managerial resources they master important communication sessions on the topic of situational of various organizational Dukat units in tools for successful management. By management, customer management, Croatia continued in 2016. As part of the the end of 2016, 150 hours of module customer oriented sales skills and program, which is divided into three training were held for more than 50 business communication. modules, participants discover and employees in Croatia and the region, build their leadership potential, learn from top management to junior positions. 11 Educational program for knowledge of quality and safety at of warehouse from Logistics in Zagreb Logistics work. The program was completed by and Production foremen from Zagreb Development program intended for 43 participants. and Bjelovar. Results of workshops were managers, heads of warehouse and presented to the Logistics and plant Logistics shift leaders that was started Development workshops for managers, and each participant was at the end of 2015, continued in 2016. foremen, shift leaders and handed an individual report with identified The program included topics such as heads of warehouse strengths and areas for development. situational leadership, individual and group Based on collective and individual results management skills, customer relations Development workshops (assessment of workshops, a new series of trainings and human resources management. center) were also organized in 2016, for for Zagreb and Bjelover Plant production Through individual and group analysis, 46 employees from Dukat’s Logistics managers was created. and a number of exercises, participants departments and Zagreb and Bjelovar developed their leadership skills, Plant production departments. These negotiation skills and deepened their were foremen, shift leaders and heads Performance appraisal Performance is evaluated each year with the employees. In 2016, 12 percent evaluation for employees in Production, within the Management review project of employees were included in the Maintenance and Quality was also and individual development is created performance appraisal system, almost carried out, making the total percentage for employees with recognized high work the same as in 2015 (11 percent). of evaluated Dukat employees reach potential. Readiness for international However, in 2016, along with the standard 50 percent. mobility is also assessed and defined Management review project, performance Professional practices and visits As in previous years, we continued In addition to the above, Dukat also hosts Plant and are introduced to the entire cooperation with vocational secondary professional visits of students from the production process, from reception of schools in Zagreb and Bjelovar, and in Food Technology and Biotechnology milk to production and storage. In 2016, 2016 two students completed professional Faculty, Veterinary Faculty, Chemical Dukat hosted seven such visits and more practice at the Bjelovar and Zagreb Plants. Engineering and Technology Faculty, than 200 students visited Dukat and its of the University of Zagreb, as well Zagreb Plant. Students of Agronomy and Food as Food Technology Study Program of Technology and Biotechnology Faculty the University of Karlovac. During the also complete their internships at Dukat. visit, students take a tour of Zagreb In 2016, three sudents completed their internships at Dukat. 12 Employee data Type of employment In 2016, Dukat had 1,175 employees, which is 23 employees Total number Permanent Temporary more than the year before. Of the total number of employees, Year of employees Employment Employment 83 percent are permanently employed, compared to 85 2015 1,152 978 174 percent in 2015. Work rights, as well as rights under the Collective Agreement and benefits, are applied equally to all 2016 1,175 974 201 employees, regardless of them being permanent or temporary, full or half-time employees, members of the union or not. Employee fluctuation rate was 19 percent, which is 8.3 percent higher than the employee fluctuation rate in 2015. Employment of young people In 2016, Dukat actively participated in the professional 17% training program without employment (SOR), initited by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, main goal of permanent employment which is to enable the acquisition of new knowledge and skills by young people who are just entering the labor market. At the beginning of professional training, each temporary participant was given a one-year education and trial work employment framework plan, and was assigned a mentor who guided 83% the student through the program. In 2016, 18 young SOR participants acquired their first work experience at Dukat, 11 of which have been ultimately employed, while four of them are still participating in the program. Age structure 2% Employee age 2015 2016 < 30 155 165 14% < 30 31 40 271 281 28% 31-40 41 50 380 375 51 60 326 332 41-50 24% > 61 20 22 51-60 Total 1,152 1,175 > 61 32% The average age of employees at the end of 2016 was 43, slightly lower than at the end of 2015, when the average age was 44, which is the result of increased employee fluctuation in 2016. 13 Gender Gender 2015 2016 Male 751 772 35% Male Female 401 403 Total 1,152 1,175 Female The majority of Dukat employees are men (65 percent), 65% while women account for 35 percent, which is identical to the ratio of the year before. Education Education 2015 2016 12% Primary school 145 142 21% Secondary school 752 783 Primary school College and 255 250 Secondary university school Total 1,152 1,175 College and university Majority of employees (67 percent) have secondary school qualifications, while 21 percent of employees have college 67% and university degrees. The ratio is very similar to the ratio of the year before (65 percent compared to 22 percent). Composition of governance and management Year Gender Average age Number Male 44 45 44% 2015. Female 44 46 Male Male 43 39 2016. Female Female 43 49 56% In 2016, the share of women in governance and management positions at Dukat was 56 percent, which is significantly higher than in 2015, when it was 51 percent. The past three years show significant increase in the share of women in governance and management positions (from 35 percent in 2012 to 56 percent in 2016). We pay special attention to hiring of domestic labor and local experts, including for management positions. The share of Croatian citizens in the top management is 33 percent and in senior management 80 percent. 14 The ratio of salaries and benefits Salary and benefits policy is based the result of strengthening of service performance and motivation. In-depth solely on the type and complexity of warehouse business, which led to analysis of existing jobs, with currently the hob, responsibility, knowledge increased employment of warehouse valued work coefficients for each section, and skills necessary for carrying out workers and influenced the labor structure was carried out by comparing the tasks and achieving results, excluding compared to 2015. demands of all jobs in each section any form of discrimination based on In mid-2016, new systematization of jobs and by defining the necessary technical gender, nationality, religion or any for production employees came into competences of employees. Knowledge other personal features. In 2016, the effect. The aim of the new systematization and skills, work on production machinery average gross salary per employee is was transparent evaluation of jobs, the they mastered, the complexity and 2 percent lower, and the average net ability to progress through learning and responsibility of jobs were analyzed for salary is 4 percent lower than in 2015. acquiring new knowledge and improving each employee, and their managers also Decrease of average salary in 2016 is employee’s contribution through better evaluated their quality of work. Internal communication Various channels are used for internal communication: Intranet (internal Local version of the in-house magazine Contact, published quarterly, is intended web), e-mail, VPN mobile system, for the employees of Dukat and the Dukat Group. in-house newsletter Contact, notice boards, meetings and “face-to-face” communication. Notice boards are particularly important Moreover, Dukat fosters an open-door for employees in production and logistics, policy, which implies direct communication Local version of the in-house magazine as they have no access to the Intranet. with department management. Except Contact, published quarterly, is intended Information about company events, directly, employees can contribute for the employees of Dukat and the launch of new products, employee their remarks, comments and ideas Dukat Group. Representatives of various benefits, etc. are regularly posted on anonymously, using boxes for comments departments and associated companies notice boards. Space for trade unions and and ideas placed at all production sites. participate in creating it, and other works council’s notices is also provided. employees may also participate with their stories and photographs. 15 Dukat launches and supports projects that contribute to the improvement of quality of life and well-being of the local community and individuals. These projects include health care, caring for healthy habits (moving, recreation and sports), child care, encouraging education related to proper and balanced diet. Contribution to the community In 2016, the same as 2015, the donations • Humanitarian organizations association “Renato chefs without program focused on providing dairy and campaigns: humanitarian borders”, humanitarian campaign products to especially vulnerable groups association “Rijeka ljubavi”, Dobro je činiti dobro (It’s good to do of adults and children throughout Croatia. humanitarian association “Putevi good) in Đakovo In 2016, through donations of funds and milosti”, humanitarian association • Soup kitchens at: Osijek Caritas, own products, Dukat invested in: “Put mira”, humanitarian association Đakovo-Osijek Archdiocese Caritas, “Duga Vukovar”, Association of Sisak Diocese Caritas, Požega Financial donations Parents with Children Suffering from Archdiocese Caritas, Parish of St. Malignant Illnesses “Hrabro dijete” John Nepomuk Vrbovsko, Zagreb • Health care and rehabilitation: Zagreb Nova Gradiška, Association for Aiding Archdiocese Caritas, Split Archdiocese Rehabilitation Center Children with Disabilities “ADHD and Caritas, Šibenik Diocese Caritas, Zadar • Sports: Sirela sports club I”, humanitarian association “Kolajna Archdiocese Caritas, St. Ante Parish ljubavi”, humanitarian association Caritas in Knin Donations in own products “Remar Croatia”, humanitarian • Social supermarkets: SS “Kruh sv. association “fra Mladen Hrkać”, Reto Elizabete” in Rijeka, SS Donji Miholjac, • Homes for children: Zagreb Home center Friends of Hope, Association SS Beli Manastir, SS Belišće, SS Siget for Children, St. Frances Vugrovec “Veliko srce malom srcu” (Big heart • Red Cross: City Red Cross Županja, House, St. Joseph Home for Children, to little heart); Homeless center Sisak, Karlovac, Krapina, Koprivnica Home for Children “Maestral” Split “Milosrđe” Karlovac, humanitarian and Ivanić Grad Donations of Dukat products to humanitarian institutions As traditional donor of dairy products to socially endangered population and the 12 percent. With this positive social vulnerable social groups, in 2016 Dukat quality of life in general, and contributing ad humanitarian impact, the project continued regular donations of its products to the fight against poverty, Dukat lowered also generates positive environmental to soup kitchens, social supermarkets the quantity of discarded products by impact. and humanitarian associations who care for disadvantaged citizens and children across Croatia. In 2016, Dukat donated 241 tons of dairy products, or 10.3 percent more than the year before. Dukat provided dairy products for approximately 26,000 children and citizens who live in poverty and are unable to afford these products themselves, from Vukovar to Split. In the past two years, Dukat donated total of 460 tons of dairy products, worth more than 5 million HRK. Other than influencing better quality nutrition of One of Dukat’s regular donations of Dukat products to the Humanitarian Association “The River of Love” in Osijek 16 • Healthcare: General Hospital Dr. Sponsorships Zrinjevac 66th Hanžeković memorial, Josip Benčević Slavonski Brod, Ministry of Science, Education and Health resort Veli Lošinj, Varaždin In 2016, through sponsorships, Dukat Sports European Sports Week, Rehabilitation Center, Jankomir helped organize a series of cultural, Equestrian Club Vodičajna, Soccer Club Psychiatric Hospital, Clinical Hospital educational, professional, athletic and Zelina St. Ivan Zelina tournament, Center Sestre milosrdnice, General gastronomic events: 2nd Easter international handball Hospital Nova Gradiška • Culture: KUD Posavina, Academy of tournament in Varaždin, Eight rowing • Nursing homes: Nursing homes in Dramatic Arts, Motovun Film Festival, of the University of Zagreb at the Čakovec, Oklaj, Velika and Lobor Croatian Film Alliance Four River European University Games • Education: marking the Dairy Day at Festival Karlovac, Tourist Board of • Symposia and conferences: 42nd primary school Nad lipom organized the City of Novi Marof „Antunovo Croatian symposium of dairy experts, by the Croatian Milk Association, v Marofu“, Embassy of the French Vinkovci Autumn Economy, Crafts primary school Bjelovar, primary school Republic celebration of the French and Information Technologies Fair, Izidora Kršnjavoga, primary school National Day Association Healthy Meal Croatia Malešnica, primary school Nikola Hribar • Education: Iskustvo zlata vrijedi conference Applied nutrition in Velika Gorica, primary school Turanj, (Experience is Gold), a project by industry and tourism, DIABLOG, TEDx primary school Vidikovac, Center for Poslovni dnevnik, print of Marta Zagreb Women Education Velika Gorica, Crikvenica Nidogon picture book: “Courageous • Fairs and gastro events: Croatian kindergarten, Rijeka kindergarten, Jura and iguana John travel the Culinary Association, 5th international Rijeka Student Center world”, print of university textbook by bakery congress INTERSLAST 2016, 7th • Sports: Soccer Club Sutla, Soccer Club Ana Tkalac Verčić: “Public Relations”, international congress of pasta experts Rugvica, Budokai Club Zagreb, Sports Food Technology and Biotechnology CONPASTA 2016, 20th health fair meets of PPDIV Union, Tennis Club Faculty sensory exercises, Veterinary Vinkovci, Adriatic Gastro Show, Coffee Purger, 6th tennis tournament for Faculty IVSA Croatia, University of & Chocofest Zagreb, Gastronauti Club, aid to children with autism spectrum Zagreb Fair, Ministry of Interior 5th Croatian barbecue championship, disorders Respect our traffic signalization Croatian Chamber of Commerce Let’s • Other: TZG Orahovice Day of the • Sports: Sport Educa, Pedalafest Cycling buy Croatian products in Zagreb, City of Orahovice, Dominik Savio Union, Auto-moto Club Dugo Selo, Poreč and Rijeka Oratorio of the Holy Spirit Parish Adria Bike races, Triathlon Club Split, • Entertainment: Zagreb Zoo, 9th Mom Jarun Oratorio Summer Athletic Club Sljeme, Run Croatia, Cro and Baby Učka Marathon Run, Vir triathlon race, Fitness & Aerobic camp Vodice, Athletic Club Dinamo Humanitarian actions of Dukat employees for children in Slavonia and Baranja Opening discount stores In its desire to help and cheer up socially vulnerable children in Slavonia, in 2016 Dukat is trying to meet the needs of Dukat organized two humanitarian actions involving Dukat employees and its fellow citizens of lower material employees of its associated companies (KIM, La Log and B.P.A.C. Auto). In the first status by opening discount stores action, held at the beginning of September, Dukat employees collected over 50 that sell Dukat, Sirela, President large boxes of clothes and shoes for babies and children, toys, backpacks, school and Galbani brands of milk, dairy supplies, picture books and books. Collected items were delivered to humanitarian products and cheese at considerably associations “Rijeka ljubavi” in Osijek and “Put mira” in Mirkovci that provide aid to lower prices compared to regular over 500 families in Slavonia that live in poverty, with almost 2000 children. stores. Save for the discount store at Zagreb Dolac, Dukat opened its Following the successful September action, employees joined another humanitarian second discount store in Bjelovar, action: gathering toys and gifts for “under the tree”, once again intended for poor within Bjelovar Plant area, in 2016. children in Slavonia and Baranja. Employees prepared and delivered some 80 Discount stores sell products that are gifts to the little ones, proteges of associations to which Dukat regularly donates its about to expire, with prices 50 to 70 products. Toys were donated to the humanitarian association Friends of St. Martin percent lower than regular prices. in Beli Manastir, Shelter for victims of family abuse in Osijek and St. Joseph’s house for abandoned children in Hrvatski Leskovac. 17 Encouraging the development of primary milk production in Croatia is one of strategist determinants of Dukat’s socially responsible business. Milk producers Dukat bases its business on processing of fresh raw milk of the highest quality, produced on local milk farms. Drago Čuljat, one of Dukat’s long-term cooperators on the farm in Hrastovac, where he takes care of 120 dairy cows. Investing in primary milk production of long-term cooperation with the largest Creating and nurturing long-term fresh raw milk in Croatia, strengthening number of Croatian milk producers. partnerships with milk producers, safe competitiveness of milk producers in the placement of produced milk, timely country and within the European Union, In 2016, Dukat bought 199,163,314 kg payment of financial obligations towards stable and long-term business relations of fresh raw milk and holds 40.7 share milk producers, professional education with milk producers are the key goals in the total purchase of fresh raw milk and counseling, improvement of milk and tasks of Dukat, the largest fresh in Croatia. production through higher quantities raw milk buyer in Croatia. and better quality of produced milk, as Dukat bases its business on processing well as free market competition, are the Continuous financial investments in of fresh raw milk of the highest quality, basis of long-term cooperation between development of milk production in produced on local milk farms. This is Dukat and milk producers. Croatia, and education and consultation why Dukat milk packages carry a sign of milk producers throughout the country, “Milk from Croatian farms”, assigned to provided Dukat with a stable position Dukat by the Croatian Agriculture Agency. as the largest milk buyer in Croatia and Memberships in associations that promote sustainable development In 1998, Dukat was one of the founders promote sustainable development and Since 2012, Dukat has been a member and since then is a member of the environmental protection, such as the of the United Nations Global Compact, Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Community for CSR and the Community the world’s largest corporate social Development (HR BCSD), a non-profit for environmental protection in economy responsibility initiative, as well as Croatian institution of the private sector encouraging of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, network of Global Compact. sustainable development in economy. EKO-Ozra and GIUPAK (Economic interest Along with its long-standing membership grouping for packaging and environmental in HR BCSD, Dukat is also an active protection). member of other associations that 18 Dukat was the first dairy industry and one of the first in the Croatian food industry to introduce a free hotline for consumers. Focusing on product quality The greatest attention is paid to the satisfaction of consumers, all employees, internal tools for tracking consumer quality and safety of products to fulfill the suppliers, business partners, generate satisfaction and product quality. demands and expectations of consumers. positive effects on the community and Therefore, our products not only have financial results of the company. In 2016, 31.9 percent of the total number to meet certain quality standards, such of complaints, comments and praises as ISO 9001, ISO 22000, IFS, HACCP, Having recognized the importance of were complaints, (which is consistent and Kosher and Halal certificates for two-way communication with consumers, with the percentage in 2015), but there specific product groups, but they strive ensuring timely and complete response, were 13.5 percent less complaints to exceed them in accordance with the Dukat has had a free Consumer Phone than in 2015. There has also been a internal quality standards. since 1998, and was the first dairy industry decline of 11.3 percent in the number and one of the first in the Croatian food of reclamations on one million products Quality policy of the Lactalis Group specifies industry to introduce a free hotline for sold, compared to the year before. In guidelines for continuous improvement consumers. This communication channel, the past three years, the number of of product quality and strengthening of which in addition to phone and e-mail reclamations on one million products customer and consumer satisfaction. also includes communication via Dukat’s sold has been constantly decreasing. Dukat’s quality, environmental and Facebook page, is open to opinions, Of the total complaints received, 49.5 food safety management policy relies comments and inquiries by consumers percent of consumers accepted a visit on Lactalis’ quality policy and confirms about products, and as such present from a sales representative and product the focus on continuous improvement of valuable source of information and replacement (compared to 48.9 percent quality on all business levels, as well as incentive for continued improvement. the year before) while others appreciated the use of appropriate energy sources It also represents one of the important just an apology. and raw materials, to achieve the Open door days for primary school pupils As part of the “Dukat’s Open Door Days” educational and fun project, implemented under the patronage of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, since late 2012, Dukat has been a host to third and fourth graders from Croatian primary schools. During their visit to Dukat’s production plant, pupils have the opportunity to learn about the milk’s route “from the field to the table” and about the significance of everyday consumption of milk and dairy products for proper growth and development of children. In 2016, Dukat’s Zagreb plant was visited by 604 pupils from 11 primary schools, and since the project was launched, almost 2,200 pupils visited the Zagreb Plant (October 2012 December 2016). Pupil-visitor number 2,000 received an award. 19 Fifth creative drawing project “I love milk” Since 2012 Dukat has been holding the creative drawing We had a record response to the 2016 competition almost competition “I love milk!”, to encourage the public to create 3,000 students from 216 elementary schools sent their proper dietary habits and draw attention to the importance of literary works on the topic of “Milk mustache”. The four daily milk consumption, especially among children of school winning drawings were applied to the UHT milk packaging. age. In the past five years 10,000 elementary school students Announcement of the winners and creative workshops for and their teachers from all parts of Croatia participated in the the grades of awarded students were held at the Museum of competition. Contemporary Art, a partner in the project, and all participants were sent personalized thank-you-letters. Expert panels for sensory evaluation of products initiated After selecting 34 tasters in the spring of 2016, who underwent several months of education, at the end of the year two groups of professional evaluators started the sensory evaluation of Zagreb Plant pillars. Professional evaluators are honorary external associates of Dukat, selected in a public tender between almost 300 candidates, based on excellent senses (primarily taste, scent and consistency) and successfully completed three-month training. Members of the two expert panels meet once a week and evaluate pillar samples, as well as competition samples in three product groups. Other than education of professional tasters, Dukat also invested in design of the space for sensory evaluation, where save for evaluation of Zagreb Plant pillars, evaluation of Bjelovar Plant pillars is planned in the near future, as is the evaluation of Lactalis group products in the region. Dukat is the first food and dairy company in Croatia that started expert panels for sensory evaluation of products comprised of “laymen”, once again proving to be the sector leader. 20 Innovativeness, insistence on quality and implementation of the latest advancements in food and dairy industry have ensured Dukat would hold the position of market leader and the pioneer of trends in the dairy industry. Innovator and creator of new trends Dukat Fit innovative line of protein-rich dairy products In May 2016, Dukat launched the first activity and eating habits of Croatian in collaboration with nutritionists and line of protein-rich dairy products on the citizens. Results of the research have placed on social media, the Internet Croatian market Dukat Fit, creating shown that Croatians appreciate the and print media. As the first line of a new category of dairy products. importance of regular physical activity protein-rich dairy products with low This new category meets the needs and proper and balanced diet, as well content of dairy fat and reduced sugar of consumers who are increasingly as the necessity of proper nutrition for a content, Dukat Fit line included protein active regarding recreation and sports, healthy life. This innovation of Dukat was dairy beverages, yoghurts and quark and it also responds to the growing created in response to these trends and (protein rich cottage cheese), and added trend of concern for quality diet, with the needs of physically active persons, value to each of the categories. Only a adequate protein intake being part recreational and professional athletes. few months after the launch, Dukat Fit of such diet. Launch of the new line was followed products have become an indispensable by a series of educational contents on protein companion for many runners and Launch of the new line was preceded the importance of physical activity and bikers, recreational and professional by a comprehensive study of physical presence of protein in daily diet, designed athletes across the country. 21 Enriched recipe for Dukatino fruit yoghurts While observing proper intake of nutrients and focusing especially on preventing obesity in children, Dukat improved its recipe for Dukatino fruit yoghurts in May. Sugar content was reduced by 35 percent and yoghurts don’t contain any preservatives, artificial colors or flavoring. Additionally, Dukatino yoghurts are enriched with vitamin D and calcium needed for normal growth and development of bones in children. Thanks to its creamy texture and fully chopped bits of fruit, they are suitable even for the youngest. They come in three flavors: apricot-carrot, berries and banana, and are an ideal snack for children. New and improved recipe for Dukatino yoghurts was presented to parents and children during a fun family gathering in the center of Zagreb. Dukat receives an award for the best cooperation with bloggers In May 2015, Dukat started the project bloggers’ copyright recipes with seasonal cooperation with bloggers. Bloggers “Dukat & bloggers” on Instagram as its ingredients and Dukat products. Twowere given the opportunity to work primary platform, aimed at providing way communication, creativity and part-time for one of the largest domestic cooking and photography aficionados copyright freedom were (and still are) food companies, and in return Dukat and foodies with quality original content the main principles of mutually beneficial received original copyright recipes and photographs of dishes created independently by bloggers and used by Dukat on its online platforms (Instagram, Facebook and company web page). The project resulted in two printed mini cookbooks with twelve select recipes, the first blogger cookbook in Croatia. Cookbooks were gifted to Dukat’s most loyal Facebook and Instagram fans, business partners and employees, to provide them with additional motivation and ideas for cooking with Dukat products. Since the beginning of the project to the end of 2016, Dukat established cooperation with 14 gastronomy bloggers, published 86 copyright recipes and 172 blog photos of dishes and their preparation. As part of Diablog, the first Croatian conference on bloggers and blogging scene, Dukat won an award for the best food industry brand cooperation with bloggers, rated by bloggers. 22 Dukat’s 5th cycling race Dukat Fit and Dukatino race for children With the aim of promoting urban cycling as an ecologically acceptable manner of transport and an activity that positively influences health of individuals and families, in September Dukat organized its fifth “Dukat Fit” cycling race and “Dukatino race for children” on Jarun in Zagreb. More than 600 cyclists of all ages participated in five categories, and half of them were children. Dukat’s cycling race is held within the European Mobility Week and under the patronage of the Mayor of the City of Zagreb. More than 2,000 adults and children participated in the race so far. 23 3 ENVIRONMENT Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the environment PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 7 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Responsibility Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Strategically focused on responsible attitude towards environment and operations in accordance with sustainable development policy, over time, Dukat has been building its own environmental management system, continuously reducing negative impact on the environment. ISO 14001 certificate is evidence of Dukat’s efforts and continuous improvements in the area of environmental protection. Materials Packaging waste, Dukat prepares quarterly and annual reports on the As a large-scale producer, we take care of the environmental types and volumes of packaging put in circulation, and it acceptability of our products and strive to introduce economical prepares additional monthly reports. We bear the cost of and environmentally friendly packaging materials. In packaging waste disposal and management in accordance compliance with the Ordinance on packaging and packaging with the reports. Data on packaging put in circulation (in kg) Total weight of packaging put in circulation in Dukat Inc. 2016 Dukat Inc.: Type of packaging material 2015 2016 Multi-layer paper packaging 1,550 t Metal (Al bottle for whipped Paper/carton 2,100 t 33,833 34,082 cream 250 ml) PET 600 t Paper/glue (carton) 2,112,599 2,167,730 HDPE 2,000 t Multi-layer packaging with predominant paper 1,801,111 1,549,196 Other polymers (PS, PE) 560 t component Metals 35 t PET 615,934 613,300 Polymers 1,316,550 558,720 In 2016, 2.6 percent less packaging was put into circulation PEHD 1,294,072 2,062,123 compared to 2015. The percentage of used material as the recycled input material was less than 3 percent. Total 7,174,099 6,985,151 25 Energy Electricity Energy consumption is approached with great care and efforts are made Electricity 2015 2016 towards savings in all stages of Zagreb Plant 22,330,586 kWh 23,786,828 kWh operations: in designing power plants and technological processes, rational Bjelovar Plant 10,559,256 kWh 11,552,273 kWh and efficient process management and regular and quality maintenance. The consumption of electricity is increased from June to September due to the In 2016, total power consumption in consumption in the Bjelovar Plant, in increase in production during seasonal the Zagreb Plant was 23,786,828 kWh, 2016, was 11,552,273 kWh, which is 9.4 demand and intense usage of the which is 6.5 percent more compared to percent more than in 2015. cooling system. the consumption in 2015. Total power Steam In 2016, total steam consumption was Steam 2015 2016 39,476 tons, which is 10.1 percent less than the steam consumption in 2015. Zagreb Plant 43,929 t 39,476 t Gas Two combustion plants, each of 4.4 MW, Gas 2015 2016 are installed at the site of the Zagreb Plant, which are categorized as medium Zagreb Plant 3,489,667 m3 2,939,526 m3 combustion plants according to the Ordinance on limit values for pollutants Bjelovar Plant 2,660,663 m3 2,840,687 m3 emissions into the air. The plants are fueled by natural gas. 2016, and the values met the prescribed The ratio of gas consumption per ton In 2016, 2,939,526 m 3 of gas were emission limit values according to the of processed milk was 31.25 in 2016, consumed, which is 15.8 percent more Ordinance on limit values of pollutants while the average in 2015 was 32.92 compared to the gas consumption in in the Air. m3 gas/t of processed milk. 2015. In 2016, Bjelovar Plant consumed 2,840,687 Emissions of pollutants into the air from m3 of gas, which is 6.8 percent more both plants were measured in December than the consumption in 2015. 26 Water Dukat assigns great importance to the economic water consumption and constantly seeks to find new ways for reducing its consumption. Both plants (Zagreb and Bjelovar) draw most of the water from their artesian wells, while the rest is used from the public water supply. 2015 2016 Volume (m3) Water Public Water Public Water Own well Total Own well Total Supply Supply Zagreb Plant 5,689 411,805 417,494 4,511 372,311 376,822 Bjelovar Plant 39,440 218,176 257,616 2,910 268,640 271,550 In 2016, total water consumption at the per one kilogram of a produced product) to 2015, while water consumption from Zagreb Plant was 376,822 m3, which is was 3.83 in 2016, which is the same as own well was 268,640 m3, which is 23.1 9.75 percent less than the total water IP of the year before. percent higher than the year before. The consumption in 2015. Water consumption average ratio of water consumption over from the public water supply was 4.511 m3, Total water consumption at the Bjelovar processed milk was 2.98 l of water/kg which is 20.7 percent less than in 2015. Plant was 5.4 percent (271,550 m3) higher of processed milk in 2016, compared Water consumption from own well was than in 2015. Water consumption from to the 2015 ratio of 3.2 l of water/kg 372,311 m3 or 9.6 percent lower than the the public water supply was 2,910 m3, of processed milk, which is due to the year before. The index of production (IP which is 92.6 percent less compared higher quantity of processed milk. 27 Air emissions Zagreb Plant As mentioned above in the section on The emissions of pollutants into the air the prescribed emission limit values Gas, there are two combustion plants from both plants were measured in under the Ordinance on limit values for running on natural gas at the site of the December 2016, and the values meet pollutants emissions into the air. Zagreb Plant. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM FUEL COMBUSTION PROCESS TO OBTAIN THERMAL ENERGY IN 2016 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 1 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) HR EN 14792:2007 2,420 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 3,020,446 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 183 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1.469.763 m /yr 3 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 164.6 Carbon monoxide (CO) 11.3 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlet 2 Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) HR EN 14792:2007 2,910 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 3,159,233 Carbon monoxide (CO) HR EN 15058:2008 193 Data on fuel type and consumption Fuel Fuel consumption Lower heating value Natural gas 1.469.763 m3/yr 33,338 Data on emission measurement results Gas fuel: Natural gas Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 184 Carbon monoxide (CO) 11.1 28 Bjelovar Plant There are four sources of emissions of generator for production of hot air The emissions of pollutants into the air pollutants into the air at the site of the (dried milk drying plant) emissions from plants were measured in December Bjelovar Plant: of combustion products, 2016, and the values met the prescribed • two outlets from boiler chimneys • one outlet of the dried milk drying emission limit values under the Ordinance emissions of combustion products plant de-duster (non-energy) organic on limit values for pollutants emissions • one outlet from the thermoelectric dust. into the air. EMISSIONS INTO THE AIR FROM PRODUCTION PROCESSES Type of outlet: Whey drying tower shaft: Data on emission measurement results Substance Measurement result (mg/m3) Particles (PM 10) 71 Data on the type and quantity of emissions Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Particles (PM 10) HRN EN 14792:200 777 Type of outlet: Thermoelectric generator chimney Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN ISO 12039 81 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 1,057,196 Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN ISO 10849 585 (NO2) Particles (PM 10) / 17 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 1 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 1,098 (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 113 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 2,115,180 Particles (PM 10) / 34 Type of outlet: Boiler chimney 2 Data on the type and quantity of emissions from outlets Pollutant Standard / methodology Quantity of emissions: total (kg/yr) Nitrogen oxides as nitrogen dioxide HRN EN 14792 1,791 (NO2) Carbon monoxide (CO) HRN EN 15058 113 Carbon dioxide (CO2) / 2,115,180 Particles (PM 10) / 34 29 Waste water Zagreb Plant • Chlorine-based chemicals have been sewage of the City of Bjelovar after the replaced by peroxideand acetic treatment procedure. There were no deviations of individual acid-based formulas. parameters (oxygen chemical • Technological processes in the plant In 2016, total of 256,948 m3 of technological consumption, BPK5, pH, total oils and have been optimized; milk processing waste water was processed by the fats value) in 2016 from the set values plants are regularly maintained to waste water treatment plant, which is of the water management license for prevent the discharge of organic 16.4 percent less than the year before the discharge into the public sewerage matter into the sewerage system. (307,344 m3). system of the city of Zagreb recorded at the site of the Zagreb Plant. A decrease in the waste water treatment Bjelovar Plant factor (Fx) is also noticed, as the average value in 2016 was 1.04, while in 2015 the Technologies for reducing Bjelovar Plant has its own waste water average Fx value was 1.22. In the past emissions into water treatment plant with the capacity of 1100 four years the waste water treatment m3/day, and the processed waste water factor (Fx) is in constant decline, which • Filters have been installed in the outflows meet the limit values under the is the result of investment in efficiency production plants sewers which water management license. Outflowing upgrade of water purification devices. separate labels, caps and other waste water is discharged into the public materials. 30 Waste Waste generating and It is also the objective of the company to packaging waste. In 2016, total volume processing reduce communal waste generating by of separated and received hazardous increasing selection of generated waste waste was 57,564 kg, or 92 percent Systematic waste management is and to reduce the volume of returns more than in 2015. Such an increase is one of the fundamental components from the market. the result of one-time disposal of over of the environmental management 400 cooling display cases that were system. Re-usable waste, with valuable In 2016, total volume of separated written-off in 2016. characteristics that can be used, is waste received at the Zagreb plant was collected and stored separately. Dukat’s 1,158 tons, which is 10.8 percent more At the Bjelovar Plant, sewage sludge constant objective is to manage waste than in 2015. There were 1,060 tons of from the waste water cleaner was the in an environmentally efficient manner. non-hazardous waste collected, or 4.4 most collected, along with paper and Precisely for this reason, continuous percent more than the year before. In cardboard packaging. In 2016, total efforts are directed at the prevention the total balance, mixed packaging was volume of 8,366 kg of hazardous waste and constant reduction of generating all the most collected, followed by waste was collected, which is 13.6 percent more types of waste and waste management paper and cardboard and multilayer hazardous waste than the year before. in accordance with economic principles. Consumption of chemicals Zagreb Plant consumption of washing and disinfecting agents In 2016, Zagreb Plant consumed 3.6 Total volume of washing and 2015 2016 percent more washing and disinfecting disinfecting agents 980,549 kg 944,975 kg agents than the year before. Bjelovar Plant consumption of chemicals in waste water treatment plant In 2016, the total volume of chemicals Total volume of chemicals utilized in 2015 2016 utilized in the waste water treatment waste water treatment plant 139,695 kg 223,880 kg plant at the Bjelovar Plant was 60 percent higher than in 2015. Noise Noise for the day and night work conditions Since Bjelovar Plant borders with residential integrated environmental requirements, at the Zagreb Plant site ranges within noise zones on the southeast and the it was established that it exceeds the the legally permissible limits. southwest side, at the time when the permissible level of noise. noise level was measured for preparing Compliance In accordance with legal provisions, No deviation from the legal and other there was no need to undertake any of Dukat makes an annual assessment of regulations and requirements was the prescribed measures in the event adherence to (compliance with) the legal recorded in 2016. There were also no of incidents. and other environmental regulations. extraordinary situations recorded, and 31 Supplier evaluation regarding the impact on environment As part of the annual supplier evaluation, adheres to prevention plans, security • Environmental awareness (supplier regarding the impact on the environment, protocols, rules for unloading the contacted us offering solutions related the following activities are assessed: remains of liquid cargo on the bottom to environmental protection waste • Frequency of environmental disasters of the tank (stripping), waste separation recycling, reduction of waste at the at the point of delivery (activities of rules, etc.) source, etc.) suppliers or carriers did not cause any • The offer to reimburse the costs In 2016, all suppliers received the pollution at the plant in the course of incurred by damage (in cases when highest grade regarding impact on last year: accidental gas dispersion the delivered product generates the environment. or emission, spilling of liquids, fire) waste or by-products, the supplier • Adherence to environmental can offer a recycling path for such requirements (supplier or carrier waste, e.g. packaging) Objectives for 2017 • Education and information of employees on obligations of Dukat according to the new environmental legislation • Training of new internal auditors for internal audit of the environmental management system • Improving waste water quality Zagreb Plant Bjelovar Plant • Reduce water consumption to 3.20 m3/t of product • Reduce water consumption in proportion to processed milk • Reduce steam consumption by 3 000 t volumes by 1 percent • Reduce gas consumption by 400 000 m3, reduce CO2 • Reduce gas consumption in proportion to processed milk emissions by 10 percent volumes by 1 percent • Noise reduction at the compressor drive facility • Reduce air emissions from the plant for dehydrated products 32 DUKAT EMPLOYEES VOLUNTEER IN CLEAN-UP CAMPAIGN FOR THE FIFTH TIME In 2016, Dukat employees once again joined the largest volunteer cleaning campaign “Green Clean-up one day for clean environment”, part of the global “Let’s do it!” movement. Seventy-three employees from all three of Dukat’s plants in Croatia participated in the action and cleaned up three illegal dumping sites in Zagreb, Bjelovar and Karlovac. Along with collected waste, employees donated the total of 130 working hours voluntarily joining the clean-up. In the past five years, 343 Dukat and KIM employees participated in the action, freeing the environment from 140 cubic meters of waste. 33 4 ANTI-CORRUPTION Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in its daily operations, in accordance with relevant internal documents and corporate policies of the Lactalis Group, and operates in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Aware of the importance of responsible and ethically-based conduct, Dukat implemented and it applies the Corporate Governance Code. Dukat’s anti-corruption activities can be publishes relevant business information • Internally regulated procedures divided into several main areas: for shareholders, investors and the and work instructions business community. In addition Code of Conduct, available to • Systematic improvement of adherence to the Zagreb Stock Exchange, all employees on the Intranet, expressly to laws, rules of operation, good important information is submitted states that “the employee shall business practices and ethical to the Croatian Financial Services receive salary for his/her work at business practice Supervisory Agency (HANFA), the the company. Any other receiving This objective is achieved through Croatian News Agency (HINA), and is or giving of money, inappropriate constant improvement of business published on the company’s website, in gifts or services is not in compliance processes and education of Dukat accordance with relevant regulations. with the company’s by-laws and is employees responsible for the legality therefore forbidden.” of operations and management • Implementation of practice concerning of business processes related to competition There were no recorded reports on business practice issues and constant Dukat approaches competition as suspicion of corruption or incidences of legislative and business changes. one of its top priorities in operations, corruption in 2016 or the previous years. Business processes are also set and and invests great effort in everyday monitored so that they are always business practices to asses each It is Dukat’s strategic commitment not in compliance with the principles economic activity from this aspect to provide any material or non-material mentioned in the introduction, by as well. Accordingly, in 2016 we support to any political party or candidate, adopting and enforcing internal byalso actively worked on continued on national or local level. laws, procedures and work instructions education of all key employees at Dukat’s employees, as individuals, are that are regularly communicated by Dukat and Dukat Group in Dukat free to provide material support to any e-mail and the Intranet. and all its associated companies in political party or candidate of their choice, the region (Slovenia, Serbia, Bosnia from their own funds and in their free • Operations in accordance with the and Herzegovina and Macedonia), time, which is the responsibility and Companies Act, Capital Market Act, to minimize all possible risks. decision of each individual. regular adoption and implementation of the Zagreb Stock Exchange In accordance with the practice There were not procedures initiated Corporate Governance Code promoting respect for the rules of against Dukat in 2016, nor was Dukat a In this way, the legality, transparency competition, Dukat cooperates with party in any of the procedures initiated and publicity of operations is protected, the Croatian Competition Agency on for conduct that is contrary to the free and corporate governance of the regular basis, submitting all data market competition principle, anti-trust highest rank is ensured, posing required by the Agency and regularly or monopoly practices. systematic obstacle to corruption and participating in Agency’s research abuses. Dukat is quoted on the Zagreb on the milk and dairy goods, and Stock Exchange, where it regularly distribution trade markets. 35 Annex overview of relevant sustainability indicators (GRI G4) In preparing this report, along with the ten UN Global Compact principles, the following sustainability indicators (GRI G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative were taken into consideration: Information Page Organization profile 3-4 Strategy and analysis 2 Report profile 3, 36 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 3-4 I. Human Rights G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-HR6 Operation and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or 6 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor II. Labor G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 8 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender 13 and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 8, 13 employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 9 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and 9 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 9 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 11 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 12 gender and by employee category G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 15 locations of operation G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of 14 operation G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 19 are assessed for improvement 36 III. Environment G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 25 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 25 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 26 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 27 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 28-29 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 28-29 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 28-29 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 30 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 31 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non31 compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions 32 taken IV. Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 35 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 35 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 35 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 35 and their outcomes 37 This report is available on the UN Global Compact and Dukat websites and on Dukat’s Intranet. Report Profile Reporting period: 2016 Date of last report: May 2016 Reporting cycle: annual Date of publishing: May 2017 Publisher: Dukat d.d., Marijana Čavića 9, 10000 Zagreb, Hrvatska Design: Hand Studio d.o.o. Contact for socially responsible business operations: Elena Wolsperger Dolezil, elena.wolsperger-dolezil@hr.lactalis.com Kristina Klarić Rubčić, kristina.klaric-rubcic@hr.lactalis.com www.dukat.hr
