SUSTAINABILITY REPORT reporting period 2016 according to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines GRI G4 1 Index 1. Strategy and analysis 2. Organisation’s Profile 3. Identified material aspects and boundaries 4. Stakeholder engagement 5. Report’s profile 6. Governance 7. Ethics and Integrity 8. Economic Responsibility 9. Environmental Responsibility 10. Social Responsibility 10.1 work practices and adequate working conditions 10.2 Human rights 10.3 Society 10.4 Product Responsibility 11. Compliance 12. Data and indicators 13. Annexes Annex 1 Determination Table of the material aspects and borders Annex 2 Table of the coefficients used for environmental calculations over the three years Annex 3 Correlation Table of the Report with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Annex 4 – Lifecycle Assessment (LCA) Annex 5 – Lifecycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) 14. Sustainability Report Attestation Palladio Group financial statement attestation Palladio Ireland financial statement attestation Palladio East financial statement attestation Sustainability Report SGS attestation 15. Report’s explanatory contents table(GRI 4) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 3 group’s main activities and its As CEO, I am grateful and Strategy and Analysis (Ref G4 1, 2) competitiveness on the market. honoured in continuing this journey with the United Nation To treat employees fairly and Global Compact. respectfully is natural for a wellmanaged society, this also contributes to the Palladio Group Mauro Marchi ability to attract highly talented Chief Executive Officer people and encourage them to flourish within the company. Maintaining protective measures against corruption and violation of the human rights is the right behaviour to adopt, and also protects the Company from legal liabilities. Optimising the environmental performances of our company is a key responsibility for our business, and this contributes in reducing material and energy costs. With regards to these general Dueville, May 2017 rules of good management, we are committed in maintaining the Since May 2012 Palladio group has Global Compact (and its principles) been a member of the United as part of our business strategy Nation Global Compact, a joint and culture in each business initiative of Corporations from activity. These activities are around the world, United Nations focused on the protection and Agencies and Groups representing compatible use of natural and the interests of labour and society. human resources. The aim of the initiative is to involve the world of enterprises in As we are very scrupulous in a new form of cooperation providing our customers, through the adherence to ten employees, suppliers and other universal principles relating to part involved with information human rights, labour protection, about our sustainability and environmental protection and the performance targets, we based the fight against corruption The United sustainability report on the Global Nation Global Compact aims to Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines make its principles part of the in order to communicate, to our companies ‘strategy and to Stakeholder, the results in total promote cooperation in line with transparency. the United Nations targets in order to reach a global growth that The usual Communication On takes into consideration the Progress (COP) has been interests and concerns of the incorporated to this reporting in stakeholder.. order to describe what has been The reasons why Palladio Group implemented by Palladio Group to decided to join the UN Global comply with the principles as Compact are based on the fact promoted by the Global Compact. that many of its principles favour Palladio Group’s business, while others are directly related to the SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 4 Palladio Group, in line with its concerns of our times: sustainable sources (such as photovoltaic, vocation as a Socially Sustainable growth, the observance of the purchase of renewable energy) in Company, confirms its Universal Declaration of the order to reduce energy commitment in promoting new Human Rights and the adherence consumption. As we aim, over the development possibilities, assuring to international standards as coming years, to continue to the protection and the compatible defined by OCSE, the UN and the improve our economic, social and and ethical usage of natural and Global. environmental performances, human resources. The aim of the entire Palladio always thinking of our future In line with the commitments on Group is to pursue, year after year, generations, strategic priorities quality, environment, health and an economic growth compatible and commitments for the three ethic, undertaken and pursued with the social equity and the years 2017-2019 have been during the years, Palladio Group ecosystems, operating in a regime defined as follow: aims to make sustainability the of environmental balance. This  To consolidate the suppliers’ central element of the business means that the economic, social qualification and evaluation process that contributes to the and environmental dimensions are system, basing it on objective creation of the products supplied closely related to each other and principles and focusing also on to the market in which it operates. any programming intervention Social aspects Our company firmly believes that a will, inevitably, have to take into  Sustainable supply of forest sustainable development is the consideration the mutual based products with an annual only form of society growth that interrelationships. target of 100%. doesn’t compromise the During the years we invested in  To consolidate a safety culture possibility, for the future human and economic resources to through continuous education generations, to continue to guarantee wellbeing and and prevention on health and progress, maintaining the quality satisfaction in the workplace. safety with a zero injuries” and quantity of the assets and In this regard we carried out the target natural reserves. analysis of the internal  Enhance and develop the knowThe respect and protection of the organisational climate intended to how of human resources, in line health and safety in the workplace, record the appreciation degree with the company's strategic of the environment and human compared to the employment in direction. rights are the foundation for the all its aspects, in order to improve  Minimize any waste of water company’s operative strategy and and develop new initiatives (yoga resources with a maximum are at the base of all the classes, contest with prices, sport annual consumption target of Organisation’s activities/processes competitions). 15m3per head. planned and carried out for: We also confirmed our  Emphasize the Group's social “Design and production of commitment in joining charitable responsibility commitments by packaging for the pharmaceutical activities that could help others, emitting a specific policy that and cosmetic industry”. making donations to no profit will complement the Code of In compliance with the legal foundations both local and Ethics and the Charter of Values. prescription in force in the international, aware that our small The Organization has also countries in which we operate and gesture is, for them, a big help. We identified a specific indicator for in accordance with the principles actively supported environmental the assessment of their carbon defined in the Ethic Code, Palladio projects, social and cultural price through the ratio of carbon Group is committed to respect and activities in the local communities economic value (ref Report of promote measures for the especially involving the future Word Bank Group State and management of the forestall generations. Trends of the Carbon Pricing) and resources consistent with the In 2014 specific targets were set to that directly generated. observance of the ethical and reduce the total gas emissions for This indicator was included in the environmental values and with the 2018 & 2020. These targets aim to key indicators of Palladio in order approach to continuous a reduction of 15% by 2018 and to be monitored. improvement. 20% by the end 2020, based on The Corporation is especially 2012 levels. Related to this goal is committed towards the major the use of alternative energy SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 5 guarantee safety, environmental Our history Organisation’s protection and reduction of energy profile consumption. This is the story of an Italian (Ref. G4 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9) company founded in 1946, which Palladio Group S.P.A was The production cycle consists of has always been focused on results, established in 1946 and thus has the following macro phase’s evolving from a local dimension to about 70 years of experience common to all sites: national levels and that has been characterized by a progressive  Pre-press: the set of activities able to stand out against its growth focused on the commitment that starting from an artwork, in international competitors .All this to fulfil, in the respect of a paper or digital form, lead to was possible because the company sustainable and socially responsible implement / develop polymers remained firmly attached to a industrial development, the for printing. working model that proved to be expectations/ needs of its  Printing press: the set of effective over the years, and that is customers and all other Interested activities that allow, using now appreciated by all our Parties. A growth that has enabled appropriate machinery, printing customers as synonymous with the company to transform itself plates and inks / varnishes, to quality and reliability. from a small local business to an obtain the printed media with international company, one or more colours (in our case technologically advanced, capable 1946 the printed material consists of of imposing itself in the challenge paper, cardboard or laminate). Acquisition of Società Industria against leading competitor in the  Post Printing: All those Tipolitografica Andrea Palladio. national and international markets activities that, starting from the During the 50s, the company in which it operates. Our clients are printed material and using developed and changed its name to leading multinational companies appropriate machinery, glue Palladio Industria Tipolitografica with whom we have established and packaging materials, lead to S.p.A.. That was the starting point of supply relationships and make the finished product the specialisation in the collaboration that are fundamental through the stages of die pharmaceutical sector. to innovation and continuous cutting, folding, gluing and improvement of the products and packaging. services provided. All the activities supporting the Nowadays Palladio Group is a production process are: cutting edge Italian multinational  Computerisation of the operating in the production-delivery production’s management and of goods and services for secondary planning processes. and primary packaging, of  Procurement of energy and pharmaceutical and cosmetic natural resources. products. 1980  Procurement / storage and use Palladio Group’s main goal is to The work was constantly increasing. of raw materials, packaging offer products, services and The company moved to the new materials and ancillary expertise in compliance with the plant in Dueville, which is still today materials (chemicals, films, requirements, while trying to Palladio’s headquarter. In the same anticipate and meet customer aluminium plates, etc.). year, Mauro Marchi, Antonio’s son, needs.  Equipment and facilities joined the company; he represents The production is based on a maintenance. the third entrepreneurial project, according to the  Shipping & Delivery. generation information and technical  Controlled management of specification provided by the waste produced by the plants 1996 customer, in compliance with the (temporary storage and applicable requirements and handling). 50 years after the foundation of the mandatory laws.  Administration & Sales company a second plant was All the production activities are  Staff training. opened in Thiene. This allowed the performed using machinery and doubling of the production capacity facilities that are technologically and the extension of the packaging highly advanced, this in order to market to the cosmetic industry. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 6 2000 2015 In Dueville’s plant started officially Starting of construction of the new the leaflets production; this led to plant, in Obninsk in the Kaluga the expansion of the range of Oblast region (Russia), the company products of secondary-packaging name is Palladio Obninsk.In October supplied to its customers Palladio Zannini changes its corporate name and becomes Palladio Group S.p.A. Even the 2004 foreign plants, located in Serbia and Ireland, Zannini East and Zannini Palladio acquired Grafica Zannini Ireland, take part in this evolution spa: the group has now two new becoming respectively Palladio East plants in Tuscany, one in Ireland and Palladio Ireland Packaging and one in Serbia. The Group is the Solutions. overall Italian leader in the field of “It's amazing to think about how secondary packaging for the much the company has evolved pharmaceutical sector. since then says Dr. Marchi -. This 2016 growth occurred over time through multiple acquisitions and by February: increasing the range of products 2011 Palladio East (Vršac) achieved the and services provided to our environmental certification ISO customers. The merge between Palladio and 14001 and of the Health & Safety The only thing that has never Grafica Zannini was officialised. certification OHSAS 18001. changed in these seventy years and From this fusion Palladio Zannini has helped us to grow is to make Industrie Grafiche Cartotecniche March: excellence our standard, always All the plants of the group gained focusing on the innovation and the S.p.A. was born. the Quality System Management complete sustainability of our certification in accordance to the processes. The company also has new ISO 9001 edition 2015 another incredible strength: its 2012 regulations. people. The Serbian subsidiary Zannini East May: celebrates its 10th anniversary. Intertek, in compliance with the Zannini east development and SMETA, carried out and indipendent growth were so impressive that Dr. audit to the Serbian Plant Palladio East Mauro Marchi did not hesitate to approve the project to double the E November: facility by 2014. With this initiative we want to In all the group’s plant have been celebrate our extended family and implemented the ISO\IEC27001 turn the spotlight on this sense of (Information Security Management family and corporate culture” System). 2013 (ref. www.industriavicentina.it/idv.nsf/codici/5618) As part of the strategy of December: diversification of the industry in which it operates, Palladio Zannini takes control of the Officina Farmaceutica Pharma Partners, integrating it into a larger project of Palladio Group celebrated, in a industrial growth. prestigious venue such as the 2017 Basilica Palladiana in Vicenza and 2014 together with its 600 employees, 70 years of passion and commitment. Expansion of the Serbian plant floor area by 2000 m2. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 7 Palladio Group spa has its headquarters in Dueville (Vicenza) and more production plants located within the national territory and abroad in line with the business strategy to produce in countries where growth is expected and / or there are opportunities for business. International Plants Headquarter Palladio Ireland ltd Sragh Industrial Estate Tullamore (Co. Offaly) – Ireland Products: cartons Area: 10.000 m2 Palladio Group spa Via Cresole, 8 Dueville (Vicenza) Italia Products: cartons, leaflets Area: 31.000 m2 Palladio East doo Beogradski put 26300 Vršac (Vojvodina) Serbija Italian Plants Products: cartons, leaflets ,labels Area: 20.000 m2 Palladio Group spa Palladio Group spa Via Campazzi, 10 Via Maremmana (Z.I. Gello) – Thiene (Vicenza) – Italy Pontedera (Pisa) Italy Products: cartons, blister Products: cartons, leaflets Palladio Obninsk llc Area: 16.000 m2 ,labels, alufoil Opening January 2017 Area: 38.000 m2 Offices address Prospect Lenina 201 Obninsk Kaluga region – Russian Federation SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 8 Over the years Palladio Group has grown to extend its manufacturing capacity in Foreign Countries. This opening to foreign markets contributed to our commercial growth thanks to the contacts with the surrounding communities and the international staff working at our Plants. Currently the production is carried out in three countries: -Italy, -Ireland -Serbia -Russia (from January 2017) The image beside shows the countries in which we operate. Palladio Group, the parent company of the Group, is a stock company under the Italian law. The two foreign subsidiaries are limited companies. Our main market is the Pharmaceutical industry and our core business is the production of secondary packaging material for the most important pharmaceutical multinational companies. The Group’s activities are substantially uniform among the various sites and can be referred to as the design and production of packaging for the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industries”. In our group, to 31/12/2015, were employed 531 employees, operating within the five factories. The total production capacity of the Group is approximately: 1.6 billion cartons, 800 million leaflets 600 million labels. 50 million blisters 10 million booklets 80 Tons of aluminium SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 9 Commitment to external not be involved, directly or initiatives indirectly, in activities that are Since 2012, on yearly bases, our (Ref. G4 14, 15, 16) inconsistent with their policies of CSR is assessed by Ecovadis and quality, environment and safety. during the year 2015 we have The utilisations of cutting edge joined the Carbon Disclosure technologies help achieve the In February 2016, Palladio East Project for the Climate Change targets set in our environmental (Vršac) obtained from the assessment. and the Health and Safety at Work certification body SGS the protection policy. In recent years, environmental standard ISO 14001 Palladio Group is a member of the thanks to technological and and the OHSAS 18001 for Health and Safety. This standard following national and effective processes, we managed certification is already active in all international associations: to reduce and (in some cases) the Italian plants.  AFI (Associazione Farmaceutici eliminate the emission of Industria) substances harmful to the In March 2016, the certification of  ASSOGRAFICI environment as well as to the the Quality Management System  ATIF (Italian Technical Health and Safety in the has been updated, in all the Group sites, in accordance with the new Association for the Workplace. The above has enabled ISO 9001 edition 2015 standard. development of Flexography) greater protection for our  CIAL (Aluminium Packaging employees and the reduction of During the year 2016, we have Consortium) emissions (waste, air emissions, adapted our management systems  COMIECO (National discharges etc.) of dangerous to regulatory standard Consortium Recovery and substances. ISO\IEC27001 (Information Security Management System). Recycling of cellulose packaging) From the point of view of It is also noted that the Palladio  CONAI (Packaging National continuous improvement and in Ireland (Tullamore) plant, has not Consortium ) order to ensure all customers and yet reached the environmental and  ECMA (European Carton consumers the quality and safety safety certifications, nonetheless Makers Association) of our products, Palladio Group adopted, for some time, a complies with the applicable  ENIPG (Ente Nazionale legislation on this matter. The Istruzione Professionale Company Management Systems purchase of raw materials Grafica) conforming to the requirements of the following voluntary originating from forests is  GIFASP (Italian Group Carton managed according to the Forestry box Manufacturers) frameworks: ISO 9001(certified since 1994) Sustainability Policy and to the  GIPEA (Italian Group of Auto common written procedures and adhesive Labels Applicable GMP Vendor List. Manufacturers ) ISO 14001 (certified since 2001) -OHSAS 18001(certified since  HCPC Europe (Healthcare We also wish to remind our Compliance Packaging Council) 2010) commitment to Ethics and Social  Italian Institute of Packaging) CoC FSC (certified since 2010) Responsibility. CoC PEFC (certified since 2011)  INDUSTRIAL UNION (for the Therefore, in addition to the ISO/IEC 27001 plants in Vicenza, Pisa and adhesion, in 2011, to the 10 Serbia) principles of the UN Global The Quality Management System is Compact, we want to disclose: developed and maintained taking Palladio Group regularly pays the  Our Ethic Code (since 2009) membership fees and considers into account the GMP  Our Chart of Values strategic to join these associations. requirements applicable to (since2011) pharmaceutical packaging. We have also joined:  The adhesion since 2011 to the Chart of Environmental  Chart of Principles for the The organisation has also obtained Sustainability Principles Environmental Sustainability of the voluntary and independent  The adhesion since 2006 to the Industrial Union certifications of traceability (chain initiatives promoted by the  Initiatives promoted by of custody CoC) of products COMIECO Consortium COMIECO  The adhesion since 2014 to  Initiatives promoted by derived from forests certified FSC initiatives promoted by or PEFC. Because of this the Legambiente Legambiente Organisation is also committed to SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 10 Identified material aspects and boundaries (Ref. G4 17, 18) Palladio Group is part of the Holding Group Marchi, according to the structure shown in the following organizational chart. HOLDING GRUPPO MARCHI SPA With the view of reporting homogeneity, in relation to the type of materials produced in the various plants of the Group, it has been determined that the scope of PALLADIO the reporting will be limited to the GROUP SPA BURGO GROUP SPA plant operating in the Plants :Dueville, Thiene, Pontedera (Italia) Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic sectors and producing primary and secondary packaging materials, such as: PALLADIO EAST DOO Palladio Group spa plants in Vrsac Plant (Serbia) Dueville-Vicenza (Italy), Thiene-Vicenza (Italy), Pontedera-Pisa (Italy) PALLADIO Palladio East doo: plant in Vrsac IRELAND LTD Tullamore Plant Vojvodina (Serbia) (Ireland) Palladio Ireland ltd: plant in Tullamore County Offaly (Ireland PALLADIO OBNINSK LLC Therefore, when the report will Obninsk Plant (Russia) quote Palladio Group or the Group, all the plants above shall be considered. PHARMA PARTNERS SRL Prato Note: the Palladio Obninsk (Russia) (Italia) plant is listed in the chart even though it is not yet operational. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 11 Communicate the progress in STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 relation of the UN Global Compact REPOR IDENTIFICA PRIORITIZA VALIDATIO T Principles. Sustainability Ensure that a measurable progress Materiality Completeness Context has been achieved. Stakeholder Inclusiveness In the third phase Validation the STEP 4 Palladio Group’s various REVIEW department managers, according Sustainability Context Stakeholder Inclusiveness to their roles and tasks across the Group were involved in the activities and they have been The Palladio Group's management  G4 Guidelines of the Global centrally coordinated by the of the environmental, economic Sustainability Standards Board Quality and Sustainability and social material aspects of the UN Global Compact. department manager. The results complies with G4 Guide lines. of the Validation activities were These, in order to determine the During the second phase of the then finally approved by the material aspects and their relevant evaluation of the priorities, the Executive Committee of Palladio perimeters, outline a process material aspects identified in the Group S.p.A. divided into the following four previous phase were examined, stages: giving priority to the individual During the fourth and final review economic, environmental and phase, which takes place after the  Identification social issues of the organization publication of the report, the  Prioritization both on the basis of the impacts organization focuses on the  Validation for the Group and on the basis of identified Relevant Aspects  Review stakeholder interest, Including considering the Stakeholders' As shown in the picture below, external (and / or internal) feedback in order to identify new each of the four phases covers boundaries in which the major Aspects that could be examined in specific elements of the process significant impacts may occur. the next Sustainability Report. defining what is relevant and where it is relevant”. This universally recognized reporting technique use specific In order to ensure the quality of indicators, depending on the levels the information and the of application, bringing the compliance to the principles of company to: balance, clarity, accuracy, Perform a complete monitoring of timeliness, comparability and its performance. reliability of the GRI, Palladio Draw up a final balance of the Group defined the contents of this main environmental impacts of the Report, according to the following Group‘s production activities. principles. During the first phase of identification, the potential Stakeholder Inclusiveness. • Involvement of • Performance data • The set of content and • Identifying what material aspects were selected aspects can be individuals who are significantly affected shown in the financial statements should give topics covered in the report must be such as Sustainability Context. defined as and that can reasonably a clear idea on the to reflect the whole through the analysis of different Materials influence the ability of the organization to inclusion of the organization in the sustainability performance and through the implement their context of sustainable should allow all sources: parameters: • Significance strategies and achieve their goals throughout development respecting the limits stakeholders to evaluate it.  Corporate Documents such as the reporting phase and the environmental Completeness. considering the and social requirements strength of the set at a sectoral, local, economic, regional and Materiality Corporate Policy, Ethics Code; environmental international level and social  Consultation with the various impact; • Degree of Stakeholders; influence on stakeholder  Mandatory regulations; assessments and decisions SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 12 Identification and context of each and the compliance with If, in some case, a new method of material aspect (Ref. G4 19, 20, 21, 22, 23) international laws. measurement has been used, The application of the stages of same will be highlighted under the identification and prioritization, relevant indicator. The Materials aspects have been according to the objective identified based on the various methodology as previously To be highlighted some significant consultations, assessments and indicated, has allowed the changes concerning the observations made in the first determination of the materials introduction of new machinery, phase; same are listed below, aspects and of the boundaries size of property, but above all the subdivided according to the which are shown in table (Annex 1) expansion of services which led to following categories: in section 10 and in the matrix increase the consumption of Environmental (EN) below. energy resources. Economic (EC) Labour (LA) The reporting data refer to the last Human Rights (HR) three years (2014, 2015 and 2016) Social (SO) and are indicated for each Product Responsibility (PR) individual production plant and for the whole Group. Some data may In order to identify the potentially have been revised, if compared materials aspects, the following with previous years, due to elements of Palladio Group S.p.A. changes in the coefficients, basic were taken into consideration: errors and homogeneity in the reporting, in order to allow  Most significant environmental comparisons without distortions. aspects for Palladio Group The table (Annex 2) in section 10 S.p.A., according to the shows the coefficients used for the Environmental Management environmental calculations, during System. the three years.  Economic aspects which better There were no significant changes respond to the needs of an in the reporting period regarding increasingly competitive the scope, reporting limits or market. measurement methods.  Most significant labour aspects, in accordance to the Corporate Policy and in compliance with health and safety at work as per the Workers' Health & Safety Management System and mandatory legislations.  Most significant aspects in accordance with Palladio Group Code of Ethics and respect for fundamental human rights, as ratified by the relevant International Conventions.  Aspects relating to the product which are deemed to be significant in relation to the relationship with the consumer SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 13 local communities in which we Palladio News operate, environmental groups, Since our company newsletter was Stakeholder the future generations. restored. It is now published every engagement four months with the main (Ref. G4 24, 25, 26, 27) The sustainability approach used, purpose of explaining about the Palladio Group achieved its success in order to ensure the company, starting from the on the domestic and international achievement of the objectives, the internal organisation, passing markets because it kept in mind quality of information and the through the main events, up to the that its activities are directed adequacy of the presentation of latest products news, but also with primarily to Stakeholders. the principles towards the important goal of promoting The Group’s development was stakeholders is to use the principle and increasing the sense of built prioritising the satisfaction of of inclusiveness and materiality. belonging among employees, the the needs of all stakeholders, Palladio Group wanted to spirit of collaboration and including rights as defined by encourage information and teamwork, improving the business national laws and applicable relationships with several spirit. international standards. stakeholders by promoting With this additional initiatives transversally involving communication tool we want to The drafting and publication of the different stakeholders through boost the participation and Sustainability Report and other communication integrated involvement of employees, report on the assessment of our external and internal platforms keeping them updated about Corporate Social Responsibility was that stakeholders can use without activities that are taking place and the first step in sharing and any particular constraints, such as: encouraging the flow of disclosing that has led us to focus  Website information between on important aspects on which our (www.palladiogroup.com) departments. efforts must be addressed as  Intranet The structure of the publication response to our stakeholders'  E-mail includes an editorial signed by the needs and expectations. (info@palladiogroup.com) CEO, the focus on a relevant As a matter of fact, our  Facebook topic of particular interest for the Sustainability Principles and Values (www.facebook.com/pages/A company, then the various are the result of both material mici-di-Palladiogroup) sections telling the news coming subjects arising from the  LinkedIn from our operational sites and the involvement of the various (www.linkedin.com/company/ final pages are dedicated to the functions and the results of various palladiogroup) events , corporate life and our forms of dialogue and discussion people.  Yammer with the Group Stakeholders (www.yammer.com/palladiogr During the year 2016, there were oup.com) no criticalities emerged from the  Vimeo activities of stakeholder vimeo.com/user44390006 engagement. Stakeholders are those bodies who It is our intention to use these have interests in place with our media more and more, in business such as: particular the social networks as The Shareholders, dynamic platforms where we can The Employees intercept any requests, have more The Collaborators, ways of sharing, understand the The Customers, new requirements, needs and The Suppliers, duties. The Business Partners. For the preparation of this report, We also consider stakeholders all specific groups of internal those individuals or groups, as well stakeholders were involved. as organisations and institutions that represent them, whose interests are affected by the direct and indirect effects of the activities of Palladio Group in particular, the SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 14 verified by auditors of Soc. Ernst & Link to the 10 principles of the UN Report’s Profile (Ref. G4 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33) Young. Global Compact, * The GRI G4 provides two possible in accordance The sustainability model adopted The Sustainability Report is levels: Core and Comprehensive . Core includes most disclosure standards and relevant indicators by Palladio Group is inspired by the published annually. for every material aspect. Comprehensive includes United Nations Global Compact. The report’s data refer to the last all standard information and all relevant indicators for each material aspect. In May 2012 Palladio Group has three years (2014, 2015 and 2016) formalized its adherence to the and they are indicated both per U.N. Global Compact, a pact that production unit and at group level. binds all those companies This report will be published on committed to aligning their the website of the Global Compact operations and strategies to the 10 of the United Nations, on the G.R.I. universally accepted principles website and on our website concerning human rights, labour, (www.palladiogroup.com) as well environment and anti-corruption. as the company Intranet. The table in Annex 3 section 14 For any additional information which shows the commitment of please contact: Palladio Group (Accounted for in giampaolo.carone@palladiogroup. this report) to respect and com. promote these principles, shows which GRI G4 version indicators, The aim is to annually disclose, to applicable to Palladio Group, are Stakeholders, information relevant considered in conjunction with to economic, environmental and each of the 10 principles of the social performances resulting from U.N. Global Compact. This is in the Palladio Group's production. In order to facilitate the research of particular, the report aims to the information relevant to the frame in a wider context the stakeholders which are interested activities of the company in in evaluating the implementation accordance with the standards and of the Principles by Palladio Group. the G4 guidelines of the GRI and the Principles of the Global To find the pages where the GRI Compact, which are part of the indicators are discussed please report. refer to the correlation chart of the Currently 5 sustainability reports, Report (GRI 4) and link with the 10 two Communication On Progress UN Global Compact principles and one Climate Change Report contained in Annex 3 of Section 14 have been published. The last (Source: GRI-Global Compact, publication, available on our web “Making the Connection”). site and that one of the UN Global Compact, dates back to May 2016. This report, prepared in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 Core , has been subjected to external verification activities by SGS.Italia spa. The certification related to this report is provided in the relevant section. Data on economic performance, deferred in the relevant section, are extracted from the Consolidated Financial Statements SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 15 The members of the Board of Governance (Ref. G4 34) Directors are appointed according In line with the provisions of the to integrity, professionalism and D.L. 6 July 2012, n. 95, converted The Governance model in use is competence criteria defined by the by L. 7 August 2012 n.135, The the “traditional” type, which Statute, they shall hold office for a Palladio Group’s Board of Directors means that it is characterised by period not exceeding three is composed of seven members: the dichotomy between the financial years and they end the President, CEO and five management body (Board of mandate at the date of the Councillors. More specific details Directors) and the supervisory Meeting called to approve the about the members (i.e. .: age, body (Union Board); the activities financial statements for the last gender) can be found on public of statutory audit are entrusted to year of their term. The directors record available, upon request at an Audit firm. are re-elected in accordance with one of the Group Companies, at The mechanisms of corporate art. 2383 of the Italian Civil Code. the Register of Enterprises of the governance adopted by Palladio Palladio Group shareholders relevant Chamber of Group, in line with the statutory assembly, by resolution dated Commerce(C.I.A.A.). provisions, intend to ensure an 17/06/2016, has appointed the efficient and transparent new Company Board of Directors Palladio Group pursues the aim of functioning of the Company’s which will remain in office until good governance through the organs of government and control approval of the financial implementation of a set of values, systems. statements 2018. rules and procedures , stated in the Ethic Code, which outlines the commitments and responsibilities that the company and those who work there, are taking in the management of each business activity. SHAREHOLDERS ASSEMBLY Approves the financial statements, appoints the Board of Directors, the Union Board, the independent auditors and amends the statute BOARD OF DIRECTORS UNION BOARD AUDITING FIRM Monitors on the compliance with the law and the It ensures that the Company's statute, on the observance of the principles for a management is carried out in accordance proper administration, on the adequacy of the Performs the audit of the financial organizational, administrative and accounting with the corporate mission and purpose. assets and their operational level statements and carries out a periodical verification of the accounting. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 16 collaborators and business the national legislation in relation Ethics and partners to working time and annual leave. Integrity (Ref. G4 56, 57, 58) Equal Opportunities Relationships with the Unions Consistently to our Mission, which The workforce of Palladio Group is We recognise the basic right, of all states: formed without regards to race, the employees, to join a trade “To build and maintain, in colour, religion, age, sex, sexual union according to their own free compliance with laws and orientation, handicap, political will. The employees will be neither corporate ethics, our leadership in opinions, national origin, and social advantaged nor disadvantaged the competitive market creating background. We respect any because of their membership to a innovation and value both for the political and religious belief of our trade union. The company is open Customer and for other employees, as long as such to dialogue with them and with the Stakeholder”, believes is based on democratic organisations that may represent Palladio Group has always invested values and on the tolerance of them. in technology and advanced different opinions. The employees equipment, developed thanks to can complain to their direct Qualification the close relationship established superior or to the relevant Our company, as well as between customers and suppliers. department director in the event encouraging the training of the All this has helped and continues they feel unfairly treated in employees, in order to develop to help provide a measurable regards of their work conditions. skills, knowledge and added value in terms of logistics, The employees will not suffer any professionalism, shall ensure to productivity and lead-time. disadvantage in regards of their maintain and enhance the knowcomplaint. We refuse any kind of how of its employees through forced labour and respect the specific training programs. principle of the work freely chosen. Health and Labour Protection Our Principles and Values of Integration of People with The safety in the workplace and Reference Disabilities the health of our employees are of Our ethic conduct is represented From our point of view, people high priority to us. Palladio Group by the value and content of the with disabilities have the same meets the national standards for a Ethic Code. benefit of equal rights as members safe and hygienic working Palladio Group pursues its of society and professionally. environment and, on this regard, economic goals giving priority to Supporting these people in the takes appropriate measures to the social factors, the health and process of integration in the ensure its employees' health and environmental protection, with the company and working with them in safety at work and the working knowledge that our a cooperative environment, is conditions are not harmful to their entrepreneurial actions have to be essential to our entrepreneurial health. The enforcement of OHSAS in line with the society interests. culture. 18001 and ISO 14001 regulations The values in which the values in ensure the highest safety which the Group recognizes itself Child Labour standards, in compliance with the are: We condemn child labour and laws in force and with the constant respect children’s rights. surveillance of the environment. Responsibility We know that our entrepreneurial Fairness of the Working Environment actions have to be in line with Conditions Palladio Group, through its policies society’s interests, the people, and The salary and social benefits (Quality, Environmental, Safety the cautious management of the available to our employees and Sustainability forestry) and resources and the respect of the correspond, at least, to the program management, is environment minimum national or local legal committed to preserve natural standards, to the provisions of the resources by reducing the Human Rights respective agreements. Over 70% environmental impact of its We support and comply with the of our employees benefit a activities. Palladio Group is observance of the human rights, as superminimum wage (above the committed to environmental recognised within international legal minimum wage). We respect protection. Our certifications ISO levels, especially the rights of our SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 17 14001, FSC e PFSC show our Partnership environmental responsibility. Palladio Group tries to build These principles are included in the sincere and positive relationships various manuals of quality with all its Stakeholders. management, environmental To meet their needs, we cultivate a management, safety, FSC and PEFC spirit of partnership based on as well as in the relevant policies. mutual responsibility, dialogue and interest. Stakeholder’s Satisfaction Our growth and sustainability and, Corruption therefore, our ability to meet our There is no tolerance for commitments to our stakeholder, corruption. are conditioned by the customer’s The relationships between satisfaction employees and customers, suppliers, partners, and public Customers services are managed with Palladio Group aims to provide objectivity and integrity. Any kind products, services and expertise in of agreement or any ancillary compliance with the requirements clauses in agreements relating to and, at the same time, to the acquisition of advantages or anticipate and meet their needs. benefits for individuals through The data and know‐how provided procurement, allocation, delivery, by our customers and partners are performance and payment of treated with the utmost commissions is forbidden. confidentiality, protection and in compliance with laws and Transparency and Trust regulatory requirements. Transparency, honest communication and openness to Suppliers dialogue are hallmarks of our Palladio Group, through a process communication programs. Our regulated by specific quality, goal is to provide reliable and environmental and safety relevant information to enable an procedures, is constantly seeking objective assessment of our for long lasting partnerships with management of the environment, its own suppliers .In this process finance, corporate and social Palladio Group undertakes to performance. verify that its suppliers perform the required tasks in line with our Profitability Code of Ethics, the tender’s We act and decide targeting the specifications and according to the profitability; this is to ensure environmental and safety growth and financial autonomy. It procedures. . is our duty to achieve and maintain high returns for our shareholders, Shareholders employees and all our Palladio Group is guided by the stakeholders. principles of corporate governance, particularly in the Integrity research of returns and growth of All our decisions are based on capital invested by its honesty, integrity and loyalty in shareholders. the scrupulous observance of all the laws and regulations of the countries in which it operates. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 18 The Ethic Code about our commitment to this Our commitment on the Minerals Issued and approved by the Board cause and that they share the Conflict‘s issue of Directors in July 2009, it has principles and values set out in our been subject to some minor Code of Ethics In July 2010, the US Congress modification to make it compliant brought as part of human rights with the changes that took place in Palladio Group has a zero violations in the Democratic the legislation, however its tolerance attitude toward Republic of the Congo and meaning and usefulness remains corruption. The value that guides neighbouring countries the very same, in fact still encloses our choices is based on (collectively, the DRC )the mining the values and principles that meritocracy and ethics, rewarding and trading of tin, tungsten, inspire and orientate the act of our employees only in accordance tantalum and gold ( minerals Palladio Group towards its with these principles. This principle coming from conflict areas ). stakeholders. is taken into account in the United States approved a new The Code is a fundamental feature management of our customers, regulation, called the Dodd-Frank of the terms of employment: all suppliers and any authority with Act, which requires companies employees are in fact committed which Palladio Group has based in America and in all other to engage a conduct in line with relationships. In line with the countries, to make public any the Code. Palladio Group also contents of our Code of Ethics, possible use of so-called Conflict requires, in the mandates and since 2013, it is possible to Minerals extracted in the mines of service contracts that the suppliers implement the Whistle-blowing the Democratic Republic of the adhere to the contents of the Ethic procedure in order to report any Congo (DRC) and associated Code. unethical or illegal conduct. The countries. whistle-blowing procedure can be During the year 2016 the Ethics activated both internally and In August 2012, the US Securities Committee received 3 complaints externally through the exchange and Exchange Commission (SEC), in that have been resolved without and communication platforms with accordance with the requirements any specific intervention. our stakeholders. under the Dodd-Frank Act, has adopted final rules under the The Ethic Code can be Securities Exchange Act of 1934 downloaded, both in Italian and (Exchange Act) issuing a reporting English, from our website: warrant for the public companies http://www.palladiogroup.com. in connection with the use of Same was also translated in the conflict minerals originating in languages of the countries where the democratic Republic of the Palladio Group is; a copy was given Congo or an neighbouring country, to all employees (and from each of collectively referred to as the DRC. them undersigned) and made The initial deadline was set for available on the company's May 31, 2014. intranet site. At the end of the year 2013, on the As per above, having Palladio occasion of the new issue of the Group signed a commitment to Code of Ethics all our employees monitor human rights in our supply have been trained on the ethical chain and also in order to comply code. Also in the following years with some customers’ demands, refresh training was provided. we went into action by initiating an investigation into some of our Palladio Group refuses to be an suppliers to explore the topic accomplice, even indirectly, in the conflict minerals and received abuse of human rights. For this confirmation that in their reasons exercises its control over production processes no use is suppliers/partners of work made of materials mined in conflict performance and / or service to areas. make sure that all the suppliers of goods and/or services are aware SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 19 Sustainable development contracts to protect themselves in Economic (Ref. G4 EC2, EN31) case of unexpected weather Responsibility events and has put into procedures As we are aware of the importance a business continuity plan to of ensuring a sustainable Economic management ensure continuity of its activities. (Ref. G4 EC1) development of our activities and During the year 2016 we a more efficient use of energy and In recent years Palladio Group has completed the annual request for materials on the long term, reorganised its structure to better information from the CDP Climate Palladio Group pursues continuous meet the needs of an increasingly Change, which were analysed improvement of its environmental competitive market by making according to the standard method performance and energy, applying many investments aimed to make of CDP score. best practices which will improve our production more efficient and Its Performance Review Report has the environmental management in to improve the organisation by given us a Level B Scoring. a cost effective way. introducing innovative concepts To achieve these goals, the such as the lean thinking. Company adopted a management Indirect Economical Impacts In addition to the closure of model based on the preventive (Ref. G4 EC7, EC8) important projects we have also analysis of the environmental Donations, financial contributions increased our services to impacts of its activities and the and pro bono activities were customers, strengthening our constant monitoring of carried out during the year of leadership in the market in which consumption and waste. This reference in relation to a we operate. approach has allowed us to preliminary analysis on the needs In addition to strengthening our identify the areas which need our of local communities or on the plant in Serbia, it is going to build a intervention to achieve an general public interest. In addition further facility in Russia, together environmental improvement; we to the various activities with a foreign partner. This project acted in this direction with undertaken by the Group, as every follows the established strategy targeted activities that led to year Palladio Group’s employees, with our other foreign plants to progressive reductions in CO2 together with the company, have produce directly in the countries emissions. contributed to support, through where the market is expected to To promote the company's donations, various associations of grow allowing an expansion of our sustainability culture, awarenesshumanitarian and social nature of multinational. Such activities raising initiatives were also their own choice. contributed, although indirectly, to promoted to reduce energy improve the economic conditions consumption and facilitate the of local communities in which we waste recycling at the Palladio operate, and also generated value Group plants. Presence on the market for our company. In this regard, in 2016, costs for (Ref. G4 EC5, EC6) environmental management and protection amounted to over € The most important operational 280,000, these were mainly due to sites (based on the high number of the installation of cleaner and employees) are located in Italy and more efficient technologies, Serbia. The salary of new training courses for staff directly employees in all locations of the involved in environmental group is on average higher than management, external services, the minimum wage required by Purchases of green products, law without any distinction waste disposal. between genres and backgrounds. We also support projects in favour Palladio Group is aware of the risks Palladio Group doesn’t have a of the community such as social, due to physical changes in relation specific policy regarding the global cultural and artistic activities that to climate change but, at present, recruitment of staff residing in the are fundamental values to civil we believe that will not affect the vicinity of establishments; society, helping to improve the operations of its plants and By recruitment practices however quality of life of local communities business decisions in the medium priority is given to people living in in which we operate. and long term. The company has, the vicinity where the activity however, signed insurance takes place. On a general base the SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 20 managers and the employees of it is mandatory the assessment of  A rationalisation of the both the foreign subsidiaries and the environmental, security, and supplier's stock the various Italian plants have their social data.  Greater flexibility in the orders habitual residence nearby the It is also expected acceptance of production. relevant local communities. our supplier code of conduct. Our activities, due to the type of The senior managers are those Through this code we intend to material used, involve a products’ top-level functions and the local encourage our Suppliers to recycling system that stands at communities are intended as the understand and comply with what very high rates. country in which the plant stated in it to allow, through the All waste from used raw material is operates. respect of these criteria, the appropriately separated to be sent continuation of the relationships of for recycling. Supply according to clear and Our initiatives originated positive transparent codes of conduct. results. In fact, during 2016, the Indirect Economical Impacts Consequently, we require not only demand for using recycled a responsible attitude towards cardboard by our customers Palladium Group, but also a remained stable. Procurement Methodology commitment to respect the same Our company is subjected to the (Ref. G4 12, 13, EC9, EN1, EN2, EN27, EN28, EN32, LA14, LA15, LA16, HR1, HR10, HR11, SO9) matters of concern within the market demand with regard to the supplier's company. requirements of our customers The Group’s suppliers operate in different sectors including: raw required product but not with In terms of health & safety in the regard to the requirements of the materials, ancillary materials for workplace we ask the outer boxes used for packing the the production of pharmaceutical supplier/service provider to have supplied products. packaging such as inks and full knowledge of local regulations As a result of this we have adopted varnishes, services (in particular on this subject and to follow the a policy of using packaging third parties). From a geographical indications as per documentation produced from recycled cardboard point of view, The Group favours provided which must be signed for for packing the products sold. domestic suppliers and, in acceptance by the same (DUVRI). Unfortunately, due to the criteria particular, companies that can provide goods and / or services in adopted by the pharmaceutical the markets in which the Palladio Products and services industry in accordance with the group plants operate. Palladio Group works on a contract FDA (Food & Drug Administration) The raw material used for basis, therefore it is the customer regulations, such packaging cannot production is defined by the to specify the type of raw material be returned. The use of such customer, and generally produced and supplier to be used and we packaging it is only allowed once to / manufactured by multinational must strictly comply with these avoid cross-contamination issues. paper mills. requests, this limits our possibility to purchase recycled raw Sustainable procurement of Since the Group's ethical integrity materials. Being unable to act forest based products is necessarily dependent upon that directly on the finished product, In October 2010, the European of trading partners with which it we promote the concept of Union adopted a regulation to has relationships, we demand that sustainable consumption with our prevent illegal timber trade in our suppliers comply with the Customers through initiatives Europe. Since March 3, 2013, the following standards: Health and aimed to raise the customer’s law (EU) 995/2010, better known safety in the workplace, working awareness to use recycled as EU Timber Regulation (EUTR) conditions, freedom of association cardboard or to reduce the board have come into force; this applies and not retaliation, forced and grammage, thus giving a to wood and to all products compulsory labour, child labour, contribution to implement: originated from it, including paper. no discrimination, compliance with  A positive effect on the “For companies that introduce in environmental legislation, Abuse environment Europe products made from wood of office and corruption. Therefore  A reduction of cardboard fibres, the Regulation prohibits the since 2016, the process of waste placing and trade of illegal selection and qualification of  An economic benefit for the products and requires the suppliers has been modified, so customer adoption of a system of internal that now for all the new suppliers “Due Diligence”. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 21 Palladio Group, through performance and / or service, promoted by the Organisation, compliance with PEFC and FSC making sure that our suppliers of including the recognition and certifications, purchase only goods and/or services are aware of protection of rights of indigenous certified raw materials and / or our commitment to this cause and peoples and other minorities materials not originating from they must share the principles and forest-dependent (such as local controversial sources. values set out in our Code of communities). Our sourcing policy is to guarantee Ethics. the origin and legality of wood We require, as per our procedures, products (paper and cardboard) in that all the suppliers (contractors), our chain of custody, paying selected to carry out work within particular attention to suppliers of our premises, and must forest raw materials. Hence, demonstrate to be in possession of detailed information is gathered to documentation certifying assess legality, traceability, thirdcompliance with legislative and party certification status, global contractual obligations towards policy compliance, and compliance their employees. They also have to with EUTR 995/2010 “Timber be in compliance with the Regulation” and with Due Diligence corporate’s social responsibility System. and the good practice standards lay down by the Environmental In 2016, all Palladio Group’s and health & safety management suppliers of forest based raw system of Palladio Group. material have confirmed the origin Any negative environmental of the material and they all hold a impacts and possible complaints valid certification Therefore we can related to those impacts are say that also in the year 2016: handled through the documented 100% of the raw materials used nonconformity management. from wood (paper and board) come from controlled resources. During the reporting period, no 99% of the raw materials used contracts were rejected, no came from renewable resources. performance conditions were imposed, and in any case no action Having subscribed a commitment was taken as a result of the to monitor human rights in our assessment of respect for human supply chain and also in order to rights and practices of work with comply with some customers’ major suppliers, contractors and demands, we went into action by other business partners. initiating an investigation into some of our suppliers to explore the topic conflict minerals” and to Indigenous population’s receive confirmation that in their Rights production processes is not used (Ref. G4 HR8) materials extracted in conflict zones. In Palladio Group there were no incidents involving the rights of the communities in which it operates. We do not operate in countries Investment and where there are indigenous Procurement Practices communities. As Confirmation of Palladio Group refuses to be an our adhesion to the principle of accomplice, even indirectly, in the non-complicity in abuse of human abuse of human rights. For this rights, we are also committed reason the organisation exercises through obtaining FSC certification, its control over companies with to buy our raw material in which it collaborates for work accordance with the principles SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 22 Reduce general and natural The extent of reduction was Environmental determined through the evaluation Responsibility resources waste of the Carbon Foot Print for the years taken as reference. In relation to our activities, Another important step in the products and services we identify policy of reducing waste is the our direct and indirect management of waste arising from Focus on Biodiversity environmental aspects and the our raw material (paper and (Ref. G4 EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14) related impact factors. According cardboard). Most of this material is in fact One of the environmental factors to their significance we determine handled as a by-product. This on which Palladio Group puts the most important ones, this is in material is therefore collected to focuses is biodiversity despite all order to keep them under control be reused or recycled at the end of the Group's plants are located in and prevent any risk for the its life cycle. The organisation, in technological / industrial areas, environment. Our Register of order to improve the efficiency in away from protected areas and Impact Factors” provides an the use of materials and resources, areas of high biodiversity or areas overview of the most significant also separates the various where the Species listed in the red activities. In this context, the packaging materials (such as UINC list have their habitat. applicable legal requirements and wooden platforms, some types of The above is done through the other requirements subscribed by plastic, iron, etc.) In order to help adherence to Forest Management the Organisation are taken into improve efficiency in the use of Systems such as the FSC and PEFC account in the definition, materials and resources. Custodies chains to support the implementation and maintenance protection of forests and their of the Environmental Management Since 2009 Palladio Group has fauna and in order to contrast the System. analysed its LCI monitoring their illegal trading in the wood sector; emissions of greenhouse gases buying only forest products that Specific improvement objectives (GHG) resulting in particular from: come exclusively from controlled are defined on an annual basis in order to improve our performance  Consumption of natural gas sources. and reduce consumption resulting (direct emissions of greenhouse gases) In addition, to promote resource from any waste.  Consumption of electricity conservation and environmental Goals that over the years have (indirect emissions of protection for years we have been brought significant benefits as it greenhouse gases) actively participating in events emerges from the data reported in promoted by Conai called “Riciclo this section. Several studies, aimed Verification of indirect impacts Aperto” (Open Recycling) to define and modify the procedural methodology and the arising from our own production structural measures, have led to a activities: reduction in consumption resulting  Consumption paper raw from waste. The implementation materials of these interventions, such as:  Transport resulting from the home automation management of purchase of paper raw air conditioning, lights and various materials utilities supplying the production,  Transport resulting from the use of LED lights, have resulted in sale of finished products. “Riciclo Aperto” is a major significant energy efficiencies and communication campaign on reductions in energy Following the evaluation of sorting and recycling of paper and requirements... environmental impacts (LCIA), in cardboard waste, to raise relation to the annual production, awareness and show the different our consumptions were monitored phases of the cycle of recycling and to intervene significantly by educate the younger generations establishing objectives aimed to: to a conscious use of resources.  reduce natural resources waste The goal is to make people  reduce our contribution to discover the value of the recycling Global Warming. industry, the skills and SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 23 technologies of the sector and There have been various cleaning Emissions demonstrate live how paper and activities in the Path of Health (Ref. G4 EN 15, EN 16, EN17, EN18, EN19) cardboard are actually recycled, to located inside the Natural Oasis of reassure citizens about the the Vršac’s hill and saw the usefulness of their daily efforts to participation of about 100 students Palladio Group does not have recycling. from the schools of Vršac significant emissions in the atmosphere or emissions for which Since 2013, we organize, at our the competent authorities have plants, the “Sustainability Days. prescribed monitoring, so the Such initiatives involve our emissions of ozone depleting employees, their families and substances are not measured. especially local communities. In any case the following environmental aspects have been identified and taken into account: Scope 1) Emissions of greenhouse gases due to the combustion of natural gas and diesel fuel in the plants for premises heating (direct and Palladio also contributed to the controllable emissions ); event in Italy of some Venetian For each plant, the consumption of As confirmation of our and Tuscan schools with Puliamo natural gas and diesel (invoices) for environmental commitment and World Kit. the last three years has been used. consistently with the path taken in the previous years, also in 2016, Scope 2) we participated to “Clean Up the Greenhouse gas emissions from World a global environmental the consumption of electricity in initiative promoted by the plants (indirect emissions); Legambiente in cooperation with The energy consumption data the United Nations Environment (invoices), issued the last three Programme (UNEP). years, have been used. In 2016, we introduced the Scope 2 emission calculation methodology in line with the new requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. In consequence of this the Scope 2 emissions are accounted in two different ways respectively called location-based method and a market-based method; the emission factors used for the two methods are shown in the table in the Annex 2. Scope 3) Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of raw materials incoming to the production cycle and from the transportation of raw materials and finished products (other indirect emissions); SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 24 The data for the last three years Purpose 2 Market Based Energy containing the quantities of raw emissions. (Ref. G4 EN3, EN5, EN6, EN7) materials incoming to each plant have been used. In detail, there Currently Palladio Group does not are the following incoming produce energy, this is only materials: purchased. Cardboard boxes for In the composition of the energy processing in the line; mix used to produce the electricity Paper for leaflets in line sold to the company it is estimated processes ; that about 34% comes from Self-adhesive Labels for In addition to the above, we also renewable sources. stickers production; constantly monitor the indirect The energy consumption for Inbound Travel (for the supply impacts arising from our heating production floors and of raw materials of paper and productive activity such as: offices during winter time is cardboard) and output (for • Consumption of paper raw exclusively attributable by the use delivery of finished products) materials of natural gas (Italian plants and from all plants of the Group. • Transport resulting from the plant Serbia) or oil fuel (Irish _____________________________ purchase of paper raw materials plant)). Scope1 refers to direct greenhouse gas emissions • Transport deriving from the sale The consumption of electrical and absorption, Scope 2 is reported to greenhouse gas indirect of finished products. energy is significant as it has the emissions associated with the use of energy, Thanks to the adoption of Lean greater environmental impact. Scope 3 is other indirect emissions; For further details refer to the definitions of the Manufacturing, we were able to This type of consumption derives Greenhouse Gas Protocol (www.ghgprotocol.org) reduce the absolute environmental from both the normal production impact of the Group, managing to and the use of compressors for air limit the increase of CO2 conditioning. Specific interventions Carbon Footprint associated with an increased have enabled a reduction in In recent years, thanks to a series production, to reach the set consumption at comparative level of activities aimed to define and targets. We provide also to take (KPI). modify the procedural methods account of the different types of This reduction was achieved and the structural intervention emissions (Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope through a series of specific that would allow a reduction in 3) transforming them even in an procedural and structural consumption resulting from any economic value. To do so we use interventions, or through acts to energy waste, we avoided to the latest available carbon price sensitize all employees to for increase the Greenhouse Gas value obtained from the latest greater awareness. The structural emission (measured on all issue of the Report of Word Bank interventions targeted a sources). Group State and Trends of modernization of the production The above despite the Carbon Pricing. Based on this equipment such as the enlargements of the plants, the information was considered the replacement of bulbs neon lamps implementation of additional value below the carbon price in with high energy efficiency (LED), production lines, the production different countries: Ireland: the use of domotic (home differentiation and the increase of 20,64€ / ton (Carbon Taxation automation) equipment for the the business that have led to an mechanism Ireland) Italy: 4,69€ / management of services increase in energy consumption. ton (EU ETS) Serbia: 4,69€ / ton subservient to the production and Recently we established new (EU ETS) The company has to air-conditioning the building and targets for the total gas emissions identified a specific carbon price the replacement of the heating for 2018 & 2020, representing a indicator as a ratio between the systems with high efficiency boilers total reduction of 15% within 2018, economic value and carbon and 20% within 2020, based on revenues. This indicator is included 2012 levels. (Ref. CDP Climate in the monitored company key Change CC3.1b). indicators. The total emission value is determined as the sum of the emissions of Purpose 1 and the SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 25 Water Waste (Ref. G4 EN 8, EN9, EN10) (Ref. G4 EN24, EN25) The Group’s plants use only Palladio Group follows a clear enough water not to significantly strategy for waste management. damage the water sources. This The objective is to prevent and because in all the premises of the reduce the amount of waste so Group water is mainly used for that the global environmental sanitary purposes. There are no impact related to the waste The target we set out was largely recycling / reuse methods in place remains minimal. achieved. The use of water in the production https://my.charitywater.org/palladiozannini/ process is generally limited to the palladiozannini-charitywater offset printing process for the In 2016 have been consumed plates washing. Consequently, its 6.690 m3, or a consumption of consumption is also closely linked about 11 m3 per head (approx. to the quantity of processed 21% less than 2015). product. To reduce water consumption, Palladio Group is just a waste flow reducers were installed to the producer, not a dealer. All waste is taps in the toilets of our sites, collected from our premises and simple devices that mix air with delivered to local authorized waste water and double buttons for disposal companies where it will draining water sanitation so as to be disposed of and/or recycled. minimise the waste of this Almost all the water consumed No significant waste spills were resource. comes from municipal water while recorded during the three-year about 10% of consumption period. We believe that water is an consists of ground water, used important resource, and we try to only at the plant in Dueville. use it sparingly at all sites of the Group. To raise awareness among our employees on the correct use of this resource in 2014 we have publicly supported Charity: Water a serious and reliable US organisation, whose mission is to provide clean water and easy access to the people and villages Transports that are in difficulty. (Ref. G4 – EN 30) Drains (Ref. G4 EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23, EN26) The Organization, in order to mitigate the environmental The production cycle does not impacts linked to the products’ include drains of water; the only transportation, is constantly planned discharges are those committed to optimize both the resulting from the use of sanitation outbound and inbound travels. This initiative called Palladio Group and therefore similar to domestic This optimisation is possible + Charity: Water was aimed to sewage. through the procurement and the engage employees with these Our offices and manufacturing subsequent production of the issues, joining the initiative with a plants are located in industrial finished product in factories that donation. areas and do not pose as a risks or are located closer to the customer the biodiversity. to who the material has to be No measurements are therefore delivered. required on this. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 26 shared principles derived from the reward those that contribute to Social Universal Declaration of Human the excellent results of Palladio Responsibility Rights, the Declaration of Group. Through a reward International Labour on mechanism, based on meritocracy, 10.1 Working practices Fundamental Principles and Rights employees are guaranteed a super and fair work conditions at Work and the Rio Declaration on minimum (or equivalent) higher Environment and Development than the legal minimum wage. Palladio Group supports the The letter of intent signed by the Also the new employees’ salaries, implementation of adequate work CEO highlights our commitment in all sites of the group and practices, in both the workplace and defines the objectives that especially in Serbia, are on average and in all areas of its sphere of Palladio Group follows at group higher than the minimum wage influence. level, with profuse commitment by required by law. The adoption of appropriate all, for achieving these principles. working practices is for us a moral In May 2016, at the Serbian plant commitment and we are sure that Our Code of Ethics together with Palladio East, an independent audit this, together with a strongly the Chart of Values emphasises was performed by Intertek widespread business ethic, helps that Palladio Group adopted company. Same was conducted in the performance of our company. practices of respect and accordance with the SMETA. This is Palladio Group always places gratification to its employees, the second audit carried out using people” first ensuring respect for enabling them to co-operate the 4 pillar method (the first was human rights and denouncing any within the company system. This is done in 2014), which was form of abuse towards their thanks to all the form of positively passed to demonstrate workers. protections guaranteed by the the commitment of Palladio also in In developing our policy of respect company, such as: its own foreign establishments. and promotion of human rights, The application of the Workers we have taken into consideration National Contract, applicable the factors that contribute to to our sector, allows the comply with these principles: protection of our employees The protection of human and the respect of laws relating resources which are the core to protection of labour. capital for the company’s The free membership to trade development and success. union groups Sharing policies and business Compliance with the Health objectives and Safety At Work The involvement of employees The growth of professionalism in training activities to increase to our employees, through their skills. targeted training programs, The promotion of activities implemented at all levels, aimed to the integration of providing know-how aimed to personnel. prepare them to deal with the The assessment of our customers which will benefit of suppliers on their compliance an exceptional experience with to the requirements and to the the company. principles of ethical work The breakdown of employees management by gender, age, minority group Since 2012, we are part of the Equality of pay between men Global Compact; which joins and women, in accordance businesses, UN agencies, work with the job categories of organisations and civil society, membership. encouraging corporate social responsibility through the respect Our personnel, on annual bases, and promotion of nine receive a performance bonus to fundamental principles concerning encourage active participation in human rights, work and the the work of the company and to environment. They are universally SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 27 Employment Diversity and equality (Ref. G4 10, 11, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA13) (Ref. G4 LA12) Within Palladio Group the Labour The roles and responsibilities are National Collective Agreements well defined as reported in (working act) are regularly applied documentation relating to the and consequently all employees management systems and all our are covered by such contracts. The employees are treated with social company recognizes all employees equality ensuring the same equal the right to join trade unions as opportunities. The employment’s processing is through the Palladio, in order to give them they wish, this does not imply any recognition of qualifications of continuity in what they were advantage or disadvantage staff, experiences and skills. All this working on, and in what they were attitude towards its employees. is in order to frame each worker in learning in our company, paid their In this regard, the trade unions a befitting manner in order to pay salaries and managed the change have the freedom to carry on their an adequate salary for the work of the agency, confirming their activities without any pressure or performed, regardless of any place in the company; Place that interference by the Executive discrimination. Managers and they are still holding today. Board. The Human Resources Department employees of the various Italian is always willing to listen and and foreign subsidiaries are Industrial Relations address any issues of workers generally residing in the local In the event of significant seeking satisfactory solutions for communities of reference or organisational changes, the Group complainants while respecting surrounding areas. In order to will inform in advance the workers' corporate ethics and promote and encourage their representatives and trade unions confidentiality. Our employees career development, all employees in accordance with what is defined through a voting system, which are annually evaluated on the basis by the European Regulation guarantees the confidentiality and of individual or collective (by 2002/14 / EC, implemented by the anonymity, elect their WSR department) performance. Internal Member States, in terms of (Workers Safety Representatives) and external training courses, transfers of businesses or plants and TUR (Trade Union allow us to increase the skills of (fully or partially) to another Representatives). our human resources to facilitate, employer as a result of a legal The temporary employees enjoy if necessary, exchanges between transfer or merger, the transferor the same benefits as those in a departments and operations of and transferee are required to permanent contract. mobility within the group. The inform the representatives of the Our benefits (See G4 10) are, for above support the implementation workers concerned in due time , instance: of the company policy to give this means that , in Italy, according Provision of supplementary priority to internal recruitment. to the law (art. 47 l. 428/1990), the health care (in total paid by the The company, in order to communication has to be made at company) anticipate or reduce any negative least 25 days before. Adherence to free prevention impact due to redundancies, programs (such as vaccination makes use of employment The Italian legislation establishing against flu, tetanus, etc.) agencies for minor activities (e.g. a general framework of informing The mandatory maternity leave is Porterage and warehousing) and consulting employees is up to all staff of the Group in Legislative Decree. N. 25/2007, accordance with relevant In October, 27 temporary workers which implements the European legislation in the different were left without salary for the directive mentioned above countries. difficulties of the interim agency All employees can take parental that had hired them to be In the reporting period there were leave in accordance with local redirected to Palladio Group. no organizational changes and / or regulations. significant changes in corporate The Organisation adheres strictly operations. to the laws and, if necessary, favours ancillary requests by granting holidays and leaves. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 28 Health and Safety in the In Italy, it is enforced the Decree n. Training and education 81 -April 9, 2008 Consolidation workplace Ref. G4 LA9, LA10, LA11, SO4) Act for the protection of health (Ref. G4 LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, HR2) and safety in the workplace to We invest in training and which is added the agreement opportunities for improvement Each manufacturing site of the governing the workers' because we are convinced that Group has active formal representation for Safety. they are essential elements for the committees for health and safety. Memoranda of understanding or personal growth of our employees. These committees, consisting of formal agreements with trade During 2016 our employees have representatives of management unions are in place in the National attended more than 10366 hours and workers, have the task of Collective Labour agreement of training, of which over: assessing, control, monitor and (CCNL), health and safety issues 4238 hours specific on the advise on programs for workplace such as, for example, the safety in the workplace safety. On average, the percentage participation of workers' 784 that included specific of the workforce represented in representatives to inspections and courses of Team Working and these committees is up to 75%. audits on employees’ health and Change Management for In each plant there is at least one safety, accident investigations, employees, managers and person responsible for the training, performance targets or executives calculation and updating of statistics on trends of accidents. commitments on the level of These statistics result from the practices to be adopted, periodic processing of data in accordance inspections and the presence of with UNI 7249 dated 21/06/2007. joint committees for the health The trend of accidents is and safety. periodically examined, both per In the foreign plants, in compliance plant and at Group level. with applicable laws of the country The company assesses the risks and not as part of formal and identifies the causes of the agreements with trade unions, the most serious diseases and same activities under the Italian Training is not only a key element disorders (example: work-related sites are still implemented, such as of Palladio Group, but also one of stress, manual handling of loads, regular meetings with employees the objectives that we pursue noise, use of computers) to on health and safety at work. In constantly in our daily activities. prevent them the following both the Serbian and Irish plants measures for workers are in place: there are WSR (Workers' Safety In order to make our corporate training, surveys of opinion, Representative). identity explicit, to make us aware reduction of overtime, flexible of what we do, to be able to working hours and interventions properly share and explain our on systems, equipment and Know-How, in July 2016, Palladio property assets. These measures Academy was born, a new way of aim to maintain the organisation of learning knowledge!!!! workplaces always adequate to protect the health and safety of the workers, to create more comfortable working conditions and increase the efficiency and reliability of the man-machine systems. All the measures listed above are reassessed at least annually or at the request of the parties concerned. During 2016, four requests for occupational disease where submitted. These are still in the process to be assessed by the relevant government bodies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 29 Safety Training The new accounting In order to promote a more principles Environmental and sustainability interactive communication the The new budget Training Company has established the Develop strategy and The staff awareness, in this field, is Circles of Security which are marketing plan and sales very strong; the company organised by the head of Installing and configuring promotes initiatives that directly departments involving the staff. windows server 2012 involve the employees, and in Within these circles, the safety Serial innovators some cases their families through data together with the outcome of Management of the advertising campaigns of our any complaint received from the training project sustainability activities using employees are analysed and any Intensive HR brochures, posters and visits to our improvement opportunity is Management Program facilities. shared and evaluated Risk Based Thinking All this is in order to ensure that To reduce the so-called application ISO 9001: our vision and commitment to the abnormal behaviour among the 2015 environmental sustainability cause employees we have adopted a Customs Exports Import is also shared with the workforce. disciplinary code that defines Export sanctions in connection with VAT Fulfilment for possible violations of company foreign operations Weekly meetings rules on safety. International cargo The weekly meetings attended by /freight for goods all the members of the commercial deliveries and production departments Professional Training Formative visit at the (made via video-conference) Professional training is also production site of Glaxo contribute to the formation and managed starting from: Verona growth of the competence of  Specialised technical courses participants through the sharing of useful in carrying out specific know-how held by executives. tasks of the Group's business; Such meetings are not recorded in  Training courses useful to the official record but their comply with the rules in force; amount can be estimated at more  Transversal Courses for the than 6000 hours per year. development of managerial skills (e.g. Time management, innovation, negotiation, Percentage of employees sustainability, etc.); evaluated on performance and The following courses, having the career development purpose of skills' development, At the beginning of 2016 selfwere carried out during the year assessment matrixes has been 2016: filled in by every employee with Roles and Skills the purpose of assessing the Safe Driving Course knowledge of all employees, The pawn of the lions Ethical Training enhancing or developing their Team Building Escape Room Aware that the fight against competence, identify training gaps Increase efficiency and reduce corruption is a major global and be able to finally develop production costs challenge and is a major obstacle specific and individual training Transfer and reimbursement of to a sustainable development; in plans. expenses and fringe benefits 2013 we carried out training in this Over the course of 2016 individual Project management regard. This training, which meetings have been carried out to Internal Audit Quality involved all employees, executives compare the feedbacks of the Management Systems and managers of Italian and heads of the Innovation standard ISO 9001: foreign sites, treated globally department/managers against 2015 topics listed in the Code of each employ’s self-assessment, in year-end accounting and tax Conduct focusing particularly on order to identify any training Check up issues relating to corruption. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 30 deficiencies and to give annual feedback on staff performance. Palladio Pensioners (Ref. G4 EC3) Palladium Group, totally in line with the regulations in force, provides a pension plan to its employees as provided by the countries where it operates. Palladio Group assists its employees in the transition from employment to retirement, which sometimes causes problems. Since a few years it also created the “Palladio Pensioners Group to give the opportunity to the retired employees to meet and, together refresh the binding of long working life spent within the company. In this context, the company has taken charge of organising tours, plant visits, theatre performances and other initiatives to involve former colleagues. The same are increasingly called to participate in the exchange of Christmas greetings and to the delivery of the Christmas hampers, along with all the staff still in the force. Also this year, for our retirees and their families, it has been organized free trip to the major Venetian islands. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 31 10.2 Human Rights Non-discrimination activities (guidelines and questionnaires), in which there are Palladio Group always operates in (Ref. G4 HR3) specific references to the freedom compliance with fundamental Among the objectives of the of association and collective human rights. As established by company policy is the right to bargaining. international conventions on the equal opportunities and social, subject, it has based its activities racial and religious discrimination on the support of those rights. The is condemned in favour of the Child Labour main points of reference were integration of individuals and (Ref. G4 HR5) already reported in our Chart of cultural exchange. We are in line Child labour is not allowed in any Values. with the national law requirements plant of the Organisation (please Our policies define at all the levels with regard to the percentage of Employees minimum age of the organisation and in all disabled people employed, in explanatory table in section 12). countries where we operate the order to ensure equal treatment; commitment relating to the Palladio Group also supports their With regard to the provisions of practices of respect and integration within the Organisation our Code of Ethics our main raw preservation of Human Rights. through assignments of dignifying material suppliers are monitored To confirm the above: tasks in respect of their disability. through specific questionnaires  We maintain working The conditions and workplaces are (see HR4) and all service providers relationships with suppliers maintained / designed to (contractors) are controlled by that demonstrate respect for encourage mobility for people with specific statements attesting to human principles disabilities. During the year 2016 their fulfilment of legislative and  Any discriminatory behaviour no reports on discriminatory contractual obligations based on race, colour, sex, human rights practices have been religion, political opinion, submitted. nationality or social extraction Forced Labour is reported, to the Committee of Ethics. Freedom of association and (Ref. G4 HR6)  Child labour is forbidden collective bargaining Inside of our company there have  We don’t accept any form of never been examples of forced or (Ref. G4 HR4) forced labour. Any required compulsory labour. All employees are free to join trade We guarantee to all our employees work, falling outside the unions or similar organisations, appropriate working hours as normal working hours, is without this causing any attitude enshrined by the National regulated by national contracts of advantage or disadvantage in Contract; the work done in in agreement with the workers' their regards. The trade unions overtime is paid in accordance representatives and trade have the freedom to carry on their with the relevant legislation and unions, providing business, within all Palladio Group workers participate on a voluntary compensation based on the activities, without experiencing basis to any initiative of overtime. overtime worked. pressure or interference from the Palladio Group’s working hours are  In all countries where our Company. In the Group companies, determined so as not to prejudice Factories are and where we periodically, are held meetings the right of every worker to daily operate, the employees are with the trade unions (paid) open rest periods, needed for the guaranteed a working to all employees in order to refreshment of psychophysical and treatment above the average support the right of workers to the intellectuals energies. Every of workers present in that freedom of association. worker has the right to holidays particular country. We also During the year 2016: and sick leaves as they require. indirectly guarantee the There were no hours of strike Once again our suppliers are respect of indigenous people by employees; monitored / controlled, on this and their territorial assets 272 paid hours has been spent regard, through specific activities. through membership of the for meetings with trade union; FSC & PEFC Standards. The percentage of members of • Disputes concerning human trade unions is 13,72%. rights have never risen as a Our suppliers are monitored result of our decisions or through appropriate control activities SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 32 Assessment (Ref. G4 HR9) The organisation, aware of its commitment to respect human rights, periodically controls and reviews the human rights’ aspects relating to all its activities. This is done through a process of formal assessment based on information provided by the Ethics Committees and the various directors for all activities of the Group’s plants. In this way Palladio Group can correctly address the decisions of the Organisation avoiding to be associated or considered complicit in the activities undertaken by other entities with which they have or may have relationships. Human rights complaints management (Ref. G4 HR12) In 2016, neither the Group's factories nor the work carried out by our employees (from either internal or external stakeholders) have been subjected to complaints concerning the violation of human rights. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 33 10.3 Society Public Administration or their aiming to sensitise them to relatives) objects, services, operate in line with our principles. benefits or favours of value in As stated above, it is confirmed, by Palladio Group intends to be active order to achieve an interest or the fact that our company has and participatory in the territories an advantage for Palladio never received any administrative in which it operates by creating Group. The offer of gifts or or judicial sanctions for better economic opportunities for other benefits of nominal value noncompliance with laws and the local community, supporting are permitted only if consistent regulations the improvement of the social and with the legitimate uses or cultural conditions. Many were the customs. initiatives in the field of solidarity,  Political parties, their environmental education and representatives or candidates Local Communities sustainability, which are are cannot be funded, and (Ref. G4 SO1, SO2) considered priorities for our shall refrain from any pressure The Company has an on-going organisation. (direct or indirect) towards dialogue with the various local Social commitment has always politicians. institutions and other played an important role in the  It is allowed to provide organisations in order to assess corporate culture of Palladio donations only to non-profit any significant impact that our Group, it is firmly anchored to our associations and Charities with activities and business decisions values and it is reflected in the regular statutes and may have on the community. daily activities of all Plants which constituent acts. The required percentage is not are programmed in order to  The sponsorship of activities available as there is no a system of mitigate the potential and actual may relate to social, measurement in use for this impacts of our business. environmental, sports, art and indicator. Prevention programs have been culture in general. In 2016 Palladio took part in the established and implemented to ensure compliance with the law, event organized by Legambiente Our commercial relations are Clean Up the World”; this is a protect the physical, economic, based solely on trusting global environmental campaign and natural resources of the relationships with our customers held in collaboration with the populations present in the areas which choose us only for the United Nations Environment where our Plants are located. intrinsic qualities of the product Programme (UNEP). we supply our suppliers are In the national territory, Palladio Palladio Group has no tolerance to properly selected and qualified. supported schools located in the corruption. The value that guides None of them receive preferential areas where its plants are, giving our choices is based on treatments and there are no away kit packages for the meritocracy and ethics, rewarding agreements in place where organization of the voluntary our employees only in accordance conflicts of interest are exposed or environmental day with these principles. This principle evident. In recent years we have supported is taken into account in the Those who collaborate with our various local, national and management of our customers, company should see in us a international associations. suppliers and any authority with valuable partner in business and which Palladio Group has relation. be aware that our way of doing In 2016 the proceeds of the In Palladio Group: business is based on principles and Christmas lottery of the Italian  It is allowed to promote the values of social ethics, not based plants (doubled by the company) development of roles and on monopolistic practices that were donated to various reward corporate’s could lead to unfair competition or humanitarian and social collaborators only in regard to which may be in conflict with associations indicated by the merits they demonstrated principles of anti-trust. For this employees, such as: in terms of participation, reason, from the point of view of Centro Ascolto Caritas Dueville professional growth, fair Marketing, we sent tour Centro Aiuto alla Vita Sezione achievement of objectives and customers and suppliers disclosure di Dueville e Vivaro a sense of belonging to society. in which we present the Doctors with Africa Cuamm  It is not allowed to promise commitment made by Palladio Congregation Suore Divina and / or offer (to managers, Group on Social Responsibility, Volontà Officials and employees of the SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 34 Avipponlus Anti-Corruption Association Pangea Vicenza Recreational Activities (Ref. G4 SO3, SO5, SO9) Onlus Palladio has always felt there was a Stella Maris Foundation Agbalt deep connection between personal In all factories of Palladio Group Onlus well-being and job performance, we have a zero tolerance policy Satyagraha an indicator that in the past was against corruption. The value that Parish of San Michele measured only in terms of guides our choices is based on Arcangelo productivity. meritocracy and ethics. This brings Strawberry Field Onlus Today we measure it by combining us to reward our employees only Team for Children productivity with new ideas and on the basis of that value. Such a the desire to continuously improve principle is also taken into account The plant in Palladio East, as well can only come from people who in the management of our as last year, wanted to brighten are motivated and interested in customers, suppliers and any the Easter holidays of orphaned the work they do. Following this authority dealing with Palladio children and those of children with conviction and in line with our Group. special needs giving to all sweets commitment, we believe it is Information about the percentage and toys. essential to organise cultural, of business units analysed for risks artistic and sports activities for our related to corruption are not employees in order to increase the available due to the company size, integration and to strengthen the an assessment of that risk is not team spirit that makes us stand carried out. Our financial out. statements, is subject annually to review by Reconta Ernst & Young which determine and verify compliance with the regulations governing the reporting criteria. In this perspective, any accounting operation or transaction is based on the accuracy, completeness and We believe that the above authorisation of the basic constitutes the key to improving information for the entries. All the quality of life, work payments to be paid are Furthermore, as every year, performance and the company appropriate to business instead of making a Christmas atmosphere. Over the years we performance and contractual rules present to our customers, Palladio have promoted recreational” and cannot be made to an entity has allocated the figure to activities in which the employees other than the contracting party. If charities. can connect their professional lives employees become aware of any This year has been devolved to the with their private one. Significant type of falsification or omission, following Organizations: activities include yoga classes for they must immediately report it to all employees in order to increase our Ethics Committee. the psycho-physical well-being and, consequently, the quality of In 2016 there were no corruption the private and company life of cases involving employees and / or employees, as well as improve the suppliers; there have been no legal quality of the relationship with actions concerning corruption themselves and with their practices against the companies of colleagues. the Group In 2016 we have organised further In 2014, fraudulent legal actions activities, among those: were taken against two employees Prize contest who were then laid off. Business Schools’ tours of our factories relations were interrupted with a Open recycle (by Conai) supplier for violations related to Go-kart races (following the corruption. safe driving course)) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 35 There have been legal actions for fraud against him. The above actions are still on-going. Public Politic (Ref. G4 SO6, EC4) Palladio Group has relations with public institutions primarily through the national trade associations and consequently does not take positions on public policy and also does not participate in the development of public policies. Company policies forbid the founding of political parties or their members. We do not receive financial benefits from the Public Administrations. The public administration is not part of the shareholding. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 36 10.4 Product Responsibility force specific training courses, valuable suggestions to improve (Ref. G4 PR1, PR3, PR5, PR6) weekly meetings and provides products and services appropriate support and During 2016, the company Cerved behavioural guidelines for carrying has supported us in carrying out Customer care is of strategic out the activity. the survey of customer importance to the Company. This Contractual relations and satisfaction. concept has spread to all levels of communications with customers the organization so that there is are based on principles of fairness awareness of the duty to pay due and honesty, professionalism, attention to the demands and transparency and cooperation in expectations of customers whose the search for the best solutions to satisfaction is periodically checked their needs. through regular meetings and questionnaires. Over the years, our offer has been enriched and diversified, offering For Palladio Group high quality the full range of products and standards means meeting A total Customer Satisfaction Index services to cover a variety of customer needs in terms of of 97.3 points / 100 resulted from solutions for the pharmaceutical functionality, reliability and safety. this survey. and cosmetic packaging. By The Quality Management System, Quality and range of the product investing in new technologies, in line with the applicable GMP and preparation of the research and development, and (Good Manufacturing Practice sales/technical office are element introducing ourselves to the requirements requested by our of excellence in our offer. customers as reliable partners it customers, have the responsibility has been possible to achieve all to ensure compliance with the these results, and we managed to procedures while promoting a be closer to our customers and culture of quality across the focused on their satisfaction while company through the involvement still guaranteeing the compatible of all employees. use and protection of natural and human resources. The customer satisfaction has a Relationships with our clients are key role in the strategic vision of managed through a team of the Palladio Group that is commercial accounts divided by committed to developing its own geographical areas operating as products and services according to specialised consultants. a customer-driven approach to We have also added to our team of business. The ability to constantly commercial accounts a function of be able to respond to the Marketing and Innovation which, customer’s actual needs and through various communication expectations constitutes a channels (meetings at the prerequisite for creating and premises, fairs, and website) this maintaining the confidence allows us to offer a consultancy needed for long-lasting service specialized in relationships. To know the needs understanding customer needs and the degree of satisfaction with and developing bespoken solutions products and services provided, we depending on different needs of organise periodically numerous the market. Improvements were initiatives of dialogue with also made to the customer service customers. function in order to continue to The management of customer offer a precise, reliable and timely relationships and the ability to service to our clients. We also provide specific services plays a conduct customer satisfaction key role for the implementation of survey to measure the satisfaction business strategies. The Group of our customers and receive their therefore it prepares for sales SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 37 Consumers Health and From this program originated Privacy Safety proposals such as: Memo Solution (Ref. G4 PR8) and Phill Solution. The awareness of the importance In general terms, due to the nature of properly generating, using and of products delivered by the storing the information has led Palladio Group‘s companies, there Palladio Group to implement, is not a significant risks to during the course of 2016, the customers in terms of health and Information Security safety. Management System in accordance with ISO / IEC 27001. Nevertheless we have decided to consider the possible Adherence to this voluntary repercussions on the collectivity; standard has allowed us to pursue therefore we have catalogued the and maintain over time a level of life cycle of our product, and confidentiality, integrity and analysing and evaluating all availability of information aspects, in order to improve its complying with the requirements manufacturing. established by: a) Legislation in force (in Labelling is not required for the particular protection of privacy type of product provided. The and intellectual property); Group shall provide appropriate b) Customer Contractual documentation to its customers in Requirements; relation to each batch produced c) Any additional requirements through appropriate statements set by Palladio Group. issued by the Quality Office in which is stated the type of raw material used for the production. In addition to the above, although we did not have direct contact with the end user, we have offered innovative solutions to our customers, such as the PhutureMed program. A program conceived with the fundamental goal of creating innovative packaging solutions for the medicine of the future. It is indeed an intelligent packaging system designed to support patients in monitoring and adherence to their prescribed therapy. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 38 Marketing communication their intelligence”, to make a of packaging innovation that The Organisation has not adhered communicative packaging that will promotes patient safety. to programs, codes of conduct for be able to communicate with marketing activities. This is due to smart devices (smartphones and the fact that these types of tablets). product are not provided directly to the final user that could be the subject of any sponsorship Main awards and prizes activities. received during 2016 Customers are typically contacted through normal business practices Palladio Group winner in the or through participation in public Concept category at the HCPC tenders. Europe Columbus Award for Patient-Friendly Packaging Design Participation in events and 2016. Exhibitions The main exhibitions we attended in 2016 were: Pharmintech Bologna, Over the years, several awards and AFI Symposium at the prizes have been awarded to Palacongressi Rimini, witness the commitment of CPhl Worldwide di Barcellona. Palladio Group to responsible management. In 2016 we received the following awards: At the Global Supplier Award 2016, our company was awarded the Gold Award. We have been the only global company to receive this kind of honour. In Dublin, at Lucan House, residence of the ambassador of Italy in Ireland, it was held an international workshop entitled At the 28th DuPont Awards for PhutureMed Smart inks for Packaging Innovation, we have smart pharma . The meeting been awarded the 2016 Silver focused on were the smart inks Award for the excellent example inks that are capable, because of SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 39 Compliance In the year 2016:  There have been no reports or complaints about suppliers work practices (Ref. LA15)  During the reporting period there have been no administrative or criminal sanctions, financial and non-financial res judicata due to nonconformity or failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment (Ref. EN29)  No significant environmental impacts or environmental impact complaints have been reported (Ref. EN33, EN34)  There have been no legal actions related to unfair competition, anti-trust and monopolistic practices (Ref. SO7)  In the reporting period we have not experienced any administrative or penal sanctions, pecuniary and non-pecuniary res judicata for non-compliance or non-compliance with laws and regulations to which the Group's facilities must comply (Ref. SO8)  There have been no reports or complaints concerning impacts on society (Ref. SO10, SO11)  There have been no cases of non-compliance with voluntary regulations and codes concerning the impacts on the health and safety of products / services supplied by the Palladio Group plants during their lifecycle (Ref. PR 2)  There were no cases of non-compliance with laws and voluntary regulations concerning information and labelling of products / services (Ref. PR 4)  there were no cases of non-compliance with laws and voluntary regulations concerning the provision and use of the Group products and services (Ref. PR7)  There have been no complaints regarding privacy breaches or loss of customer data (Ref. PR8)  There have been no cases of non-compliance with laws or regulations concerning the supply and use of products and services of companies in the Group (Ref. PR9) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 40 Data and indicators Economic and financial results Ref. EC1, EC7 Palladio Group 2014 2015 2016 Directly Economic Value Generated 66.055.508,11 70.348.839,00 75.827.265,00 a) Revenues 66.055.508,11 70.348.839,00 75.827.265,00 Economic Value Distributed 60.453.974,73 65.822.717,00 69.580.540,00 b) Operating Costs 42.958.247,82 46.515.223,09 48.437.331,53 c) Employee wages and benefits 16.148.111,82 17.048.524,00 17.520.385,00 d) Payments to providers of capital 621.185,17 490.759,00 953.330,00 e) Payments to government (by country ) 1.931.595,26 1.738.329,00 2.641.567,00 f) Community investments 37.205,00 40.697,91 27.926,47 Economic value retained 5.601.533,38 4.526.122,00 6.246.725,00 (1) Donations and financial contributions Detail analysis of employees Ref. G4-10, EC3, EC5, EC6, SO5 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 2014 2015 2016 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Total Employees Men 387 410 449 317 15 117 Total Employees Women 109 121 141 94 2 45 Total General Employees 496 531 590 411 17 162 Employees on permanent contract Men 304 337 347 262 10 75 Employees on permanent contract Women 70 82 90 64 2 24 Employees on fixed term contract Men 45 23 52 5 5 42 Employees on fixed term contract Women 19 18 22 1 21 Employees on part-time Men 9 6 7 7 0 Employees on part-time Women 15 11 10 10 0 temporary workers Men 28 44 43 43 0 temporary workers Women 6 12 19 19 0 With trade union membership 84 91 81 81 0 Affected by Disability 22 24 26 24 2 Foreigner 17 15 25 15 10 0 Salaries above minimum wage % employees 78,80% 91,17% 76,98% 68,02% 100,00% 100,00% Annual salary Increments % over employees 32,19% 33,15% 4,99% 6,39% 12,00% 0,00% Bonuses % over employees 100,00% 100,00% 99,23% 100,00% 76,00% 100,00% Overtime % of hours worked 5,55% 5,75% 6,12% 2,22% 6,70% 13,63% Holiday hours % of hours worked 8,59% 8,88% 8,83% 9,39% 8,04% 7,83% Disciplinary Measures % over employees 6,25% 5,88% 0,83% 1,16% 0,00% 0,00% Worked hours 831033 828626 854877 544379 30690 279808 Holiday hours 71364 73557 75493 51130 2467 21896 Overtime 46151 47644 52279 12097 2055 38127 % Ethical complaints 0,00% 0,55% 0,52% 0,72% 0,00% 0,00% Cover of the pension plan 3.882.512 4.021.668 4.166.169 3.439.096 56.585 670.488 % Senior manager hired in the local community 90 90 100 100 100 100 The total number of episodes for which employees have been dismissed or subjected to 1 0 0 0 0 0 disciplinary measures for corruption Total number of episodes for which contracts with business partners have not been renewed 1 0 0 0 0 0 for corruption-related offenses Number of legal actions regarding corruption practices against the organization or its 2 0 0 0 0 0 employees SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 41 Employees age Analysis Ref. G4-10, LA2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 2014 2015 2016 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Employees age < 18 years Total Employees age < 18 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employees age < 30 years Men 76 56 63 37 2 24 Women 19 12 20 14 6 White collar Men 3 3 3 0 3 White collar Women 5 4 5 2 3 Blue collar Men 73 53 60 37 2 21 Blue collar Women 14 8 15 12 3 Manager 0 0 0 0 0 Total 95 68 83 51 2 30 Employees age 30 50 years Men 247 277 296 197 11 88 Women 72 87 95 56 2 37 White collar Men 36 40 39 22 17 White collar Women 21 25 30 13 2 15 Blue collar Men 211 236 258 174 11 73 Blue collar Women 50 61 62 43 19 Manager 0 0 2 1 1 Total 0 0 391 253 13 125 Employees age > 50 years Men 64 77 90 83 2 5 Women 18 22 26 24 2 White collar Men 16 15 19 19 0 White collar Women 6 7 6 5 1 Blue collar Men 42 56 65 60 2 3 Blue collar Women 12 15 20 19 1 Manager 6 6 6 4 2 Total 82 99 116 107 2 7 Employees age Average age 39,62 40,42 40,34 45,03 40,00 36,00 Minimum age 19 20 18,00 24,00 19,00 18,00 Hiring and Terminations Ref. LA1 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 New hires Men <30 6 8 15 1 3 11 New hires Women <30 6 2 1 1 0 0 New hires Men 30-50 3 12 25 9 3 13 New hires Women 30-50 2 6 15 3 2 10 New hires Men >50 0 0 0 0 0 0 New hires Women >50 0 0 1 0 0 1 Total leaving employment 9 11 24 14 5 5 Total New employees hires 17 28 57 14 8 35 New hires Men <30 1,21% 1,51% 2,54% 0,24% 17,65% 6,79% New hires Women <30 1,21% 0,59% 0,29% 0,24% 0,00% 0,00% New hires Men 30-50 0,60% 14,63% 27,78% 2,19% 17,65% 8,02% New hires Women 30-50 0,40% 26,09% 28,85% 0,73% 11,76% 6,17% New hires Men >50 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% 0,00% New hires Women >50 0,00% 0,00% 14,29% 0,00% 0,00% 0,62% Total leaving employment 1,81% 2,07% 4,07% 3,41% 29,41% 3,09% Total New employees hires 3,43% 5,27% 9,66% 3,41% 47,06% 21,60% SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 42 Right to parental leave Ref. LA3 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 2014 2015 2016 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA men women men women men women number of employees who were entitled to parental leave. 6 13 9 1 3 0 0 0 5 number of employees who have taken parental leave 6 13 9 1 3 0 0 0 5 number of employees who have returned to work at the end of 4 14 4 (1) 1 3 0 0 0 0 (1) parental leave number of employees who have returned to work after parental leave and who were still employed 4 13 4 (1) 1 3 0 0 0 0 (1) twelve months after they returned to work rate of return of employees(in %) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% retention rate of employees back to work(in %) 100% 92,86% 100% 100% 100% 100% (1) – Still in parental leave Training Ref. LA8, LA9, LA10, LA11, HR2 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 2014 2015 2016 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Total training hours 8851 7486 10366 7010 782 2574 Average training per employee 17,84 14,10 17,57 17,06 46,00 15,89 Number of 2016 training hours divided by category ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar 1124 5886 20 762 564 2010 1708 8658 Average 2016 training Hours by category ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar White collar Blue collar 18,43 17,06 10,00 50,80 14,46 16,75 16,75 18,04 Number of 2016 training hours divided by gender ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women 6020 990 764 18 1854 720 8638 1728 Average 2016 training Hours by gender ITALY IRELAND SERBIA TOTAL Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women 18,99 10,53 50,93 9,00 15,85 16,00 19,24 12,26 Human Rights Training 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Hours of training 44.5 426.5 15 406 165 Trained Employees 89 488 15 379 165 % Employees trained in the year of reference 20% 100% 3% 71% 28% general % Of trained employees 20% 100% 100% 100% 100% TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 Health and safety at work training 2014 2015 2016 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA 2919 3869,5 4238 4077 46 115 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 43 Health and safety at work Rif. LA6 TOTAL BREAKDOWN 2016 2014 2015 2016 ITALY IRELAND SERBIA Men Women Men Women Men Women N° total work accidents 6 15 18 16 0 1 0 1 0 N° total accidents in transit 1 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 N° total days of absence due to 425 409 497 491 0 6 accidents (no in transit) Hours worked by the Employees 867.909 853.737 912.347 563722 30690 317.935 (excluding holidays, illnesses) N° total hours of absence due to 3396 3272 3976 3928 0 48 accidents (no in transit) % hours of absence due to 0,391 0,383 0,436 0,697 0,000 0,015 accidents on total hours worked Injury severity index 0,49 0,48 0,54 0,87 0,00 0,02 Accident frequency index 8,07 17,57 21,92 31,93 32,58 3,15 Absenteeism 4,00% 3,25% 3,32% 4,01% 2,03% 2,23% Hours out for sick leave 34.741 27.728 30.327 22623 624 7.080 Total N. supplier’s accidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 Expenditures and investments for the environmental protection and security Ref. EN31 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 Waste disposal, treatment of emissions, reclamation and Euro 260583,83 210140,51 281017,8 prevention, environmental management Safety costs Euro 201.001,06 210.798,46 288020,76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 44 Sustainable Procurement Rif. G12, G13, EN32, SO9 Division 2014 2015 2016 Percentage Selected and qualified suppliers based on social, 47,24% 85% 100% environmental, and impact on society Total Raw Materials Provider (Paper and Cardboard) 21 21 21 Total forestry raw material suppliers conforming to EUTR 995/2010 and / 21 21 21 or DDS Total raw material suppliers of FSC and / or PEFC certified forestry 21 21 21 Percentage of forestry products certified and / or coming from controlled 100% 100% 100% sources Raw Materials Used Rif. EN1 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 anno -1 Board kg 18.198.627 18.967.429 19.577.489 3,22% Paper kg 2.852.735 3.338.770 3.829.507 14,70% Self-adhesive material kg 89.354 108.904 61.300 -43,71% Aluminium for blister kg 9.430 10.691 9.566 -10,52% Total Raw Materials from renewable kg 21.140.716 22.415.103 23.468.296 4,48 resources Total Raw Materials from no-renewable kg 9.430 10.691 9.566 -10,52% resources Total Raw Materials kg 21.150.146 22.425.794 23.477.862 4,69% Product delivered kg 14.159.878 14.994.793 14.927.526 -0,45% Percentages supply acquired in the local markets of the country for each Division Rif. G4-12 division 2014 2015 2016 Italy 64.5% 56,8% 51,0% Serbia 46,93% 35,49% 42,23% Ireland 80.14% 75,24% 91,21% Percentage incoming Recycled raw materials Ref. EN2 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 Total recycled raw materials kg 3.791.475 3.918.578 5.493.238 Total board used kg 18.198.627 18.967.429 19.577.489 Percentage incoming board / recycled raw material used % 20,83% 20,66% 28,06% Percentage of recycled product Ref. EN28 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 Product sold kg 14.159.878 14.994.793 14.927.526 Total Purchase recycled raw material kg 3.791.475 3.918.578 5.493.238 Total recycled products and their packaging kg 6.980.838 7.420.310 8.540.770 Percentage recycled products % 49,30% 49,49% 57,21% SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 45 Energy consumption for production & air conditioning during Summer Ref. EN3 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 Electric Power GJ 30.221,6 33.922,8 34.812,6 For the conversion from KWh to gigajoule it has been used the standard conversion factor equal to 0.0036 Energy consumption for heating R Ref. EN3 Natural Gas GJ 7.587,45 12.095,19 12.038,29 Gas oil GJ 440,0 680,2 509,6 For the conversion of volumes into gigajoule, the table in Annex 2 of this report has been used energy consumption in comparison with shipped products or with worked hours Ref. EN5, EN6, EN7 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 anno -1 Absolute and comparative Consumption of natural gas Natural Gas Consumption Sm3 230.724 367.400 363.061 -1,18% Gas used Sm3 / working hour Sm3/h 0,974 1,453 1,293 -10,99% Gas used Sm3 / kg delivered product Sm3/kg 0,016 0,025 0,024 -0,74% Absolute and comparative Consumption of electric power Electric power Consumption kwh 8.394.892 9.422.989 9.670.180 2,62% Electric power used Kwh / working hour kwh/h 35,451 37,258 34,441 -7,56% Electric power used Kwh/kg delivered kwh/kg 0,5929 0,6284 0,6478 3,09% product Absolute and comparative Consumption of gas oil Gas oil Consumption l 12.022 18.587 13.925 -25,08% Gas oil litres/ working hour l/h 1,247 2,238 1,400 -37,43% Gas oil litres/ kg product delivered l/kg 0,033 0,061 0,045 -25,50% Water consumption Ref. EN8, EN9, EN10 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 anno -1 Water withdrawn from mains m3 5.162 6.298 6.042 -4,06% Water withdrawn from wells m3 1.162 1.328 648 -51,20% Water withdrawn from other sources m3 0 0 0 0 Total water withdrawal m3 6.324 7.626 6.690 -12,27% Waste Rif. EN23, EN25, EN10, EN22 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 anno -1 Total waste produced kg 1.729.927 1.728.109 1.391.255 -19,49% Total raw material waste (*) kg 6.980.838 7.420.310 8.540.770 15,10% Total waste retrieved (R) kg 1.472.300 1.498.910 1.135.091 -24,27% hazardous waste kg 147.650 103.147 107.176 3,91% % hazardous waste on total waste % 8,535 5,969 7,704 29,06% generated non-hazardous waste kg 1.582.277 1.624.962 1.284.079 -20,98% Waste directly related to production kg 223.730 211.753 223.258 5,43% Production waste / raw materials taken kg/kg 0,011 0,009 0,010 0,71% Total waste / raw materials taken % 8,18% 7,71% 5,93% -23,10% Total hazardous waste / raw materials % 0,70% 0,46% 0,46% -0,75% taken (*)Note: part of the raw material waste is sent, by the paper mills, for recycling or reuse. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 46 Emissions Rif. EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19 UNITARY DATA CARBON FOOTPRINT Data reference U.M. 2014 2015 2016 anno -1 CO2 Emissions (Market based) tonCO2 18.282,82 20.279,49 20.383,11 0,51% Direct CO2 tonCO2 456,31 725,90 710,53 -2,12% emissions from fossil fuels (natural gas+oil) Indirect emissions of CO2eq tonCO2 4.399,48 4.989,31 5.105,50 2,33% (i.e. generated by the E.P. provider ) indirect emissions of CO2 from paper and tonCO2 11.326,65 11.983,41 11.830,25 -1,28% paperboard production ( as finished product) Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and tonCO2 16.900,57 17.912,19 18.583,35 3,75% cardboard purchases Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and tonCO2 5.573,92 5.928,78 6.753,11 13,90% cardboard waste indirect emissions of CO2 tonCO2 904,05 891,83 1.041,34 16,76% from incoming transportation indirect emissions of CO2 tonCO2 1.196,33 1.689,05 1.695,49 0,38% from outgoing transportation Carbon footprint fuel tCO2/ton delivered product 0,0322 0,0484 0,0476 -1,68% Carbon footprint electric power tCO2/ton delivered product 0,2889 0,3094 0,2904 -6,12% Carbon footprint paper and board production tCO2/ton delivered product 0,7999 0,7992 0,7925 -0,83% Carbon footprint Transportation tCO2/ton delivered product 0,1483 0,1721 0,1833 6,52% CARBON PRICE Data reference U.M. 2014 2015 2016 anno -1 weighted average carbon price calculated €/tonCO2 7,58 8,78 5,15 -41% gross carbon price €/tonCO2 138.560,51 178.002,41 104.885,99 -41% carbon price from fossil fuels (natural gas) €/tonCO2 3.700,32 6.775,78 3.928,27 -42% carbon price (i.e. generated by the E.P. provider ) €/tonCO2 34.389,16 44.279,01 27.120,82 -39% carbon price from paper and paperboard €/tonCO2 85.061,12 104.812,88 60.076,23 -43% production ( as finished product) Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard €/tonCO2 127.551,50 156.946,70 95.217,87 -39% purchases Indirect CO2 emissions from paper and cardboard €/tonCO2 33.789,71 39.843,40 26.927,94 -32% waste indirect emissions of CO2 €/tonCO2 6.848,87 8.491,50 5.729,89 -33% from incoming transportation indirect emissions of CO2 €/tonCO2 8.651,22 62.284,40 37.225,90 -40% from outgoing transportation Total turnover € 66.058.098,83 70.348.839,00 75.827.265,00 8% Scope 1 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0000560161 0,0000963169 0,0000518055 -46% Scope 2 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0005205897 0,0006294206 0,0003576658 -43% Scope 3 Carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0015223147 0,0024959726 0,0013587727 -46% Gross carbon price indicator €/€ 0,0020975552 0,0025302822 0,0013832227 -45% inbound and outbound travels for goods transportation Rif. EN30 U.M. 2014 2015 2016 Total inbound + outbound travels n. 393.174 422.938 8.073 Total inbound travels n. 389.561 417.002 2.021 Total outbound travels for finished product shipments n. 3.613 5.936 6.052 Inbound Km km 1.270.090 1.253.016 1.960.673 Outbound Km km 1.556.635 2.372.258 2.381.305 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 47 Annex Annex 1Determination Table of the material aspects and borders Aspect Influence on GRI G4 Indicators Material Aspect Internal External Significance Priority Typology Stakeholder ECONOMIC EC1, EC2, EC5, EC6, EC7, Sustainable development X X YES EC8, EC9, EN1, EN2, EN27, EN28, EN31, EN32, LA14, LA15, LA16, HR1, HR8, HR10, HR11, SO9 Supply X YES Emissions X Energy X YES YES YES ENVIRONMENTAL EN3, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN11, EN12, EN13, EN14, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, Water X EN21, EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25, EN26, EN30 Biodiversity X Waste X YES YES YES Health & Safety in the workplace X X YES YES YES Training and education X YES Diversity and equal opportunities X X YES LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA10, Industrial Relationships X X YES SOCIETY LA11, LA12, LA13, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR9, HR12, SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, SO6, SO9, EC3, EC4, PR1, PR3, PR5, PR6, Child Labour and Forced Labour X X PR8 Local Communities X YES YES YES Anti-corruption X X SI Product Responsibility X YES YES YES LA15, EN29, EN33, EN34, COMPLIANCE SO7, SO8, SO10, SO11, Compliance X X YES YES YES PR2, PR4, PR7, PR8, PR9 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 48 Annex 2Table of the coefficients used for environmental calculations over the three years CONVERSION FACTORS CONVERSION CRITERIIA REF. U.M. SOURCES FACTORS Source: What is described below is used to determine the http://www.seai.ie/Energy-Data-Portal/FrequentlyCO2 emissions resulting from the combustion of gas DENSITY kg/l 0,845 AskedQuestions/data_and_data_manipulation_FAQ/#W oil in the reference period (calendar year). The hat_fuel_densities amount of fuel used is expressed in terms of energy GAS OILI content (TJ) and therefore the basic calculation LCV GJ/t 43,310 formula is: Ton/CO2 = (t of gas oil x PCI x Emission file:///C:/Users/Utente/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Wi factor x Oxidation factor) x 0.000001. Where: the EMISSION ndows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/UQN17NNM/E quantity of gas oil is given by the purchase invoices. FACTOR TCO2/TJ 73,300 mission%2520Factors%2520for%25202015%252 The other data are retrieved from the table of the OXIDATION 0V14231120151.pdf Irish national parameters FACTOR COEFF. 1,000 GJ/ LCV 35,0197 1000Stm3 Publication by the Ministry of the Environment and EMISSION the Protection of the Territory and the Sea:: What is described below is used to determine the FACTOR TCO2/TJ 55,837 http://www.minambiente.it/sites/default/files/archiv volume of CO2 in relation to the electricity io/allegati/emission_trading/Tabella_coefficienti_st purchased regardless of how this is used. The OXIDATION andard_nazionali_2013_2015_v1.pdf amount of fuel used is expressed in terms of energy FACTOR COEFF. 1 NATURAL GAS content (TJ) and therefore the basic calculation AERS Serbia formula is: Ton / CO2 = (Sm3 of gas x PCI x GJ/ http://www.aers.rs/Index.asp?l=2&a=662 Emission factor x Oxidation factor) x 0,000001. PCI Serbia 33,33835 in the specific excel file: 1000Stm3 Where the amount of gas used is derived from the Kalkulator-PrimerSvodjenja invoice data The other data are retrieved from the table of the IPCC (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National national parameters Greenhouse Gas Inventory) Turn. Emiss. For Italy, they are notified by the Ministry of Serbia TCO2/TJ 56,100 www.sinanet.isprambiente.it Specifically Factors electricity emission production Environment (Emission Trading Directive) and consumption _2014-1 file excel n.11 Average Value Natural Gas, IPCC’06 Market based https://www.ecohz.com/wpcontent/uploads/2016/06/European-Residual434,590 Mixes-2015-AIB-FINAL_2016-05-13_web.pdf ITALIA What is described below is used to determine the www.sinanet.isprambiente.it volume of CO2 in relation to the electricity Location based Specifically Factors electricity emission production ELECTRIC POWER purchased regardless of how this is used. The 323,63 and consumption _2014-1 CONVERSI file excel n. 17 specific quantity of CO2 grams related to 1 kW/h (as gCO2/ KWH Market based Serbia provided by the grid or by recognized standards) SERBIA 724 http://www.iea.org needs to be calculated. Through these benchmarks ONCOEFFICENT Location based Serbia the amount of electricity-produced CO2 is 724 http://www.iea.org determined. The formula will then be: (amount of https://www.ecohz.com/wppurchased energy in kWh x conversion factor) x Market based content/uploads/2016/06/European-ResidualIRLANDA 0.000001. 639 Mixes-2015-AIB-FINAL_2016-05-13_web.pdf Location based Ireland http://www.seai.ie/Energy-Data467,5 Portal/Emission_Factors/ TRANSPOR DA KM A GCO2/ ANPA Publication (Agenize National Protezione Transformation from km to gCO2 GCO2 KM 712 per l’Ambiente) CO2 emission for transportation: 712 TS gCO2/km. ADHESIVE Transformation from m2 to kg COEFF. KG/MQ 0,107 Specific weight Board 0,936 RAW CONV TCO2/ ETS data provided by suppliers or maximum MATERIAL COEFF. Ton. Paper 0,571 value recorded in the table S prod.paper Adhesive 0,936 EXCHANGE Carbon price value deduced from the last edition CARBON COEFF. Currency Exchange Euro 0,938 of Report of Word Bank Group State and Trends PRICE of Carbon Pricing SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 49 Annex 3Correlation Table of the Report and link with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact AREA GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE GRI INDICATOR Principle 1 HR2 – HR7 – HR8 – HR9 – HR12 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally SO1 – SO2 proclaimed human rights in their respective spheres of influence. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights HR1 – HR10 – HR11 abuses, not even indirectly. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of employees and G4-11 – HR4 – LA4 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR6 compulsory labour LABOUR Principle 5 HR5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 G4-10 – EC5 – EC6 – LA1 – LA3 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of LA9 – LA11 – LA12 – LA13 – HR3 employment and occupation. Principle 7 EC2 – EN1 – EN3 – EN8 – EN15 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental EN16 – EN17 – EN20 – EN21 – challenges EN27 – EN31 EN1 – EN2 – EN3 – EN4 – EN5 – EN6 – EN7 – EN8 – EN9 – EN10 – EN11 – EN12 – EN13 – EN14 – Principle 8 EN15 – EN16 – EN17 – EN18 – ENVIRONMENT Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN19 – EN20 – EN21 – EN22 – environmental responsibility EN23 – EN24 – EN25 – EN26 – EN27 – EN28 – EN29 – EN30 – EN31 – EN32 – EN33 – EN34 Principio 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of EN6 – EN7 – EN19 – EN27 – EN31 environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 G4-56 – G457 – G4-58 – SO3 – ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including SO4 – SO5 – SO6 extortion and bribery SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 50 Annex 4 – Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) LCA assess, in a systematic way, the environmental aspects and impacts of a system or multiple production systems, from the extraction of raw materials and resources to their final disposal, in accordance with the objectives and the scope defined. The study of LCA was performed on each of the Group's plants. The following environmental aspects were identified and taken into account: 1) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the transportation of raw materials, products and waste (indirect emissions); 2) Greenhouse gas emissions due to the processing of raw materials getting into to the production cycle (indirect emissions); 3) Greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of natural gas in the plants (direct and controllable emissions); 4) Greenhouse gas emissions from the production of electricity needed in the plants (direct and controllable emissions); 5) Water consumption; 6) Waste and scrap generated from raw materials (paper, cardboard and by-products). This aspect, albeit indirectly, impacts the consumption of raw materials; 7) Production of liquid waste Life cycle Inventory LCI At this stage was carried out data collection relating to the three years in question for each factory included within the system. All data, whether they are measured, calculated or estimated, were used to quantify the elements input to the limits chosen for reporting. Greenhouse gas emissions from the transport of raw materials, products and waste The data used included: List of incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the plant in Pontedera List of all incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the two plants in Vicenza (Dueville and Thiene); List of incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the plant in Vršac ; List of incoming trips (for the procurement of paper and cardboard as raw materials) and outgoing trips from the plant in Tullamore; Greenhouse gas emissions from the processing of incoming materials (paper, cardboard and their derivatives) We used the last three years data containing the quantities of raw materials entering in each plant in detail, the following incoming materials were identified:  Cardboard for folding cartons;  Paper for information leaflets;  Self-adhesive labels for stickers; Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of natural gas for premises heating For each plant, we used the natural gas consumption (invoices) for the last three years. Greenhouse gas emissions from the consumption of electricity We used data on energy consumption of each plant (invoices) for the last three years. Water Consumption We used data on water consumption (invoices) for the last three years Production of waste and scraps from the raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives). We used the last three years data of the quantities of raw material (paper, cardboard and derivatives) coming into the plants and the production of waste and scraps of paper and cardboard products in each factory(MUD/ PO) Production of liquid waste We used the quantities of liquid waste produced at each plant in the last three years (annual declaration of production waste e.g. MUD for the Italian plants). The following types of waste were taken into consideration:  CER 08 01 20: water suspensions containing paint or varnish  CER 08 03 13: waste ink;  CER 08 03 14: ink sludge containing dangerous substances;  CER 09 01 01: water based developer and activator solutions;  CER 14 06 03: other solvents and solvent mixtures;  CER 16 10 02: aqueous liquid waste. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 51 Annex 5 Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) The results emerged from the inventory cycle life have been correlated with specific environmental categories through the use of indicators of impact category, which represent in a quantifiable way the category concerned. After the impact categories and the related indicators have been selected, the LCI results have been converted using the characterisation factors, obtaining the results of the different category indicators. The sum of the contributions relating to each category allows obtaining the profile LCIA, which has the purpose of providing information regarding the environmental factors, associated with the input and output flows of the system chosen. Impact categories selection The environmental categories proposed by the Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry (SETAC Europe) in its Working Group on LCIA are listed below:  Extraction of abiotic resources: these type of resources includes three different types of natural elements: o Non-renewable resources (fossil fuels or minerals); o resources (groundwater, sand and gravel); o Renewable resources (surface water, solar energy, wind energy, etc.).  Extraction of biotic resources: including biomass harvested in sustainable modes as well as in unsustainable ways (deforestation)  Land use: reduction of plant and animal species present in a given territory.  Global Warming: increase in temperature in the lower atmosphere as a result of the presence of greenhouse gases that trap infrared radiation.  Depletion of ozone layer: a consequent increase in the incidence of ultraviolet rays, which are harmful to humans and to all ecosystems in general.  Eco-toxicity: impacts on species and ecosystems due to direct emissions or subsequent degradation of the products.  Human toxicity: due to the presence of chemical or biological substances emitted into the environment  Photochemical pollution: caused by the formation of tropospheric ozone following the reactions of volatile organic components in the presence of light and NOX.  Acidification: release of protons (H +) in aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.  Eutrophication: due to an excess of nitrates, phosphates, organic substances and nutrients. Classification Now that the effects and potential harm of emissions on human health and the environment are known, the results from the inventory phase of the life cycle can be associated with one or more categories of impact. Characterisation In this phase we obtain the quantification of the impact generated. The data in the inventory are transformed into indicators of numeric character, thus determining the relative contribution of each individual substance or resource used. Application to the Palladio Group Referring to the results from the inventory phase of the life cycle, the relevant impact categories are listed below:  emissions of greenhouse gases have been linked to the category GLOBAL WARMING;  water consumption has been associated with the category EXTRACTION OF ABIOTIC RESOURCES  the production of waste and therefore, even indirectly, the consumption of paper and cardboard has been associated with the category EXTRACTION OF BIOTIC RESOURCES  the production of liquid waste has been associated with the category ECOTOXICITY. Total Global Warming and comparison between the group’s plants Following the classification, the greenhouse gas emissions have been associated with this category of impact resulting from:  Transportation of raw materials, products and waste;  Processing of the incoming paper material;  Consumption of natural gas;  Consumption of electric power.  Consumption of heating oil. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 52 Sustainability Report Certifications 14.1 Financial Statements Certification (page1/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 53 Financial Statements Certification (page 2/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 54 14.2 Financial Statements Certification Ireland SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 55 14.3 Financial Statements Certification Palladio East SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 56 14.4 Sustainability Report SGS certification (page 1/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 57 Sustainability Report SGS certification (page 2/2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 58 Explanatory table of the contents of Report (GRI 4) Option “in accordance Core” Strategy and analysis G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH Statement by the Chief Executive Officer and commitment to the principles of the G4-1 3 U.N. Global Compact G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4 Organisational Profile G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-3 Name of the organization. 5-8 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services. G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, 5-8 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. G4-8 Markets served G4-9 Dimensions of the organisation. G4-10 Number of employees per contract type, region e type 28, par.12 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of the supplier chain 20-21 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding G4-14 Explanation of the precautionary approach application G4-15 Codes of conduct Underwriting 9 G4-16 membership to associations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH Companies included in the consolidated financial statements and an indication of the G4-17 companies included in the report 10 G4-18 Process of defining report content G4-19 List of aspects identified as material G4-20 Indication of the scope of consolidation for each material aspect (within the organization) Indication of the scope of consolidation for each material aspect (external to the G4-21 12, par.12 organization) G4-22 Explanation of the effects of changes in calculations G4-23 Significant changes from the previous reporting period SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 59 Stakeholder Engagement G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-24 List of stakeholder groups involved in the organization’s engagement activities Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to undertake engagement G4-25 activities Approach of stakeholders engagement activities, including frequency of engagement by 13, par.12 G4-26 type and by stakeholder group Key topics and criticalities emerging during the stakeholder engagement and how the G4-27 organization has responded to those concerns, with reference to what is stated in the report Report’s Profile G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4.28 Reporting period. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 14, par.12 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Indication of the chosen option In accordance ; GRI table of contents; references to G4-32 external verification G4-33 External assurance of the report Governance G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 15 Ethic e integrity G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-56, 57, 58 Mission, values, codes conduct, principles 16, 17, 18 Economic Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-DMAEC Management approach on the Economic responsibility G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's 19, 31, par.12 G4-EC2 activities due to climate change. G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 35 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum G4-EC5 wage in the most significant operational plants. Procedures for hiring people residing in the area where the main operations are G4-EC6 carried out and proportion of senior management hired from the local community. 19, par.12 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided G4-EC7 primarily for “public benefit” G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Percentage of the spending on locally-based suppliers in the most significant G4-EC9 20, par.12 operation plants SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 60 Environmental Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-DMAEN Management approach on the Environmental responsibility G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 20, 22, par.12 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 23, par.12 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization G4-EN5 Relative energy consumption G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 23, par.12 G4-EN7 Reduction of energy consumption of products and services G4-EN8 Total water withdrawn by source G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 25, par.12 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity G4-EN12 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 24 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Number of species of IUCN Red List and species in the national conservation lists G4-EN14 with habitats in areas affected by operations, broken down by level of extinction risk G4-EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases G4-EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions from energy consumption G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 22-23, par.12 G4-EN18 Relative greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of the greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of substances that damage the ozone layer by weight G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 25, par.12 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. 25, par.12 G4-EN25 Hazardous waste Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related G4-EN26 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water 25 and runoff. G4-EN27 The entity of reduction of the environmental impacts of products and services 20 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are retrieved, broken G4-EN28 20-21, par.12 down by category Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-EN29 par.11 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 61 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and G4-EN30 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the 26 workforce. G4-EN31 Total environmental expenditures and investments by type 19 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on environmental criteria 20, par.12 Existing and potential significant adverse environmental impacts in the supply chain G4-EN33 and actions taken par.11 Number of complaints received relating to the environmental impacts addressed G4-EN34 and resolved through formal complaint management system Social Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-DMALA Management Approach on employees 27 G4-LA1 Total number of hiring and turnover rates age groups, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or G4-LA2 part-time employees, by major operations. 28, par.12 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including G4-LA4 whether it is specified in collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of G4-LA6 29, par.12 work-related fatalities by region and by gender. G4-LA7 Workers with a high incidence or high risk of accident or occupational disease G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee G4-LA9 category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 29-30, par.12 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-LA11 reviews, by gender. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 28, par.12 G4-LA13 Ratio of male and female base salary by category and operational qualification G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on criteria relating to work Existing and potential negative Aspects related to labour in the supply chain and G4-LA15 20-21, par.11 actions taken Number of complaints related to the aspects concerning the work received, G4-LA16 addressed and resolved through formal complaint management Human rights Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-DMAHR Management approach on Human Resource 32 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that G4-HR1 include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human 20-21 rights screening. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 62 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of G4-HR2 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees 29, par.12 trained. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom G4-HR4 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 32 main suppliers with high risk of recourse to child labour, and measures taken to G4-HR5 contribute to its elimination Activities with a high risk of recourse to forced or compulsory labour, and measures to G4-HR6 contribute to the elimination Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures G4-HR7 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. G4-HR8 Number of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 33 G4-HR9 Number and percentage of operational areas subjected to screening on human rights G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on criteria relating to human Existing and potential aspects relating to human rights significant to the supply chain 20-21, par.12 G4-HR11 and actions taken Number of complaints related to aspects concerning human rights received, addressed G4-HR12 33 and resolved through formal complaint management Society Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-DMASO Managerial approach to a responsible business conduct 34 Percentage of operational areas with implementation of programs involving the G4-SO1 local community, impact and development assessment 34-35 Operational areas with existing and potential significant negative impacts on local G4-SO2 communities Percentage and total number of operational areas analysed for risks related to G4-SO3 35-36 corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 29-30, par.12 G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 35-36 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and G4-SO6 35 related institutions by country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and G4-SO7 monopoly practices. par.11 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-SO8 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Percentage of new suppliers evaluated based on criteria related to the impacts on G4-SO9 20, 34, par.12 society Aspects regarding the negative impacts on existing companies and potentially G4-SO10 significant in the supply chain and actions taken par.11 Number of complaints received related to the impacts on society, addressed and G4-SO11 resolved through formal complaint management Product Responsibility Performance Indicators G.R.I. REF. DESCRIPTION REPORT PARAGRAPH G4-DMA PR Management Approach on Product Responsibility 37 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 63 Percentage of product and services categories for which the impacts on health and G4-PR1 37 safety are assessed Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR2 par.11 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of G4-PR3 37 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR4 par.11 concerning product and service information and labelling G4-PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys 37, 38 G4-PR6 Sales of banned or contested products Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 38, 39, par.11 G4-PR8 losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services. SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING |Reporting period 2016
