CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Proﬁle (as of March 31, 2017) Overseas Subsidiaries and Oﬃces & Major Domestic Group Companies(as of April 1, 2017) Company Name Chiyoda Corporation Number of Employees 5,367 people (Consolidated) Chiyoda's Global Network (Major Overseas Subsidiaries and Oﬃces) ■ Sales Base ■ Engineering Center Main Business Fields Engineering and Construction ■ Procurement Center Main Oﬃces Chiyoda Global Headquarters(CGH) ■ Project Execution Base ■Xodus Group (Holdings) Ltd. ■Chiyoda & Public Works Co., Ltd. ■ Operation Support Base Established January 20, 1948 Koyasu Oﬃce & Research Park ■Milan Representative Oﬃce ■Chiyoda (Thailand) Limited ■Chiyoda Corporation Netherlands B.V. Paid-in Capital 43,396 million yen Project Experience Over 60 countries worldwide UK Consolidated Financial Highlights The Netherlands ■Korea Representative Oﬃce (One Hundred Million Yen) Italy Japan Korea ●Chiyoda Global Headquarters New Orders Revenues Net Income (Losses) Revenues by Region (FY2016) USA Saudi Arabia ■■Chiyoda International 161 Qatar China Corporation 7,468 India ■Beijing Oﬃce 17% UAE ■Chiyoda Corporation(Shanghai) 134 Myanmar Philippines ■ Overseas Thailand 6,115 6,037 ■Chiyoda Philippines Corporation 5,899 ■ Domestic Malaysia 110 83% Singapore 4,810 ■L&T-Chiyoda Limited Indonesia 4,461 ■PT. Chiyoda International Indonesia 4,029 4,036 3,989 3,518 Revenues by Industry (FY2016) Mozambique Brazil 34 1% ■Chiyoda Mozambique ■Chiyoda Oceania Pty Limited 5% Limitada Australia 6% ■ LNG Plants ■Abu Dhabi Oﬃce ■ Gas Development/Processing/Receiving ■Chiyoda-CCC Engineering(Pte.) Limited ■Chiyoda Human Resources International (Pte.)Limited ■Chiyoda Singapore (Pte.) Limited 17% ■ Refinery/Petrochemical/Metals ■Middle East Headquarters Doha Oﬃce 69% ■ Pharmaceuticals/Biochemistry/Chemicals ■Chiyoda do Brasil -411 ■Chiyoda Almana Engineering LLC ■Chiyoda Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. ■ Environment/New Energy/Infrastructure Representações Ltda. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) ■Chiyoda Petrostar Ltd. ■Chiyoda Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. ■ Others 2% Editorial Policy ■ Chiyoda Kosho Co., Ltd. ■ Chiyoda TechnoAce Co., Ltd. Engineering Engineering, construction, and maintenance of industrial Consulting, planning, design, execution, test operation, and other ■ CSR Activity Report Policy equipment and facilities of every type; insurance business, services for civil engineering and construction work on pharmaceutical The Chiyoda Group provides comprehensive reporting on its CSR activities, including detailed information presented on the Chiyoda Corporation etc. and petroleum facilities website. http://www.cks-ykh.co.jp/ http://www.cta.chiyoda.co.jp/ In addition, the Group has published this digest version of the Group's FY2016 report, highlighting the latest activities. The contents of these reports are elaborated and compiled based on the Group Corporate Philosophy and CSR Vision in ■ Chiyoda System Technologies Corporation ■ Chiyoda U-Tech Co., Ltd. collaboration with the members of the Group Liaison Meeting on CSR and those responsible for CSR in Group companies in Japan Engineering, procurement, construction, and maintenance Feasibility studies and consulting for energy, oil, chemical, and and overseas. For further details, including particulars on governance, please refer to the websites and other sources below. of electrical, instrumentation, and control systems; environment-related plants as well as other various types of industrial consulting, development, and operation of integrated IT facilities systems; business relating to social infrastructures http://www.utc-yokohama.com/ ■ Applicable Period: FY2016 ■ Group Companies Covered by the Report http://www.cst.chiyoda.co.jp/ (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017, unless otherwise speciﬁed) The scope of this report extends to all Chiyoda Group companies. The names of Group companies are given in an abbreviated form in the report. Regarding those abbreviations, please refer to the details below. ■ Arrow Business Consulting Corporation ■ Arrowhead International Corporation ■ Website Sustainability」 Business Support Consulting and business outsourcing for ﬁnance, accounting, and tax services Travel agent, air cargo, materials export, and other related services http://www.arrowhead.co.jp/ Chiyoda Kosho Co., Ltd. （CKS） https://www.chiyoda-corp.com/csr/ Chiyoda Group Sustainability Chiyoda System Technologies Corporation （CST） Chiyoda TechnoAce Co., Ltd. （CTA） ■ Arrow Human Resources Co., Ltd. ■ Chiyoda Business Solutions Co., Ltd. Comprehensive reporting Arrowhead International Corporation （AIC） Temporary staﬃng, placement consulting, outsourcing, Outsourcing services and consulting for HR and facility ■ Website on the website Chiyoda Almana Engineering LLC （Chiyoda-Almana） and education and training management Corporate Governance Policy Sustainability Chiyoda Philippines Corporation （CPh） http://www.ahr.co.jp/ https://www.chiyoda-corp.com/ Report Chiyoda & Public Works Co., Ltd. （CPW） company/files/160623_CGPr.pdf FY2016 Chiyoda Singapore (Pte.) Limited （CSL） activity highlights L&T-Chiyoda Limited （L&TC） INDEX Corporate Proﬁle and Editorial Policy 1 Feature 1 Vision 1 Stakeholder Dialogues A Reliable Company 15 Reference Overseas Subsidiaries and Oﬃces & Reference Vision 2 Major Domestic Group Companies Annual Report Chiyoda Group CSR Handbook INDEX 2 Environmental Initiatives 17 Annual reports are published in This Handbook has been edited to include the English particularly for share“Corporate Philosophy,”the“CSR Vision,”the“Code of Vision 3 Top Message 3 holders and investors overseas. Conduct,” the “Compliance Manual (Employee's 11 Social Contributions Major topics relating to CSR Practical Guide),” and other basic policies of the through Business Activities 19 History and Future of the Chiyoda Group 5 activities are also introduced. Chiyoda Group. It is made public on the Group website Feature 2 Vision 4 and also made known to employees. The Story of Value Creation Development Project Initiatives Respect for Human Rights 21 by the Chiyoda Group 7 on the Far Northern Energy Frontier Vision 5 The Chiyoda Corporation The Chiyoda Corporation The Chiyoda Corporation has The Chiyoda Corporation is CSR Vision 9 Commitment to Fairness 24 is a signatory of the United has been included in the been included as one of the the constituent company of Nations Global Compact. FTSE4Good Index Series, constituent companies in the SNAM Sustainability Index. The Chiyoda Group's Social Contribution designed by FTSE Russell (United Kingdom), index of FTSE Blossom Japan Index designed by FTSE Russell 13 Activities 25 socially responsible investment. (United Kingdom). 1 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 2 Top Message The Chiyoda Group’s Backgrounds as a Social Entity Chiyoda Corporation was founded in 1948 for the purpose of contributing to society through engineering, making excellent use of its sophisticated technologies. It has since been engaged in the engineering and construction of plants and facilities such as in petroleum reﬁning, gas processing and petrochemicals, contributing to the development of industry in Japan. We have also made forays into countries in the Middle East and Asia, where we have also been striving to contribute to the development of society with our reﬁned technical capabilities by providing each region with infrastructure tailored to the needs of the times and the regions. In those backgrounds, we have consistently continued engineering operation based on the core of our corporate philosophy of “harmony between energy and the environment.” The Chiyoda Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Recently, the global requirements for corporate social responsibility (CSR) have changed signiﬁcantly. As corporate activities become increasingly globalized, new demands are emerging for the resolution of social issues such as respect for human rights, the correction of inequality, environmental preservation and compliance such as anti-corruption. To address these issues, expectations are growing for the business sector and its resources. The goals and directions to be followed by companies are shown through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*₁, adopted by the United Nations in the year 2015, and the Paris Climate Agreement, in which the international community agreed to aim for a carbon-free world as a measure to combat climate change. As shown in our corporate philosophy and CSR visions, commitment to UN Global Compact*₂ joined in 2012, there are many areas in which our technologies and human resources could resolve these issues. We believe that we can satisfy these requirements through the Chiyoda Group’ s CSR activities to contribute to the creation of a better society by having a correct understanding of the requirements of the times and our stakeholders and making eﬀorts to solve social issues through engineering. To Achieve Our Ultimate Goal of Becoming a Reliable Company As our corporate activities have been increasingly global in scope, we are dedicated to developing the circumstance in which employees as well as other stakeholders such as customers, business partner and local communities can participate and play an active role, regardless of their gender, nationality, age or religion in a spirit of respecting human rights, above all. In addition, Chiyoda Corporation made the transition to a“company with the audit and supervisory committee”in June 2016 based on the Corporate Governance Policy, seeking to increase the fairness and transparency of business management and make decisions more promptly. Through this action, we have further enhanced our corporate governance system by appointing three independent outside directors. As a group, we will solidify the foundations for our operations and work on the medium-tern management plan starting on the ﬁscal year 2017 to contribute to a sustainable society. August 2017 ＊1: SDGs are a set of global goals to be achieved by 2030, ＊2：UN Global Compact was announced by then UN adopted at the UN Sustainable Development Summit Secretary-General Koﬁ Annan in an address to the World in September 2015. They are common goals for the Economic Forum held in 1999. It is a principle-based international community, consisting of 17 goals and framework for businesses, stating ten principles in the 169 targets, for both developed and developing areas of human rights, labor, the environment and countries to tackle to eradicate poverty and realize a anti-corruption. Chiyoda has signed up in UN Global sustainable world. Compact in 2012. Chairman of the Board President & CEO 3 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 4 History and Future of the Chiyoda Group We were founded in 1948, during the period when Japan was starting to make powerful moves toward its postwar recovery. With serving society through technology as its founding motto, the company has kept moving forward in accordance with the Corporate Philosophy of harmony between energy and the environment and in unswerving awareness of the requirements of the international community. As we address the issues of society with our technological capabilities, we continue aiming to make even greater advances. 1960s 1980s 2000s ・1945 Mitsubishi Oil Co. reﬁnery in Kawasaki ・ Market changes due to two times of oil crisis ・ Overseas production by Japanese manufacturers ・ oil prices soar and global LNG demand increases Social is heavily damaged accelerates due to the Plaza Accord (high yen era) ・ A carbon-free society and environmental conservation Context The Second World War ends one globally demanded ・1950 Domestic reﬁneries reenter operation, ・ More stringent environmental controls by the United States starting the“Age of Oil” leads to the consective orders to license CT-121 technology Dawning Growth Resurgence & Transition Further Development Contributions to the sustainable Project Execution and Technology Development founded on “Energy and Environment in Harmony” development ・ Start environmental initiatives in conjunction with domestic economic growth ・ Accelerate overseas expansion and move to global ・ Execution of LNG mega projects of society ・ 1948 Founding of Chiyoda Corporation ・ Contributions to the postwar reconstruction of Japan's ・ Respond to the diversiﬁcation of plant demands led by oil producing countries operations ・ Execution of projects in gas value chain Chiyoda Group History domestic industry ・ Overseas expansion shifts into high gear in line with promotion of Group-wide ・ Expand into ﬁelds of general industrial facilities and ・ Development and demonstration operation of environmental ・ Participation by means of engineering in oil and internationalization non-ferrous metals conservation technology petrochemical industries ・ Start initiatives for laboratory facilities projects ・ Initiatives for LNG projects shift into high gear ・ Development of renewable energy-related business ・ Start establishing footholds for overseas expansion ・ Participation in national oil stockpiling projects ・ Participation in photovoltaic and solar thermal ・ Construction to rebuild the ・ Construction of desulfurization Copper smelter for power generation projects Kawasaki reﬁnery of Mitsubishi units for the petroleum reﬁnery P.T. Smelting Co. ・ Development of SPERA Hydrogen®System technology Major Projects Oil Co., Ltd. (present JXTG Energy) ・ Consecutive domestic orders for for large-scale transportation of hydrogen Awarded ・ New reﬁnery for Mitsubishi Oil ﬂue gas desulfurization units ・ Expansion of overseas licensing of ﬂue gas and Technology ・ Jeddah and Riyadh reﬁneries, Co., Ltd. desulfurization technology Development ・ Fertilizer(Ammonia/Urea) plant Reconstruction of Saudi Arabia Achievements the Kawasaki reﬁnery for India ・ Reﬁneries for Nigeria CT-121 Bowen 3 SGR JBR Riyadh reﬁnery for Petromin (Saudi Arabia) Photovoltaic power generation facility for Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Kaduna reﬁnery for NNPC (Nigeria) Arun natural gas liquefaction Qatar Gas Operating Co., Ltd. plant for Pertamina (Indonesia) Mizushima grass-roots reﬁnery for Mitsubishi Oil Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Research Laboratories, Upjohn Pharmaceuticals Limited Complete construction of Fukui national Mizushima LNG receiving terminal Sakhalin Energy Investment Co., Ltd. petroleum stockpile base for Mizushima LNG Co., Ltd. Courtesy of Sakhalin Energy Investment Company 5 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 6 The Value Creation Story by the Chiyoda Group The Chiyoda Group pledges to continue as an enterprise that oplimizes the use of Realization of the Corporate Philosophy the cutting-edge technology and human resources to create value for society. We The Mission for us to Accomplish have been pursuing business according to our declared Corporate Philosophy of Enhance our business in aiming for harmony between energy and harmony between energy and the environment and with our CSR Visions as our the environment and contribute to the sustainable development of core value. In order to respond to the requirements of global markets and communia society as an integrated engineering company through the use of ties, we aim to be a global top-tier provider of comprehensive engineering services in both energy and environmental ﬁelds by implementing our Medium-term manageour collective wisdom and painstakingly developed technology. ment plan Mirai Engineering A Grand Opportunity for the Future . Good Health Quality Clean Water No Poverty Zero Hunger Gender Equality and Well-Being Education and Sanitation Medium-term management plan Aﬀordable and Clean Energy Decent Work and Economic Industry, Innovation, Reduced Inequalities Sustainable Cities and Responsible Consumption and Infrastructure Communities and Production Growth “Mirai Engineering”derived from integration of three growth strategies Peace, Justice, Climate Life Below Partnerships Life on Land and Strong Action Water for the Goals Institutions Goals for Sustainable Development by 2030 That the World has Agreed to Pursue Energy Solutions Environmental Solutions ・ Achievement of SDGs Build energy value chain business Expand global environmental engineering business ・ Enhancement of Corporate Value Mirai Engineering Integrated Engineering & Service to contribute to a sustainable society creating harmony between Energy and Environment through combination of CHIYODA’ s Global comprehensive strengths and innovative digital Climate AntiWarming technologies Change Corruption What are the SDGs (Sustainable Development Human Technology and Goals)? Rights Chiyoda Group business model innovation These are goals that need to be realized by the year 2030 in order to achieve a sustainable development of society. They consist of 17 major Economic Disparity Businesses Develop new business model for a digital society goals and 169 targets that were adopted by the United Nations General Social Issues Corporate Philosophy Assembly in September 2015 to provide a basic framework for action in the international community of both developing and developed countries. Appropriate As a member of the community, the Chiyoda Group is responding to this Employment CSR Vision movement by engaging in actions intended to contribute to the achievement of the goals. In this report, we are reconﬁrming our own corporate activities and Individual Issues in Local Communities displaying icons for the relevant goals side by side with such activities. Securing Energy Global Standards Resources ● ISO26000 The Chiyoda Group Supports the SDGs . ● United Nations Global Compact ● SDGs ● Paris Climate Agreement ● United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity 7 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 8 CSR Management Our Shared Values One of our primary aims in the Chiyoda Group, as an integrated engineering company, is to contribute to the sustainable development CSR Vision of society through our business activities. By furthering the below activities in a sustained manner, we strive constantly to enhance our corporate value and to be a corporation that earns the trust and aﬃnity of all our stakeholders. ISO26000 The Chiyoda Group's CSR Vision Core Subjects UN Global Compact Action Policies FY2016 Activities Related SDGs 1 Sustainable Responsible Cities and Consumption Communities and Production ● Provide industrial plants that earn ● The engineering company's mission in society A Reliable Company customer trust through engineering of Industry, outstanding quality Build relationships of trust with our cutting-edge Innovation, ● and Infrastructure Consumer FA control technology We strive to be a reliable company to our custom(customer) ━ ● Share our CSR principles with suppliers and other business partners by providing ers and other business partners Industry, Added value enhanced by proposals using Good Health issues Innovation, ● and Well-Being world-class technologies and knowledge. and Infrastructure integrated 3D design technology 2 Aﬀordable and Climate Clean Energy Action Principle 7: Businesses should support a ● Develop and provide environmental● Next-generation clean energy Environmental Initiatives precautionary approach to environmental ly friendly energy and conservation technologies Responsible Climate challenges; Consumption Action and Production We will work to remain an invaluable company ● Eﬀective utilization of oil ﬁelds Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Conduct business activities that contribto society by utilizing reﬁned technologies to ● greater environmental responsibility; and ute to environmental conservation Sustainable promote harmony between the global environAﬀordable and Climate Cities and Action Clean Energy Communities The environment ● Technology development of hydrogen energy ment and economic and social activities. Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technolThe dissemination of technology to Sustainable Climate Aﬀordable and ● Clean Energy Cities and Communities Action ogies. prevent air pollution Sustainable Climate Cities and Action Communities ● Environment-conscious activities in project execution 3 Industry, ● Providing optimized operation through cutting-edge Innovation, Social Contributions through and Infrastructure ● Contribute to society through integrattechnology Business Activities ed engineering business activities Sustainable Cities and Communities Responsible Consumption and Production Community ● Safety ﬁrst Through our engineering business in Japan and ● Enhance social contribution activities overseas, we contribute to local communities in involvement and by providing knowledge and labor ━ ways including human resources development, development Decent Work Reduced Partnerships ● Developing excellent human resources through and Economic Growth Inequalities for the Goals technology transfer and environmental protectechnology transfer tion. Quality ● Developing human resources with the goal of establishing Education industrial infrastructure 4 Decent Work Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Gender Equality and Economic Create a lively and energetic workInitiatives for changes in work style in FY2016 Growth ● ● Respect for Human Rights the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ing environment and help employWe are dedicated to respecting the human rights ees develop their talents Sustainable Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit Safety ﬁrst crisis management support to prepare for Cities and ● Communities of all people. We will create a corporate culture in human rights abuses. all emergencies where the diversity, individuality and character of Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom ● Instill in everyone involved that safety employees are respected, where people are Human rights of association and the eﬀective recognition of the is a core value ● Reinforcement of corporate strengths by development of Quality Education Decent Work and Economic Growth motivated to do their best, and of which employLabor practices right to collective bargaining; global human resources ees and their families are proud. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 Reduced Peace, Justice, Inequalities and Strong Institutions Principle 10: Businesses should work against ● Conduct business activities based on ● Initiatives to prevent misconduct Commitment to Fairness corruption in all its forms, including extortion strict compliance and a high degree Organizational of transparency We are dedicated to achieving even greater and bribery. transparency and stability by conducting our governance ● Conduct a thorough risk management operations fairly in accordance with the highest Fair operating program ethical standards. practices 9 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 10 Feature 1 Stakeholder Dialogues Global Trend of CSR and Expections to the Chiyoda Group from Stakeholders Formulating Value Creating Story in CSR Message on Cleating Value from Solutions to Societal Issues Looking at the world, we see that the circumstances of CSR are constantly undergoing change. We invited outside experts for the the Basis of Corporate Philosophy in View of SDGs dialogues about relevant movements in Japan and overseas, about what is important to keep in mind about corporate activities, and about what stakeholders expect of the Chiyoda Group. The business category called comprehensive engineering in Japanese is easier An engineering company deals with more than just technology. Its business to understand in its English term, which is integrated engineering. There are very also covers a wide range, and putting this the other way around, we could say that high expectations of Chiyoda with respect to CSR because the company has a it seems a kind of enterprise that has great possibilities. Think of CSR not as the diversity of technologies and human resources to implement the Corporate corporation's responsibility, but as the expectations placed on the corporation. Philosophy of“harmony between energy and the environment”that forms the Since the late 20th century, a consensus has formed that resolving social and core of the SDGs. At the same time, therefore, the company bears a great economic problems will require more than just a United Nations framework. It will responsibility. As a speciﬁc example, its CSR Report says that a project in Papua depend on the cooperation of the business sector with its abundance of New Guinea hired 2,500 local people and gave them training. According to resources. The Global Compact came into being as a result. In 2015, the voices of development economics, it is a tremendous feat to accomplish this without ODA stakeholders from around the world formed at the United Nations in the SDGs, or other cooperation, and I think this is a story that Chiyoda could disseminate which form a common language. It appears to me that corporate social responsimore actively. The mindset of the individuals involved is very important in CSR bility (CSR) and creating shared value (CSV), which originated in social contribution implementation, so I think that if Chiyoda created an arrangement for collecting activities, have gone back to their original place as a vision of what can be the things local people on the ground are saying, and if the company focused the accomplished by a company's core business. For the Chiyoda Corporation, the spotlight more on its employees when disclosing information, this would heighten core business covers a broad range, so all seventeen goals of the SDGs are the degree of penetration and the ability to communicate Chiyoda's CSR message. relevant, but your technology cannot be put to good use or purpose unless you Envision the kind of change your company's initiative analyze societal issues and apply your own technolocould bring about a decade from now, formulate the gy and know-how in an outside-in manner (or from story accordingly, and throw yourself wholeheartedan external viewpoint) to generate innovation. Since ly into it so that what will emerge as the result of that people have expectations of your company, I hope eﬀort is your CSR. Create a means for arranging this, you will set concrete targets for renewable energy, train the young people in it, and the company will hydrogen-related programs, and other environmenundergo change. If you set up the long-term objective tal areas, and feature them prominently. In dealing to match the same target year of 2030 as the SDGs, with the value chain, you should also cover human Kenichi Takayasu Katsuhiro Harada and disseminate the story that way, then I think that a rights and other related matters. It is important to Professor Professor Session Summary Outside Participants Chiyoda Group Participants more concrete corporate value will be conveyed to Department of Economics Dokkyo University be aware that in resolving societal issues can yield Meiji Gakuin University your stakeholders. proﬁt, and to share that awareness. Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi Ms. Kaoru Nakamura ［Moderator］ ■ Date March 13, 2017 Chief Researcher, Research Division, GM, PLC Planning & Administration Unit Mr. Makoto Watanabe Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Mr. Yasuyuki Maeda Corporate Planning Unit ■ Location Chiyoda Global Mr. Masao Seki Associate Director, Senior Advisor on CSR, Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance, Inc. Corporate Risk Management Division Headquarters, Mr. Kenichi Takayasu GM, Compliance Unit Chiyoda Corporation Professor Mr. Shuichi Wada Department of Economics, Dokkyo University Senior Vice President & Division Director, Mr. Katsuhiro Harada Corporate Planning & Management Division Making CSR Consciousness in Employees and Transforming Risks to Opportunities for Enhancing GM, Corporate Planning Unit Professor a Driving Force for Moving Forward Corporate Value Meiji Gakuin University The idea here is that furthering CSR activities will generate a driving force CSR is not a duty but an expectation, so where you have an ability or Taking a Global View of Added Value from a CSR Perusing Business Trends with Sincerity to Achieve in the form of corporate value. In order to reach out to employees and give response, you have a broad possibility for responding to stakeholder Perspective Aggressive CSR them a solid sense for the relationship between expectations. It is the same with risk managethe Chiyoda Group's core business and their ment. As I understand it, managing risk means own individual work on the one hand, and the the same thing as determining how to take The image of the Chiyoda Corporation and of this industry is that it is extremely My ﬁrst impression of the Chiyoda Corporation was of its extremely SDGs on the other hand, it will be essential not advantage of an opportunity. I would like to open and diverse. Frankly, I was amazed at how ﬂat the organizational structure in sophisticated technological capabilities, as an enormously powerful global only to have members of top management see us bring the corporate value of the Chiyoda the industry is, and how free of oﬃcial, organizational constraints. It just seems a corporation that would rather transform society than contribute to society. emphasize the point, but also to incorporate Group into even clearer deﬁnition, have every pity that the industry is so little known inside Japan because of a lack of domestic In the area of CSR activities, the corporation is sincerely grappling with the that understanding in company policy. It is individual actively think about transformation PR. An approach from the standpoint of Daiwa Securities considers that in the demands of society, but my impression is that it tilts somewhat toward a possible, however, that this kind of approach and discovery, and then go on to develop the investment world, conventional environmental and societal problems are defensive stance. I wonder if it might not be worth appealing to stakeholdmay make some employees feel they are being combination of these. Kaoru Nakamura Yasuyuki Maeda addressed by SRI, or Socially Responsible Investment, for which the motivation ers with more aggressive CSR activity that tells the Chiyoda story. The SDGs forced. I think it would be good to get away GM, Associate Director, PLC Planning & Corporate Risk comes from the corporate social responsibility perspectives of ethics and ﬁnance. were adopted in 2015, and then the Paris climate Agreement was signed from the notion that there are some particular Management Division Administration Unit At present, however, we see rapid expansion of ESG investment, which places toward the end of that same year, so that was a major turning-point. With GM, Compliance Unit individuals who are interested in CSR, and value on environmental and societal issues, as a measure for raising investment the world now starting to steer toward the zero-carbon goal, this transition instead spread that CSR consciousness widely performance. The world's major corporations are responding to the climate risk represents a new business opportunity for Chiyoda. The most among your employees. change issue by changing course toward 100% renewable energy sources and important thing is for top management to make a commitment. Statistics carbon-free goals. In Japan, however, we are ﬁxated on low-carbon approaches tell us that management in Europe has about 65% understanding of SDGs, centered on energy conservation, and there is concern that we are falling behind. while management in Japanese corporations is still at 25%. It will also be As to SDGs, they should be positioned as long-term management strategies that important to work on middle management, which is most directly are promoted top-down as company-wide activities. inﬂuenced by top management. Thoughts on Hearing the Views of Experts In doing so, the attention should always be directed A baseline of business today is the respect for I want to say thank you for sharing your valuable views with us today. What I heard has allowed me to conﬁrm to the global, and it is important to take hidden human rights, which also underpins the foundation not only the basics of CSR, but also the trends in society that form the context for CSR. Having received a variety of negative factors into consideration, so that you can of the SDGs. It is necessary for the corporation to diﬀerent suggestions, what we will do is analyze and study them thoroughly as the Chiyoda Group. Then, we will follow the impact on local operations as well as establish policy regarding human rights and review our CSR vision, which has stood now for ten years since it was formulated, disseminate the understanding and Shuichi Wada determine the contributions achieved. This is certain disclose it. It must also identify the risks of human Senior Vice President & further promote activities among all our employees. In order to press forward with activities and business that are Division Director, to contribute to heightened employee motivation. rights infringement in value chains, and activate Corporate Planning & suited to the Chiyoda Group, in light of the spirit of the SDGs, I would like to actively create occasions of this kind. When CSR serves as an opening to come back with the PDCA cycle to implement preventive measures. Management Division GM, Corporate Planning Unit Mariko Kawaguchi Masao Seki proposals for added value in your core business, the Chief Researcher, Senior Advisor on CSR result can have a powerful appeal that may also lead Research Division Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance, Inc. Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. to solutions for customers. 11 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 12 Feature 2 Development Project Initiatives on the Northernmost Energy Frontier Yamal LNG Project Initiatives for Safety success. On April 28, The World Day for Safety and Health at Work, The philosophy of the Chiyoda Group is to“Enhance our business in aiming for 'harmony between energy and the enviAt present, approximately one thousand three hundred (1,300) JV three (3) members were awarded for their active safety improvement ronment,”and“contributing to the sustainable development of society as an integrated engineering company through staﬀ members and twelve thousand (12,000) workers under the joint initiatives. Safety Day events are held every three months, and all the the use of our collective wisdom and painstakingly developed technology.”In that spirit, we are contributing to the venture supervision are working on the construction site of Sabetta. In members of the project team development of society by transcending the frameworks of regions and corporations to provide high-quality plants for a addition, there are ten module yards set up in Asia under manageare engaged together in the stable supply of energy. This feature article introduces the Yamal LNG Project as one such example of this approach. ment by the Paris oﬃce of the joint venture, which serves as a central Safety First approach. base for execution of this internationally networked project. Safety measures are being thoroughly implemented at all project sites and oﬃces. These began with a workshop for manager level staﬀ held in 2015, followed by seminars held at every operation center and Project Overview every module yard, and extending even to subcontractors at the Sabetta site oﬃce. Particularly, ten (10) Asian yards attained a great We are engaged in the construction of Yamal LNG Plant project located in Yamalo-nenets Autonomous Safety commendation Region, Russia, as a member of the joint venture (JV) composed of TechnipFMC, JGC and Chiyoda. Chiyoda’ s involvement in this project is based on the recognition for its achievement of the successful project execution in Russia; Sakhalin 2 LNG Project. The contract for this project was signed in 2014. This project is such a huge scale undertaking that the construction of a LNG plant with three lines producing 5.5 million tons annually is to be completed in ﬁve years. The LNG it produces will be exported to China, Spain, France, and other countries. The construction site is located at the severest natural environment in Russia at a latitude of 71 degrees north. The winter season occupies eight months of the year. In the winter the sun never rises, and in the summer, it never sets. Since operations are carried out in a harsh environment where the winter temperature drops as far as -50° C, a modular construction method is adopted. Construction modules, some of which are tall as a 10-story building, were fabricated at various locations in the South East Asia and shipped on large ships to be completed on-site, thereby making this project tackle various challenges. Further, this region serves as an energy frontier where 22% of reserves of the world natural gas are concentrated, and this project will be the Russia's ﬁrst large-scale energy development project undertaken Safety seminar participants in an untapped land under such harsh environment as located on the permanently frozen ground in the Arctic. The JV is based in Paris, from where it manages seven engineering centers and ten module yards set up throughout China, Indonesia, and so on. At its peak, there are ﬁfteen thousand people working Initiatives for Environmental Preservation Participation in Charitable Activities on-site to carry out the project. A beach cleaning campaign Eleven (11) female members of the Yamal LNG Paris team participatwas held in areas around the ed in the most famous women's marathon in Paris, La Parisienne, on plant construction site on September 11, 2016. There were thirty-seven thousand (37,000) September 24, 2016. A large runners and the course was 6.7 km long. The entry fees were used to number of employees participatsupport medical research on breast cancer. ed. Scenes of beach cleaning Initiatives for Human Resource Development Fifteen (15) students from the Moscow State University of Civil Engineering took the opportunity to come and work at Sabetta site oﬃce from June 29 to August 19 of 2016. The students had ﬁrsthand Members of the Yamal LNG Paris team experience of operations in a number of ﬁelds, including construction, quality, HSE, transportation, pre-commissioning, and so on. This gave the students a good opportunity to learn a great deal from the highly Voice of Employees experienced members of the joint venture team, as well as to get practical approaches for their own future work, and they were very In this project, we are taking the challenge of LNG plant satisﬁed. We intend to continue contributing to the development of the construction in the Arctic, a harsher environment than ever engineers of the future. before. Overcoming this challenge enables us to promote development of a gas ﬁeld with reserves in a territory too cold to be considered readily accessible, and we think this will support the sustained, stable supply of LNG, which is an environmentally friendly energy source. We are making the most of the expertise and technology developed in our past project experiences, and all our employees are joining together as one team in our day-to-day eﬀort to bring this plant to the successful completion. Nobuhiko Koizumi Project Manager YL2 Team Moscow State University students 13 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 14 Vision 1 Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure A Reliable Company BUILD RELATIONSHIPS OF TRUST WITH OUR CUTTING-EDGE FA CONTROL TECHNOLOGY A Reliable Company Nippi Collagen Industries, Ltd. Completion of Construction on Control Systems for Casing Manufacturing Comments from the Client Equipment at Fujinomiya Plant Chiyoda System Technologies Corporation (CST) won the order for We Give CST High Marks for Quality of Engineering and construction of control systems at Fujinomiya Plant of Nippi Collagen Implementation Capabilities Industries, Ltd. We use collagen extracted from cowskin as the main ingredient Why How In May 2016, the construction of new casing manufacturing plant was successfully completed. to manufacture edible sausage casings. Our company's relationship with the Chiyoda Group goes back to In addition to build the relationships of trust between the client, all 20 years or more. During that time, we have successfully carried out For a corporation, the trust of its stakeholders ・ Provide safe, reliable plants the members were united to accomplish the project. As a result, we a variety of developmental projects. The projects have been Environmental Initiatives provides the foundation for management. Through ・ Execute high quality engineering achieved an accident-free, disaster-free completion. Furthermore, in centered mainly on new plant constructions. our business, the Chiyoda Group will contribute to ・ Provide full support for plants during emergencies response to the client’ s request of making it possible to operate and What impresses us each time is the high qualities of their technical the resolution of global issues and the sustainable ・ Provide solutions to global issues through business monitor the adjustment process in the No.2 Plant, newly constructed at support and ideas, and the abundance of human resources who put development of society so as to continue earning ・ Provide engineering solutions for the sustainable this time, to the existing No.1 Plant, we built an FA network and them into practice. the trust of our stakeholders. suggested installing programmable logic controllers (PLCs)*₁ and touch This project was no exception. They faced severe conditions, including development of society panels. We also made a number of suggestions, such as an integration updating speciﬁcations due to changes in the plans and tight delivery of control panels, the adoption of a network with reduced wiring date. The Chiyoda Group members, however, think as our company’ s requirements at lower costs, and a calibration eﬃciency improvement point of view, and were courteous and ﬂexible in their responses. We are of the load cells*₂ on the tanks, as a result of which we built a relationalso grateful for the sincerity they showed us in their follow-up. ship of unshakeable trust with the customer. We will continue providing our customers with safe, high-quality Sustainable Responsible Deputy Manager, Fujinomiya Plant Cities and Consumption Mr. Yoshihito Okubo Social Contributions through Business Activities Communities and Production Nippi Collagen Industries, Ltd. THE ENGINEERING COMPANY'S MISSION IN SOCIETY industrial plants so that they can produce the best products. *1: Control devices developed as an alternative to relay circuits Construction for Early Restoration of Operations at the Kumamoto items), testing air tightness and making repairs of piping (one hundred *2: Load transducers that convert load (force) into electric signal Plant of the Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd twenty packs), and so on. A consistent end-to-end project system was When the Kumamoto earthquake struck in April 2016, a peak seismic used from surveying and inspection to analysis, planning, and construcADDED VALUE ENHANCED BY PROPOSALS USING Good Health and Well-Being Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure Nippi Collagen Industries, Ltd. intensity of 7 was observed. In the city of Uto, where the Kumamoto tion. A response team consisting of the members both from a customer INTEGRATED 3D DESIGN TECHNOLOGY Fujinomiya Plant Plant of The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd., is located, the and from the Chiyoda Group was formed. Further, thanks to the cooperatremors reached a peak intensity of upper six on the Japanese scale. tion of on-site suppliers the restoration of the main lines was completed Damage to tanks, buildings, production equipment, piping facilities, and over a brief period of approximately two and a half months. Thus, New Plant Construction Project for the Seiko Eiyo Yakuhin Co., Ltd. so on caused manufacturing facilities to stop operating. The Chiyoda responding to the requirements of the customer suﬀering from the Chiyoda TechnoAce Co., Ltd. (CTA) won the order to build a new Group was asked to quickly restore operation of three lines that earthquake, we fulﬁlled our responsibility as an engineering company. plant for Seiko Eiyo Yakuhin Co., Ltd., which is a pharmaceutical manufacture polyvinyl alcohol and optical ﬁlm, which are the company's contract manufacturing organization (CMO). We completed construcmain products, Teams were formed to mobilize the Chiyoda Group tion in March 2016. overall capabilities, including the ChAS & Life Science Project Operations We implemented this project by applying our integrated 3D design (facility diagnostics), CKS (construction management), and CST (electrical technology to construction drawings created by a subcontractor during and instrumentation), and we began the construction stage. The manufacturing areas in a pharmaceutical Combined 3D drawing Actual image restoration work in early May while plant are clean rooms. Since these involve air conditioning equipment Respect for Human Rights aftershocks were still continuing. for managing room pressure, temperature, and humidity, as well as a The work started with emergency great deal of piping for manufacturing water as well as ducts and piping Comments from the Client safety checks and risk determination involved in production, there have commonly been issues in coordinatWe are Grateful for CTA's Outstanding Project Execution and of structure collapse using 3D laser ing the use of ceiling space. What we did, therefore, was to integrate Technology instruments, after which we implementthe 2D drawings with 3D drawings created before starting construction. ed repairs on building columns, walls, This allowed us to visualize the ﬁt of the various equipment and The use of integrated 3D drawings struck us as an excellent technique and framework (ﬁfty locations), inspection facilities. Then we held coordination meetings where the customer, for formulating plans that provide an image of the completed work even and repair of rotating equipment, towers, CTA, and cooperating contractors could conﬁrm issues and make during construction of a plant, in the same way as the technique generally and vessels (one hundred sixty items), corrections to the design. employed in the pharmaceuticals manufacturing sector, of drafting a Measuring inclination using Scene of reconstruction work inspection of instrumentation (a thousand In this way we were able to closely approach an optimal facility master plan in advance and then executing design qualiﬁcation (DQ). The 3D laser building plan from construction to operation. The 3D drawings that had design created in advance can be conﬁrmed in 3D so that adjustments been examined were used as a construction standard by making them can be made for problems prior to construction, and as a result, costs can be reduced. Chiyoda TechnoAce's idea for this approach was excellent, Commitment to Fairness Voice of Employees viewable and shareable in real time by workers and so on. This also made it much easier to represent the operability and maintainability of and it solidly addressed the need not only for quality control and safety management by each cooperating contractor, but also for progress Real Feeling of Single team Project Execution with the Customer facilities and equipment in visual form. Furthermore, since work on construction was begun after issues had been resolved, redundant management. This approach also realized in thoroughgoing management The situation had been unexpected on the customer side, as well, so when the disaster ﬁrst hapwork by cooperating contractors was eliminated, and not only was of each separate element of construction, such as building construction, pened, they did not even have together all of the drawings necessary for us to take measures. We were better communication achieved with the customer and cooperating equipment installation work, and so on. being pressed to take measures in a situation that did not even give a clear picture of how work should contractors than before, but the amount of work needing to be redone This project allowed us glimpses of proceed. The Chiyoda Group and the customer formed a single team combining maintenance and operawas reduced, construction time was shortened, and so on. These Chiyoda TechnoAce's superb technolotions personnel. In the course of going forward with day-to-day on-site work and formulating restoration proposals, a sense of unity gradually formed with the aim of rapid restoration of operations, and we built results made it possible to increase the added value to a greater extent gy, and we are extremely satisﬁed with strong relationships of trust with customer. than previous construction methods. what we have seen. I think that this relationships contributed to the smooth progress of our following project work. Since Yuji Saito we had already built relationships of trust that made it possible for the many proposals to resolve probDownstream & Mr. Takahiro Yamaguchi lems presented by experts from the Chiyoda Group to be communicated directly to management on the Chemical Project Control Section Director & General Manager, Production Headquarters customer side. I think that this contributed to their decision making and the prompt resolution of problems. Seiko Eiyo Yakuhin Co., Ltd. 15 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 16 Vision 2 Environmental Initiatives For the project, a demonstration plant was constructed at the burden. It is expected that the ﬁltered water will be reused as injection Yabase oil ﬁeld in Akita Prefecture, with operations begun in March water for reservoir pressure maintenance in oil ﬁelds. 2017 and planned for seven months. We will continue this domestic demonstration project, aiming to A Reliable Company Because the ceramic membrane ﬁlter requires no pretreatment such improve the produced-water ﬁltering technology that supplies oil more as that for coagulation, the use of chemicals can be greatly reduced. economically, increases oil ﬁeld longevity and decreases the environFurther, as the membrane can be washed and used repeatedly, no mental burden. disposable waste will be generated, reducing the environmental *Produced-water: Formation water produced alongside crude oil and natural gas TECHNOLOGY THE DISSEMINATION OF Why How DEVELOPMENT OF Aﬀordable and Clean Energy Sustainable Cities and Communities Climate Action TECHNOLOGY TO Aﬀordable and Clean Energy Sustainable Cities and Communities Climate Action Ever since it was founded, the Chiyoda Group has been ・ Development and demonstration of clean energy HYDROGEN ENERGY PREVENT AIR POLLUTION Environmental Initiatives addressing the conﬂicting topics of energy and the environ・ Engineering contributions leading to a carbon-free ment. The Paris Climate Agreement and the SDGs adopted SPERA Hydrogen® system receives the top prize of the Nikkei Global CT-121 licensing of technology to one of India’ s major heavy industry society Environmental Technology Awards manufacturers by the United Nations in 2015 communicated a common message to the world regarding initiatives for environmen・ Dissemination of environmental technology Hydrogen is considered a clean next-generation energy, and the In November 2016, Chiyoda concluded a technology license tal conservation and clean energy, and concern with the ・ Environmental initiatives implemented through dissemination of hydrogen fuel cell vehicles and ENE-FARM (home-use agreement with India’ s major heavy industry manufacturer Larsen & environment among stakeholders has been growing fuel cells) as well as practical realization of hydrogen electricity generaToubro (L&T) to provide its proprietary“Chiyoda Thoroughbred 121 project execution greater. tion are being promoted by the government. In this respect, it is (the CT-121)”ﬂue gas desulfurization process (FGD) technology for essential to develop a technology for hydrogen to be“stored”and promotion in the Indian market. “transported”in a stable state and in large quantities like natural gas Coal accounts for 75% of the power supply in India, which, with its and oil. Such technology has never been available until now. robust and rapid economic growth, is in need of power plants to sustain TECHNOLOGY In 2014, we became the ﬁrst in the world to complete technological development. The demand for FGD plants is increasing signiﬁcantly, as “Serving Society with Technology”is the philosophy of Chiyoda’ s foundation. Bearing this in mind, we have undertaken research and Social Contributions through Business Activities development to resolve this issue. This system has been named the demand for coal is ﬁrmly rooted in its cheap and stable price. While development, demonstration projects and commercialization of energy and advanced environment-related technologies. “SPERA,”meaning“hope”in Latin. There are high expectations for this coal-ﬁ red thermal power provides 42% of the world’ s energy, that Making the most of our strengths as an engineering ﬁrm, we are able to take such a comprehensive approach to research and development as it is integrated with process development, design and system analysis. With this approach, we have carried out technology development technology, which has been ﬁgure is expected to reach 44.5% by 2030. both on our own and in cooperation with our clients and technology owners, aiming for commercialization and problem-solving based on highly evaluated both domestiUnder these conditions, CT-121, the environmental technology society’ s ever-changing demands. We will continue our eﬀorts to contribute to solving new issues including materializing a low-carbon and cally and internationally, and has highly evaluated by L&T, will continue to meet the demands of India’ s carbon-free society. received numerous technology economic growth while helping to resolve its environmental issues. awards such as the top prize in the Nikkei Global Environmental Aﬀordable and Climate Clean Energy Action NEXT-GENERATION CLEAN ENERGY Technology Awards. We will continue to meet these high expectations and to contribute A demonstration plant for renewable jet and diesel fuels construction of oil reﬁ neries, we continue to collaborate in the comto the global environment. ENVIRONMENT-CONSCIOUS ACTIVITIES IN PROJECT Sustainable Climate As a business partner in the“Domestic Biofuel Project,”led by mercialization of this technology and further contribute to reducing Cities and Action Communities euglena Co. Ltd. (Euglena), we are currently participating in the CO2 emissions. Grand Prize plaque for Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Awards EXECUTION construction of Japan’s ﬁrst renewable jet and diesel fuel demonstration plant (to be completed in October 2018). Environmental Proposals/Green Procurement Using technology that was introduced by our technology owner in the United States, Chevron Lummus Global, Euglena is executing the Chiyoda approaches the design, procurement and construction design, procurement and construction according to Japanese stanstages of every project with consideration for the environment. ImprovRespect for Human Rights dards. ing on the plans provided by our clients and proactively engaging in Led by METI (the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) and environmental proposals, we aim to construct plants with a lower MLIT (the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism), the environmental impact. project aims to switch to biofuel by 2020 to reduce the extent of CO2 Over the past ﬁve years we have submitted an average of 319 emissions. The international framework of the ICAO (International Civil proposals annually. In 2016, 221 proposals were accepted by our Aviation Organization) to prevent CO2 emissions from exceeding the clients. Our project procurement operations are implemented on our 2020 standard means that the need for jet biofuel is becoming greatgreen procurement guidelines based on the Ministry of the Environer than ever. ment’ s Green Purchasing Law so that we utilize construction materials With know-how accumulated through engineering and the and construction methods with less of an environmental impact. Latest appearance image of the pilot plant Pilot plant demonstrates SPERA hydrogen system Responsible Climate Consumption Action and Production Commitment to Fairness EFFECTIVE UTILIZATION OF OIL FIELDS Major Examples of Technology Demonstration Operation ENVIRONMENT-ORIENTED SPERA水素デモプラン ト PROPOSALS IN 2016 Yabase oil ﬁeld produced-water treatment demonstration plant ❶ Synthesis gas generation process: CO2/steam reforming process ❷ Catalyst for Hydrodesulfurization: Hybrid titania catalyst ❶ Site preparation plans that minimize surplus soil generated Global energy needs are growing, for one reason, because water ❸ A high-severity ﬂuid catalytic cracking (HS-FCC) process after construction production from oil ﬁelds increases as oil ﬁelds age. To maintain high ❹ Various types of waste water treatment technology ❷ Adoption of energy-conserving, low-noise equipment levels of productivity in oil and gas production while concurrently ❺ Acetic acid production process: CT-ACETICATM ❸ Pier design optimization plans to reduce jungle deforestation abiding by environmental regulations, more advanced produced-water* ❻ Concentrated solar power generation treatment technology is needed. To resolve the problem of produced-water treatment, the Japan Oil, GREEN PROCUREMENT Gas and Metals National Corporation’ s project known as“Small-Scale ❶ Use of portland blast furnace cement (material designated under Demonstration of Produced-Water Treatment Technology” is being the Green Purchasing Law) jointly conducted by four companies: the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals ❷ Use of base coat paint (anticorrosive) (material designated under National Corporation, INPEX, METAWATER and Chiyoda. the Green Purchasing Law) Yabase oil ﬁeld produced-water treatment demonstration plant ❸ Use of EM electric wires and cables (eco-friendly material) 17 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 18 Vision 3 Social Contributions course, which begins with consideration of the concept of plant safety. Chiyoda applies the“Safety First”concept to all our clients. Through By the end of the course, we plan to have taught participants how to the“Design Safety”course, we plan to apply the best international achieve safe plant design. The participants review relevant case studies, safety practices domestically. By promoting such a culture of safety A Reliable Company study the work ﬂow and relationships between the various required awareness, Chiyoda will continue to provide safe and highly reliable through Business Activities safety studies, look at how interdisciplinary safety matters are plants to our clients. This will enable all our employees to be proud of addressed and learn the eﬀects on costs and schedules when safety the achievements we deliver. studies/activities aﬀect the design of a plant. Why How DEVELOPING EXCELLENT HUMAN RESOURCES THROUGH Decent Work and Economic Growth Reduced Inequalities Partnerships for the Goals The social responsibility of engineering ﬁ rms is to address ・ Adding value by integrating cutting-edge technologies TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER issues surrounding society and provide solutions for those Environmental Initiatives • Forming and promoting a culture of safety issues. In this respect, we are assigned the mission of Deployment of international client training • Human resource development and technology The number of participants in these programs last year was 73. The providing superlative services and products in partnership In addition to carrying out many international projects, the training provided in Japan also includes the opportunity to with our clients, using skills and expertise accumulated transfer in countries where we have projects Chiyoda Group also concentrates on developing human resources in experience Japanese culture. from experience in engineering and constructing plants those countries. Thus, through engineering training and cultural exchange, we collaboand consistently oﬀering services with the full use of Starting with the acceptance of trainees from the Kingdom of Saudi rate with countries where cutting-edge technologies. Arabia in 1976, followed by training including on-site technical plants are constructed to education in the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 1978, collaborative help create a basis for training with external organizations has been in practice since 1982. the innovation of their The training oﬀered to foreign clients is highly esteemed both domesindustries and technoloIndustry, Innovation, tically and overseas. The United Arab Emirates joined in 2010, and gies as well as develop Social Contributions through Business Activities and Infrastructure the State of Qatar joined in 2012, while the number of countries their human resources. PROVIDING OPTIMIZED OPERATION THROUGH CUTTING-EDGE TECHNOLOGY participating in training continues to grow, including the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Republic of Korea, the Republic of Mozambique and Initiatives in the AI Solutions Field the Islamic Republic of Iran. The training provided to foreign clients neural network* development. In the course of such activities, we have can be conducted both in Japan and by dispatching lecturers abroad. A Scene of Training The Chiyoda Group estabengaged continuously in measures to apply the most up-to-date techlished the AI Solution Unit in nology to industrial plant operation. October 2016 with the aim of More recently we have worked on demonstrating the validity of big DEVELOPING HUMAN RESOURCES WITH THE GOAL OF ESTABLISHING Quality data analytics by conducting correlation analyses of operating data on Education maximizing the value of customer plant assets by using big the deterioration of equipment due to aging in ﬂue gas desulfurization INDUSTRIAL INFRASTRUCTURE data analytics technology and units in power plants. This is conﬁrming the possibility of causal analyartiﬁcial intelligence (AI) to sis and a formulation of eﬀective measures. Opening up internships for the Masdar Institute of Science and Diverse human resource development at Chiyoda Almana in provide support for the operaThe Chiyoda Group has responded to troubles and resolved operTechnology (MIST) accordance with the Qatar National Vision 2030 tion and maintenance of all ating issues through the eﬀective use of cutting-edge analytics, diagThrough subsidiary aid granted by the Agency for Natural Resources Our overseas Group companies contribute to developing various types of industrial plant. This nostics, simulation, and other such technologies. By utilizing the AI and Energy in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, internships human resources. Chiyoda Almana Engineering LLC supports the unit concluded a business technology, we will develop these activities into a new business have been provided to the United Arab Emirates’Masdar Institute of development of human resources, an important aspect of the Qatar alliance agreement with GRID providing operational support services, and will contribute to the Science and Technology (MIST), with the Japan International CooperaNational Vision 2030. Chiyoda Almana supports Qatar by nurturing Inc. in December of that year, making it possible to fuse advanced sustainable development of society. tion Center (JICE) as the point of contact. The project was founded diverse human resources and career development. plant engineering with GRID’ s state-of-the-art AI technology. An operawith the goal of promoting fellowship and strengthening cooperation In 2016, the company sponsored many educational opportunities in Respect for Human Rights tion to conﬁrm the optimization of plant operations and enhancement between Japan and the United Arab Emirates. Within the ﬁelds of the ﬁeld of hydrocarbon processing technology. With the goal of of reliability through the use of AI systems has already begun, and renewable energy, smart communities and green technology, Japanese enriching the technical experience of those in the ﬁeld, Chiyoda Almana full-scale business expansion will be pursued in the time ahead. companies annually accept MIST students of UAE nationality, with and Chiyoda Global Headquarters facilitated training programs geared The Chiyoda Group has a long history of initiatives in AI systems. * Information systems that are modeled after the arrangement of neural 2016 marking the ﬁ fth year so far. After arriving in Japan, MIST interns toward RasGas and Qatargas engineers. We started with expert systems in the 1980s and engaged in in-house circuits in the human brain receive a basic introduction to life in Japan. Training is provided for On November 2 and 3, 2016, we presented an important overview each enterprise. Over ﬁve consecutive years, the Chiyoda Group has of the basic operation of LNG plants to young engineers of Qatargas. hosted a total of eight graduate students in internships involving We are also proactively involved with developing human resources in Sustainable Responsible Cities and Consumption Communities and Production SAFETY FIRST classroom lectures and on-site inspections for a month and a half. The regional communities. Japanese government also works in close cooperation, fostering engineering skills and human resource development. Best international safety practices to beneﬁt project execution The Chiyoda Group conducts all activities with“Safety First”as a Commitment to Fairness core value. Furthermore, for our clients, a safe plant is usually their highest priority. While some industries apply“destructive testing”of their products (think of crash tests for cars), this approach would be obviously unacceptable in the design of hydrocarbon plants. We verify the safety of our plant design by incorporating international, industry and client-based safety standards. However, safety standards vary for each country and are continually being updated. In addition, each plant’ s conﬁ guration and speciﬁ cations are unique. Therefore, a complete understanding of the relevant codes and standards and the Qatargas professionals at Chiyoda Almana Brownﬁeld Management Masterclass 2016 skills to undertake thorough safety studies are required when we design a plant. To deal with the various safety requirements, our company oﬀers a University students of United Arab Emirates' Masdar Institute of Science and “Design Safety Induction Course”that targets all engineers involved in Technology (MIST) project execution. To date, over 400 engineers have participated in the Scene of course instruction taking place 19 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 20 Vision 4 Sustainable Respect for Human Rights Cities and Communities SAFETY FIRST CRISIS MANAGEMENT SUPPORT TO PREPARE FOR ALL EMERGENCIES A Reliable Company Business Continuity Plan/Disaster prevention In 2015, the Chiyoda Group formulated a Business Continuity Plan (BCP). Covering all kinds of disasters, including ﬁ res and large Why How earthquakes, disaster prevention practice and BCP training are conducted with the basic principle of“life comes ﬁrst.” In 2016, we practiced ﬁ re drills from buildings and dealing with Human resources are valuable assets for an engineering ・ Initiatives to work style reform disrupted transportation networks to help people return home safely in company. We will continue to create a corporate climate ・ Reinforcement of emergency management systems the event of a large earthquake. While Chiyoda Global Headquarters that not only all of our employees, of course, but also their families can take pride in. At the Chiyoda Group, which is ・ Reinforcement of corporate strengths by development continued its BCP training from last year, training has expanded on a Environmental Initiatives developing operations on a global scale, we are faced of global human resources larger scale to the Koyasu Oﬃce & Research Park and the corporate with a growing necessity to observe work style reforms Group this year. In addition, the“Nighttime/Holiday Initial Response promoted by the national government, develop global Training”outlines the procedures necessary for the smooth resumption human resource development and respect diversity. and execution of business after a major crisis. In addition to verifying the safety of employees, we also strive to ensure the safety of their families. In the event of a disaster, employees’family members will receive e-mails to conﬁrm their safety if they are registered on the relevant system. Decent Work Gender Equality and Economic Growth INITIATIVES FOR CHANGES IN WORK STYLE IN FY2016 Further, our Group company Arrowhead International makes all the BCP Training arrangements for our employees’business trips. Providing adequate support that puts safety ﬁrst for the various risks that may occur We have been encouraging reform through changes in our employIn FY2016, Chiyoda Corporation received“Kurumin,”a certiﬁcation Social Contributions through Business Activities between departure and return, the Arrowhead Travel Risk Management ees’mindsets and organizational operations as well as improvements in for companies recognized for their enthusiastic eﬀorts to cultivate the System (A-TRIMS) provides safer and more reliable crisis management. the operating bases where Chiyoda is 1) a company whose employees next generation, granted by the Kanagawa Labor Bureau of the Ministry This system veriﬁes the itineraries of those traveling overseas and are motivated to continue working on a long-term basis and 2) a of Health, Labour and Welfare. Companies can gain this certiﬁcation by ensures their safety by thoroughly checking through e-mail and mobile company that is continually able to develop its competitiveness and achieving the goals speciﬁed in their action plans and by satisfying the phone. The Group as a whole supports stronger crisis management and strength. criteria set by the bureau. puts the safety of employees ﬁrst. We have developed systems for reduced working hours and for Chiyoda Corporation obtained the certiﬁcation after achieving the leaves of absence for employees constrained by child care or nursing targets set for the period from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2015 and for care. Among our achievements in FY2016, we embraced diversity, being highly appreciated for the following new initiatives to take from made the child care and nursing care systems more ﬂexible and now: introduced a system to aﬀord retired employees new re-employment Crisis management activity at the ﬁeld oﬃce in Yanbu, Kingdom of As part of this activity, we conducted evacuation drills several times opportunities. Additional steps include: ❶ Extending application of a program of shorter working hours Saudi Arabia to ensure prompt evacuation and conﬁrm the eﬀectiveness of the to employees with elementary school children up through At the construction site of a sponge titanium plant that was Emergency Plan and Emergency Response System. ❶ Leaves of absence for employees working in Japan or overseas the sixth academic year, fostering a better balance between mechanically completed in May 2017 with Non LTI for Advanced Practical training was carried out while the diﬃculty level was to be oﬀ with their spouses work and child care Metal Industries Cluster and Toho Titanium Metal Company Limited, continuously raised according to the progress of construction and the ❷ Re-employment opportunities for people who have left the ❷ Consideration of ﬂexible work styles we worked with the client to implement various crisis management number of ﬁeld oﬃce staﬀ. company for child care, nursing care or to accompany ❸ Reduction of total working hours by enforcing stoppage of measures in terms of both hardware and software to ensure the safety spouses who have been transferred work after 20:00 and on holidays of the client and ﬁeld oﬃce staﬀ from around the world. ❸Work-at-home (teleworking) opportunities on a trial basis Respect for Human Rights (Note: Full-scale introduction was launched in May 2017.) We will continue our eﬀorts to create an environment where employees can perform to the best of their potential. These steps were taken to secure human resources willing and able to work and to help retired employees be re-employed when their circumstances change, all enabling us to increase our workforce in an eﬀective manner. We will continue to take steps to increase our productivity and competitiveness by promoting such changes in work style. Commitment to Fairness Voice 声 of Employees Thanks to the Eﬀorts of Many People, We Can Now Make Use of absence program for taking along spouse I was working as an engineer in the Gas & LNG Process Engineering Unit when my spouse was assigned The completed sponge titanium manufacturing plant An evacuation drill in progress to Australia. Starting in October 2016, I used the system for leave to accompany my spouse and am now living in Darwin, Australia. Under the corporate eﬀorts to promote work style reform, I felt some hesitation to choose this program, and I think that people who make use of this program will be a very small part of the total number of employees. However, now I am appreciating the company listening to the minority voices of their employees, and gave me the choice of an alternative to continue working from the long term viewpoint. Chie Tanaka Human Relations Unit 21 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 22 Vision 5 REINFORCEMENT OF CORPORATE STRENGTHS BY DEVELOPMENT OF Commitment to Fairness Quality Decent Work Education and Economic Growth GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES A Reliable Company Global Engineer System We instituted the Global Engineer system in April 2016 as a measure to develop engineers who are able to perform globally at Why How a higher level at the Chiyoda Philippines Corporation (CPh) and other Group companies. We aim to use this system to raise the level of the Group as a whole as well as to realize true globalization Commitment to fairness is the foundation for the corpora・ Corporate operations with transparency by assigning these engineers ﬂexibly to CGH (Chiyoda Global tion's continuing existence. The Chiyoda Group has Headquarters) and Group company jobs. and soundness in line with Corporate Governance Policy pursued stronger governance and a more thoroughgoing compliance. Beyond that, there have been growing ・ Global development of Compliance Consultation Environmental Initiatives demands for greater management transparency and and Reporting System fairness from the Financial Services Agency, the United ・ Implementation of thoroughgoing compliance education Nations Global Compact, and other such internal and and export control education external demands. Developing Staﬀ for Commissioning Operations Developing Staﬀ for Risk Management The Commissioning Unit employs staﬀ from the Philippines, Corporate Risk Management Division has begun deploying safety, Peace, Justice, India, Europe, America, and other places outside Japan. They quality, environment, information security, compliance, and crisis Reduced and Strong Inequalities Institutions receive technical training at CGH in matters ranging from management measures globally, providing its services to the entire INITIATIVES TO PREVENT MISCONDUCT safety, the environment, security, and planning of plant test Chiyoda Group. The First Summit of the Risk Management Division Social Contributions through Business Activities operations, to implementation of said test operations. Then (RMD), held in July 2016, also marked the start of an RMD program Measures to make the active use of the Compliance Consultation and they are dispatched to construction projects as on-site staﬀ to share its personnel concerned with the risk management within Reporting System specialized in preparation for test operation. These engineers the Group. As an initial part of this eﬀort, a global operation platform contribute to project execution as well as to business and (GOP) task was started up at The Chiyoda Group has adopted a Compliance Consultation and growth in other countries. the Group headquarters. Reporting System (Whistleblowing System) for the purpose of During FY2016, quality manageprevention, early detection, and correction of misconduct and ment coordinators and informaunethical behavior within the Group. The Whistleblowing System can tion security coordinators from be used not only by Group employees but also by their families, CPh were dispatched to CGH for retirees, and employees of our business partners. An outside contact a period of four months each. point has also been set up. Reported matters are treated appropriately After that, information security according to the provisions of relevant legal statutes and regulations. coordinators were dispatched The Whistleblowing System is arranged so that people seeking from Chiyoda Almana Engineering consultation or making reports can have a sense of security. Chiyoda-Almana To promote use of the Whistleblowing System in the Group Overseas Group company members who attended the discussions LLC. Mochamad Riza Achrullar companies inside and outside Japan, in FY2016. Thoroughgoing steps were taken to reconﬁrm the importance and necessity of the FY2016 Whistleblowing Record Whistleblowing System for Group companies. Examples of measures (CGH and Group Companies in Japan) taken to activate the Whistleblowing System were also compiled and Developing Staﬀ for Quality Management shared within the Group to foster better understanding. Group Legal violations & corruption 0 cases Respect for Human Rights Chiyoda & Public Works Co., Ltd. (CPW) is preparing for acquiring Back in CPW, she will be a staﬀ member with a key responsibility companies overseas sent their members to gather at CGH in July for Total 4 24 Power ISO 9001 (QMS) certiﬁcation, and CGH is providing full backup for for tasks relating to QMS certiﬁcation acquisition. CPW aims is to discussion of the Whistleblowing System and compliance education. harassment cases this eﬀort. We therefore hosted a representative from CPW for two eventually obtain management systems certiﬁcation in safety, From now on as well, the Chiyoda Group as a whole will make the months of training not only to support CPW in acquiring QMS certiﬁcation but also to develop human resources for QMS mainteenvironment, and information security as well. active use of the Whistleblowing System in order to enhance the control on misconduct, enable the earlier discovery when it occurs, Sexual harassment 1 cases cases 6 Labor, nance and management after receiving the certiﬁcation. and make the correction promptly by responding to it. work rules, morals cases Voice of Employees Other consultation 13 cases My assignment is to acquire necessary work pracAf ter this training, I will be fully responsible for 0 3 6 9 12 15 ※ tice & study in SQEI Management Unit of CGH, which HQSE activities in CPW and expect these all things Compliance Education and Export Control Education Performance Commitment to Fairness is great assistance to conduct ISO 9001:2015 Certifilearnt are reflected to work process in CPW definitely. Category Item Content (Numbers of Times, People, Etc.) Training for new hires Held 1 time 108 cation process for CPW. So, please let me express my sincerest gratitude for Hierarchical training Training for mid-career hires Held 2 times 5 I have learnt a lot about not only QMS but also giving me the opportunity Training for new managerial personnel Held 2 times 53 Training prior to overseas assignment (for all assignees) Held as needed 250 OHSMS, EMS and ISMS in CGH. Although the organito visit CGH for training. Functional training Training prior to on-site supervisory assignment (for all assignees) Held as needed 37 Compliance zation size is big deference between CGH and CPW, I Thank you so much for all Seminar with outside instructor (Harassment: for managerial staff) Held 1 time 288 Seminars Seminar with outside instructor (Harassment: for general employees) Held 1 time 429 believe I will be able to apply my new knowledge & supports to CPW and me Japanese language 2,724 e-Learning e-Learning experiences acquired here. during my stay in Japan. English language 117 Issuance of briefs Compliance briefs Issued 2 times Even though my training is two months on-desk Training for new hires Held 1 time 108 Hierarchical training training, not on-job training, it is sure I will not be able Training for mid-career hires Held 2 times 5 Theint, Thiri Hlaing In Export Control Export control: General training Held 5 times 128 to work actual activities without this training. Chiyoda & Public Works Co., Ltd. Functional training Special Training Course: Determination of the classification for Held 4 times 108 goods & technologies ※ Health,Quality,Safety,Environment 23 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 24 The Chiyoda Group's Social Assistance to areas hit by disasters ■ Remittance of donations for earthquakes in Italy, ■ Providing food to the victims of large-scale ■ Sale of products from areas hit by disasters Contribution Activities Ecuador, and Kumamoto disasters (implemented at CPh) (Held at CGH and Koyasu Oﬃce) (Implemented at Chiyoda Group in Japan and at CPh) Why How The Chiyoda Group is actively seeking solutions to Taking“CSR promotion by all members together”as global issues in order to help create a better a motto, we are engaging continuously in social 500 10 society. This is not just a matter of Social contribution activities of all types, both inside and Contributions. We will also continue working outside Japan, with the aim of collaboration and ■ Employee volunteer dispatching closely with local communities to contribute to the harmonious coexistence with local communities. to areas hit by disasters sustainable development of society. (Implemented at Chiyoda Group in Japan) people gatherings Educational Support & Human Resource Development Environmental Conservation 2 ■ Internships ■ Student visits to the Company ■ University lecturers 7 Operating in Held at ■ Tree planting (implemented at CPW) universities companies 7 70 38 visits people participated Purchase of CO2 sequestration credit(19.00t-CO2) students Registration for Green Wave program*2 43 200 ■ Grade school campaign drive (Donation of books, satchels, uniforms, etc., Widen the Circle of Exchange and Collaboration with Local by CPh and L&TC) Communities and Aim to Further Realize the Sustainable 270 participants Development of Society trees planted Donations for students ■ Cleaning operations Contributions to Health & Welfare (Implemented at Chiyoda Group in Japan, Chiyoda-Almana, and CSL) 196,166 ■ Table For Two*1 350 (Facilitated domestically by the Chiyoda Group) Over caps Collaboration with Yokohama City Council of Social Welfare recycled ■ In-house sale of products made ■ Japan Philharmonic performance of Beethoven’ s (Vaccine doses for 228 people) by people with special needs 9th Symphony concert invitations provided to participants ( CGH and Koyasu Oﬃce) those with visual impairments ■ ECOCAP*3 collection ■ Blood donation (letter of appreciation recipients) (Implemented at Chiyoda Group (Implemented at CPh and L&TC) in Japan) 25 37,200 C TABLE FOR TWO sets 15 gatherings 50 people invited (1,860 meals provided) *1: The TFT menu provided at employee dining halls includes a yen 20-yen donation, and each 20 yen can provide one school meal in a 503 donors *2: An initiative to spread the“Green Wave”across the Earth by tree planting and so on carried out on the International Day for Biological Diversity established by the United Nations. (http://greenwave.undb.jp/index.html/) 25 CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 developing country. *3: Caps for PET bottles are collected at the oﬃce and the proceeds (approximately 860 caps provides a polio vaccine for one CHIYODA GROUP Sustainability Report 2017 26 person) are sent to developing countries. Chiyoda Corporation Chiyoda Global Headquarters Minato Mirai Grand Central Tower 4-6-2, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama 220-8765, Japan Please direct inquiries about this Sustainability Report to: IR, PR & CSR Section TEL : (81) 045-225-7741 FAX : (81) 045-225-4962 E-mail : Chiyoda_CSR@chiyodacorp.com
