ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 CONTENTS 2 About this report 89 Governance 90 Management principles 3 2016 in brief 95 Corporate governance statement 2016 3 CEO's review 107 Risk management and major risks 5 Highlights 2016 112 Remuneration statement 2016 118 Board of Directors 7 Strategy 119 Executive Board 8 About Finnair 120 Information for the shareholders 9 Megatrends affecting Finnair 10 A changing operating environment 122 Sustainability 12 Value creation and strategy 123 Materiality analysis 18 Stakeholder engagement 125 Reporting principles 19 Fit for the Future 127 Economic responsibility 21 Key performance indicators 130 Social responsibility About this report 139 Environmental responsibility Finnair Group’s core business consists of the airline business. The purpose of the Annual Report, including its GRI section 22 Finance 148 Global Compact content index prepared under the G4 reporting framework, is to account for the company's financial, economic, social and environmental 23 Key figures 149 GRI G4 content index impacts, and to explain their strategic business significance. The report’s intended audience consists of shareholders, inves25 Report of the Board of Directors 2016 153 Independent Practitioners' tors, analysts, media, customers, employees, other interested stakeholders and the general public. 35 Financial Statements Limited Assurance Report 81 Calculation of key ratios Finnair considers sustainability a critical and strategic aspect of business performance. Thus sustainability reporting is an inte82 Board of Directors' 154 Contact information gral part of its annual reporting framework. The report describes Finnair’s material activities in 2016 across all its units. Mateproposal on the dividend rial aspects are listed on page 123. The Annual Report contains a description of material events in Finnair’s business units in 83 Auditor's report 2016, a statement by the CEO, a section on strategy and value creation, as well as a review of stakeholder engagement and 87 Tax footprint megatrends. In addition, the Annual Report includes a disclosure on management approach and a tax footprint statement. The GRI section describes the materiality analysis process, and the resulting reporting aspects, indicators and data in more detail. Finnair has made efforts to facilitate reading its financial statements and to clarify the overall picture that can derived from them. • The notes of Finnair’s financial statements have been grouped as business-based sections in order to give a more relevant and less complex picture of the whole. Each section sets out the accounting principles applied in producing these notes together with any critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. • Interesting figures have been highlighted by circling them, and these as well as other highlights are explained in a text box marked with a star. • Illustrating charts have been inserted in various sections of the financial statements so as to facilitate understanding the figures. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 CEO'S REVIEW 2016 showed that Finnair is moving in the right direction. We are on a growth path, but we must pick up our speed. There is a spirit of enthusiasm at Finnair as we are location of our Helsinki hub. At the same time, we are implementing our strategy with resolve. We are also opening new connections for our home markets, recruiting and focusing on both the customer and business and leisure travellers alike. personnel experience, developing our brand, figuring out how to utilise new business opportunities provided In order to be able to grow, we need new personnel. We by digitalisation. We are working to develop the Nordic have accelerated in particular the recruitment of flight customer experience. crew, since one widebody aircraft employs directly some one hundred persons. In 2016, the number of personnel In 2016, our revenues increased by 3 per cent to 2.3 in our continuing operations increased by 280 in net billion euros and our comparable operating profit more terms, and we currently estimate we will hire a total of than doubled to 55 million euros. However, in order to one thousand people by 2020 since the beginning of achieve our 6-per cent EBIT margin target, we need 2016. determined steps and profitable growth. Growth also involves growth pains. There were delays The most important strategic decision of the year was to in the deliveries of our new aircraft, and as a result, accelerate Finnair’s growth. Initially, as we are phasing the crew type training was postponed and backlogged. out our last A340 aircraft, we also intended to take At the same time, we were also training new recruits. out two of our A330 widebody aircraft this year, while To mend the resource deficit, we leased more external taking delivery of four new A350s. Instead, we made crew and aircraft than we had initially planned. This also the decision to keep all of the A330s, which materially somewhat affected the customer experience, caused OUR REVENUE GREW TO strengthens our long-haul fleet. And due to the growth in our long-haul traffic, we are also strengthening our operative irregularity, and, as a result eroded our profit by twenty million euros. Nevertheless, Finnair’s 2.3 BILLION EUROS AND feeder traffic with new A321 narrowbody aircraft. customer satisfaction showed very positive developCOMPARABLE OPERATING ments in 2016. PROFIT MORE THAN DOUBLED Capacity growth reduces our average unit costs and is necessary for our competitiveness. It also enables The spirits at Finnair are high, although the transition TO 55 MILLION EUROS. us to provide new destinations and frequencies to our period requires all of us to go the extra mile. In order to – PEKKA VAURAMO, PRESIDENT AND CEO customers. In line with our strategy, our growth focuses support our staff cope with the increased workload we on traffic between Europe and Asia, where we have a are driven to develop our internal operating culture and geographical competitive advantage due to the central improve the people experience further. Our people are FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 CUSTOMER IS AT THE CORE OF OUR BUSINESS . excited about our growth and the new kinds of business Hence, we are part of the Finnish tourism sector, which emerging, new colleagues and career opportunities. has considerable growth potential. We also implemented an organisational reform, highThe past year was also significant from the perspective lighting customer experience and an overarching focus of sustainable development. In the general assembly on digitalisation. The customer is at the core of our of ICAO, the International Civil Aviation Organisation, business. We want to provide a unique Nordic experia far-reaching emissions agreement was concluded, ence, which inspires to choose Finnair again and again. which stabilises the emissions of the sector at the level The Nordic customer experience means among other of 2020. Finnair is among the undisputed pioneers in things reliability and straightforwardness; things which sustainability in the sector, and we received kudos for we as Finns can be proud of. Digitalisation also plays a this in several independent assessments during the year. key role: Some of the most prominent examples are the In 2016, we also reformed our sustainability programme application facilitating the trip throughout the service and Code of Conduct while implementing SEDEX, a chain, the entertainment offered on board, our online system created for the aviation industry, in the review shop supporting ancillary sales both on the ground and of the sustainability of our supply chain. We are also in the air, as well as the gradual introduction of wireless committed to complying with the responsibility princiinternet on all of our aircraft. ples of the UN Global Compact initiative. Last year, we made an assessment to ensure that all of our operations As Finland is celebrating its hundredth anniversary, it are comprehensively aligned with the UN’s sustainable is exciting that the attractiveness of Finland as a travel development goals. destination is clearly on the rise. In 2016, Finnair signed a strategic partnership with a major Chinese travel platFinnair has now taken off, relying on cooperation. I want form, making Finnair and Helsinki one of their key Euroto thank our investors and passengers for the trust they pean gateways to destinations in the Finnish Lapland have shown in our company. I also want to express my and Europe. Towards the end of the year, Rovaniemi and gratitude to our personnel for their enthusiastic and Ivalo together were the top destination for our Chinese inspiring work both on the ground and in the air. passengers in the whole of Europe. In addition, together with other parties in the travel sector, we have developed Pekka Vauramo a stopover service for tourists who would like to stop in President and CEO Finland for a few hours or a few days during their trip. @pekkavau FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Finnair updated its growth strategy In May, the Finnair Board of Directors, as part of the company’s annual strategy work, determined the matters on which Finnair will focus in 2016–2018 in order to meet the company’s strategic objectives. These are: • Profitable growth – Finnair revised its capacity and market share targets slightly upwards. The company announced it would retain two A330 widebody aircraft, which it was initially planning to give up in 2017. The growth supports Finnair’s profitability by decreasing unit costs. • Customer experience – the Company will develop its customer service in a determined fashion, aligned with its vision of a Nordic customer experience. • People experience – Finnair will focus on human resources development as part of its growth and productivity strategy by developing leadership, workplace community and occupational health initiatives, competence and cooperation. • Digital transformation – in developing its activities, Finnair will utilise opportunities provided by digital innovations and best practices in business transformation. The organisation was reformed and growth Fleet renewal proceeded recruitments continued In 2016, Finnair took delivery of four new Airbus Finnair reformed its organisation in order to speed up A350XWB widebody aircraft which hence totalled seven its growth strategy. In particular, two new positions at year-end. Of the new aircraft, two were financed with were set up at the executive board level for the heads of so-called JOLCOs (Japanese Operating Lease with a Call customer experience and digitalisation. During the year, Option), one with a sale and leaseback transaction and these units were built up and Finnair announced in the one in cash. In addition, Finnair stated it will expand its latter half of the year that it would seek to recruit a total narrowbody fleet for the needs of growing feeder traffic of 70 software developers, project managers, service by leasing eight new Airbus A321 aircraft from 2017 and designers and other digital experts in 2017 in order to 2018 onwards. During the year, three A340 widebody improve process efficiency and customer experience. In aircraft and two Embraer E170 narrowbody aircraft were addition, Finnair recruited more than a hundred pilots retired from the fleet. and cabin crew during the year for the needs of its growing traffic FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 6 New routes and products Finnair received multiple awards and For the summer season, Finnair launched Fukuoka in recognition during the year Japan and Guangzhou in China as new destinations in the The German ESG rating company oekom research AG long-haul traffic. These destinations will be back in the updated its analysis of Finnair’s corporate responsibility traffic programme in late spring 2017. In addition, Miami, in February. Finnair’s current ESG rating is B-, which is previously a winter destination, was launched as a yearthe highest rating in its category comprising 77 comparound one and frequencies to Chicago were increased nies in the transport and logistics sector. Finnair was for the summer. In Europe, Finnair’s new scheduled flight also awarded Prime status indicating the suitability of destinations for the summer season 2016 from Helsinki Finnair’s securities for responsible investors. were Edinburgh, Billund, Pula, Zakynthos, Skiathos, In April, Finnair was named the best European airline Santorini, Preveza, Rimini, Verona and Varna, as well as operating in China at the TTG China Travel Awards. The weekly flights from Oulu to Hania and Alanya. For the award was based on votes cast by the readers of TTG’s winter season 2016/2017, Finnair increased capacity to publications. Finnair was also awarded a Gold Medal in Lapland by 10 per cent, which was sold in cooperation the ICARUS sustainability competition organised by the Long-term emissions target achieved with a Chinese travel agency. Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) in recognition almost in full For summer 2017, Finnair will add frequencies to Hong of its position as a leader in sustainability in the travel Finnair’s long term target was to reduce the carbon Kong and Tokyo and hence become the biggest Euroindustry, whose commitment and actions have proved emissions in its mainline traffic relative to the revenue pean airline to Japan with 28 weekly flight to four Japait is capable of providing its customer companies and tonne kilometres (RTK) by 20 per cent from the level of nese cities. More destinations and frequencies than any passengers with travel services that are first-class from 2009 by 2017. The target was completed almost in full, other European airline. In addition, Finnair will introduce the perspective of sustainable development. as the relative annual carbon emissions decreased by new routes from Helsinki to San Francisco, Alicante, Skytrax World Airline Awards chose Finnair as the best 19.4 per cent during the period. The primary indicator Ibiza, Korfu, Menorca and Reykjavik. Capacity is also airline in Northern Europe for the seventh consecutive used by Finnair in its emission target setting is RTK, since being increased to Copenhagen, which has emerged as a time. The award is based on an independent Skytrax it measures fuel consumption and emissions in relation popular destination for Asian tourists survey of some 19 million travellers from more than to the distance travelled and the volume of passen160 countries. The survey covers more than 40 criteria gers and cargo. After all, flying with an efficiently filled including check-in, seat comfort, cabin cleanliness and aircraft is the most environmentally friendly way to fly. service. Skytrax also awarded Finnair the overall rating The achievement was largely based on the purchase of of a four-star airline. new aircraft as well as an improvement in the passenger Aurinkomatkat – Suntours was found to be Finland’s and cargo load factors. In addition, fuel efficiency was most sustainable travel service company by Sustainable improved during the period by modernising existing fleet Brands Index, which is the largest brand study focused and by improving processes. on sustainability and corporate responsibility in Scandinavia. The study is carried out annually by interviewing consumers in four Nordic countries. The survey is based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 Strategy FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8 ABOUT FINNAIR Finnair is a network airline specialising in passenger Finnair as an investment Key revenue sources and split and cargo traffic between Asia and Europe. Helsinki’s Finnair is a leading European network carrier, focussed geographical location gives Finnair a competitive advanon connecting Europe and Asia, with a compelling 78.4% tage, since the fastest connections between many Eurostrategy in place to achieve its financial targets. Passenger transportation pean destinations and Asian megacities fly over Finland. Finnair’s vision is to offer its passengers a unique Nordic Finnair has a stable position in the domestic market experience, and its mission is to offer the smoothest, and it is poised to benefit from expected growth in 5.4% Ancillary fastest connections in the northern hemisphere via Asian markets. Our favourable geographic location for Helsinki and the best network to the world from its traffic between Europe and North-East Asia is supported home markets. Finnair is the only Nordic carrier with a by modern, efficient and growing airport (hub). Our EUR 2,317 7.5% 4-star Skytrax ranking and a member of the oneworld all-Airbus fleet delivers strong economic benefits and million Cargo alliance. In 2016, Finnair’s revenues amounted to EUR with the growing new technology Airbus A350XWB fleet (2016) 2,317 million and it had personnel of over 4,900 at the as the foundation of disciplined and profitable growth, year-end. Finnair shares are quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki. we are well prepared to achieve our strategic targets. 8.1% Tour operators Finnair’s net cash position and demonstrated capital discipline support upcoming investments. 0.6% Travel agencies Vision: A unique Mission: Smoothest and fastest Nordic experience flight connections in the northern hemisphere FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 MEGATRENDS AFFECTING FINNAIR Shift in economic and political focus services online, and immediate feedback. Digitalisafrom the United States and Europe to tion is a natural part of companies’ operations, and it developing countries creates service development opportunities. Consumers The gradual shift in economic and political focus from want and expect network connections everywhere they the United States and Europe to developing countries, go. Social media spreads news rapidly and requires busiand Asia in particular, is the strongest of the megatrends nesses to react quickly. affecting the aviation industry. Asian corporations are becoming globalised and their significance on the world Airlines must anticipate changes, adapt to them and market is growing. The middle class is growing rapidly in provide opportunities for buying, using services and Significance of Global shift in economic and many Asian countries. sending feedback online. Consumers want network sustainability increases political focus continues access before, during and after their flights. They Asian travel will increase, and competition will intensify, as increasingly want digital entertainment services during Asian airlines expand their operations to intercontinental flights. More advanced customer identification will also Megatrend Impact on the industry and Finnair Our response flights. At the same time, airlines and governments will also allow airlines to offer tailored services and a personalThe shift in economic • Traffic between Asia and Europe • Renewal of the new generation long-haul have to negotiate for more traffic rights. Asian customers ised customer experience. However, different groups and political power grows fleet from 2015 onwards determine the expected standard of quality for service and of customers must be taken into account in the digital to Asia • Intense competition continues • New Asian destinations, additional flights • Increased importance of • Increasing Finnair’s understanding of Asian products, and non-Asian airlines must increase their underdevelopment, and the comprehensive availability of understanding Asian markets markets standing of Asian culture and customers. services must be ensured. • Good stakeholder relations Urbanisation • New markets are created • Fastest route between Asia and Europe • Intensifying competition Urbanisation Increasing significance of sustainability Migration flows from rural areas to cities continue to Consumers, political decision-makers and other stakeTechnological • Increasing significance of online • Developing online services development services and network connections • Developing inflight entertainment systems accelerate, particularly in China and other developing holders require businesses to operate more responsibly • New opportunities for serving • Developing the service experience countries. In Asia in particular, the number of cities and transparently. Regulation and reporting obligations customers • Unique Nordic customer experience with more than five million inhabitants will grow, as will will increase, and businesses are required to be more diliSustainability • Increase in regulation and reporting • Sustainability is an integral part of the the number of connections between such cities. New gent in monitoring the ethical dimensions of their supply requirements company’s strategy. • Increasing significance of open • More environmentally friendly and efficient markets will be created for airlines as traffic between the chains. Consumers monitor the responsibility of compacommunication fleet and operations megacities grows. Competition will intensify as regional nies’ operations and give feedback on social media. • Monitoring the supply chain and collaboration in sustainability issues airlines begin operating these routes. • Ensuring equality, accessibility and human The airline industry will face stricter regulations on rights in processes and product development • Participating in joint sustainability projects Technological progress, increase in the emissions and noise, with increased regulation resulting in the industry significance of network connections and in added costs such as tax-like payments. Airlines must • Developing our reporting and stakeholder communications related to responsibility digitalisation increasingly cooperate on issues related to safety, emisTechnological progress is leading to changes in sions, noise, accessibility and other passenger rights as purchasing behaviour, the comparability of prices and well as equality. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10 A CHANGING OPERATING ENVIRONMENT The airline business is cyclical by nature and heavily Competitive, growing industry External factors influencing airlines influenced by external factors. Typically, revenues are A healthy economy acts as a catalyst for airline industry high during economic upswings and considerably lower growth and changing demographics in developing during periods of economic downturn. For individual countries have further increased the demand for air Changes in consumer preference, expectations, airlines, the yield also fluctuates on the basis of the travel over the years. Based on ICAO statistics, revenue purchasing patterns and demographics holiday and business seasons. passenger kilometres have doubled every 15 years. Due to the slowdown of global economic growth, growth in Airlines must make decisions on significant fleet investair travel is expected to slow down slightly. Despite this, Price of jet fuel Global economic cycles ments years before price-and-quality conscious travair travel is expected to continue to grow faster than ellers make their purchase decisions. Aircraft delivery the economy, on average 4 per cent per year globally. times may take years, which means that airlines have to A growing middle class supports the demand particuplan their business for the long term, often at least 10 larly in Asia. China's share of global traffic is expected years ahead, especially in long-haul traffic. This includes, to increase in the coming decade, and the country is among other things, a plan for future destinations and expected to surpass the United States by passenger network, the type of aircraft required and the regulavolume as the world's largest market during this period. tions they must comply with. It is often very difficult to This will provide substantial opportunities for growth; foresee how the market will change between the order Asian traffic already represents approximately half of and delivery of an aircraft. Finnair’s passenger traffic. With the low margins in the airline business and the high The airline industry is highly competitive, and with the capital expenditure needed to operate an airline, it is growth of the industry, the competitors have not just crucial to optimise all aspects of business operations changed, but also multiplied. Finnair’s competitive landto succeed. It is also crucial to build resilience and flexscape can be roughly divided into two parts; short haul Exchange rates Seasonality in leisure ibility for unexpected changes in the market environpoint-to-point traffic and Asian long haul transfer traffic. and business travel ment. Finnair aims to create value for shareholders by In short haul point-to-point traffic, airlines with the lowest focusing on its core business and by investing in competcost structures typically have the strongest competitive itiveness and profitable growth. positions, and competition is mainly driven by price. On the long haul transfer traffic scene, the significance of a comprehensive network, comfort of travel, customer service and smooth transfers is highlighted. Political environment Weather, natural disasters, pandemics and regulationy and other external shocks FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 FINNAIR INVESTS IN COMPETITIVENESS AND PROFITABLE GROWTH. European network carriers, Finnair included, have revised their operating models and adjusted their cost base in recent years in response to competition from low-cost airlines and airlines based in the Middle East. Intense competition has led to more consolidation, alliances and joint ventures in the industry, with the aim of consumer benefits, improving capacity discipline and profitability. Sources: ICAO, IATA, Oxford Economics. For more information on industry development, please visit: http://www.icao.int/ http://www.iata.org/ http://www.airbus.com/company/market/ global-market-forecast-2016-2035/ FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 12 VALUE CREATION AND STRATEGY The cornerstone of Finnair’s growth strategy is its geographical location enabling the fastest connections in the growing market of air traffic between Asia and Europe. The creation of value for Finnair’s shareholders and Helsinki’s location on the flight path from Central Europe other stakeholders is based on the company’s ability to North-eastern Asia means that travel times via to operate and grow its route network resource effiHelsinki are more than two hours shorter on average ciently and profitably, the way it treats customers, compared to one-stop flights via European hubs, and employees and other stakeholders and commits them to more than four hours shorter compared to flights via the company, and the ability to take the environmental hubs located in the Middle East. The highly efficient and other external impacts of operations into consideraHelsinki Airport also supports the growth of traffic tion. Ultimately, the critical factors in value creation are between Asia and Europe: its three runways, connection process efficiency, ability to develop the company and times as short as 40 minutes, and uncongested airspace manage the risks associated with operations. make Helsinki Airport an ideal airport for connecting flights. Finnair’s business model is that of a network carrier, and it specialises in traffic between Asia and Europe. HelsinFinnair’s accelerated growth strategy’s objective is to ki’s geographical location provides Finnair with a strucdouble its Asian traffic by 2018 compared to 2010 base. In tural competitive advantage, as geographical location 2016, Finnair operated flights to 17 Asian destinations in allows it to offer the fastest and most direct connections nine different countries, including financial hubs as well to the growing Asian markets. Finnair is also the only as holiday destinations. Finnair also operated flights to European airline that can operate flights to most Asian three cities in North America and approximately 70 destidestinations on a 24-hour aircraft rotation, which means nations in Europe. In 2017, the network will grow with that the routes can be operated as round trips within the San Francisco and Reykjavik route openings among 24 hours at regular times using a single aircraft. This others. Finnair’s ability to operate its network safely enables a record-high utilisation rate in long-haul traffic, and punctually from one of the world’s northernmost air reduces the need for additional crews due to flight time traffic hubs is integral to value creation. The transfer of restrictions, and decreases fuel consumption and emispassengers, baggage and cargo to connecting flights is sions thanks to shorter flight times. ensured through efficient processes and cooperation with airport authorities. More information on destinations: https://www.finnair.com/gb/gb/destinations FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 GROWTH STRATEGY AIMS TO DOUBLE THE ASIAN TRAFFIC BY 2018. Our membership in the oneworld alliance increases the size of our network to nearly one thousand destinations around the world. Close cooperation with alliance partners particularly in North American and Japanese traffic is a priority for Finnair. Membership in the oneworld alliance and joint businesses strengthen Finnair’s market position and reduce the risks related to growth. For customers, they provide an even broader choice of destinations as well as more flexible routing and pricing options. For airlines, joint businesses are a way to gain benefits typically associated with consolidation in a highly competitive industry without actual mergers, acquisitions or equity transfers between partners. Alliance partnerships and joint businesses have a significant contribution to Finnair’s revenue. More information on oneworld: https://www.finnair.com/gb/gb/destinations/oneworld A stable position in the domestic market and in Asian traffic Finnair holds a leading position in Finnish air traffic, but due to the small size of its domestic market, the focus of the company’s growth has, for several decades, been on Asian traffic. Asia has been one of the fastest-growing air traffic markets in recent years, and its importance is expected to increase further in the short and medium term. The share of Asian traffic is higher at Finnair than at its competitors, which puts the company in an ideal FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 14 Vision of a unique Nordic Experience guides Growth strategic direction The backbone of Finnair's growth strategy is the long In last year's strategy update Finnair established a new term commitment made on its long-haul with the order vision: We want to provide a unique Nordic Experience to of 19 Airbus A350 aircraft. The current revised long haul our customers. fleet plan will grow the fleet from 16 to 26 aircraft by 2023. (More information on A350 XWB aircraft: The aim of the new vision is to provide strategic direction https://www.finnair.com/fi/gb/a350) The accelerated after many years of heavy restructuring and cost cutting: growth plan gives Finnair the ability to rebound and Finnair’s route network connects Asia, North America and grow even faster than the market after years of no or the northern regions of Europe and beyond through its hub low growth. The revised growth plan, where the A330 at Helsinki Airport. The operations are based on quality, fleet will be kept as is at 8 aircraft instead of divesting reliability, safety and design inspired by Nordic pure nature. two A330s in H12017, enables capacity compound annual The vision is expressed for example in easy-to-use digital growth rate (CAGR) of 8–10% in 2016–2018. Accelerated services and in the enhancement of services. The goal growth will also improve Finnair’s cost position and overis that as a result of the service offered at the airport, in head absorption. lounges and on board, our customers arrive at their destinations relaxed and with peace of mind. Finnair will leverage its competitive advantage in selected markets by focusing on 30 cities and their Vision gives direction to all Finnair employees and partcatchment areas globally. Asia will be the focus area ners in the areas of customer service, operations or in network development and growth. While China development of the company operations and services. continues to provide the highest long term potential, position to benefit from these growing markets. Asian Finnair’s organisation has also been adapted to enable other countries in Northeast Asia and Southeast Asia traffic accounts approximately 50% per cent of Finnair’s reaching strategic targets in best possible way. offer new opportunities and growth potential. Finnair traffic. The company is among the top 5 airlines in terms will also develop North America as a market aiming to of market share on the routes it operates. Must Win Battles for Finnair’s maintain the current ratio between Asian and North strategy implementation American destinations. Responsibility in all areas To achieve Finnair’s vision of providing a unique Nordic As a responsible world citizen, Finnair targets sustainExperience, Finnair's Board of Directors adopted the As the long haul network grows, capacity in short haul able growth. The company believes that including following as the company’s Must Win Battles for 2016– feeder traffic must equally increase. Increasing the sustainability in all elements of its operations is essen2018: average narrow body aircraft size and adding more seats tial. Without these elements, Finnair would not have a • Profitable growth – Aim is to accelerate growth to current narrow body fleet support unit cost improvelicense to grow and operate. Finnair aims to reduce its and increase market share ment and higher productivity while enabling long haul environmental impacts in all areas while providing clear • Customer experience – Our ambition is to offer feeder growth. social and economic benefits to the societies it is present the best European business class and unique Nordic in. More information on corporate responsibility: https:// experience www.finnair.com/gb/gb/corporate-responsibility • People experience – Aim is to enable growth by increasing performance and productivity The KPI's of sustainability in Finnair’s operations can be • Transformation – Aim is to embrace and benefit found in the GRI section of this Annual Report. from the business and digital transformation FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 The direct sales channels, both online and mobile, will Improving the customer service is a key priority to us. be the most important sales channels in enabling sales We develop customer service at airport, inflight and on of various ancillary services in the future. Ancillary and phone and social media. New digital services and autoretail business is the fastest growing revenue line and the mation will further smoothen the customer journey. growth is expected to continue during the strategy period Customer analytics will be more widely used to provide as Finnair aims to increase ancillary sales per passenger increasinly personalised services. Additional ancillary by 46% (from 10.2 euro to 14.9 euro) by 2018. services will enable customer to tailor his/her journey to fit the needs of the specific travel. Air cargo is a significant driver for Finnair’s international success. Shift away from bulk to speciality cargo People Experience is the key margin driver in a highly competitive market. Well-motivated employees are behind the execution In 2017, Finnair will introduce a new Finnair COOL Nordic of a unique Nordic experience and value creation at Cargo Terminal that enables state of-the-art hub logisFinnair. Excellent employee experience equals great tics for speciality cargo like pharmaceuticals and perishcustomer experience and together deliver unique Nordic ables, and reduces cargo unit costs. experience. To strengthen and support People experience, Finnair focuses on timely resourcing, leaderCustomer Experience ship, competence development and strengthening of Investments in customer experience are central to change capacity. New agile ways of working necessitate Finnair in order to succeed in implementing its growth continuous development of Finnair culture. Wellbeing strategy. The introduction of new A350 aircraft has of people is a key element in ensuring engaged and already improved the customer experience in both busiinspired personnel. ness and economy classes, and more improvements and enhancements are being implemented to further Leadership has a major impact on engagement and motiuplift the experience and differentiate from competivation, and Finnair focuses on leadership development tion. Finnair has set itself the target to deliver the best by training, coaching and facilitating internal rotation. DEVELOPMENT OF long haul business class experience of all European airlines. The Economy class product is also continuously Finnair develops key competencies in service management and digitalization. Finnair needs to further focus DIGITAL SERVICES AND enhanced. on attracting, developing and retaining the right profesAUTOMATION WILL EASE sionals to ensure that the right skills are available for its THE CUSTOMER JOURNEY. An integral part of the customer journey is the airport strategy implementation. Strategic personnel planning experience. Helsinki Airport will go through major ensures the implementation of accelerated growth. expansion during the coming years, supporting the long term growth of Finnair. We will strive to ensure Finnair employees are well educated, skilled and expethat future customer needs are met in the design of the rienced. To support the wellbeing of our employees, airport. Special attention and solid cooperation are inteFinnair will renew its operational wellbeing service gral during the construction years. management system with the aim of reducing sick leaves and strengthening the working capacity of the personnel. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 16 Finnair’s personnel, wellbeing at work and key projects In Finnair’s strategy for 2016–2018, the company will affecting personnel are described in the GRI section. support the business units with their digital agenda and build assets for a future-proof Finnair: Transformation • Core capabilities (data, innovation, user-centric The world and the airline industry are increasingly thinking) digital, with clients spending more and more time • Digital people experience (skills and tools) buying tickets and ancillaries online and consuming an • Continued transformation of IT increasing number of digital services and products as they travel. At the same time, Finnair employees require Creating value for society modern tools and ways of working enabled by digiFinnair’s current route network and its future expansion talization. Finnair’s partners and the companies in its ensure that Finland will have more direct flight connececosystem increasingly look for digital business opportions to other parts of the world than domestic demand tunities as new technologies mature. We are facing a alone could support. This has a significant impact on new digital paradigm with technologies like AI (Artificial the travel opportunities of Finnish consumers and busiIntelligence), IoT (Internet of Things), VR (Virtual Reality) nesses. In addition, aviation sector is a major job creator and wearable devices. in the Finnish society. Aviation accounts for almost 4 per cent of Finnish GDP*, and according to an analysis Finnair is well positioned to start the transformation conducted in autumn 2014 by ETLA, the Research Instijourney – in 2015/2016 the company invested in its tute of the Finnish Economy, Finnair is the 10th most Digital Finnair program which designed and implesignificant company for the Finnish economy.** One of mented customer facing digital services such as Finnair. Finnair’s strategic goals is to continue to grow air traffic com, Mobile App and Nordic Sky. Finnair also started the through Helsinki by leveraging Finland’s geographical digitalisation of its Operations unit with the first techlocation. nology projects currently being implemented. In addition, multiple projects at the group functions level are * Oxford Economics, ”Economic Benefits from Air Transalso being implemented to support the Finnair way of port in Finland”. http://www.iata.org/policy/Documents/ working. Benefits-of-Aviation-Finland-2011.pdf ** ETLA Brief 28. http://pub.etla.fi/ETLA-MuistioIn addition to the work on products and services, Finnair Brief-28.pdf will proceed to the next layers of digitalisation with the building of new intangible assets. During autumn 2016 the digital vision for 2020 has been updated as Best Intelligent Travel Ecosystem. The aim is to take an active role in the travel ecosystem as it evolves around the opportunities with digital services, businesses and partnerships. With this vision statement Finnair has launched the digital journey towards 2020. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 Value creation at Finnair Inputs / Business Model Value created Key capitals and impacts Our vision, mission, strategy Human capital 4,937 personnel, training hrs 44/ Fastest connections employee, expertise Our governance between Europe and Asia Financial Customer value Adjusted interest-bearing debt EUR Our values Customer satisfaction NPS 43% 701.5 million Equity capital EUR 857.0 million Financial Operating result EUR 116.2 million, Immaterial Business processes: Products/outputs taxes, traffic charges, return on equity Traffic rights, overflight rights, and debt investments customer data, quality certifications, • Production process • Passenger transportation route network, brand and (network, fleet and traffic (10.9 million passengers) Natural customer preferences planning, resource • Cargo transportation Flight emissions 2,753,567 tonnes allocation, ground services, (145 million kilos) CO2, noise, waste Natural flying, procurement) • Travel packages 874,148 tonnes of jet fuel • Customer process • Customer experience Social • Commercial process and service Traffic connections, Social and partnerships • Other direct and indirect employment, Suppliers and partners, AJB/SJB joint employee experience 3.69/5, business distribution network, alliance added value to partners, brand value, cooperation, public affairs innovative and sustainable products Fleet and infra Support processes Over 70 aircraft Digital transformation, Strategy and Business Development, Finance, People & Culture, Legal, Communications and Sustainability FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 18 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT How Finnair communicates and cooperates with its stakeholders Subjects Channels Customers Travel experience, customer service issues, product quality, on-time performance, emissions and noise reduction, Surveys, research, written feedback, Finnair website, social media, customer events, customer service encounters at safety, recycling, responsible sourcing, responsible tourism, charityand corporate responsibility projects via Finnair every stage of the journey, messages to Finnair Plus customers, Finnair mobile app, Blue Wings inflight magazine. Plus. Personnel Strategy, financial performance, Occupational health and wellbeing at work, target setting, Code of Conduct and Intranet, internal blogs, theme weeks, Yammer, personnel events, We TogetherWellbeing At Work survey, ethical issues, safety and security, changes to improve profitability, values and business practises, increasing trust, occupational health services, performance evaluation and development planning, discussions with labour reducing environmental impact on the job, corporate responsibility in partnerships, changes affecting personnel. organisations, Leadership forum. Shareholders and Market environment and competitive landscape, the company’s operations, corporate responsibility, goals, reporting, Stock exchange bulletins under periodic and on-going disclosure obligation; interim reports, financial statements, investors strategy and financial position. report of the Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Statement. Annual General Meeting; investor, analyst and media meetings and events; corporate website; Carbon Disclosure Project Aviation sector Safety, emissions and noise, reduction, emissions trading, air traffic management, biofuel and supply chain Membership in IATA and A4E; cooperation forum for sustainable tourism; membership in oneworld alliance; Joint development, sustainable tourism, economic impacts of the sector. Businesses; cooperation with Finavia and other airport operators; sector seminars and working groups; manufacturers. Authorities and Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, national health, emergency relif, human rights, common initiatives supporting Cooperation with Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, UNICEF, Finnish Red Cross, Cancer Society of Finland government sustainable development, development cooperation, responsibilty of the supply chain . and other NGOs. Membership in the Carbon Disclosure Project... Competitiveness, market access, safety, emissions trading and reduction schemesz, air traffic management, supply Dialogue with local, national, EU-level authorities and governments; dialogue with governments and authorities chain responsibility, reporting, economic contribution of aviation, impact of operations on environment and noise, in destination and overflight countries, events and other cooperation with Finnish Consumer Agency, Flight Safety disruptions and irregularities, biofuels, employee relations, the Transport Code Authority (TraFi), embassies and other relevant Finnish and foreign actors. NGOs Greenhouse gas emissions AND environmental impact reduction, public health measures, human rights, disaster Cooperation with Finnish Association for Nature Conservation, UNICEF, Finnish Red Cross, Cancer Society of Finland relief, wildlife protection, common interest projects for sustainability and development cooperation, supply chain and other NGOs. Membership in the Carbon Disclosure Project. responsibility. Suppliers Cooperation efforts to reduce emissions and other environmental impacts, monitoring of responsibility everywhere in Contractual cooperation, Finnair procurement guidelines and Supplier Code of Conduct, extranet, Finnair Supplier day the value chain. Media Company strategy and business, Finnair products and network, daily operations, irregularities, investments, emissions Press releases, press conferences, visits by reporters, press trips, interviews, Finnair media desk calls and emails, reduction, personnel relations, financial sustainability, economic contribution of aviation, ethics, charitable cooperation websites social media, Blue Wings magazine. projects, trends in travel and traffic, biofuels, emissions trading, noise, impact of aviation on local economy and mobility. General public Customer service, product quality, labour relations, economic contribution of aviation, ethics, emissions reduction, Communications via media, websites, e-mail and lectures; social media including blogs, Facebook, Twitter and Sina presence in local economies, cooperation projects with NGOs, corporate citizenship. Weibo. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 FIT FOR THE FUTURE The only thing we know for sure about the future is that it will be different from today. Be that as it may, we must actively and consciously act in such a way that our actions our sustainable, even by future standards, and that we deserve to grow and continue to operate going forward. In other words, our aim is to be “Fit for the future”. carried out a major process in 2016 by analysing what Finnair has programs underway with this title in relais ­genuinely material and significant to Finnair’s staketion to both the digital transformation and employee holders in the future, and what aspects we should cover well-being. We must also be “fit” from the perspective of in our communications on responsibility. responsibility: our long-term value creation comprises not only economic, but also social and environmental During the process, we noted that our stakeholders elements. know we are involved in many things. Their understanding of Finnair’s responsibility targets and strategy, The business sector and the way companies operate on the other hand, was not clear. Our response was to have a major impact on the future of the Earth. We can’t work on these themes in workshops, interviews and simply focus on minimising the impacts of our operaby analysing trends. This led us to the core: the Nordic tions — instead, we must find opportunities for develWay—the Finnair way—of doing things. oping our operations, grow responsibly and benefit society. To change the world, you must first change the way people think WE ARE COMMITTED TO Finnair has a long history of social responsibility. Its LEAD THE WAY TOWARDS environmental policy working group was established in 1987 and the company has reported on its actions since A CLEANER, CARING AND 1996. COLLABORATIVE FUTURE. The three pillars of sustainability—environmental, social and economic sustainability—were incorporated into Finnair’s reporting in 2008. While responsibility is about much more than just reporting, our past reports provide a good overview of the development of sustainability and our operations as well as our focus areas. We FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 20 Firmly anchored in the North, we pride ourselves in our Our responsibility strategy and mission are the founNordic mindset. Looking at the world from our unique viewdation for a program built around three main themes: point, we see a need for change. There’s a need for a more cleaner, caring and collaborative. Going forward, our caring approach towards our planet and its people. We performance indicators, actions and objectives will be believe that steps can be taken, little by little, as long as we grouped according to these themes. We will use them to all pull together. communicate our achievements as well as our targets, which still require a lot of work to achieve. These themes From our northern position, we gain a head start on this will guide all of us at Finnair as we work towards a more journey. Openness and respect for the environment and responsible and caring world. human rights are intrinsic to our Nordic mindset. Our unique position also helps us keep routes short and work Kati Ihamäki towards lowering emissions. Maintaining a profitable busiDirector Corporate Sustainability ness helps us offer stability to our customers, partners, and employees. P. s. A significant milestone was achieved last year in the cooperation towards a cleaner future for aviation. It’s on this Northern mindset we want to build our future – In October 2016, the Assembly of the International Civil and the future of air travel, for that matter. It will take time, Aviation Organisation ICAO approved a significant resobut we believe we can be among the leaders of the industry lution on the implementation of an emissions offsetin environmental issues and social responsibility. Efficient ting system for the global aviation industry. The system routes, an ambitious approach to biofuels and a profound will cap aviation emissions at 2020 levels. We have respect towards people, all lay the groundwork for a better actively worked towards achieving this resolution since Responsibility is at the core of what we do and who we future. 2009. The resolution will support Finnair and the entire are, as it should be. It is not about reporting, slogans or industry in more sustainable growth — we’ll be fit for the campaigns. The Nordic Way also reflects our responsiWe are committed to lead the way towards a cleaner, caring future together! bility: we care about, respect and look after the environand collaborative future ment and each other. There is a strong link between our responsibility strategy and the essence of our brand. Our A very Nordic commitment. strategy and values also reflect the same ideas. This formed the corporate responsibility commitment. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Targets and KPI's Actions taken in 2016 Performance in 2016 Financial targets Profitability, return on investment Comparable operating result at least 6% of revenue Business and revenue growth, cost efficiency improvements, the × Comparable EBIT 2.4% of revenue and indebtedness introduction of the new technology A350 aircraft, 20 million euro cost savings program, aircraft financing arrangements, read more from Comparable EBITDAR at least 17% of revenue Report of the Board of Directors p. 25 × Comparable EBITDAR 11.7% of revenue Return on capital employed (ROCE) at least 7% √ ROCE 8.9% Adjusted gearing no more than 175% √ Adjusted gearing 78.3% Dividend To pay, on average, at least one-third of the earnings pers share as The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 0.10 per share Earnings per share EUR 0.55. The Board of Directors proposes that a a dividend during an economic cycle taking into account company’s be paid for 2016 dividend of EUR 0.10 per share be paid for 2016 earnings outlook, financial situation and capital needs for any given period Business and sustainability targets Growth Capacity growth (ASK), of 8–10% on average, The introduction of Airbus A350, route network expansion with new x Capacity (ASK) +6,5% revenue growth, routes and additional frequencies to old destinations √ Revenue +2.8% increase of ancillary and retail revenue per passenger √ Ancillary and retail revenue per passenger +15.2% Customer Experience Customer satisfaction, NPS *% increase on the previous year, punctuality Improving customer service in all encounters, the improvement of √ Customer satisfaction, NPS-% 43%, (+4 % from 2015), at least 89% business-class experience, the development of additional services x Punctuality 85,3% People and Culture Personnel Experience overall grade of at least 3.75, absences due to Wellness programs, conditions of employment, education and training, x Personnel Experience overall grade 3,69 illness decrease from the previous year, less than 14.8 work related OSH, gender equality policy and plan, the development of managers' √ absences due to illness 4,6% (-0,2% from 2015) accidents skills in occupational safety, implementation of the safety monitoring x work related accidents 16.5 process, updating the reporting tool. Transformation Growth of sales through digital touch-points >15%, Commercial digitalisation project, spearhead projects in digitalization of √ Ticket sales through digital touch-points +19%, productivity improvement in selected areas of at least 10% core processes, Finnair Technical Services in particular, √ Ancillary sales through digital touch-points +31%. Digital Vision 2020 and strategy work, Digital Maturity Index survey. Flown ticket revenue sold through digital channels totalled 429 million euros in 2016 Environment 20% carbon dioxide emission reduction per RTK 2009-2016, Efficient route planning, Weight Watchers program, a single engine x CO2 emission reduction of 19.4% 2009-2016 (Per RTK) 1.5% efficiency improvement annually, taxiing, APU engines, CDA landings √ CO2 emissions, tonnes / RTK -4,0%, carbon neutral growth in 2020 and beyond √ CO2 emissions, tonnes / ASK -1,7% *NPS = Net Promoter Score FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 22 Finance FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 KEY FIGURES 1 Revenue from non-core businesses is reclassified from revenue to other operating income. Comparative periods have been restated accordingly from the beginning of 2015 onwards. 2 Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to change in accounting principles related to treatment of overhauls. Revenue Result before taxes Capital expenditure and net cash flow from Revenue by traffic area operations € million € million € million € million 2,500 150 600 2,500 2,317 2,316.8 2,255 105.8 518.9 100 500 2,000 2,000 50 400 1,500 1,500 0 300 1,000 219.7 1,000 -50 200 500 500 -100 100 0 -150 0 0 12 13 14 15 1 16 12 13 2 14 15 16 12 13 2 14 15 16 2015 1 2016 Gross investments Asia Domestic Net cash flow from operations North Atlantic Unallocated Europe Comparable operating result* Distribution of revenue and costs by currency Revenue by product Distribution of operating expenses in 2016 € 2,337.1 million € million € million % % % 100 22 10 75 6 2,317 55.2 -10 -10 80 50 50 4 2.4 25 2 60 0 0 40 2,255 -25 -2 20 -50 -4 0 20 ue ue o s s* 20 12 13 2 14 15 16 Distribution of Distribution of costs 15 1 en en rg ce ie 16 Ca vi nc ev ev revenue by currency by currency rr il r ls er la ge ge ta Tr av Tr en re e av % of revenue EUR CNY Other ss an d e Fuel costs 21.0% Ground handling & catering Pa * Comparable operating result excluding changes in USD KRW la ry Staff costs 15.5% 11.1% c il the fair values of derivates and in the value of foreign JPY SEK An Leasing, maintenance, Other expenses 11.4% currency denominated fleet maintenance reserves and * Revenue of travel agencies has decreased due to sale of depreciation & Other rents 7.2% items affecting comparability. subsidiaries in 2015 and 2016. After October 2016 Finnair does impairments 15.5% Sales and marketing 3.3% not have any travel agency operations after these disposals. Traffic charges 11.2% Expenses for tour operations 3.8% FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 24 2 Comparative figures for 2013 have been restated due to change in accounting principles related to treatment of overhauls. Interest-bearing liabilities and liquid funds Return on equity (ROE) and return on capital Equity ratio, gearing and adjusted gearing Composition of adjusted interest-bearing employed (ROCE) net debt € million % % € million 1,000 15 10.7 120 797.3 766 797 8.9 100 717.7 10 800 80 78.3 5 60 600 33.9 40 0 702 20 671 400 -5 0 -20 -11.2 200 -10 -40 0 -15 -60 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 2 14 15 16 12 13 2 14 15 16 Interest-bearing liabilities Return on equity (ROE) Equity ratio Adjusted interestCash funds Liquid funds Return on capital employed (ROCE) Gearing bearing liabilities Adjusted interest-bearing Adjusted gearing 7x aircraft leases net debt Number of persons employed by Finnair at Number of passengers Available seat kilometres (ASK) and revenue Available tonne kilometres (ATK) and year-end passenger kilometres (RPK) revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) % million 8,000 12 35,000 33,914 6,000 10,867 30,000 5,020.3 10 27,065 5,000 6,000 25,000 4,937 8 4,000 20,000 3,294.6 4,000 6 3,000 15,000 4 2,000 10,000 2,000 2 5,000 1,000 0 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Available seat kilometres (ASK) Available tonne kilometres (ATK) Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK) Revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 THE REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2016 Business environment Finnair’s sustainability strategy was revised. The strategy is crystallised in a three-pronged commitment: cleaner, Traffic continued to grow in Finnair’s main markets in 2016. Measured in available seat kilometres, scheduled caring and collaborative. It embeds sustainability even deeper in group strategy and the Finnair brand. The programme market capacity between Helsinki and Finnair’s European destinations grew by approximately 2.9 per cent measures are geared to contribute to cost containment, risk mitigation and value creation. year-on-year, while direct market capacity between Finnair’s Asian and European destinations grew by 2.4 per The investments, recruitments and trainings necessitated by growth will also continue this year. The cost cent year-on-year. Finnair’s market share increased in European traffic (between Helsinki and Finnair’s Euroeffectiveness programme introduced in the autumn has proceeded, and so far approximately 9 million euros pean destinations) and also rose in Asian traffic (between AY operated European cities in Europe and in Asia) of savings have been achieved. In addition, there are another 11 million of identified savings, for which we have slightly, to 5.6 per cent (5.5).* planned actions starting from the second year-half. During 2016 the travel from Asia to certain European destinations suffered from security concerns, while the traffic to Nordic destinations grew robustly. The strong growth in market capacity weighed on longSignificant events in the review period haul load factors and unit revenue. Long-haul market capacity development was uneven, with China-Europe In November, as LSG announced it would not use its purchase option of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, Finnair and the LSG market capacity growing strongly while growth between Japan and Europe was negative. In Atlantic traffic Group entered into negotiations regarding new forms of cooperation in catering. LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy is Finnair’s fierce competition lowered unit revenues. 100-per cent owned subsidiary, but fully under LSG’s control since 2012, operating on the Helsinki Airport premises and 2016 was a challenging year for the Atlantic Joint Business covering flights between Europe and North employing some 480 persons. The company prepares and supplies meals and other services for inflight sales products, America. Overcapacity and tightened competitive situation weighed on average prices and load factors in all primarily for Finnair but also for other airlines operating at Helsinki Airport. travel classes. At the same time, the Siberian Joint Business continued to strengthen its market share as the At the end of September, Finnair took delivery of its seventh Airbus A350 and finalised an agreement to sell the market capacity between Japan and Europe contracted throughout the year. In the summer, Finnair was the aircraft to GE Capital Aviation Services Limited (“GECAS”) and lease it back for its own operation. The arrangement only European airline offering direct connections from Europe to four Japanese metropoles. had a positive effect of approximately 40 million euro on Finnair’s operating profit in items affecting comparability The supply of packaged travel by tour operators active in Finland in 2016 was mostly in balance with the for 2016, including a gain on sale and currency gains on pre-delivery payments and hedges. demand. In the summer season, demand shifted from Turkey towards Western Europe, and the number of In the spring, Finnair secured financing totaling approximately 243 million euros for two A350 aircraft. The visitors in Croatia and Greece in particular increased. In the winter, the number of travellers in the Canary transactions were implemented using a Japanese Operating Lease with a Call Option (JOLCO) structure, where Islands increased while the demand for long-haul destinations, particularly Thailand, was more sluggish. the transaction amount is treated in Finnair’s IFRS accounting as a loan and the aircraft as owned. Earlier in the Cargo traffic between Europe and Asia suffered from overcapacity throughout the year, weighing on average winter Finnair secured JOLCO financing amounting to approximately 135 million euros for an A350 XWB aircraft, yields and load factors on Finnair’s key cargo markets with the exception of the last few months of the year. delivered at the end of 2015. The declining trend in the price of jet fuel that began in autumn 2014 ended in the spring and has since turned upwards. The dollar price of jet fuel was still 19.4 per cent lower in the year 2016 than in the comparison period. Financial performance The US Dollar, the most significant expense currency after the euro, appreciated by 0.2 per cent against the euro Revenue in January–December 2016 year-on-year and is at a significantly stronger level than in 2014. In regards to key income currencies, the JapaFinnair’s revenue grew by 2.8 per cent year-on-year to 2,316.8 million euros (2,254.5)**. Revenue was boosted by higher nese yen, which has been appreciating since autumn 2015, weakened towards the end of the year. However the passenger revenue, ancillary and retail revenue and travel services revenue, and it was negatively affected by a decrease Japanese yen was still 11.7 per cent stronger against the euro than in the comparison period. The Chinese yuan in cargo revenue as well as the elimination of revenue from businesses sold after the comparison period. Unit revenue depreciated by 5.2 per cent year-on-year. Finnair hedges its fuel purchases and key foreign currency items; (RASK) decreased by 3.5 per cent year-on-year and amounted to 6.83 euro cents (7.08). hence, market fluctuations are not reflected one-for-one in its result. Revenue by product EUR million 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change , % Strategic objectives and strategy implementation Passenger revenue 1,816.1 1,766.0 2.8 In May, as part of the company’s annual strategy work, Finnair’s Board of Directors confirmed the company’s straAncillary and retail revenue 125.5 103.2 21.6 tegic objectives, and decided on four new strategic focus areas aimed at reaching these objectives: profitable Cargo 173.8 183.7 -5.4 growth, improved customer experience, improved people experience, and digital transformation. During the year, Travel services 187.5 177.8 5.5 * Finnair’s estimate. The basis for calculation is destination cities, not airports. Calculation method was revised from last year. Travel agencies 13.8 23.8 -42.0 ** Adjusted, see note 5.4. Total 2,316.8 2,254.5 2.8 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 26 Passenger revenue and traffic data by area, 1–12/2016 Ticket revenue ASK RPK PLF Traffic area EUR mill. Change, % Share % Mill. km Change, % Share % Mill. km Change, % Share % % Change, %-point Asia 739.5 1.3 40.7 16,434.2 7.7 48.5 13,446.8 6.5 49.7 81.8 -1.0 North Atlantic 115.7 9.6 6.4 2,692.7 20.1 7.9 2,140.7 14.9 7.9 79.5 -3.6 Europe 761.0 3.1 41.9 13,247.9 2.8 39.1 10,413.8 2.9 38.5 78.6 0.1 Finland 165.1 5.9 9.1 1,539.4 6.4 4.5 1,064.0 8.2 3.9 69.1 1.1 Unallocated 34.9 -5.5 1.9 Total 1,816.1 2.8 33,914.2 6.5 27,065.3 5.8 79.8 -0.6 Passenger traffic capacity measured in Available Seat Kilometres (ASK) grew by 6.5 per cent, while traffic measFinnair’s comparable EBITDAR grew by 39.3 million euros and amounted to 270.4 million euros (231.2). The ured in revenue passenger kilometres grew by 5.8 per cent. Capacity growth in European and domestic traffic partly comparable operating result, which refers to the operating result excluding items affecting comparability, such reflects differences in traffic structure between the review period and the comparison period, namely the inclusion as sales gains, and changes in the fair value of derivatives and in the value of foreign currency-denominated of flights previously operated at Norra’s risk as Finnair’s traffic starting from the second quarter of 2015. fleet maintenance reserves, increased by 31.4 million euros and amounted to 55.2 million euros (23.7). On the long-haul side, in Asian traffic, capacity grew by 7.7 per cent from the previous year. The increase was The change in the fair value of derivatives and in the value of foreign currency denominated fleet mainteattributable to several factors, including the additional capacity due to the new A350 being larger than the nance reserves amounted to 32.0 million euros (-12.3). The items affecting comparability amounted to 29.0 aircraft they are replacing, the new Fukuoka and Guangzhou routes operated in the summer, and an increase million euros (110.2), positive items being primarily related to the sale and leaseback of an A350 and negative in average stage length due to higher frequencies on the Singapore and Shanghai routes. The passenger load items to the phasing out of A340 aircraft. The operating result was 116.2 million euros (121.7), the result before factor in Asian traffic declined by 1.0 percentage points to 81.8 per cent. The capacity in North Atlantic traffic taxes was 105.8 million euros (113.3) and the result after taxes was 85.1 million euros (89.7). rose by 20.1 per cent year-on-year, in particular due to the year-round operation of the Miami route and higher frequencies on the Chicago route. The passenger load factor for the traffic area decreased by 3.6 percentage Balance sheet on 31 December 2016 points to 79.5 per cent. The Group’s balance sheet totalled 2,528.7 million euros at the end of the period under review (31 Dec 2015: Ancillary and retail revenue increased by 21.6 per cent year-on-year and amounted to 125.5 million euros. 2,050.3). The balance sheet grew in 2016 mainly due to debt-financed aircraft purchases, the sale and leaseGrowth was particularly strong in advance seat reservations as well as additional baggage fees. Cargo traffic back of one A350 aircraft, and positive operating cash flow. Shareholders’ equity was 857,0 million euros (31 increased considerably: revenue cargo tonne kilometres increased by 11.0 per cent while available cargo tonne Dec 2015: 727.5), or 6.73 euros per share (31 Dec 2015: 5.69). Shareholders’ equity increased primarily due to kilometres increased by 6.1 per cent. However, due to weak market conditions, average cargo yields declined the company’s profitable comprehensive income. and cargo revenue decreased by 5.4 per cent year-on-year, amounting to 173.8 million euros. Shareholders’ equity includes a fair value reserve that is affected by changes in the fair values of oil and The revenue of Finnair’s travel services (Aurinkomatkat Suntours) increased by 5.5 per cent from the currency derivatives used for hedging as well as actuarial gains and losses related to pilots’ defined benefit previous year and amounted to 187.5 million euros (177.8). The number of travellers increased by 6 per cent plans according to IAS 19. The value of the item at the end of December 2016 was 33.9 million euros (31 Dec from the comparison period, and the load factor in Suntour’s fixed seat allotment was solid at 96%. The year2015: -67.9) after deferred taxes, and it was affected particularly by changes in the fair value of the aforemenon-year decrease in travel agencies’ revenue is attributed to the divestment of SMT’s Baltic subsidiary Estravel tioned hedging instruments. In addition, pension liability increased primarily due to a change in the discount in December 2015 and the divestment of SMT completed in November 2016. rate reflecting the decline in the general interest rate level. Cost development and result January–December 2016 Cash flow and financial position Finnair’s operating costs increased by 0.9 per cent in 2016 and amounted to 2,337.1 million euros (2,316.0). Unit Finnair has a strong financial position, which supports business development and future investments. In 2016, cost (CASK) decreased by 4.8 per cent and totalled 6.67 euro cents (7.01). net cash flow from operating activities amounted to 219.7 million euros (171.0). The year-on-year increase in Fuel costs decreased by 17.5 per cent and amounted to 491.5 million euros, while operating costs excluding cash flow was primarily attributable to the improvement of comparable operating result. Net cash flow from fuel increased by 7.3 per cent and amounted to 1,845.6 million euros. The review period was affected by various investments amounted to -499.6 million euros (78.6) and was particularly attributable to the acquisition of costs relating to the implementation of accelerated growth, including temporary wet lease arrangements, new A350 aircraft and additions to money market investments with maturities exceeding three months as part roll-out of the A350 fleet and related flight crew training. In January–December, these cost items totalled some of the Group’s liquidity management. 23 million euros. Furthermore, costs paid in US dollar were realised at some 20 million euros higher than in the The equity ratio on 31 December 2016 stood at 33.9 per cent (31 Dec 2015: 35.5) and gearing was negative comparison period due to the expiry of old, more profitable currency hedges. at -11.2 per cent (31 Dec 2015: -49.8). The adjusted gearing was 78.3 per cent (31 Dec 2015: 45.8). At the end FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 of December, adjusted interest-bearing debt amounted to 701.5 million euros (31 Dec 2015: 346.3) and interFleet est-bearing net debt was negative at -95.8 million euros (31 Dec 2015: -362.0). During the first nine months of the year, Finnair secured three JOLCO financing arrangements for its new A350 aircraft and finalised a sale Fleet operated by Finnair and leaseback agreement on an A350 aircraft, with the total acquired financing amounting to approximately Finnair’s fleet is managed by Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finnair Plc. At the end 507 million euros. of December 2016, Finnair itself operated 49 aircraft, of which 19 are wide-body and 30 narrow-body aircraft. The company’s liquidity was strong in the review period. The Group’s cash funds at year-end amounted Of the aircraft, 26 were owned by Finnair, 16 were on operating lease and 7 on finance lease. to 797.3 million euros (31 Dec 2015: 708.2). In addition to the cash funds on the balance sheet, the Group The average age of the fleet operated by Finnair was 10.1 years at the end of 2016. has the option of re-borrowing employment pension fund reserves worth approximately 430 million euros Fleet operated by Finnair on 31 December 2016* from its employment pension insurance company. Using these reserves requires a bank guarantee. Finnair Leased has an entirely unused 175-million-euro syndicated credit facility, which is intended as reserve funding and Change was signed in June as the previous corresponding agreement matured. The new arrangement has a matufrom (Operating (Finance Average age rity of three years with two optional one-year extensions. Finnair prepaid all of its bank debt, approximately Seats # 31.12.2015 Own** lease) lease) 31.12.2016 Ordered 67 million euros in he autumn and redeemed the outstanding principal of its hybrid bond issued in 2012, Narrow-body fleet amounting to 38.3 million euros. Airbus A319 138 9 7 2 15.4 Finnair has a 200-million-euro short-term commercial paper program, which was unused at the end of the Airbus A320 165 10 7 1 2 14.4 Airbus A321 209/196 11 4 5 2 10.1 review period. Net cash flow from financing in January–December amounted to 200.5 million euros (18.1). Wide-body fleet Financial expenses were -11.5 million euros (-9.7) and financial income stood at 1.0 million euros (1.3). Airbus A330 289/263 8 0 5 3 7.2 Airbus A340 263/257 4 -1 4*** 9.0 Capital expenditure Airbus A350 297 7 4 4 3 0.8 12 In 2016, capital expenditure excluding advance payments totalled 518.9 million euros (329.7) and was Total 49 3 26 16 7 10.1 12 primarily related to fleet investments. Net cash flow from investments (capital expenditure) totalled -475.7 million euros, including advance payments. * Finnair’s Air Operator Certificate (AOC). Cash flow from investments for 2017 is estimated at approximately 530 million euros, or 300 million net, ** Includes JOLCO-financed A350 aircraft. *** Only one of the A340s was in operation at end-December. if the sale and leaseback agreement signed for the A350 aircraft scheduled for delivery in 2017 will be finalised as planned. Current estimate of the sales and foreign exchange gain on the transaction is unchanged at 40–45 million euros depending on the EUR/USD rate at the time of transaction. The cash flow from investRenewal of the long-haul fleet ments includes, in addition to investment commitments, also an estimate of investments which have been Finnair has ordered a total of 19 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft from Airbus, three of which were delivered in 2015 decided on, but not yet concluded with a counterparty. The investment financing need in 2017 may potentially and four in 2016. According to the current delivery schedule, Finnair will receive four new A350 aircraft in 2017 be reduced by sales of aircraft to be carried out at a later time. and the remaining eight between 2018 and 2023. Finnair’s investment commitments for property, plant and Finnair will add seating capacity to its current Airbus narrow-body aircraft in 2017–2018 by modifying equipment, totalling 1,601 million euros, include the upcoming investments in the long-haul fleet. storage and technical space at the front and rear of the aircraft. The investment concerns 23 narrow-body Finnair plans to phase out its A340 aircraft by the end of 2017, following the successful delivery and entry Airbus aircraft. into service of the A350 XWB aircraft. Finnair has agreed to sell its remaining four Airbus A340-300 aircraft In addition to fleet investments, Finnair is developing a modern cargo terminal to be commissioned in 2017. back to Airbus. Finnair has the possibility to adjust the size of its fleet flexibly according to demand and Finnair will also introduce wireless Internet connectivity to the majority of its current wide-body and narrowoutlook due to its lease agreements of different durations. body fleet in 2016–2018. The first installations in A330 aircraft were made already in 2016. The current favourable state of the credit market and Finnair’s good debt capacity enable the financing of future fixed-asset investments on competitive terms. The company has 34 unencumbered aircraft, the balance sheet value of which corresponds to approximately 57 per cent of the value of the entire fleet of 933 million euros. The balance sheet value includes seven finance-leased aircraft. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 Fleet operated by Norra (purchased traffic) Other renewals and services Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra) operates a fleet of 24 aircraft for Finnair on a contract flying basis. Of the In April, Finnair began to offer stopovers in Finland for its passengers travelling between Asia and Europe. The aircraft operated by Norra, 14 are owned by Finnair and 10 are on operating lease. The planned disposal of stopover flights can be booked on the new stopover.finnair.com website, which also includes information on one ATR 72 from the fleet was postponed to the first half of 2017. various stopover activities and destination information on Finland. StopOver Finland is a project led by Visit Finland, and the travel packages are implemented by an external travel agency partner. The duration of the Fleet operated by Norra on 31 December 2016* stopover travel packages ranges from five hours to five days. Change Aircraft Leased** Average from owned by (Operating age In July, Finnair and Fliggy (Alitrip), a Chinese travel agency, signed a long-term strategic partnership aiming Seats # 31.12.2015 Finnair lease) 31.12.2016 Ordered to bring approximately 3,000 Chinese tourists to the Finnish Lapland in the winter season 2016/2017 and over ATR 72 68–72 12 6 6 7.4 10,000 tourists the next winter. Finnair is the first strategic European airline partner for Fliggy with a project Embraer 170 76 0 -2 of this magnitude. Fliggy is a fast-growing travel platform in China owned by the Alibaba Group, listed on the Embraer 190 100 12 8 4 8.5 New York Stock Exchange. Total 24 -2 14 10 8.0 0 * Nordic Regional Airlines Oy’s Air Operator Certificate (AOC). Awards ** Finnair’s subsidiary Finnair Aircraft Finance has leased these aircraft and subleased them to Nordic Regional Airlines. In August, the Finnair mobile app was awarded a Red Dot Award in the Communications Design category. The Finnair app, which is available for iOS and Android devices was also recognised by the European Design organization with a Silver Award in the Mobile Apps category earlier this year. Celebrating the best in design, the Air traffic services and products Red Dot Awards are selected by a jury of well-known experts in the design industry. In July, the Skytrax World Airline Awards chose Finnair as the best airline in Northern Europe for the seventh Route network and alliances consecutive time. The award is based on an independent Skytrax survey of some 19 million travellers from Finnair offers connections between Asia and Europe with over 200 route pairs and also operates more than more than 160 countries. The survey covers more than 40 criteria including check-in, seat comfort, cabin 800 flights weekly from Helsinki to other Finnish and European destinations. The maximum weekly number cleanliness and service. Skytrax also awarded Finnair the overall rating of a four-star airline. of flights to Asia was 78 in the winter season 2015/2016, 80 in the summer season 2016 and 78 in the current In April, Finnair was named the best European airline operating in China at the TTG China Travel Awards. winter season. The award was based on votes cast by the readers of TTG’s publications. Finnair is part of the oneworld alliance and it also engages in closer cooperation with certain oneworld Finnair was awarded a Gold Medal in the ICARUS sustainability competition organised by the Global Busipartners through participation in joint businesses, namely the Siberian Joint Business and Atlantic Joint Business Travel Association (GBTA) in recognition of its position as a leader in sustainability in the travel industry, ness. The joint businesses are agreements covering revenue sharing as well as price and capacity coordinawhose commitment and actions have proved it capable of providing its customer companies and passengers tion for flights to the route areas in question. In autumn 2016, Iberia joined Finnair, Japan Airlines and British with travel services that are first-class from the perspective of sustainable development. Airways as a member of the SJB. The German ESG rating company oekom research AG updated its analysis of Finnair’s responsibility in Finnair’s new scheduled flight destinations for the summer season 2016 from Helsinki were Edinburgh, February. Finnair’s current ESG rating is B-, which is the highest rating in its category comprising 77 compaBillund, Pula, Zakynthos, Skiathos, Santorini, Preveza, Rimini, Verona and Varna, as well as weekly flights nies in the transport and logistics sector. Finnair was also awarded Prime status indicating the suitability of from Oulu to Hania and Alanya. In long-haul traffic, Finnair launched Miami as a year-round destination and Finnair’s securities for responsible investors. increased connections to Chicago for the summer. In Asia, Finnair introduced three weekly flights to Fukuoka The OAG Punctuality League publication released in January ranked Finnair’s arrival punctuality in 2015 and four to Guangzhou for the summer. (89.5%) as the sixth-highest in the world. In January, FlightStats recognised the oneworld alliance as the most For the winter season 2016/2017, Finnair increased flights to Lapland by approximately 10%. For summer punctual airline alliance in 2015. 2017, Finnair will add frequencies to Tokyo and Hong Kong and introduce new routes from Helsinki to San In April, Aurinkomatkat Suntours was found to be Finland’s most sustainable travel service company by Francisco, Alicante, Ibiza, Korfu, Menorca and Reykjavik. Sustainable Brands Index, which is the largest brand study focused on sustainability and corporate responFinnair also announced several new leisure-focused destinations for winter 2017/2018, including Havana, sibility in Scandinavia. The study is made annually by interviewing consumers in four Nordic countries. The Puerto Vallarta and Goa. survey is based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 Changes in senior management Own shares Finnair announced on 16 February 2016 the acceleration its growth and renewal of its organisation as of 1 In January 2016, Finnair used its authorisation granted by the AGM to buy back its own shares. In total, Finnair March 2016 in line with its growth strategy. Piia Karhu, Senior Vice President in charge of Customer Experiacquired 800,000 shares. In February, 277,596 shares were transferred as incentive bonuses to members of ence, Katri Harra-Salonen, Chief Digitalisation Officer, and Jaakko Schildt, SVP Operations were introduced as the FlyShare employee share savings plan, and a further 3,540 shares in October. In June, a total of 28,464 new Executive Board members. shares were transferred under the rules of the share-based incentive scheme 2013–2015 as a reward payment, Ville Iho, Finnair’s Deputy CEO and SVP for Strategy and Resource Management, left the company as of and a further 26,641 shares in December. December 31, 2016. On 31 December 2016, Finnair held a total of 788,964 of its own shares (325,205), representing 0.62 per cent of the total share capital. Personnel Finnair employed an average of 5,045 (4,906) people in January–December 2016, which is 2.8 per cent more Flagging notifications than in the comparison period. The number of employees in an employment relationship on 31 December No flagging notices were issued in 2016. 2016 was 4,937 (31 Dec 2015: 4,817). During the review period, the net number of personnel increased by 120, primarily due to an increase in the number of cabin crew and pilots. The increase in total headcount was offset Acquisition and delivery of own shares and returns of shares by the divestment of SMT in November. In addition, 50 maintenance employees were transferred from Norra Period Number of shares Acquisition value, EUR Average price, EUR to Finnair in conjunction with a transaction in May. 2004 422,800 2,275,666.49 5.38 Representing Finnair, Service Sector Employers PALTA reached an agreement with office personnel, 2005 -37,800 -209,838.54 5.55 customer service personnel and technical personnel, represented by FINTO, PRO and IAU, on terms of employ2005 150,000 1,516,680.00 10.11 ment in accordance with the framework of the national competitiveness pact, within the timeframe set by the 2006 -383,097 -2,056,847.88 5.37 central labour market organisations. Collective labour agreements were renewed with the cabin crew union 2007 0 0.00 0.00 SLSY in autumn 2016, and a preliminary agreement with the pilots’ union SLL was reached in early 2017. 2008 235,526 1,538,956.35 6.53 2009 0 0.00 0.00 Shares and shareholders 2010 22,758 114,719.52 5.04 2011 0 0.00 0.00 Shares and share capital 2012 0 0.00 0.00 On 31 December 2016, the number of Finnair shares entered in the Trade Register was 128,136,115 and the 2013 600,000 1,684,650.10 2.81 registered share capital was 75,442,904.30 euros. The company’s shares are quoted on NASDAQ Helsinki. 2013 -731,019 -4,055,744.86 5.55 Each share confers one vote at the General Meeting. 2014 33,864 85,801.22 2.53 2014 -940 -2,334.40 2.48 Government ownership 2015 14,893 37,734.40 2.53 2015 -1,780 -6,764.00 3.80 At the end of 2016, the Finnish Government owned 55.8 per cent of Finnair’s shares and votes. According to 2016 800,000 4,327,860.54 5.41 the decision made by the Finnish Parliament on 20 June 1994, the Government must own more than half of 2016 -336,241 -975,326.55 2.90 Finnair Plc’s shares. Decreasing ownership below this level would require revision of the Parliament decision. 31.12.2016 788,964 4,275,212.40 5.42 Share ownership by management On 31 December 2016, members of the company’s Board of Directors did not own any Finnair shares, and the CEO owned 91,102 shares. Members of the Executive Board, including the CEO, owned a total of 250,128 shares, representing 0.20 per cent of all shares and votes. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 30 Finnair Plc largest shareholders as at 31 December 2016 Shareholders by type at 31 December 2016 Number of shares % Changes 2016 Number of shares % Number of shareholders % 1 State of Finland; Office Counsil Of State 71,515,426 55.8 0 Public bodies 87,537,983 68.3 13 0.1 2 KEVA 6,200,875 4.8 0 Households 17,348,592 13.5 16,073 96.1 3 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 3,354,002 2.6 0 Private companies 6,786,195 5.3 510 3.0 4 Kyöstilä Heikki 2,950,000 2.3 80,000 Financial institutions 4,134,905 3.2 20 0.1 5 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,701,390 2.1 -974,174 Associations 858,259 0.7 45 0.3 6 Tiiviste-Group Oy 2,200,000 1.7 -250,000 Finnish shareholders, total 116,665,934 91.0 16,661 99.6 7 State Pension Fund 2,100,000 1.6 0 8 Nordea Funds 1,263,426 1.0 -321,358 Registered in the name of a nominee 11,026,859 8.6 11 0.1 9 OP Funds 1,234,957 1.0 -196,643 Outside Finland 425,600 0.3 51 0.3 10 Veritas Pension Insurance Company 1,050,151 0.8 -199,849 Nominee registered and foreign 11 Etra Invest Oy 1,000,000 0.8 0 shareholders, total 11,452,459 8.9 62 0.4 12 Finnair Plc 788,964 0.6 463,759 13 Finnair Plc Staff Fund 594,000 0.5 -165,000 Not converted into the book entry system 17,722 0.0 14 Nordea Henkivakuutus Suomi Oy 517,280 0.4 511,500 Total 128,136,115 100.0 16,723 100.0 15 Laakkonen Mikko 500,000 0.4 90,000 Nominee registered 11,026,859 8.6 -150,406 Others 19,138,785 14.9 Total 128,136,115 100.0 Shareholding by number of shares owned Shareholding by type % % Breakdown of shares at 31 December 2016 Number of shares % Number of shareholders % 1–200 722,314 0.2 8,113 48.5 201–1,000 3,069,417 2.7 5,765 34.5 1,001–10,000 7,107,025 5.6 2,597 15.5 10,001–100,000 5,735,418 4.7 208 1.2 100,001–1,000,000 7,214,298 5.7 20 0.1 1,000,001– 93,243,062 81.1 9 0.1 Total 128,136,115 100.0 16,723 100.0 From Which Nominee Registered 11,026,859 8.6 11 0.1 Not converted into the book entry system 17,722 0 Number of Shares Issued 128,136,115 100.0 0 0 1–200 0.2% Public bodies 68.3% Registered in the name Households 13.5% of a nominee 8.6% 201–1,000 2.7% Private companies 5.3% Outside Finland 0.3% 1,001–10,000 5.6% 10,001–100,000 4.7% Financial institutions 3.2% 100,001–1,000,000 5.7% Associations 0.7% 1,000,001– 81.1% FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 Shareholder agreements Share-based incentive plan for key personnel Finnair is not aware of any shareholder agreements pertaining to share ownership or the use of voting rights. The Board of Directors also decided in December to simplify the structure of performance share plans within the company’s long-term incentive scheme for Finnair key personnel. The Board of Directors of Finnair Change of control provisions in material agreements approved the first performance share plan covering the years 2017–2019 within the above described revised Some of Finnair’s financing agreements include a change of control clause under which the financier shall be structure. Within the plan, the participants have the opportunity to earn Finnair shares as a long-term incenentitled to request prepayment of the existing loan or to cancel the availability of a loan facility in the event tive reward, if the performance targets set by the Board of Directors for the plan are achieved. The potential that a person other than the State of Finland acquires control of Finnair either through a majority of the share rewards will be delivered to the participants in the spring 2020. The plan applies to some 60 people, voting rights or otherwise. and it is described in a stock exchange release issued on 21 December 2016 and in the Remuneration Statement. Share-based incentive schemes Share price development and trading Employee share savings plan FlyShare At the end of December 2016, Finnair’s market value stood at 516.4 million euros (694.5), and the closing In December, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to launch a new 12-month savings period under the price of the share was 4.03 euros (5.42). In 2016, the highest price for the Finnair Plc share on the NASDAQ FlyShare Employee Share Plan. The objective of the plan established in 2013 is to encourage the employees Helsinki Stock Exchange was 5.92 euros (5.50), the lowest price 3.80 euros (2.49) and the average price 4.74 to become shareholders in the company, and thereby strengthen the employees’ interest in the development euros (3.54). Some 28.1 million (25.5) of the company’s shares, with a total value of 133.2 million euros (90.1), of Finnair’s shareholder value and to reward them over the long-term. Approximately 770 Finnair employees, were traded. The number of Finnair shares recorded in the Trade Register was 128,136,115 at the end of the or 17 per cent of those invited, participated in the fourth phase of the plan in 2016. The share savings plan period. The Finnish state owned 55.8 per cent (55.8) of Finnair’s shares, while 8.9 per cent (8.9) were held by is described in more detail in Finnair’s Remuneration Statement and on the company’s website. Previously foreign investors or in the name of a nominee. concluded share-based plans are described in Finnair’s Remuneration Statement and on the company’s website. Finnair share 2012–2016 Comparison European Airlines Comparison Nasdaq Helsinki EUR 6 300 250 5 250 200 4 200 3 150 150 2 100 100 1 0 50 50 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 Average price Finnair Finnair European Airlines OMX Helsinki OMX Helsinki benchmark FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 32 Finland, have agreed to join the agreement from the outset. This means an obligation for airlines to compenNumber of shares and share prices sate their emissions exceeding the target by purchasing emission reduction units primarily from other EUR mill. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 sectors. These units will be sold by projects reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The CORSIA agreement is Average number of shares adjusted for share issue pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 one element in the aviation sector’s actions on climate change. Other environmental improvement measAverage number of shares ures include the use of modern technology, the adoption of sustainable alternative fuels, efficient operational adjusted for share issue practices and improvements in infrastructure. The countries participating in the scheme in the first stage as (with diluted effect) pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 of 2021 cover approximately 85% of the world’s aviation activity. From 2027 onwards, it will be mandatory on The number of shares adjusted for share issue at a global scale. the end of financial year pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 In June 2016, Finnair signed a cooperation agreement with UNWomen to support women’s rights. Finnair The number of shares also signed the United for Wildlife Transport Taskforce Buckingham Palace Declaration, which denounces the adjusted for share issue at the end of financial illegal transportation and trade of wildlife and wildlife products. The pledge also aims to increase partneryear(with diluted effect) pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 ships with government authorities and conservation organisations in the fight against traffickers and smugNumber of shares, end of the financial year pcs 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 128,136,115 glers of endangered animals. For several years, Finnair has refused to carry any animals or wildlife products Trading price highest EUR 5.92 5.50 3.01 3.25 2.64 5.37 that are contrary to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wildlife Fauna and Flora Trading price lowest EUR 3.80 2.49 2.30 2.40 1.67 2.30 (CITES). In 2015, Finnair took the extra step of prohibiting the transport of hunting trophies or memorabilia Market value of share originating from endangered species in its cargo network. capital Dec. 31 EUR mill. 516 695 318 355 305 295 During the year, Finnair revised its sustainability strategy, which was crystallised in a three themes: No. of shares traded pcs 28,099,932 25,456,779 10,750,318 26,024,070 19,668,495 21,422,076 cleaner, caring, collaborative, and it embeds sustainability even deeper in the group strategy and brand. The No. of shares traded as % of average no. of shares % 21.93 19.87 8.39 20.31 15.35 16.72 programme measures are geared to contribute to cost containment, risk mitigation as well as value creation. The key performance indicators for corporate responsibility are presented on page 21 of the Annual Report. Dividend policy and the Board’s proposal for the distribution of profit Significant near-term risks and uncertainties The aim of Finnair’s dividend policy is to pay, on average, at least one-third of the earnings per share as a diviAviation is an industry that is sensitive to global economic cycles and reacts quickly to external disruptions, dend during an economic cycle. The aim is to take into account the company’s earnings trend and outlook, seasonal variation and economic trends. In the implementation of its strategy, Finnair is faced with various financial situation and capital needs in the distribution of dividends. In 2016, earnings per share was 0.55 risks and opportunities. Finnair has a comprehensive risk management process to ensure that risks are iden(0.57) euros. tified and mitigated as much as possible, although many risks are not within the company’s full control. To Finnair Plc’s distributable equity amounted to 381,792,655.73 euros on 31 December 2016. The Board of Directors exploit value creation opportunities, Finnair is also prepared to take and manage risks within the limits of its proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.10 euros per share be distributed for 2016. risk-bearing capacity. The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to potentially have a significant impact on Corporate responsibility Finnair’s business, financial result and future outlook within the next 12 months. This list is not intended to be Economic, social and environmental sustainability is integral to Finnair’s overall business strategy and operexhaustive. ations. Finnair wants to be a responsible global citizen and respond to its stakeholders’ needs, also from the Exceptional variations in fuel price and how these are passed on to ticket prices or affect capacity growth perspective of corporate responsibility. in Finnair’s main markets pose for Finnair’s revenue development, as do sudden adverse changes in foreign Finnair is cooperating with industry operators and the authorities in areas such as reducing the climate exchange rates and slowing demand growth. impacts of aviation and promoting the use of biofuels. Finnair’s corporate responsibility is reflected in its Capacity increases and product improvements among Finnair’s existing or new competitors may have an strategy and vision as well as its values of commitment to care, simplicity and courage. Responsibility is inteimpact on the demand for and yield of Finnair’s services. In addition, joint operations involving closer coopergral to all Finnair operations. The purpose of the responsibility strategy is to reduce environmental impacts ation than airline alliances and joint businesses, are expected to develop further. and generate financial and social utility for society. The achievement of the strategic advantages and cost reductions sought through Finnair’s partnership and The assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) concluded a historic agreement, called outsourcing projects involves risks. For example, quality or availability issues and/or unexpected additional Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), in the autumn on market-based costs of partnerships and suppliers can have a negative effect on Finnair’s product, reputation and profitameasure to help stabilize airline emissions at the level of 2020. Sixty-five ICAO member states, including bility. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 Sensitivities in business operations, impact on comparable operating profit 1 percentage The delivery schedule and use of the Airbus A350 XWB aircraft involves risks associated with new tech(rolling 12 months from date of financial statements) (point)change nology and roll-out processes. In addition, the implementation of Finnair’s strategy includes significant Passenger load factor (PLF) EUR 22 million operating and internal changes, which involve risks. Finnair’s growth plan and its resourcing could generate Average yield of passenger traffic EUR 19 million further cost pressure and operational challenges in the short term. Unit cost (CASK ex. fuel) EUR 18 million The aviation industry is affected by a number of regulatory projects at the EU and international levels. Estimating the impacts of the regulatory changes on airlines’ operational activities and/or costs in advance is Hedging ratio difficult. Examples of such regulatory projects include international regulation related to emission trading, 10% change, 10% change taking noise regulation and other environmental regulation, EU regulations on privacy protection and decisions Fuel sensitivities without hedging into made by the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding flight passengers’ rights. In addition, regula(rolling 12 months from date of financial statements) hedging account H1/2017 H2/2017 tions on the reporting of non-financial information (responsibility) and other stakeholder requirements have Fuel EUR 50 million EUR 23 million 72% 66% increased substantially. Geopolitical uncertainty, the elevated threat of terrorism and other potential external disruptions may, if Hedging ratio for Currency sensitivities USD and JPY operational cash flows they materialise, significantly affect the demand for air travel and Finnair’s operations. (rolling 12 months from date of financial (rolling 12 months from date The upcoming exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union involves general economic uncertainty Currency distribution % 2016 2015 statements for operational cash flows) of financial statements) that may also be reflected in the demand for air travel. Sales currencies 10% change without 10% change, taking hedging hedging into account The construction work associated with the extension of Helsinki Airport, which will continue until 2020, EUR 56 59 may cause traffic disruptions. Finnair is engaged in close cooperation with Finavia to minimise the negative USD* 4 3 see below see below see below impacts of the expansion project. The expansion will facilitate the increase of the airport’s annual passenger JPY 9 8 EUR 19 million EUR 9 million 69% volume to 20 million and the implementation of Finnair’s growth strategy. CNY 7 7 Finnair’s risk management and risks related to the company’s operations are described in more detail on KRW 3 3 the company’s website. SEK 5 5 Other 16 15 Seasonal variation and sensitivities in business operations Purchase currencies Due to the seasonal variation of the airline business, the Group’s revenue and profit are generally at their EUR 54 53 lowest in the first quarter and at their highest in the third quarter of the year. The growing proportional share USD* 38 40 EUR 56 million EUR 19 million 72% of Asian traffic increases seasonal fluctuation due to destination-specific seasons in Asian leisure and busiOther 8 7 ness travel. * Hedging ratio for USD basket. The sensitivity analysis assumes that the Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar continue to correlate strongly In addition to operational activities and market conditions, fuel price development has a key impact on with the US dollar. Finnair’s result, as fuel costs are the company’s most significant expense item. Finnair’s foreign exchange risk arises primarily from fuel and aircraft purchases, aircraft leasing payments and sales revenue denominated in Outlook foreign currencies. Significant dollar-denominated expense items are aircraft leasing payments and fuel costs The demand outlook for passenger and cargo traffic in Finnair’s main markets continues to involve unceras well as traffic charges. The largest investments, namely the acquisition of aircraft and their spare parts, are tainty, Finnair estimates that, in 2017, due to the fleet renewal and introduction of new aircraft, its capacity also mainly denominated in US dollars. The most significant income currencies after the euro are the Japawill grow 8–10 per cent, weighted strongly towards the second half of 2017. Revenue is expected to grow more nese yen, the Chinese yuan and the Swedish krona. slowly than our capacity, reflecting increasing capacity in the relevant markets. The company protects itself against the risks of currency, interest rate and jet fuel positions by using In keeping with its disclosure policy, Finnair will issue guidance for its expected full-year operational result different derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options, according to the risk managein connection with the half-year report in July. ment policy verified by the Board of Directors. Fuel purchases are hedged for 24 months forward on a rolling basis, and the degree of hedging decreases towards the end of the hedging period. The higher and lower FINNAIR PLC limits of the degree of hedging are 90 and 60 per cent for the following six months. Board of Directors FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 34 Financial indicators 2012–2016 INCOME STATEMENT 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 CASH FLOW 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Revenue* EUR mill. 2,317 2,255 2,284 2,400 2,449 Operational cash flow EUR mill. 220 171 24 142 155 change from previous period % 2.8 -1.3 -4.8 -2.0 8.5 in relation to revenue* % 9.5 7.6 1.1 5.9 6.3 Comparable operating result EUR mill. 55 24 -36 12 43 in relation to revenue* % 2.4 1.1 -1.6 0.5 1.8 PERSONNEL 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating result EUR mill. 116 122 -72 8 34 Personnel on average 5,045 4,906 5,172 5,859 6,784 in relation to revenue* % 5.0 5.4 -3.2 0.3 1.4 Comparable EBITDAR EUR mill. 270 231 177 210 240 * Revenue from non-core businesses, is reclassified from revenue to other operating income. Comparative periods have been restated accordingly from the beginning of 2015 onwards. The changes are described in more detail in Note 5.4 Restatement of operating income and in relation to revenue % 11.7 10.3 7.7 8.8 9.8 key ratios. Net result EUR mill. 85 90 -83 23 11 ** The dividend for year 2016 is a proposal of the Board of Directors to the Annual General Meeting. in relation to revenue % 3.7 4.0 -3.6 1.0 0.4 BALANCE SHEET 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Finnair is net debt-free and profit performance positive; Board of Directors proposes a diEquity and non-controlling interests EUR mill. 857 727 514 678 775 vidend of 0.10 euro per share. Finnair’s liquid funds continued to outweigh its interest-bearing liabilities, even though the fleet renewal continued and Finnair fiEquity and liabilities total EUR mill. 2,529 2,050 1,885 2,118 2,231 nanced the purchase of three new A350 aircraft with debt. Liquid funds remained high, reflecting operating cash flow and aircraft fiGross capital expenditure EUR mill. 519 330 82 77 41 nancing transactions. The adjusted gearing, which also accounts for future operating lease payments on aircraft, remained at a low level in relation to revenue* % 22.4 14.6 3.6 3.2 1.7 (78.3%), clearly below the maximum of 175 per cent set by the Board of Directors. Average capital employed EUR mill. 1,324 1,008 1,106 1,295 1,413 Profit performance was positive. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.10 euros per Dividend for the financial year** EUR mill. 13 0 0 0 13 share be distributed on the profit for the period. Interest-bearing liabilities EUR mill. 718 346 428 593 569 Liquid funds EUR mill. 797 708 426 459 430 Interest-bearing net debt EUR mill. -96 -362 1 134 138 Gearing in relation to revenue* % -4.1 -16.1 0.1 5.6 5.6 Adjusted interest-bearing net debt EUR mill. 671 333 553 537 603 € million % in relation to revenue % 28.9 14.8 24.2 22.4 24.6 900 857 120 797 800 766 100 KEY FIGURES 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 702 700 80 Basic and diluted earnings per share EUR 0.55 0.57 -0.71 0.11 0.01 600 78.3% 60 Equity/share EUR 6.73 5.69 4.02 5.30 6.06 500 40 Dividend/share** EUR 0.10 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.10 400 20 Dividend/earnings** % 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 121.2 300 0 Dividend yield** % 2.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.2 200 -20 Cash flow from operating activities/share EUR 1.73 1.34 0.19 1.12 1.21 -11.2% 100 -40 P/E ratio 7.32 9.46 -3.47 25.02 174.96 0 -60 Adjusted net debt / Comparable EBITDAR 2.5 1.4 3.1 2.6 2.5 12 13 14 15 16 Equity ratio % 33.9 35.5 27.3 32.0 34.7 Net debt-to-equity (Gearing) % -11.2 -49.8 0.3 19.9 18.0 Aircraft lease payments, 12m rolling x 7y Adjusted Interest-bearing liabilities Gearing Adjusted gearing % 78.3 45.8 107.5 79.2 77.8 Cash funds Equity Adjusted gearing Return on equity (ROE) % 10.7 14.4 -13.8 3.2 1.4 Return on capital employed (ROCE) % 8.9 12.2 -6.5 3.6 2.8 = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 JANUARY–31 DECEMBER 2016 How to read Finnair Financial Statements? Finnair has made efforts to facilitate reading these financial statements and to clarify the overall picture that can derived from them. The notes of Finnair’s financial statements have been combined to business related sections in order to give a more relevant and less complex picture of the whole. Each section sets out the accounting principles applied in producing these notes together with any critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. Secondly, interesting figures have been highlighted by circling them, and these as well as other highlights are explained in a text box marked with a star. Thirdly, illustrating charts have been inserted in various sections of the financial statements so as to facilitate understanding the figures. Notes to the financial statement have been combined into sections based on their context. The aim is to give a more relevant picture of the Finnair Group and its business. The content of each section is described and explained in the beginning of that section and marked with . Specific accounting principles are attached to the relevant note. The accounting principles can be recognised from character . Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty have been presented together with the relevant note and specified with character . Highlights related to the section are explained in a separate text box to underline significant matters. Interesting figures have been highlighed with circle and explained in the highlights text box as described above. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 36 Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income EUR mill. Note 2016 2015 EUR mill. Note 2016 2015 Revenue 1.1, 1.2 2.316.8 2.254.5 Result for the period 85.1 89.7 Other operating income 75.5 85.2 Other comprehensive income items Operating expenses Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Staff costs 1.3.7 -362.5 -353.2 Change in fair value of hedging instruments 145.2 -14.1 Fuel costs -491.5 -595.5 Translation differences 0.0 0.6 Other rents 1.3.2 -167.4 -159.4 Tax effect -29.0 2.8 Aircraft materials and overhaul -147.3 -118.9 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods Traffic charges -262.8 -258.5 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans 1.3.7.2 -18.1 37.7 Ground handling and catering expenses -258.9 -250.3 Tax effect 3.6 -7.5 Expenses for tour operations -87.8 -79.6 Other comprehensive income items total 101.7 19.5 Sales and marketing expenses -76.9 -74.0 Comprehensive income for the financial year 186.9 109.2 Other expenses 1.3.3 -266.6 -219.3 Comparable EBITDAR 270.4 231.2 Attributable to Lease payments for aircraft 1.3.2 -109.5 -99.3 Owners of the parent company 186.9 108.9 Depreciation and impairment 2.1, 2.4 -105.8 -108.1 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.3 Comparable operating result 55.2 23.7 Fair value changes in derivatives and Change in comparable operating result 2016 changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls 1.3.6 32.0 -12.3 Items affecting comparability 1.3.6 29.0 110.2 € million Operating result 116.2 121.7 Financial income 3.1 1.0 1.3 250 Financial expenses 3.1 -11.5 -9.7 200 Share of results in associates and joint ventures 4.4 0.0 0.1 104.0 -8.0 -28.4 Result before taxes 105.8 113.3 150 -4.4 -8.7 Income taxes 5.1 -20.6 -23.6 -8.2 -2.9 -10.2 2.3 -47.4 Result for the financial year 85.1 89.7 100 -9.7 50.0 –9.3 55.2 Attributable to 50 23.7 22.3 Owners of the parent company 85.1 89.4 -9.9 –0.3 Non-controlling interests 0.0 0.3 0 s ts ha s l 20 nu e e sts ts au ge s ns se s ft nt se 20 c a n dli n 15 om co os en rh tio ra me en 16 ve ar en ir c nc aff lc rr ve ch te r g ra xp a ir xp Re in g a n Earnings per share attributable to 0.55 0.57 gi Fu he do pe ra t in St e Ot ffic ex d ro ge fo mp re an pe t in he shareholders of the parent company. EUR (basic and diluted) Tr ra ts di ls a ns ou Ot pe r ia nd e rt ke en an ro ate ou fo ar ay m io n he Gr es dm ep ia t Ot tm ns an ec af pe as pr rcr Ex le s Le Sa De Ai Comparable operating result doubled from the previous year 55.2 (23.7) Positive profit performance continued in 2016 due to growing traffic, ticket revenue and ancillary sales. Operational costs were on previous year’s level reflecting the low fuel cost, although accelerated growth caused extra costs and the strong USD increased the cost level. Passenger revenue Cargo Ancillary and retail revenue Travel services and travel agencies Operating expenses = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 Consolidated balance sheet EUR mill. Note 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 EUR mill. Note 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Intangible assets O 2.4 12.4 9.5 Share capital E 75.4 75.4 Tangible assets O 2.1 1,166.5 811.6 Other equity E 781.6 652.0 Investments in associates and joint ventures O 4.4 2.5 2.6 Equity total 857.0 727.5 Loan and other receivables O 7.4 8.7 Deferred tax assets O 5.1 0.0 9.1 Deferred tax liabilities O 5.1 32.7 0.0 Non-current assets total 1,188.7 841.5 Interest-bearing liabilities IL 3.3 617.3 271.0 Pension obligations O 1.3.7.2 31.9 4.4 Inventories O 14.9 11.8 Provisions O 1.3.5 63.6 55.7 Trade and other receivables O 1.2.4 211.9 208.5 Other liabilities O 3.3 4.9 15.8 Derivative financial instruments O/IA* 3.8 176.6 155.8 Non-current liabilities total 750.4 346.9 Other financial assets IA 3.2.1 727.9 427.7 Cash and cash equivalents IA 3.2.2 69.4 280.5 Provisions O 1.3.5 22.2 38.3 Current assets total 1,200.7 1,084.3 Interest-bearing liabilities IL 3.3 100.4 75.2 Assets held for sale O 2.3 139.3 124.5 Trade payables O 94.4 67.5 Derivative financial instruments O/IL* 3.8 25.2 180.5 Assets total 2,528.7 2,050.3 Deferred income and advances received O 1.2.5 424.6 374.8 Liabilities related to employee benefits O 1.3.7.1 93.4 91.0 Other liabilities O 1.3.4 161.1 148.7 Fleet renewal advances – four new A350s, three on own balance sheet Current liabilities total 921.3 976.0 The fleet renewal continued: Finnair acquired four new A350 aircract during the year. Three were purchased onto own balance sheet. Three A350’s were financed with a JOLCO-loan (Japanese Operating Lease with Call Option). One was sold and leased back. Liabilities total 1,671.7 1,322.9 Balance sheet Equity and liabilities total 2,528.7 2,050.3 € million Assets Equity and liabilities 2,528.7 2,528.7 Finnair reports its interest-bearing debt, net debt and adjusted gearing to give an overview of Finnair’s financial position. 2,500 139.3 580.4 Balance sheet items included in interest-bearing net debt are marked with an “IA” or “IL”. The calculation of capital employed includes 226.8 2,050.3 2,050.3 items marked with an “E” or “IL”. Other items are marked with an “O”. 2,000 124.5 494.4 797.3 220.3 348.5 Additional information to Balance Sheet: 25.2 Interest-bearing net debt and adjusted gearing 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 1,500 708.2 301.7 717.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 717.7 346.0 176.6 180.5 140.0 -16.1 0.2 1,000 Cross currency Interest rate swaps* 155.8 346.3 102.0 Adjusted interest-bearing liabilities 701.5 346.3 739.4 1,048.7 857.0 727.5 500 Other financial assets -727.9 -427.7 Cash and cash equivalents -69.4 -280.5 0 Interest-bearing net debt -95.8 -362.0 15 16 16 15 Lease payments for aircraft for the last twelve months (LTM) * 7 766.4 695.2 Adjusted interest-bearing net debt 670.6 333.2 Aircraft including advances paid Cash and cash equivalents Equity Deferred revenue on Equity total 857.0 727.5 and currency hedging of aircraft and other financial assets Interest-bearing liabilities ticket sales acquisitions Adjusted gearing, % 78.3% 45.8% Other current assets Derivative financial Other liabilities Other non-current assets Assets held for sale instruments in current * Cross-currency interest rate swaps are used for hedging the currency and interest rate risk of interest-bearing loans, but hedge accountDerivative financial instruments liabilities ing is not applied. Changes in fair net value correlate with changes in the fair value of interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, the fair net value in current assets of cross-currency interest rate swaps recognised in derivative assets/liabilities and reported in Note 3.8 Derivatives, is considered an interest-bearing liability in the net debt calculation. = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 38 Consolidated cash flow statement EUR mill. 2016 2015 Notes to consolidated cash flow statement Cash flow from operating activities * Non-cash transactions Result for the period 85.1 89.7 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Depreciation and impairment 102.9 148.5 Employee benefits 15.1 15.6 Other adjustments to result for the period Fair value changes in derivatives -34.0 2.1 Financial income and expenses 10.5 8.4 Gains and losses on aircraft and other transactions -30.4 -121.5 Share of results in associates and joint ventures 0.0 -0.1 Other adjustments -0.6 -33.7 Income taxes 20.6 23.6 Total -50.0 -137.5 EBITDA 219.2 270.2 Other adjustments mainly include changes in maintenance and other provisions. Non-cash transactions * -50.0 -137.5 ** Liquid funds Changes in working capital 55.5 43.1 Financial expenses paid, net -5.0 -4.6 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Income taxes paid 0.0 -0.2 Other financial assets 727.9 427.7 Cash and cash equivalents 69.4 280.5 Net cash flow from operating activities 219.7 171.0 Liquid funds in balance sheet 797.3 708.2 Maturing after more than three months -418.9 -250.5 Cash flow from investing activities Total 378.4 457.7 Investments in intangible assets -10.3 -4.3 Investments in tangible assets -475.7 -352.5 Divestments of fixed assets and group shares 153.2 448.1 Strong financing position enables development of operations and financing of fleet transition Net change in financial assets maturing after more than three months -168.4 -14.4 Operating cash flow strengthened during the year due to the profit improvement and changes in working capital, including an increase Change in non-current receivables 1.6 1.7 in prepaid flight tickets. Finnair is investing in new widebody fleet, and it took delivery of four A350 aircraft in 2016. One of the aircraft was sold immediately Net cash flow from investing activities -499,6 78.6 at the time of purchase and leased back with an operating lease agreement. Three were financed with Japanese Operating Lease with Call Option (JOLCO)-financing, included in the prodeeds from loans in the financing cash flow. Cash flow from financing activities Finnair prepaid all of its bank loans during the finacial year. Proceeds from loans 377.4 0.0 Loan repayments and changes -115.1 -82.5 Cash Flow change 2016, -79.3 € million Hybrid bond repayments -38.3 -81.7 € million Net cash flow from Net cash flow from Net cash flow from Proceeds from hybrid bond 0.0 200.0 operating activities, +219.7 investing activities, -499.6 financing activities, +200.5 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -19.1 -17.6 900 Purchase of own shares -4.3 0.0 800 55.5 Dividends paid 0.0 -0.2 219.2 700 Net cash flow from financing activities 200.5 18.1 -55.0 600 377.4 500 457.7 Change in cash flows -79,3 267.7 -115.1 378.4 400 153.2 -38.3 -23.5 300 Liquid funds, at beginning 457.7 190.1 200 Change in cash flows -79.3 267.7 -485. 9 -166.8 100 Liquid funds, at end ** 378.4 457.7 0 in g ITD in g s et ts es ns ts br id A ca pit se iti lo a en pu b o en t in n al ss as tiv pa pa rch n d eg EB ca s fa m ym ym a s in te eb an h tr d fi an no al of ac f ro re e o re f o sts rk na s ac ng re wn a = Highlights at th wo n c tio ia l n s i te isi tio os sp s ti ve ee ds Lo an bo nd Ca sh n d ar es sh in ms qu Di r in oc id sh at Ca ge nAc Pr br th an No he Hy ee Ot nd Ch Hy FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Hedging reserve Equity attributable NonShare Other and other Unrestricted Retained Hybrid to owners of controlling Equity EUR mill. capital restricted funds OCI items equity funds earnings bond the parent interests total Equity 1 Jan 2016 75.4 168.1 -67.9 248.1 67.6 236.2 727.5 0.0 727.5 Result for the period 85.1 85.1 85.1 Change in fair value of hedging instruments 116.2 116.2 116.2 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans -14.4 -14.4 -14.4 Comprehensive income for the period 0.0 0.0 101.7 0.0 85.1 0.0 186.9 0.0 186.9 Hybrid bond repayments -38.3 -38.3 -38.3 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -15.7 0.3 -15.3 -15.3 Purchase of own shares -4.3 -4.3 -4.3 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 0.6 Equity 31 Dec 2016 75.4 168.1 33.9 248.6 132.8 198.2 857.0 0.0 857.0 Hedging reserve Equity attributable NonShare Other and other Unrestricted Retained Hybrid to owners of controlling Equity EUR mill. capital restricted funds OCI items equity funds earnings bond the parent interests total Equity 1 Jan 2015 75.4 168.1 -87.4 247.4 -8.8 118.9 513.7 0.6 514.3 Result for the financial year 89.4 89.4 0.3 89.7 Change in fair value of hedging instruments -11.3 -11.3 -11.3 Actuarial gains and losses from defined benefit plans 30.2 -0.1 30.1 30.1 Translation differences 0.6 0.6 0.6 Comprehensive income for the period 0.0 0.0 19.5 0.0 89.3 0.0 108.8 0.3 109.1 Proceeds from hybrid bond 198.2 198.2 198.2 Hybrid bond repayments -81.7 -81.7 -81.7 Hybrid bond interests and expenses -13.0 0.7 -12.2 -12.2 Dividend 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Share-based payments 0.6 0.6 0.6 Changes in non-controlling interests 0.0 -0.7 -0.7 Equity 31 Dec 2015 75.4 168.1 -67.9 248.1 67.6 236.2 727.5 0.0 727.5 During 2016, Finnair repaid the old hybrid bond of 38.3 million euros issued in 2012. Positive result and change in fair value of hedging instruments resulted in strengthened equity Finnair’s equity strengthened during the period from 727.5 million euro to 857.0 million euro primarily due to the profit for the period (85.1) and the change in the fair value of hedging instruments (116.2). The fair value reserve turned positive due to fuel hedges, as the fuel price rose towards the year-end and hedges committed during previous periods above market price were realised. Due to hedging strategy, developments in the market price for fuel have a delayed impact on Finnair’s result. = Highlights FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 40 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Accounting principles The Finnair Group engages in worldwide air transport operations and supporting services. The Group’s parent company is Finnair Plc, which is domiciled in Helsinki at the registered address Tietotie 9, Vantaa. The parent company is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Stock Exchange. The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc has approved these financial statements for publication How should the Finnair’s accounting principles be read? at its meeting on 14 February 2017. Under Finland’s Limited Liability Companies Act, shareholders have the option to accept, Finnair describes the accounting principles in conjunction with each note in the aim of providing enhanced understanding of each acchange or reject the financial statements in the Annual General meeting of the shareholders, which will be held after the pubcounting area. Basis of preparation is described as part of this note (accounting principles), while the ones more directly related to a spelication of the financial statements. cific note are attached to the corresponding note. The Group focuses on describing the accounting choices made within the framework of the prevailing IFRS policy and avoids repeating the actual text of the standard, unless Finnair considers it particularly important to the Basis of preparation understanding of the note’s content. Refer to the table below to see which notes, accounting principles and IFRS standards are related. Finnair Plc’s consolidated financial statements for 2016 have been prepared according to the International Financial R ­ eporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations in effect on 31 December 2016 and as adopted by the European Union. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also comply with Finnish accounting and corporate law. New and amended standards applied in 2016 and future periods are described in the Note 4.6 Application of new and amended IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations. The 2016 consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on original acquisition costs, except for financial asAccounting principle Note Nr. IFRS sets recognised through profit and loss at fair value, financial assets available-for-sale, and derivative contracts, which have Segment reporting Segment information 1.1 IFRS 8 been measured at fair value. Financial statement data is presented in millions of euros, rounded to the nearest one hundred Revenue recognition, other income and trade Operating income 1.2 IAS 18, IAS 39, IFRS 7 thousand euro. This means that the sum of the individual figures may differ from the total shown. receivables Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions 1.3.5 IAS 37 Presentation of Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet Employee benefits and share-based payments Remuneration 1.3.7 IAS 19, IFRS 2 IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements standard does not define ‘operating result’. The Group has defined it as net amount Pensions Pensions 1.3.7.2 IAS 19 of operating income and expenses, including revenue and other operating income, less operating expenses, such as employee benefits, fuel costs, maintenance expenses, lease payments for aircraft and depreciations. Exchange rate differences and Tangible assets Tangible assets 2.1 IAS 16, IAS 36 changes in fair values of derivatives are included in operating profit if they arise from items related to business operations; Operating and finance lease arrangements Leasing arrangements 2.2 IAS 17 otherwise they are recognised in financial items. Operating result excludes financial items, share of results from associates and Assets held for sale Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale 2.3 IFRS 5 joint ventures and income taxes. Intangible assets Intangible assets 2.4 IAS 38 Consolidated income statement includes, in addition to operating result, comparable operating result and EBITDAR which Interest and dividend income Financial income and expenses 3.1 IAS 18, IAS 32 are presented to better reflect the Group’s business performance when comparing results to previous periods. Comparable opFinancial assets and impairment of financial Financial assets 3.2 IAS 39, IFRS 7 erating result doesn’t include capital gains and losses, changes in the value of foreign currency denominated fleet maintenance assets reserves, changes in the unrealised fair value of derivatives or restructuring costs. Comparable EBITDAR is a common measure Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets 3.2 IAS 39, IFRS 7 in airline business which aims to reflect comparable operating result excluding capital cost, independent of whether aircraft Financial liabilities Financial liabilities 3.3 IAS 39, IFRS 7 are owned or leased. Therefore, comparable EBITDAR is calculated by excluding depreciations and operating lease payments Derivative contracts and hedge accounting Derivatives 3.8 IAS 39, IFRS 7 for aircraft from comparable operating result. In Consolidated balance sheet, assets and liabilities are classified as current when they are expected to realise within 12 Equity, dividend and treasury shares Equity-related information 3.9 IAS 32, IAS 33 months or when they are classified as liquid funds or financial assets or liabilities classified at fair value through profit or loss. Consolidation principles of subsidiaries Subsidiaries 4.2 IFRS 10 Other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. Interest-bearing liabilities include bonds, loans takNon-controlling interests and transactions Subsidiaries 4.2 IFRS 10 en for aircraft financing (JOLCO-loans), bank loans, finance lease liabilities, commercial papers and loans from internal bank with non-controlling interests (“huoltokonttori”). Interest-bearing net debt is the net amount of interest-bearing assets and liabilities and cross-currency inInvestments in associates and joint ventures Investments in associates and joint ventures 4.4 IFRS 11 terest rate swaps that are used for hedging the currency and interest rate risk of interest-bearing loans. Income and deferred taxes Income taxes 5.1 IAS 12 Presentation of alternative performance measures Description of the company Finnair has adopted the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures published by the European Securities Markets Authority (ESMA), effective from 3rd of July 2016 onwards. Finnair uses alternative performance measures referred to in the Guidelines to describe its operational and financial performance, to provide a comparable view of its business and to enable better comparability relative to its industry peers. The alternative performance measures do not replace IFRS indicators. With a view to the Guidelines, Finnair has renamed its non-recurring items as “Items affecting comparability” and reconciled those in the note 1.3.6 Items excluded from the comparable operating result. In the same context, Finnair also clarified the calculation of interest-bearing liabilities, net debt and adjusted gearing by giving additional information to the balance sheet. Furthermore, Finnair no longer presents “Result for the period per share, EUR” as a supplementary indicator to the EPS (Earnings per Share). FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 Use of estimates 1 Segments and operating result The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS standards requires Group management to make certain estimates and judgements in applying the accounting principles. Information about the judgement exercised by management in Operating result include notes related to revenue and operating result from the point of view of income statement and balance sheet. applying the Group’s accounting principles and the areas where estimates and judgements have biggest impact in the financial statements are presented in the following paragraph Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. 1.1 Segment information Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty Segment reporting The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions relating to the future, and the actual Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker. outcome may differ from the estimates and assumptions made. In addition, discretion has to be exercised in applying the acThe chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, counting principles of the financial statements. Estimates are based on management’s best estimate at the balance sheet date. has been identified as the Group’s Executive Board. Segments are defined based on Group’s business areas. Group has one business and Changes in estimates and assumptions effect the financial statements in the period the changes occur, and in all the subsereporting segment: Airline business. quent financial periods. Due to Finnair’s recent business developments and restructuring of organisation, Finnair Executive Board, defined as the chief The identified main critical estimates and sources of uncertainty are presented in connection to the items considered to be affected, operative decision maker according to IFRS 8 Segment reporting, considers the business as one operating segment. Thereattached to the corresponding note. The table below shows where to find more information about those presentations. fore, segment information is no longer reported. The previous operational segment Travel Services is combined with the Airline Business segment, since management sees Travel Services as one sales channel in airline business instead of considering it as separate business line and thus operating segment. Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty Note number Note The revenue by product is presented in the note 1.2.1 Revenue by product and by geographical area in the note 1.2.2 ReveFinnair Plus Customer Loyalty Program 1.2 Operating income nue by traffic area. The division is based on the destination of the Finnair flight. Finnair operates international and domestic Maintenance reserves of the fleet 1.3.5 Provisions routes but the assets are almost solely owned in Finland. The fleet composes major part of the non-current assets (see note 2.1 Tangible assets). Fleet is owned or leased by Finnair’s Finnish subsidiary and the aircraft are operated flexibly across difPension obligations 1.3.7.2 Pensions ferent traffic (geographical) areas. More details about fleet management and ownership can be found in the management reImpairment testing 2.1 Tangible assets port in the section “Fleet”. Judgements of classifying lease arrangements 2.2 Leasing arrangements Finnair transported more than 10 million passengers in 2016. Due to the large number of customers and nature of business, Deferred taxes 5.1 Income taxes sales to any individual customer is not material compared to Finnair’s total revenue. Revenue and comparable operating result Revenue by traffic area Revenue and comparable operating result (unaudited) Revenue by traffic area (unaudited) € million € million € million € million 700 2,500 2,317 700 622 641 2,500 2,255 2,317 600 622 568 570 641 570 2,255 600 521 544 568 536 570 570 544 536 2,000 500 521 2,000 500 400 1,500 400 1,500 300 300 200 1,000 200 1,000 100 37 53 54 55 100 -31 -24 14 24 53 54 55 500 14 24 37 500 0 -31 -24 0 +2,4%* –100 +2,4%* 0 –100Q1 Q1 20 20 0 2015 11 2016 2015 2016 Q2 Q215 15 20 20 15 15 Q3 Q3 20 20 Q4 Q415 15 20 20 Q1 Q115 15 20 20 Q2 Q216 16 20 20 16 16 Q3 Q3 20 20 16 16 Asia Domestic Q4 Q4 20 20 16 16 Passenger revenue Travel services Asia Domestic Passenger revenue Travel services North Atlantic Unallocated Ancillary and retail Travel agencies North Atlantic Unallocated = Critical accounting estimates Ancillary and retail Travel agencies Europe revenue Comparable operating result for Europe = Content of the section revenue 1 Cargo Comparable operating result for the last 12 months Revenue from non-core businesses is reclassified from = Accounting principles Cargo the last 12 months revenue to other operating income. Comparative periods * Comparable operating result -% have been restated accordingly from the beginning of 2015 * Comparable operating result -% onwards. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 42 1.2 Operating income 1.2.1 Revenue by product Operating income section includes both income statement and balance sheet notes that relate to revenue. The aim is to provide more coherent EUR mill. 2016 2015 picture of income related items effecting Finnair’s result and financial position. Trade receivables and deferred income containing mainly prepaid Passenger revenue 1,816.1 1,766.0 flight tickets and travel tour services are presented in connection with this section, because those are an essential part in revenue recognition. Ancillary and retail revenue 125.5 103.2 Cargo 173.8 183.7 Revenue recognition Travel services 187.5 177.8 Revenue is recognised when goods or services are delivered. Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivTravel agencies 13.8 23.8 able, net of discounts and indirect taxes. Total 2,316.8 2,254.5 Passenger revenue includes sale of flight tickets, and is recognised as revenue when the flight is flown in accordance with the flight traffic program. Unused tickets are recognised as revenue when the ticket expires and Finnair has no obligation to return the considFinnair traffic grew and revenue increased in all the product categories but Cargo and Travel agencies. Cargo revenue suffered eration to customer. from low market yields, and decrease in travel agencies revenue is explained by the sale of subsidiaries. Travel agency called Passenger revenue is deducted with the costs resulting from Finnair Plus’ Customer Loyalty Program. Finnair loyalty customers can Estravel AS was sold at the end of 2015. At the end of 2016 Finnair also sold another travel agency and subsidiary, SMT Oy, afearn Finnair Plus Points from tickets or services purchased, and use the earned points to buy services and products offered by Finnair ter which Finnair does not have any travel agency operations. or its cooperation partners. The points earned are fair valued according to IFRIC 13, and recognised as a decrease of revenue and debt Finnair has revised the calculation of revenue. From the beginning of 2016 onwards, revenue from non-core businesses, at the time when the points-earning event (for example, flight is flown) is recognised as revenue. Fair value is measured by taking into mainly including aircraft leasing income, is reclassified from revenue to other operating income. Comparative periods have been account the fair value of those awards that can be purchased with the points and the customer selection between different awards based restated accordingly. The changes are described in more detail in Note 5.4 Restatement of operating income and key ratios. on historical customer behaviour. In addition, the fair valuation takes into account the expiring of the points. The debt is derecognised when the points are used to buy a service or a good (awards). 1.2.2 Revenue by traffic area Ancillary revenue includes sale of ticket related services, like advance seat reservations, additional baggage fees as well as different service fees, and sale of goods in the aircraft. The service revenue is recognised when the service has been performed and the sale of 2016 goods when the goods are delivered to the customer. Share, % of North revenue by Cargo revenue is recognised when the cargo has been delivered to the customer. EUR mill. Asia Atlantic Europe Domestic Unallocated Total product Tour operations revenue includes sale of travel packages and is recognised as revenue at the date of the departure. Travel agency Passenger revenue 739.5 115.7 761.0 165.1 34.9 1‚816.1 78.4 revenue is recognised at the time of sale. In commission based sales, only the part of commission is included in the revenue. Ancillary and retail revenue 27.5 4.6 35.8 3.5 54.1 125.5 5.4 Cargo 134.5 11.1 15.8 4.0 8.4 173.8 7.5 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at fair value. When the Group has objective evidence that it may not be able to collect all trade reTravel services 35.5 11.4 139.2 0.5 1.0 187.5 8.1 ceivables that are due, a bad debt provision is recognised. Financial difficulties that indicate that a customer is going into bankruptcy, Travel agencies 13.8 13.8 0.6 financial restructuring or substantial delays in payments are examples of objective evidence that might cause trade receivables to be Total 937.0 142.7 951.8 173.0 112.2 2‚316.8 impaired. Impairment of trade receivables is recognised in other operating expenses. Share, % of revenue 40.4 6.2 41.1 7.5 4.8 by traffic area Finnair Plus Customer Loyalty Program The division of revenue by traffic area is based on the destination of the Finnair flight. Valuation and revenue recognition related to Finnair Plus debt requires management judgment especially related to fair valuation of points and timing of revenue recognition related to points expected to expire. The fair value of the point is defined by allocating the 2015 point to award selection based on historical behaviour of customers, after which the fair value of each award is defined. The liability is Share, % of calculated by taking the total amount of points earned by customers, decreased with the expected expiring of the points. These points North revenue by EUR mill. Asia Atlantic Europe Domestic Unallocated Total product are then fair valued as described above, and the result is recognised as liability at balance sheet. Passenger revenue 729.7 105.6 738.0 155.9 36.9 1,766.0 78.3 Ancillary and retail revenue 19.6 3.4 29.5 2.6 48.1 103.2 4.6 Cargo 143.2 12.7 16.6 4.6 6.7 183.7 8.1 Travel services 30.8 9.3 132.9 0.9 4.0 177.8 7.9 Travel agencies 23.8 23.8 1.1 = Content of the section Total 923.2 130.9 916.9 164.0 119.5 2,254.5 = Accounting principles Share, % of revenue 41.0 5.8 40.7 7.3 5.3 = Critical accounting estimates by traffic area FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 1.2.3 Revenue by currency Trade receivables by currency EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR 1,308.0 1,303.3 EUR 60.5 69.9 JPY 202.0 191.4 USD 5.5 6.2 CNY 158.5 163.0 JPY 5.1 5.4 SEK 123.4 110.3 CNY 4.3 6.0 USD 101.6 57.6 GBP 3.7 2.8 GBP 70.4 65.7 SEK 3.3 4.3 Other currencies 352.7 363.3 Other currencies 16.1 18.3 Total 2,316.8 2,254.5 Total 98.6 113.0 Hedging policies of currency are described in the note 3.5 Management of financial risks. Revenue by product Revenue by traffic area Revenue by product Revenue by traffic area € million € million 1.2.4 Trade and other receivables € million € million 22 10 9 EUR mill. 2016 2015 22 10 2,317 35 9 2,317 2,317 35 2,317 Trade receivables 98.6 113.0 50 -10 -10 -7 -10 -10 -7 Prepaid expenses, accrued income and other receivables total 113.4 95.5 50 Accrued income 55.8 51.6 12 12 Prepaid aircraft operating leases 6.6 7.4 14 Interest and other financial items 5.7 3.2 14 2,255 2,255 Employee benefit related receivables 5.0 7.6 2,255 2,255 VAT receivables 4.2 8.1 Other items 36.1 17.7 Total 211.9 208.5 Pa Pa C Ca 20 20 A A Eu Eu 20 20 An An sse sse 201 201 Tr Tra arg rgo N o N o s ia s ia ro ro pe pe 15 115 1 av ve o c il c il n g n g 5 1 5 1 el l s s e er Tr Tra r vic vice rt rt Do Do m m 16 16 The fair value of trade and other receivables do not materially differ from balance sheet value. Other items have increased la la r e r e r av ve e el l a s s h h At At es es Un Un tic tic r y y r re a g ge la la al al lo lo a n a n eve ve en nc nt nt ca ca due to prepaid aircraft maintenance at the end of 2016. d d r nu nu cie ie s s* * ic ic te te d d re e t e e 20 201 t a ai 16 6 il r l r ev eve Aging analysis of trade receivables 2016 2015 en nu ue e * *RRevenue evenue ofoftravel travelagencies agencieshave has decreased due to sale of subsidiaries. Finnair does not have any travel agency operations after these Not overdue 91.3 98.4 subsidiaries in 2015agencies and 2016. After Octoberdue 2016 *disposals. Revenue of travel has decreased to Finnair sale of does Overdue less than 60 days 5.6 1.9 1  not have anyin subsidiaries 2015agency travel and operations 2016. After after these October 2016 disposals. Finnair does Revenue from non-core businesses is reclassified from revenue to other operating income. Comparative periods have been restated Overdue more than 60 days 1.7 12.7 not have any accordingly fromtravel agency operations the beginning after these disposals. of 2015 onwards. Total 98.6 113.0 1.2.5 Deferred income and advances received The Group has recognised a total of 1.3 million euros (2.4) of credit losses from trade receivables during the financial year. Trade receivables do not contain significant credit risk because of diversity in customer basis. The maximum exposure to credEUR mill. 2016 2015 it risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount of trade receivables. The Group does not hold any collateral as security reDeferred revenue on ticket sales 348.5 301.7 lated to trade receivables. Loyalty program Finnair Plus 33.4 31.9 Advances received for tour operations 30.4 30.8 Other items 12.4 10.4 Total 424.6 374.8 Deferred income and advances received includes prepaid, yet unflown flight tickets and package tours, whose departure date is in the future. Finnair Plus liability is related to Finnair’s customer loyalty program, and equals to the fair value of the earned unused Finnair Plus points. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 44 1.3 Operating expenses 1.3.2 Leasing expenses Operating expenses section includes the income statement and balance sheet notes related to operating expenses, aiming to provide betEUR mill. 2016 2015 ter overview of business operations and related expenses. Maintenance provisions of leased aircraft that inherently relate to aircraft overhaul Leasing payments for cargo capacity 10.3 11.1 costs are included in this operating expenses section. Accrued expenses, like liabilities related to jet fuel and traffic charges, are also presented Payments for purchase traffic and wet leases 123.2 116.3 in this section. All the income statement and balance sheet items related to employee benefits are also presented at the end of this section as Office and other rents 34.0 32.0 a separate note. Employee benefits include the different forms of benefits, like share-based payments and pensions as well as their effect to staff costs and balance sheet, as well as information on management remuneration. Other rents total (included in operational EBITDAR) 167.4 159.4 Lease payments for aircraft (dry leases) 109.5 99.3 1.3.1 Operational expenses by currency Total 276.9 258.7 EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR 1,270.4 1,211.3 1.3.3 Other expenses USD 892.7 919.2 Other currencies 173.9 185.4 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Total 2,337.1 2,316.0 IT expenses and booking fees 107.5 93.2 Realised currency hedging -13.8 -33.4 Hedging policies of currency are described in the note 3.5 Management of financial risks. Other items 172.9 159.5 Total 266.6 219.3 Currency hedging of operating cash flow don’t qualify for hedge accounting and the realised fair value changes are recognised in other expenses. Operational expenses Operational expenses by currency Audit fees in other expenses Operational expenses by currency € million % EUR mill. 2016 2015 % PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy 2,500 2,316.0 2,337.1 Auditor's fees 0.2 0.2 Tax advising 0.1 0.1 2,000 Other fees 0.2 0.2 1,500 Total 0.5 0.5 1,000 1.3.4 Other liabilities 500 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Jet fuels and traffic charges 67.8 67.2 0 Liabilities for tour operations 11.2 9.8 15 16 Aircraft materials and overhaul 15.3 5.4 EUR 54% EUR Interest and other financial items 5.4 5.0 Staff costs, change +3% Expenses for tour operations, USD 54% 38% change +10% USD Other items 61.5 61.4 Fuel costs, change -17% Other38% currencies 7% Other rents, change +5% Sales and marketing Other currencies 7% Total 161.1 148.7 expenses, change +4% Aircraft materials and overhaul, change +24% Other expenses, change +22% Other items consists of several items, none of which are individually significant. Traffic charges, change +2% Lease payments for aircraft, change +10% Ground handling and catering expenses, change +3% Depreciation and impairment, change -2% FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 1.3.5 Provisions 1.3.6 Items excluded from comparable operating result Provisions Comparable operating result aims to provide a comparable view on business development between periods. Therefore unreProvisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as the result of a past event, the fulfilment of alised fair value changes of derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied, are not included in the comparable operating the payment obligation is probable, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. The amount to be recognised result, as the business transactions which they are hedging are recognised to the comparable operating result only when they as provision corresponds to the management’s best estimate of the expenses that will be necessary to meet the obligation at the end occur. The treatment of realised gains and losses on these derivatives is described in the note 3.8 Derivatives. of the reporting period. Further, unrealised exchange rate differences of foreign currency denominated aircraft maintenance provisions are not inThe Group is obliged to return leased aircraft and their engines according to the redelivery condition set in the lease agreement. If at cluded in the comparable operating result. The maintenance provisions realise during a long period of time in the future, at the time of redelivery, the condition of the aircraft and its engines differs from the agreed redelivery condition, Finnair needs to either the time of maintenance event or redelivery of the aircraft. Aircraft overhaul costs are mainly denominated in US dollars. The maintain the aircraft so that it meets the agreed redelivery condition or settle the difference in cash to the lessor. To fulfil these mainmaintenance provision changes due to fluctuation of US dollar, but the changes are not included in the comparable operating tenance obligations, the Group has recognised airframe heavy maintenance, engine performance maintenance and engine life limited result until the maintenance event or redelivery occurs and the exchange rate differences realise. part provisions. The provision is defined as the difference between the current condition and redelivery condition of these maintenance In addition to above, items affecting comparability (earlier non-recurring items) are not included in the comparable opercomponents. The provision is accrued based on flight hours flown until the next maintenance event or the redelivery and recognised in ating result. These items affecting comparability are divided into three categories: gains and losses on aircraft transactions, the aircraft overhaul costs in the income statement. The provision is reversed at the maintenance event or redelivery. The price for the gains and losses on other transactions, and restructuring costs. Gains and losses on transactions include sales gains and losses flight hour depends on the market price development of the maintenance costs. Estimated future cash flows are discounted to the presas well as other items that can be considered to be directly related the sale of the asset. For example, a write-down that might ent value. The maintenance market prices are mainly denominated in US dollars, which is why the amount of maintenance provision occur when an asset is classified as “Assets held for sale” in accordance with IFRS 5, is included in gains and losses on the transchanges due to currency fluctuation of the dollar. The unrealised changes in currencies are recognised in items affecting comparability actions. Restructuring costs include termination benefits and other costs that directly related to the restructuring of operations. in the Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls. Restructuring provisions are recognised when the Group has prepared a detailed restructuring plan and has begun to implement EUR mill. 2016 2015 the plan or has announced it. Unrealised changes in foreign currencies of fleet overhaul provisions -2.0 -10.1 Fair value changes of derivatives where hedge accounting is not applied 34.0 -2.1 Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet Aircraft Aircraft overhauls total 32.0 -12.3 maintenance Other maintenance Other EUR mill. provision provisions 2016 provision provisions 2015 Provision at the beginning of period 86.8 7.1 94.0 82.5 13.8 96.3 Gains and losses on aircraft transactions 26.6 101.7 Provision for the period 43.2 1.0 44.2 30.6 4.4 35.0 Gains and losses on other transactions 3.8 19.8 Provision used -50.4 -3.9 -54.3 -36.5 -11.1 -47.5 Restructuring costs -1.4 -11.3 Exhange rate differences 2.0 2.0 10.1 10.1 Items affecting comparability total 29.0 110.2 Total 81.6 4.2 85.8 86.8 7.1 94.0 Of which non-current 61.5 2.1 63.6 52.0 3.7 55.7 Of which current 20.1 2.1 22.2 34.8 3.5 38.3 Total 81.6 4.2 85.8 86.8 7.1 94.0 Non-current aircraft maintenance provisions are expected to be used by 2028. Other provisions include items related to group’s restructurings. Aircraft maintenance provision The measurement of aircraft maintenance provision requires management judgement especially related to timing of maintenance events and valuation of maintenance costs occurring in the future. The future maintenance costs and their timing are dependent on, for example, how future traffic plans actually realise, market price development of maintenance costs and the actual condition of the aircraft at the time of maintenance event. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 46 1.3.7 Employee benefits In Finnair, the total salary of personnel consists of fixed pay, allowances, short-and long-term incentives, fringe benefits and other personnel benefits. The total amount of short-term incentives recognised for 2016 were 7.1 million euro (6.3). In addition 1.3.7.1 Employee benefit expenses and share-based payments to staff cots, items affecting comparability include personnel related restructuring costs of 1.7 million euros (2.9) as agreed in the Group’s statutory employer-employee negotiations. Including items affecting comparability, total staff costs amounted to 364.2 million euros (356.1). Share-based payments Finnair provides a number of share-based compensation plans for its employees, under which the Group receives services from emTransfer to Personnel Fund ployees as consideration for share-based payments. Regarding share-based incentive plans for key personnel and pilots, the awards are Finnair has a Personnel Fund that is owned and controlled by the personnel. A share of Finnair’s profits is allocated to the fund. paid only if performance criteria set by the Board of Directors is met. Share-based savings plan for employees (FlyShare) requires the The share of profit allocated to the fund is determined based on the targets set by the Board of Directors. The participants of employees to remain in Finnair’s service for the defined period, but payment does not depend on any performance criteria. the performance share plan (LTI) are not members of the Personnel Fund. Personnel Fund is obliged to invest part of the boThe total expense for share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified nus in Finnair Plc’s shares. In 2016, the comparable operating result exceeded the limit set by the board of directors. Therefore vesting conditions are to be satisfied. The portion of the earned reward that the participants receive in shares is accounted for as an Finnair has recognised 0.5 million euro to the staff costs and liability, to be transferred to the personnel fund. In 2015 profits equity settled transaction, and the portion of the earned reward settled in cash covering the tax and other charges, is accounted for as were not allocated to the fund, because the set performance criteria were not met. cash settled transaction. The equity-settled share awards are valued based on the market price of the Finnair share as of the grant date, and recognised as an employee benefit expense over the vesting period with corresponding entry in the equity. The liability resulting from the cash-settled transactions is measured based on the market price of the Finnair share at the balance sheet date and accrued as Liabilities related to employee benefits an employee benefit expense for service period with corresponding entry in the liabilities until the settlement date. EUR mill. 2016 2015 Termination benefits Holiday payment reserve 62.0 62.0 Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an Other employee related accrued expenses 31.4 29.0 employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognises termination benefits when it is demonLiabilities related to employee benefits 93.4 91.0 strably committed to a termination. Group is demonstrably committed when it has a detailed formal plan to terminate the employment of current employees without possibility of withdrawal. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the Other employee related accrued expenses mainly include witholding tax and accrued expenses related to social security costs. In termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. addition, restructuring provisions related to termination benefits (see note 1.3.5 Provisions) amounted to 3.5 million euros (5.5). Accounting principles related to pension benefits are described in the note 1.3.7.2 Pensions. Management remuneration The President and CEO and Executive Board remuneration Staff costs President President and CEO and CEO Pekka Executive Total Pekka Executive Total EUR mill. 2016 2015 Thousand euros Vauramo Board 2016 Vauramo Board 2015 Wages and salaries 281.2 277.1 Fixed pay 649 1,687 2,336 649 1,196 1,845 Pension expenses 61.0 57.0 Short-term incentives* 196 552 748 235 352 588 Defined contribution schemes 50.6 40.9 Fringe benefits 2 79 82 3 61 63 Defined-benefit schemes 10.4 16.2 Termination benefits 360 360 369 369 Other social expenses 20.3 19.0 Share-based payments 172 222 394 115 182 297 Total 362.5 353.2 Pensions (statutory)** 159 410 570 153 277 429 Staff costs included in items affecting comparability 1.7 2.9 Pensions (voluntary, defined contribution) 124 93 217 69 69 Total staff costs in income statement 364.2 356.1 Total 1,303 3,404 4,707 1,155 2,506 3,661 * Short-term incentives for the financial year 2016 are estimates as at the balance sheet date the final review of targes has not been done. Short-term incentives for 2015 realised according to what was presented in the 2015 financial statements. ** Statutory pensions include Finnair’s share of the payment to Finnish statutory “Tyel”-pension plan. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 Management remuneration is presented on an accrual basis. Share-based payments include LTI-plans and employee Board are required to accumulate and, once achieved, to maintain, a share ownership in Finnair corresponding to his or her share savings plans and are recognised over the vesting period until the end of lock-up period, according to IFRS 2. annual base salary as long as he or she holds a position as a member of Finnair’s Executive Board. Therefore the costs accrued and recognised for the financial year include effects from several share-based payment plans The potential reward will be delivered in Finnair shares. The shares are delivered to the participants during the year followindependent of when the shares are delivered. Management has not been provided any other long-term incentives in ing the performance period. addition to share-based payments. If the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the target level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares to the President The voluntary pension plans of the CEO and three members of the Executive Board have been arranged through Finnish and CEO or other member of the Executive Board participating in the program will be 30% of his or her annual base salary. If pension insurance company. For the CEO, the retirement age is the earliest possible statutory retirement age, and for the three the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the maximum level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares will be 60% of the members of the Executive Board it is 63. The plans are defined contribution plans. participant’s annual base salary. The target level for incentives for other key personnel is 20–25% of the person’s average anMore information on share-based payment schemes can be found later in this note and in a separate Remuneration statenual base salary according to the job grade. ment. Remuneration statement also includes information on remuneration policies and structures and compensation paid to According to the rules of the share plan, the maximum value of shares delivered to an individual participant based on the senior management. share plan in any given year may not exceed 60% of the person’s annual base salary. The amounts of shares paid are stated before tax. The number of shares delivered will be deducted by an amount corresponding to the income tax and transfer tax Remuneration paid to Board of Directors payable for the incentive at the time of payment. The performance criteria applied to the plan 2013–2015 were the Group’s relative operating EBIT margin growth and deCompensation paid for board service, Total Fixed Meeting Fringe Total EUR 2016 remuneration compensation benefits 2015 crease in unit costs in European traffic. These two criteria were assigned weights of 60 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively. The achieved pay-out rate of the plan was 27 per cent of the maximum. As Finnair has adopted a program consisting of annually Board of Directors 422,895 248,400 153,000 21,495 383,015 commencing individual plans at 2013, and the share plan will not be in full effect until 2018, the 2013 plan included a a bridge Friman Maija-Liisa 47,548 32,400 10,800 4,348 element to supplement payments in 2016 and 2017. The performance criterion for this bridge element was the comparable opHeinemann Klaus 82,800 61,200 21,600 0 erating result margin but the criterion was not met. Itävuori Jussi 75,148 32,400 36,000 6,748 The performance criteria applied to the plans 2014–2016, 2015–2017 and 2016–2018 are Return on Capital Employed (ROCE, Karvinen Jouko, from 17th of March onwards 54,129 24,300 26,400 3,429 weight 50%) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR, weight 50%). The target levels and maximum levels set for the criteria are Kerminen Harri, until 17th of March 12,900 8,100 4,800 0 based on the long-term strategic objectives set by the company’s Board of Directors. Criteria are monitored against the perKronman Gunvor 43,314 30,000 10,800 2,514 formance on a quarterly basis. Tuominen Jaana 45,257 30,000 10,800 4,457 Turner Nigel 61,800 30,000 31,800 0 Finnair share-based payment plans The compensation paid to the members of the Board of Directors include annual remuneration and meeting compensation. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to a compensation for travel expenses in accordance with Finnair’s general travel rules. In addition, the members of the Board of Directors and their spouses have a limited right to use staff tickets in LTI 2010–2012 accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rules. Under the rules, the Directors and their spouses are entitled to four return or eight LTI 2013–2015 one-way tickets on Finnair flights per calendar year in Economy or Business Class. The fare of these tickets is zero, exclusive of LTI 2014–2016 any airport taxes, fees and charges, which are payable by the Directors and their spouses. These tickets constitute taxable inLTI 2015–2017 come in Finland and are reported as fringe benefits in the table above. LTI 2016–2018 Share-based payments Pilots’ share plan The note below provides description and information on effects of the Group’s share-based incentive schemes. More information on share-based personnel bonus schemes can be found in Remuneration statement. Performance share plan for key personnel (LTI) from 2013 onwards Finnair’s share based incentive plan is a performance-based, annually commencing long-term incentive (LTI) arrangement. Each share based incentive arrangement is divided into four-six-year share plan, and the commencement of each new plan is subject to Fly Share 2013 a separate decision made by Finnair’s Board of Directors. The first plan commenced in 2013, and at the end of 2016 there are four Fly Share 2014 plans ongoing (plans with measurement periods of 2013-2015, 2014–2016, 2015–2017, 2016–2018). The purpose of these plans is Fly Share 2015 to encourage the management to work to increase long-term shareholder value. The share plan is in line with the statement by Fly Share 2016 the Finnish Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy regarding the remuneration of executive management and key individuals. Each LTI plan contains a three-year performance period which is followed by a restriction period, during which the participant may not sell or transfer the shares received as a reward. The restriction period is three years for the members of Finnair’s Earnings / savings period Lock-up period for Cash reward Executive Board and one year for other participants. In addition, the President and CEO, and members of Finnair’s Executive Lock-up period Executive Board Share delivery FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 48 The total expense for the share-based payments is recognised over the vesting period (4–6 years). The compensation is Long-term incentive plan for pilots measured during performance period in cash, and only after performance period at grant date translated into shares. ThereThe Finnair Board of Directors approved in 2014 a long-term incentive plan for Finnair pilots as part of the savings agreement fore the whole cost effect is recognised as debt until the end of performance period (grant date), and the debt is divided into between Finnair and the Finnish Air Line Pilots’ Association (SLL). The plan period is 2015–2018 and the prerequisite for reequity settled and cash settled part only at grant date. At the same time, the equity settled part is recognised in equity. The warding pilots based on this plan is the materialisation of the agreed cost savings over this time period. In addition, the comexpense recognised for 2016 amounted to 1.2 million euros (1.0). pany share price must at least be 4 euros at the end of the incentive plan. If these conditions are met, the pilots are entitled to a cash payment based on the Finnair share price. The total reward to pilots amounts to 12 million euros if the share price is 4 euros or a maximum of 24 million euros, if the share price reaches at least 8 euros. Finnair has hedged against the additional 2013–2015* 2014–2016 2015–2017 2016–2018 Total cost effects above the 4 euro share price with a market-based call option. Maximum earning, million euros 1.9 2.2 2.6 3.3 9.8 The plan is considered as cash-settled share-based arrangement. The cost effects are accrued over the vesting period from Maximum earning, million shares 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.8 2.4 grant date onwards (2014–2018), and the corresponding liability is fair valued at each reporting date. The 2016 closing rate of Target earning, million euros 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.6 4.9 Finnair’s share (4.03 euro) was above the minimum required level (4 euro). The liability accrued by the end of 2016 amountTarget earning, million shares 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.4 1.2 ed to 6.1 million euro (4.5). The cost recognised in comparable operating result for 2016, net of hedging effects, amounted to Expenses recognised for the financial year, LTI’s 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.2 1.2 2.9 million euro (3.2). total (million euros) of which share-settled (recognised as debt 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.8 1.3.7.2 Pensions until grant date) of which cash-settled 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.4 Defined benefit and defined contribution plans Liability related to LTI’s at closing the date 0.0 1.0 0.5 0.2 1.8 Pension plans are classified as defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Payments made into defined contribution pension plans Shares granted, million shares 0.1 0.1 are recognised in the income statement in the period to which the payment applies. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount * For the 2013-2015 plan, the shares were granted during 2016. No more shares will be granted based on the plan. The achieved pay-out of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service rate of the 2013-2015 plan was 27 per cent of the maximum. and compensation. Current service cost is the present value of the post employment benefit, which is earned by the employees during the year and it is recognised as staff cost. The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined pension plans is the present FlyShare employee share savings plan 2013 onwards value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation Finnair offers an annually commencing share savings plan for its employees. Commencing of each plan is subject to the deciis calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit oblision of Finnair’s Board of Directors. First plan commenced in 2013, and for the time being there are three plans ongoing. The gations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are deobjective of the plan is to encourage employees to become shareholders in the company, and to thereby strengthen the emnominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related ployees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and reward them in the long-term. pension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged Each plan consists of one year savings period followed by two year lock-up period. Through the plan, each eligible Finnair or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. employee is offered the opportunity to save part of his or her salary to be invested in Finnair shares. The maximum monthly savings are 8 per cent and the minimum 2 per cent of each participant’s gross base salary per month, with the annual maximum savings set at 8,000 euros per participant. Shares are purchased with the accumulated savings at the market price quarterly, after the release of Finnair’s interim reports. The present value of the pension obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a Finnair awards 20 bonus shares to each employee that participates in the plan for the first time, and continues savings at number of assumptions. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of pension obligations. The note below inleast the first three months of the plan. The bonus shares are delivered in October each year, and the effect is recognised as cludes a description of exposure to most significant risks and a sensitivity analysis on impacts of changes in actuarial assumptions. expense for the period. The plan lasts for three years, and Finnair awards each participating employee with one share for each two shares purchased and held at the end of three-year period. The awarded bonus and additional shares are taxable income Description of pension plans in Finnair for the recipient. The cost related to additional shares delivered is recognised as expense during vesting period. The statutory pension cover of the employees of the Group’s Finnish companies has been arranged in a Finnish pension insurance company. The statutory pension cover is a defined-contribution plan. The Group’s foreign sales offices and subsidiaries have Effect of FlyShare share savings plan on Group's results and financial position, various defined contribution plans that comply with local rules and practices. The voluntary pension plans of the CEO and three million euros 2016 2015 members of the Executive Board are arranged in a pension insurance company. The retirement age of the CEO is the earliest posTotal Income statement effect of share-based payments 0.9 1.6 sible statutory retirement age, and for the three members it is 63 years. These pension plans are defined-contribution schemes. Other (voluntary) pension cover of the Group’s domestic companies has been arranged mainly in Finnair Plc’s Pension Fund, in of which, share-settled 0.7 0.5 which the pension schemes are defined-benefit plans. These pension plans cover old age pensions, disability and survivors’ penof which, cash-settled 0.1 1.2 sions. The pension fund is fully funded in accordance with the provisions of Finnish law. 700 Finnair pilots have, in addition to Liabiltity related to share-based payments at the closing date 1.0 1.3 voluntary pension arranged in Finnair Pension Fund, special defined-benefit pension scheme. This scheme applies only to pilots who work older than 58 years of age. Voluntary pensions of pilots recruited in 2015 or later are defined contribution schemes. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49 Exposure to most significant risks The net defined benefit liability in 2016 includes 29.7 million euro (2.6) related to defined benefit plans insured through the penVolatility of plan assets: Some of the plan assets are invested in equities which causes volatility but is in the long run expectsion fund and 2.2 million euro (1.7) related to other defined benefit plans. The pension obligation increased during 2016 mainly ed to provide higher returns than corporate bonds. The discount rate of plan obligations is defined based on the interest rates due to changes in actuarial assumptions, such as decrease in discount rate from 2.0% to 1.52%. These effects are included in of corporate bonds. the amount recognised through other comprehensive income as actuarial gains and losses. Changes in bond yield: A decrease in corporate bond yields increases plan obligations due to the fact that the pension obliIn Finnish national pension system the mortality rate used was updated from 31st of December 2016 onwards. The redefined gation is discounted to net present value with a rate that is based on corporate bond rates. This increase in plan obligations is assumption was applied in accounting of IFRS pension liability already in the financial statements of 2015. The amendment to partially mitigated by a corresponding increase in the value of corporate bonds in plan assets. the Finnish employee pension legislation, passed by Finnish Parliament in November 2015 and effective from 2017 onwards, Life expectancy: The most significant part of the provided pension benefits relate to old age pensions. Therefore, an increase did not have an effect to Finnair defined benefit plans and supplementary pensions. in life expectancy rate results in an increase of plan obligations. Inflation risk: Pension obligations are linked to inflation which is why higher inflation leads to increased obligations. As only Changes in pension obligations some of the plan assets increase with inflation, an increase in inflation will likely decrease the solvency of the pension plan. EUR mill. 2016 2015 Defined benefit pension plans Fair value of pension obligations at 1 January 426.3 436.0 Current service costs 9.7 9.2 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Past service cost 0.7 5.3 Items recognised in the income statement Settlements and curtailments 1.7 Current service costs 9.7 9.2 Interest expense 8.3 9.0 Past service cost 0.7 5.3 Disposal of a subsidiary* -7.2 Settlements and curtailments 0.0 1.7 Expense recognised in income statement 11.4 25.1 Service cost total, recognised in staff costs 10.4 16.2 Changes in actuarial assumptions 19.1 -18.3 The defined benefits related to sold subsidiaries, net (recognised as items affecting comparability in the income statement) -0.6 Experience adjustment on plan obligation 1.6 2.8 Net interest expenses 0.1 0.5 Remeasurements recognised through OCI 20.7 -15.5 Total recognised in income statement 9.8 16.7 Benefits paid -19.7 -19.3 Net present value of pension obligations 438.9 426.3 Amounts recognised through other comprehensive income Experience adjustment on plan obligation 1.6 2.8 Changes in plan assets Changes is financial actuarial assumptions 19.1 -28.9 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Changes in demographical actuarial assumptions 0.0 10.6 Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 422.0 410.7 Net return on plan assets -2.7 -22.2 Interest income 8.2 8.4 Transfer of actuarial items related to terminated plan to retained earnings -0.1 Disposal of a subsidiary* -6.6 Amounts recognised through other comprehensive income total 18.1 -37.7 Items recognised through profit and loss 1.6 8.4 Acturial gain (loss) on plan assets 2.7 22.2 Number of persons involved, pension fund 4,732 4,797 Items recognised through OCI 2.7 22.2 Other defined benefit plans, persons involved 21 10 Contributions paid 0.4 0.0 Benefits paid -19.7 -19.3 Items recognised in the balance sheet Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 407.0 422.0 EUR mill. 2016 2015 *Finnair sold its subsidiary SMT Oy during 2016. The pension obligations and assets related to SMT’s personnel were transferred from FinPresent value of funded obligations 438.9 426.3 nair Pension Fund to an insurance company at the time of sale. The difference between amount of assets and liabilities transferred, 0.6 million euro, was recognised as an adjustment of the sales gain, included in the items affecting comparability. Fair value of plan assets -407.0 -422.0 Net defined benefit liability 31.9 4.4 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 50 Plan assets are comprised as follows Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis describes the effect of change in actuarial assumptions to net defined benefit obligation. The analyses are % 2016 2015 based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. The method used is the same as that which Listed shares 21.0 21.4 has been applied when measuring the defined benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet. Debt instruments 53.0 53.6 Property 18.4 17.5 Sensitivity analysis on principal actuarial assumptions Other 7.6 7.5 Total 100.0 100.0 Impact when increase Impact when decrease Change in in assumption, in assumption, Actuarial assumption assumption EUR mill. % EUR mill. % Plan assets of the pension fund include Finnair Plc shares with a fair value of 0.6 million euros (0.6) and buildings used by the Discount rate % 0.25% -14.9 -3.5% 15.8 3.7% Group with a fair value of 2.0 million euros (2.0). Annual rate of future salary increases % 0.25% 4.6 1.1% -4.5 -1.1% Defined benefit plans: principal actuarial assumptions Future pension increases % 0.25% 11.1 2.6% -10.8 -2.5% 2016 2015 Life expectancy at birth 1 year 12.1 2.9% -11.8 -2.8% Discount rate % 1.52% 2.0% According to Finnish legislation, pension fund needs to be fully funded. Expected contribution payments for the future five years Inflation % 1.12% 1.2% are approximately 45 million euros. The amount of payments depends on future returns on plan assets. Annual rate of future salary increases % 1.70% 2.1% Future pension increases % 1.36% 1.4% The duration of defined benefit obligation is 15.21 years. The duration is calculated by using discount rate of 1.52 %. Estimated remaining years of service 11 11 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51 2 Aircraft and other intangible and tangible assets and leasing arrangements 2.1 Tangible assets Aircraft and other intangible and tangible assets, and leasing arrangements include particularly notes related to aircraft fleet. Notes related Tangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment loss if applicable. Tangible assets include to the aircraft operated by the Group, both owned and leased aircraft under different kind of lease arrangements as well as aircraft classified mainly aircraft. The acquisition cost of aircraft is allocated to the aircraft frame, engines and maintenace components as separate assets. as held for sale, are combined in this section so that the general view of the fleet would be easier to perceive. Maintenance components include heavy maintenance of aircraft frames and performance restoration and maintenance of life-limited The assets owned and leased by Finnair consist mostly of aircraft operated by Finnair and Norra. Approximately half of the parts of aircraft engines, and they are depreciated during the maintenance cycle. Aircraft frames and engines are depreciated over the fleet operated is owned by Finnair. More detailed information regarding owned aircraft is found in Note 2.1 and regarding useful life of the aircraft. Significant modifications of own or leased aircraft are capitalised as separate items and depreciated over the leased aircraft in Note 2.2. expected useful life, which in the case of leased aircraft cannot exceed the lease period. Replaced components are derecognised from the balance sheet. Rotable spare parts are capitalised and depreciated during their expected useful life. Fleet Advance payments for aircraft are recorded as tangible assets. Interest costs related to advance payments are capitalised as acquisition cost for the period at which Finnair is financing the manufacturing of the aircraft. Fair value changes of derivatives used in hedging of currency exchange rate risk related to firm commitments of aircraft purchases are recognised in advance payments. Advance payOwned, 40 Finance Operating lease, 26 lease, 7 ments, realised fx hedges and capitalised interests are recognised as part of the aircraft acquisition cost once the aircraft is delivered Narrow-body, 54 and taken to commercial use. Depreciations of tangible assets is based on the following expected economic lifetimes: • Aircraft and engines as well as flight simulators (other equipment) on a straight-line basis as follows: −− Airbus A350 fleet, over 20 years to a residual value of 10 % −− Airbus A320 and Embraer fleet, over 20 years to a residual value of 10 % −− Airbus A330 fleet, over 18 years to a residual value of 10 % −− Airbus A340 fleet, over 15 years to a residual value of 10 % −− Turboprop aircraft (ATR fleet), over 12 years to a residual value of 10 % Wide-body, • Heavy maintenance of aircraft frame and performance maintenance and life limited parts of the engines, on a straight-line basis during the maintenance period 19 • Rotable spare parts and components, over 15-20 years to a residual value of 10 % • Buildings, over 50 years from the time of acquisition to a residual value of 10 % or 3-7 % of the diminishing balances • Other tangible assets, over 3-15 years or 23 % of the diminishing balances A350 (7) A340 (4) A330 (8) A321 (11) A320 (10) A319 (9) The residual values and estimated useful lives of the assets are assessed at each closing date and if they differ significantly from preE190 Norra operated (12) ATR Norra operated (12) vious estimates, the depreciation periods and residual values are changed accordingly. Gains and losses on disposal of tangible assets are included in the items affecting comparability. Fleet Impairment Fleet in Finnair balance sheet On every closing date the Group reviews individual tangible asset items for any indication of impairment losses. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if it is greater than the recoverable amount. EUR mill. 2016 2015 Change The recoverable amount is defined for cash generating unit, and need for impairment is evaluated on the cash generating unit level. Advances paid for aircraft 99.4 55.2 44.2 The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell or its value in use. The value in use is based on the exOwned aircraft in use 764.1 538.0 226.1 pected discounted future net cash flows obtainable from the asset or cash-generating unit. Aircraft finance lease 168.4 129.2 39.2 Aircraft held for sale 139.1 121.0 18.1 Book value total 1,171.0 843.5 327.6 Impairment testing Depreciation for the period 87.1 117.7 -30.6 The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined in calculations based either on the value in-use or on the sale price less the expenses of the sale. The preparation of these calculations requires the use of estimates. Estimates are based on budgets Operating leases of aircraft and forecasts, which inherently contain some degree of uncertainty. The main uncertainty factors in calculations are the USD/EUR and JPY/EUR exchange rates, unit revenue, estimated sales volumes and jet fuel price. Operating lease commitments (nominal value) 1,069.9 1,040.3 29.6 Leasing expenses for the period (Lease payments for aircraft) 109.5 99.3 10.2 = Content of the section = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 52 Tangible assets 2016 Capitalised borrowing costs Buildings Other EUR mill. Aircraft and land equipment Advances Total Aircraft Advances Total Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2016 1,350.3 25.9 50.4 80.6 1,507.1 EUR mill. 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Additions 395.9 3.6 5.7 187.2 592.4 Book value 1 Jan 1.0 6.1 1.9 7.1 1.9 Disposals -119.2 -8.0 -0.5 -127.7 Additions 2.2 7.5 5.0 7.5 7.1 Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions 6.4 6.4 Disposals -1.8 -1.9 -1.8 -1.9 Reclassifications 94.8 -0.1 0.8 -106.4 -10.9 Reclassifications 6.3 0.8 -6.3 -0.8 Transfer to assets held for sale -73.0 -73.0 Depreciation -0.2 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2016 1,648.8 29.4 48.9 167.3 1,894.4 Book value 31 Dec 5.4 1.0 7.3 6.1 12.8 7.1 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2016 -667.5 -3.3 -21.7 -3.1 -695.6 In 2016, borrowing costs of 7.5 million euros (7.1) were capitalised in tangible assets related to the Airbus A350 investment Disposals 29.2 -0.4 5.6 34.4 program. The interest rate used was 5.0%, which represents the costs of the loan used to finance the investment. Disposal is related to the sale and and leaseback of one A350 aircraft. Depreciation for the financial year -94.6 -0.6 -4.9 -100.0 Depreciation in items affecting comparability -2.3 0.1 -2.2 Pledged assets and other restrictions on tangible assets Reclassifications -4.6 0.0 0.0 -4.6 The value of the aircraft that have been pledged as a security for bank loans amount to 0.0 million euro (250.0), as Finnair Transfer to assets held for sale 40.1 40.1 prepaid its bank loans during 2016. In addition, Finnair has three A350 aircraft financed with JOLCO-loans (see 3.3 Financial Accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec 2016 -699.8 -4.2 -20.8 -3.1 -728.0 liabilities) and three finance leased A330 aircraft where the legal title is transferred to Finnair after loans are repaid. On top of that, Finnair has 4 finance leased aircraft in the balance sheet where the legal title will not transfer to Finnair at the end of Book value 31 Dec 2016 949.0 25.1 28.0 164.2 1,166.5 the lease term (see 2.2 Leasing arrangements). The value of these aircraft at the end of 2016 amounted to 402.8 million euro. Impairment test The carrying value of rotable parts included in aircraft is 16.4 million euros (15.1). In addition, inventories include non-rotable The impairment test of the aircraft based on the fair value has been done on the closing date. It did not cause any need for imaircraft parts 12.9 million euros (10.1). Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions are described in Notes 3.5 Management of fipairment. The test is sensitive to the exchange rate EUR/USD. The weakening of USD decreases the fair value of the aircraft. nancial risks and 3.8 Derivatives. The fair value of the aircraft would still be higher than the carrying value, if USD would weaken by 10 per cent. Investment commitments Tangible assets 2015 At the end of financial year investment commitments totalled 1,601 million euros (1,818) including mainly firm aircraft orders Buildings Other EUR mill. Aircraft and land equipment Advances Total and orders related to the building project of new cargo terminal. The total commitment fluctuates between the order and the delivery of the aircraft mainly due to exchange rate EUR/USD and the escalation clauses included in the airline purchase agreeAcquisition cost 1 Jan 2015 1,620.2 138.5 72.4 66.4 1,897.5 ments. The final amount of the commitment in relation to each aircraft is only known at the time of the delivery. Additions 248.7 17.4 1.7 91.3 359.1 Disposals -264.3 -113.3 -35.5 -413.1 Currency hedging of aircraft acquisitions -14.7 -14.7 Investment commitments Reclassifications 57.1 11.7 -62.4 6.4 € million Transfer to assets held for sale -311.3 -16.7 -328.0 600 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2015 1,350.3 25.9 50.4 80.6 1,507.1 500 451 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 Jan 2015 -842.6 -108.4 -48.8 -999.7 400 337 390 Disposals 110.1 102.7 32.0 244.8 Depreciation for the financial year -94.2 -3.6 -2.5 -3.1 -103.5 293 300 Depreciation in items affecting comparability -31.2 -9.2 -0.1 -40.4 Reclassifications -2.3 -2.3 200 156 170 143 Transfer to assets held for sale 190.3 15.2 205.5 134 100 114 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 Dec 2015 -667.5 -3.3 -21.7 -3.1 -695.6 23 0 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022– Book value 31 Dec 2015 682.8 22.6 28.7 77.5 811.6 A350 Other FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53 2.2 Leasing arrangements Finance lease liabilities Minimum lease payments Future financial expenses Present value of minimum lease payments The Group as lessee EUR mill. 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Lease agreements for tangible assets, where a substantial part of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group, are less than one year 26.6 17.5 2.6 1.3 24.0 16.2 classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease term at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments. A corresponding sum is recognised as a finance lease liability in 1–5 years 97.2 68.8 6.3 3.1 90.9 65.7 the interest-bearing liabilities. The lease payments are allocated between interest expenses and the reduction of the outstanding liabilmore than 5 years 25.9 24.1 1.1 0.2 24.8 23.8 ity. Assets acquired under finance lease arrangements are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term. Total 149.7 110.3 10.1 4.6 139.6 105.7 Lease arrangements, where the lessor retains a substantial part of the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as operating leases. Payments under operating leases are charged to the income statement over the lease term to lease payments for aircraft (not Finance lease liabilities mainly include two Airbus A320, two Airbus A321 and three Airbus A330 aircraft, whose minimum included in operational EBITDAR) or to other rents for facilities, purchased traffic, wet leases and temporary aircraft leases. lease payments are 147.3 million euros (106.2), future financial expenses 10.0 million euros (4.5) and present value of miniThe Group as lessor mum lease payments 137.3 (101.7). In addition, liability includes finance lease agreements of ground transportation equipment. Agreements, where the Group is the lessor, are accounted for as operating leases, when a substantial part of the risks and rewards of ownership are not transferred to the lessee. The assets are included in the tangible assets and they are depreciated during their useful Other lease arrangements life. Depreciation is calculated using the same principles as the tangible assets for own use. Under the provisions of certain aircraft lease Minimum lease payments for irrevocable lease agreements, Group as lessee agreements, the lessee is required to pay periodic maintenance reserves which accumulate funds for aircraft maintenance. Advances received for maintenance are recognised as liability, which is charged, when maintenance is done. The rents for premises and aircraft Aircraft Premises and land Other equipment are recognised in the income statement as other operating income over the lease term. EUR mill. 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sale and leaseback transactions less than one year 125.6 128.6 22.4 24.5 5.7 5.5 If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease agreement, the difference between the selling price and the carrying 1–5 years 465.3 426.5 83.4 80.3 9.6 11.1 amount of the asset sold is deferred and amortised over the lease period. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating more than 5 years 478.9 485.2 168.9 183.7 lease agreement, the difference between the selling price and the carrying amount of the asset sold is recognised in the income stateTotal 1,069.9 1,040.3 274.7 288.6 15.3 16.6 ment when the selling price is based on fair value. Otherwise the sales gain or loss is deferred and amortised over the lease period. The Group has leased premises as well as aircraft and other fixed assets with irrevocable lease agreements. These agreements Critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty have different terms of renewal and other index-linked terms and conditions. The Group has leased 29 aircraft on leases of difThe classification of lease arrangements to finance and operating leases requires management discretion in interpretation and applicaferent tenors. tion of the accounting standards. Where the management has made a judgement that risks and rewards of ownership belong to Group, the lease is treated as a finance lease, otherwise as operating lease. Minimum lease payments for irrevocable lease agreements, Group as lessor Aircraft Premises Finance lease arrangements EUR mill. 2016 2015 2016 2015 less than one year 43.1 38.9 5.2 5.2 EUR mill. Buildings Aircraft Other equipment Total 1–5 years 166.5 33.9 20.3 20.9 Acquisition cost 197.2 8.5 205.7 more than 5 years 28.6 35.3 37.1 Additions 50.6 0.5 51.2 Total 238.2 72.8 60.8 63.2 Disposals -4.5 -4.5 Accumulated depreciation -79.5 -2.1 -81.6 The Group has leased premises as well as aircraft with irrevocable lease agreements. These agreements have different terms Book value 31 Dec 2016 168.4 2.3 170.7 of renewal and other index-linked terms and conditions. The Group has leased 24 aircraft on leases of different tenors. Lease agreements of E170 were terminated in 2015 and the increase of 2016 is due to the renewal of these agreements at the beAcquisition cost 4.2 197.2 8.4 209.8 ginning of 2016. Additions 0.7 0.7 Disposals -3.6 -0.6 -4.2 Accumulated depreciation -0.5 -68.0 -4.7 -73.3 Book value 31 Dec 2015 0.0 129.2 3.8 133.0 Addition in the value of finance lease arrangements is caused by lease extentions of two A320 and two A321 aircraft during = Accounting principles 2016, which led to their reclassification to finance lease arrangements. = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 54 2.3 Non-current assets and liabilities held for sale 3 Capital structure and financing costs 3.1 Financial income and expenses Non-current assets held for sale or disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and sale is considered highly probable, during the following twelve months. The notes related to financial assets, liabilities and equity have been gathered into the capital structure and financing costs section in order Immediately before classification, assets held for sale or assets and liabilities of disposal groups are valued at the lower of the carryto give a better overview of the Group’s financial position. The note ´Earnings per share´ has been added to the equity section. ing amount or their fair value less cost to sell. Depreciation of these assets is discontinued at the moment of classification. Interest income and expenses Non-current assets held for sale include mainly aircraft. Aircraft classified as held for sale include four A340 aircraft, of which Interest income and expenses are recognised on a time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. Interest expenses related to three were classified as held for sale during 2015 and one during 2016. These wide-body aircraft are going to be replaced by the financing of significant investments are capitalised as part of the asset acquisition cost and depreciated over the useful life of the asset. new A350 aircraft. The aircraft are expected to be sold to Airbus during 2017. The sale of the first three aircraft have been postMore detailed information about financial assets can be found in Note 3.2 and about interest bearing liabilities in Note 3.3. poned due to delays in redelivery process of A340s and deliveries of A350s. In addition, assets held for sale include one ATR-72 aircraft, expected to be sold in the first half of 2017. At the end of 2015, assets held for sale also included two Embraer E170, which were sold in the beginning of 2016. EUR mill. 2016 2015 Interest income from financial assets classified as held for trading 1.0 1.2 The book value of the assets held for sale Other financial income 0.0 0.0 Financial income total 1.0 1.3 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Tangible assets 139,3 123,0 Interest expenses for financial liabilities measured at amortised cost -4.8 -1.3 Inventories 0,0 1,6 Interest on finance leases -1.6 -2.0 Total 139,3 124,5 Foreign exchange gains and losses -2.0 -4.2 Other financial expenses -3.1 -2.3 2.4 Intangible assets Interest rate swaps, fair value hedges 3.6 5.2 Fair value adjustment to bond book value attributable to interest rate risk -3.6 -5.2 Financial expenses total -11.5 -9.7 Intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment loss if applicable. Financial expenses, net -10.5 -8.4 Intangible assets on Finnair´s balance sheet at the end of 2016 amounted to 12.4 million euros (9.5) and the depreciation and impairments recognised in 2016 amounted to 3.8 million euros (4.6). Intangible assets mainly include computer software amounting to 9.4 million euros (6.2), and they are depreciated over a useful life of 3-8 years. Other intangible assets mainly In the effectiveness testing of the Group’s hedge accounting, both cash flow and fair value hedging were found to be effective. Thus, include connection fees, which are not depreciated. The goodwill included in intangible assets amounted to 1.2 million euros as in the comparison year 2015, no inefficiency is included in the financial items for 2016. Financial income and expenses include (1.2) and based on impairment testing there was no indication of impairment at the end of 2016. an identical amount of profit and loss for fair value hedging instruments and for hedged items resulting from the hedged risk. In 2016, foreign exchange gains and losses recognised in financial expenses consist of net realised exchange losses of 3.1 million euro and unrealised net exchange gains of 1.1 million euro. During the year 2016, 7.5 million euros of interest expenses (7.1) were capitalised related to the A350 investment program. More information about the capitalised borrowing costs can be found in the note 2.1 Tangible assets. Other financial expenses include revolving credit facility and guarantee fees as well as late payment interest and penalties related to taxes. = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 55 3.2 Financial assets 3.2.1 Other current financial assets EUR mill. 2016 2015 Financial assets Commercial paper, certificates and bonds 261.2 382.6 In the Group, financial assets have been classified into the following categories according to the IAS 39 standard “Financial Instruments: Money market funds 466.6 35.7 Recognition and Measurement”: financial assets at fair value through profit and loss (assets held for trading), held-to-maturity investments, Deposits, maturing in more than 3 months 0.0 9.4 loans and other receivables, as well as available-for-sale financial assets. The classification is made at the time of the original acquisition Total 727.9 427.7 based on the purpose of the acquisition of the financial assets. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date. The financial asset category recognised at fair value through profit and loss includes assets held for trading purposes and assets measured at fair value through profit and loss on initial recognition. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss have mainly Ratings of counterparties been acquired to obtain a gain from short-term changes in market prices. All those derivatives that do not fulfil the conditions for the Better than A 22.6 12.4 application of hedge accounting are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss and are valued at fair value in each A 79.9 170.9 financial statement. Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement BBB 83.5 129.5 in the period in which they arise. Financial assets recognised at fair value through profit and loss, as well as those maturing within 12 BB 2.0 5.0 months, are included in current assets. Unrated 539.9 109.9 In Finnair Group, unquoted shares are valued at their acquisition price in the absence of a reliable fair value. Total 727.9 427.7 Loan receivables and other receivables are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Loans and other receivables include trade receivables, deferred charges, other long-term receivables and security deposits for aircraft operating lease agreements. Derecognition of financial assets takes place when the Group has lost its contractual right to receive cash flows or when it has subThe Group’s financial asset investments and risk management policy are described in more detail in Note 3.5 Management of stantially transferred the risks and rewards outside the Group. financial risks. The IFRS classifications and fair values of the financial assets are presented in Note 3.6 Classification of financial assets and liabilities. Impairment of financial assets At the end of each reporting period, the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial 3.2.2 Cash and cash equivalents assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that EUR mill. 2016 2015 loss event (or events) has a reliably estimated impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets. Cash and bank deposits 60.0 270.5 When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the esDeposits, maturing in less than 3 months 9.4 10.1 timated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument. From then on, the reversal of the discount Total 69.4 280.5 effect is booked as interest income. The loss is recognised in profit and loss. Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate. The items include cash and bank deposits realised on demand. Foreign currency cash and bank deposits have been valued using the closing date mid-market exchange rates. The reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents is illustrated in the notes of Cash and cash equivalents the consolidated cash flow statement. Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash reserves and short-term bank deposits with maturity of less than three months. Foreign exchange denominated items have been converted to euro using the mid-market exchange rates on the closing date. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 56 3.3 Financial liabilities Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial liabilities 31 Dec 2016 EUR mill. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Later Total JOLCO loans, fixed interest 29.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 44.5 74.2 Financial liabilities JOLCO loans, variable interest 41.1 26.2 27.0 27.9 28.9 191.8 342.9 Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value on the basis of the original consideration received. Transaction costs have been Bonds 0.0 150.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 included in the original book value of financial liabilities. Thereafter, all non-derivative financial liabilities are valued at amortised cost Finance lease liabilities 22.0 23.4 22.4 23.0 23.9 24.9 139.6 using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are included in longand short-term liabilities, and they can be interest-bearing Other loans 7.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.7 or non-interest-bearing. Loans that are due for payment within 12 months are presented in the short-term liabilities. Foreign currency Interest-bearing financial liabilities total 100.4 199.6 49.4 51.0 52.7 261.2 714.3 loans are valued at the mid-market exchange rate on the closing date, and translation differences are recognised in the financial items. Accounts payable are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Payments from currency derivatives 867.5 285.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,153.2 Derecognition of financial liabilities takes place when the Group has fulfilled the contractual obligations. Income from currency derivatives -966.2 -295.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,262.2 Commodity derivatives -16.7 -11.6 -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 -28.4 Interest rate derivatives 0.0 -3.6 -3.4 0.0 -12.8 0.0 -19.8 Non-current liabilities Equity derivatives 0.0 0.0 -1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 773.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 773.5 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Interest payments 17.6 16.0 9.2 7.6 6.6 25.9 82.8 Bank loans 0.0 26.3 Total 776.1 190.1 53.5 58.5 46.6 287.0 1,411.9 JOLCO loans 346.0 0.0 Bonds 153.4 155.2 Finance lease liabilities 117.6 89.6 Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial Interest-bearing liabilities total 617.3 271.0 liabilities 31 Dec 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Later Total Non-interest-bearing liabilities 4.9 15.8 Bank loans, fixed interest 23.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 23.8 Total 622.2 286.8 Bank loans, variable interest 28.2 17.2 1.2 8.3 0.0 0.0 54.9 Bonds, fixed interest 0.0 0.0 150.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 150.0 Current interest-bearing liabilities Finance lease liabilities 16.2 16.1 16.1 16.6 17.0 23.8 105.7 Other loans 7.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.1 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Interest-bearing financial liabilities total 75.2 33.3 167.3 24.9 17.0 23.8 341.5 Bank loans 0.0 51.9 Payments from currency derivatives 1,022.0 431.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,453.3 JOLCO loans 70.8 0.0 Income from currency derivatives -1,098.5 -501.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1,600.0 Finance lease liabilities 22.0 16.2 Commodity derivatives 147.6 23.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 171.1 Other loans 7.7 7.1 Interest rate derivatives 0.0 0.2 -5.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 -5.0 Total 100.4 75.2 Equity derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 -4.1 0.0 0.0 -4.1 Trade payables and other liabilities 872.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 872.8 JOLCO loans include the JOLCO loans (Japanese Operating Lease with Call Option) for three A350 aircraft, as well as the interInterest payments 6.2 5.7 5.6 0.1 0.0 0.0 17.5 est-bearing loans for the E190 aircraft, whose call options have been exercised. The transactions are treated as loans and owned aircraft in Finnair’s accounting. During the year 2016 Finnair prepaid all of its bank loans. Total 1,025.2 -7.6 167.8 20.8 17.0 23.8 1,247.0 The interest rate re-fixing period for variable interest loans is three months. The fixed interest rate bond maturing in 2018 does not include the 3.6 million euro fair value of the interest rate swap. Additionally, the bond does not include the amortised cost of 0.4 million euro paid in 2013. Therefore, the total amount of interest-bearing financial liabilities differs from the book value by the amount equal to the fair value of the interest rate swap and the amortised cost. The minimum lease payments, discount values and present values of finance lease liabilities are presented in note 2.2 Leasing arrangements. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 The currency mix of interest-bearing liabilities is as follows: 3.4 Contingent liabilities EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR 249.5 316.3 Other pledges given on own behalf 160.1 USD 383.7 18.1 Guarantees on behalf of group companies 69.0 67.0 JPY 84.5 0.0 Guarantees on behalf of others 0.0 0.1 SEK 0.0 7.1 Total 69.0 227.2 Total 717.7 341.5 During the year 2016, Finnair has repaid all of its bank loans where aircraft had been pledged as collateral. Therefore, no pledges are given as of 31.12.2016. The weighted average effective interest rate on interest-bearing long-term liabilities was 2.7% (3.4). 3.5 Management of financial risks Interest rate re-fixing period of interest-bearing liabilities Principles of financial risk management 2016 2015 The nature of Finnair Group’s business operations exposes the company to a variety of financial risks: foreign exchange, interUp to 6 months 93.7% 93.1% est rate, credit and liquidity, and commodity price risks. The Group’s policy is to limit the uncertainty caused by such risks on 6–12 months 2.2% 0.0% cash flow, financial performance, balance sheet items and equity. 1–5 years 0.0% 6.9% The management of financial risks is based on the risk management policy prepared by the Financial Risk Steering CommitMore than 5 years 4.1% 0.0% tee and approved by the Board of Directors. The policy specifies the minimum and maximum levels permitted for each type Total 100.0% 100.0% of risk. Financial risk management is directed and supervised by the Financial Risk Steering Committee. Practical implementation of risk management policy and risk management have been centralised to the parent company’s treasury department. In the management of foreign exchange, interest rate, jet fuel and electricity price risk, the company uses different derivative instruments, such as forward contracts, swaps and options. At inception, derivatives are designated as hedges of future Maturity dates of interest-bearing financial liabilities cash flows (cash flow hedges), hedges of firm orders (hedges of the fair value of firm commitments) or as financial derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting (economic hedges). Finnair Group implements cash flow hedging through foreign € million exchange hedging of lease payments, as well as through hedging of electricity price risk and jet fuel price including its foreign 300 exchange risk, in accordance with the hedge accounting principles of IAS 39. Hedge accounting compliant fair value hedges of 261.2 Finnair Group consist of interest rate hedges of the issued bond and fair value hedges of firm aircraft purchase commitments. 250 Fuel price risk in flight operations 199.6 Fuel price risk means the cash flow and financial performance uncertainty arising from fuel price fluctuations. 200 Finnair hedges against jet fuel price fluctuations using jet fuel forward contracts and options. The Jet Fuel CIF Cargoes NWE 150 index is used as the underlying asset of jet fuel derivatives, since over 60 per cent of Finnair’s fuel purchase contracts are based 100.4 on the benchmark price index for Northwest Europe jet fuel deliveries. 100 Finnair applies the principle of time-diversification in its fuel hedging. According to the risk management policy, the hedg49.4 51.0 52.7 ing horizon is two years. The risk management policy states that hedging must be increased during each quarter of the year, 50 so that the hedge ratio is more than 60 per cent for the first six months, and thereafter a lower hedge ratio applies for each 0 period. Due to hedging, the fuel cost per period is not as low as the spot-based price when prices fall, but when spot prices 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Later rise, the fuel cost rises more slowly. In terms of accounting, Finnair recognises jet fuel hedges in two different ways. The hedges of approximately 40 per cent of JOLCO-loans, fixed interest Bonds Other loans consumption per period are treated as cash-flow hedges in accounting, in accordance with the hedge accounting principles of JOLCO-loans, variable interest Finance lease liabilities IAS 39. Changes in the fair value of derivatives defined as cash-flow hedges, in accordance with IAS 39, are posted directly in the fair value reserve in equity. The change in fair value recognised in the hedging reserve in equity is reversed into the income statement at the same time as the hedged transaction is realised. Changes in the fair value of hedges excluded from hedge accounting – which do not fulfil the hedge accounting criteria of IAS 39 – are recognised in fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls over the tenor time of the derivative. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 58 At the end of the financial year, Finnair had hedged 76 per cent of its fuel purchases for the first six months of 2017 and 61 Foreign exchange P&L exposure per cent of the purchases for the second half of the year. In the financial year 2016, fuel used in flight operations accounted for approximately one fifth compared to the Group’s revenue. At the end of the financial year, the forecast for 2017 is approximateEUR mill. JPY USD-basket ly one fifth compared to the Group’s revenue. On the closing date, a 10 per cent rise in the market price of jet fuel – excluding 31 December 2016 hedging activity – increases annual fuel costs by an estimated 50 million euro. On the closing date – taking hedging into account Net forecasted operating cash flows, next 24M 391.5 -1,201.5 – a 10 per cent rise in fuel lowers comparable operating result by around 23 million euro. The situation as of 31 December 2016 Net operating cash flow hedges, next 24M -182.7 603.1 is a good illustration of conditions throughout the year given the current market environment. Foreign exchange exposure from operating cash flows after hedging, next 24M 208.8 -598.4 Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk means the uncertainty in cash flows and financial performance arising from exchange rate fluctuations. JPY USD Finnair Group’s foreign exchange risk mainly arises from fuel and aircraft purchases, divestments of aircraft, aircraft lease Net balance sheet items -80.9 -359.4 payments, aircraft maintenance, overflight royalties and foreign currency revenue. Somewhat less than 60 per cent of the Net hedges of balance sheet items 83.9 193.4 Group’s revenue is denominated in euros. The most important foreign revenue currencies are Japanese yen (9 per cent, perForeign exchange exposure from balance sheet items after hedging 3.0 -166.0 centage of revenue), Chinese yuan (7 per cent), Swedish krona (5 per cent) and US dollar (4 per cent). Approximately half of the Group’s operating costs are denominated in foreign currencies. The most important purchasing currency is the US dollar, which accounts for almost 40 per cent of all operating costs. Significant dollar-denominated expenses are fuel costs and aircraft lease Foreign exchange investment exposure payments. The largest investments – aircraft and their spare parts – are also mainly made in US dollars. The risk management policy divides the foreign exchange position into three parts, namely exposure to forecasted cash EUR mill. USD flows, balance sheet position and investment position. 31 December 2016 The cash flow exposure mainly consists of revenue streams denominated in a number of different currencies and dollar-deNet investment position -662.2 nominated expenses. The purpose of currency risk hedging – for cash flow exposure – is to reduce the volatility of cash flows Net hedges of investment position 377.1 and comparable operating result due to fluctuating currency prices. This is done using a layered hedging strategy for the two Foreign exchange exposure from investment position after hedging -285.1 biggest sources of currency risk and utilising diversification benefits of the portfolio of various currencies. The hedging limits are set only for the main contributors to currency risk: the Japanese yen and the US dollar basket consisting of the US dollar, the Foreign exchange P&L exposure Chinese yuan and the Hong Kong dollar. For both of these, the hedging horizon is two years, which is divided into four six-month periods. In order to achieve time diversification, the minimum hedge ratio for the closest six-month period is 60 per cent with EUR mill. JPY USD-basket a decreasing slope ending at zero per cent for the fourth six-month period. Even though the policy does not require hedging of smaller currency flows, it is allowed, in which case the layered hedging strategy is partially applied, although no minimum 31 December 2015 hedging ratio is specified. Since hedges of cash flows denominated in foreign currencies do not qualify for hedge accounting, Net forecasted operating cash flows, next 24M 369.6 -1,469.7 the fair value changes are recognised in fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls. Net operating cash flow hedges, next 24M -171.3 653.0 The investment position includes foreign currency denominated aircraft investments for which a binding purchase agreeForeign exchange exposure from operating cash flows after hedging, next 24M 198.3 -816.6 ment has been signed as well as commitments for sale and leaseback transactions in the next four years. According to its risk management policy, Finnair Group hedges 50-100% of its aircraft investment exposure. New hedges of investments in aircraft JPY USD are made as an IAS 39 fair value hedge of a firm commitment. Net balance sheet items 4.0 -57.7 Balance sheet exposure consists of foreign currency denominated financial assets and liabilities, as well as other foreign currency Net hedges of balance sheet items 0.0 11.5 denominated balance sheet items, such as provisions, trade receivables, trade payables and assets held for sale. Finnair Group hedges 75-100% of net positions in foreign currency denominated financial assets and financial liabilities exceeding 10 MEUR. Foreign exchange exposure from balance sheet items after hedging 4.0 -46.2 At the end of the financial year, Finnair had a hedge ratio for net forecasted operating cash flows of 72 per cent in the USD-basket and 69 per cent in JPY for the coming 12 months, and hedge ratios of 31 per cent and 25 per cent for 2018, respectively. On Foreign exchange investment exposure the closing date – excluding hedges – a 10 per cent strengthening of the US dollar against the euro has a negative impact on the 24-month result of around 156 million euro and a 10 per cent weakening of the Japanese yen against the euro has a negaEUR mill. USD tive impact on the 24-month result of around 31 million euro. On the closing date – taking hedging into account – a 10 per cent 31 December 2015 strengthening of the US dollar weakens the result by around 79 million euro and a 10 per cent weakening of the Japanese yen Net investment position -644.8 weakens the result by around 25 million euro. In the above numbers, the USD-basket risk also includes the Chinese yuan and Net hedges of investment position 635.3 the Hong Kong dollar, whose historical correlation with the dollar is high. The situation as of 31 December 2016 is a good illusForeign exchange exposure from investment position after hedging -9.5 tration of conditions throughout the year given the current market environment. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 Interest rate risk Capital management Interest rate risk means the cash flow and financial performance uncertainty arising from interest rate fluctuations. Aim of Finnair’s capital management is to secure the access to capital markets at all times despite volatile business environIn Finnair Group, the interest rate risk is measured using the interest rate re-fixing period. If necessary, interest rate derivment, as well as support future business development. Through optimal capital structure Group also aims to minimize the cost of atives are used to adjust the interest rate re-fixing period. According to the risk management policy, the mandate for the incapital and maximize the return on capital employed. The capital structure is influenced via, for example, dividend distribution vestment portfolio’s interest rate re-fixing period is 0-12 months and for interest-bearing liabilities 0-24 months. On the closand share issues. The Group can vary and adjust the level of dividends paid to shareholders, the amount of capital returned to ing date, the investment portfolio’s interest rate re-fixing period was approximately 2 months and approximately 7 months them or the number of new shares issued. The Group can also decide on sales of asset items in order to reduce debt. The aim of for interest-bearing liabilities. On the closing date, a one percentage point rise in interest rates increases the annual interest Finnair´s dividend policy is to pay on average at least one third of the earnings per share as dividend during an economic cycle. income of the investment portfolio by approximately 8.3 million euros and the interest expenses of the loan portfolio by apThe development of the Group’s capital structure is continuously monitored using the adjusted gearing. When calculating proximately 6.9 million euros. The situation as of December 31 2016 is a good illustration of conditions throughout the year adjusted gearing, adjusted interest-bearing net debt is divided by the amount of shareholders’ equity. The Group’s adjusted given the current market environment. gearing at the end of 2016 was 78.3 per cent (45.8). Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the group to fair value interest rate risk. The group is applying hedge accounting (fair value hedge) in order to hedge the fair value interest rate risk of its 150 million euro fixed rate unsecured bond issued in Sensitivity analysis of the fair value reserve August 2013. If the price of Jet fuel CIF NWE had been 10 per cent higher, the balance of the fair value reserve would have been 33.9 million Future lease agreements expose the group to interest rate risk, as the interest rate is one component of the lease price. The euro (21.2) higher. Correspondingly, a 10 per cent weaker Jet fuel CIF NWE price would have reduced the reserve by 33.9 milinterest rate is fixed when the lease payments start. If necessary, the group can hedge this exposure with cash flow hedges. lion euro (21.2). In terms of the US dollar, a 10 per cent weaker level would have lowered the balance of the fair value reserve by 47.9 million euro (50.3) and a 10 per cent stronger dollar would have had a positive impact of 47.9 million euro (50.3). ElecCredit risk tricity price hedging was effective at the end of the year 2016, however the effect of a change in electricity price would be imThe Group is exposed to counterparty risk when investing its cash reserves and when using derivative instruments. The credit material (0.0). The effect of change in interests to the fair value reserve in own equity is not essential. The enclosed sensitivity risk is managed by only making contracts with financially sound domestic and foreign banks, financial institutions and brokers, figures do not take into account any change in deferred tax liability (tax assets). within the framework of risk management policy for counterparty risk limits. Liquid assets are also invested in money market funds, bonds and commercial papers issued by conservatively selected companies, according to company-specific limits. This way, risk exposure to any single counterparty is not significant. Change in the fair value of Group loans rise from changes in FX and interest rates, not from credit risk. The Group's credit risk exposure arises from other current financial assets presented in note 3.2.1, cash and cash equivalents presented in note 3.2.2, trade receivables presented in Note 1.2.4 and derivatives presented in note 3.8. Liquidity risk The goal of Finnair Group is to maintain good liquidity. Liquidity is ensured by cash reserves, bank account limits, liquid money market investments and committed credit facilities. Counterparties of groups’ long term loans are solid financial institutions with good reputation. The Group’s liquid assets were 797.3 million euro at the end of financial year 2016. Finnair Plc has a domestic commercial paper program of 200 million euro, which was not in use on the closing date. In addition, Finnair has an unused 175 million euro committed revolving credit facility. The credit facility includes a finance covenant based on adjusted gearing. The covenant level of adjusted gearing is 175 per cent, while at the closing date the figure was 78.3 per cent. The maximum level set by the Board of Directors is 175 per cent. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 60 3.6 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Hedge Financial assets at Available for accounting fair value through sale financial Loans and Valued at Book EUR mill. items profit and loss assets receivables amortised cost value Hedge Financial assets at accounting fair value through Loans and Valued at Book 31 Dec 2015 EUR mill. items profit and loss receivables amortised cost value Financial assets 31 Dec 2016 Receivables 0.4 8.3 8.7 Financial assets Other financial assets 418.3 9.4 427.7 Receivables 7.4 7.4 Trade receivables and other receivables 208.5 208.5 Other financial assets 727.9 727.9 Derivatives 134.2 21.5 155.7 Trade receivables and other receivables 211.9 211.9 Cash and cash equivalents 280.5 280.5 Derivatives 133.2 43.3 176.6 Fair value total 134.2 439.8 0.4 506.7 1,081.1 Cash and cash equivalents 69.4 69.4 Book value total 133.2 771.2 288.7 1,193.1 Book value total 134.2 439.8 0.4 506.7 1,081.1 Fair value total 133.2 771.2 288.7 1,193.1 Financial liabilities Interest bearing liabilities 240.5 240.5 Financial liabilities Finance lease liabilities 105.7 105.7 Interest bearing liabilities 578.1 578.1 Derivatives 143.4 37.2 180.6 Finance lease liabilities 139.6 139.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 15.8 682.0 697.8 Derivatives 8.4 16.8 25.2 Fair value total 143.4 37.2 15.8 1,028.3 1,224.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 4.9 773.5 778.4 Book value total 8.4 16.8 4.9 1,491.2 1,521.3 Book value total 143.4 37.2 15.8 1,028.3 1,224.7 Fair value total 8.4 16.8 4.9 1,491.2 1,521.3 In this note interest rate derivatives (currency and interest-rate swaps) are included in derivatives. Item Receivables mainly includes USD-denominated security deposits for leased aircraft. Trade payables and other liabilities include: trade payables, deferred expenses, pension obligations as well as other interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing liabilities. Derivatives are valued at fair value, with further details in the fair value hierarchy. Financial assets valued at fair value are money market funds (fair value hierarchy level 1) and bonds, or commercial papers (fair value hierarchy level 2). Loans and receivables are mainly current and the book value is equivalent to the fair value, because the discount effect is not significant. The current portion of loans valued at amortised cost is 100 million euro, and the book value is equivalent to the fair value, because the discount effect is not significant. The valuation principles of financial assets and liabilities are outlined in the accounting principles. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value 3.7 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Fair values at the end of the reporting period EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 31 Dec 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Derivative assets gross amounts 176.6 155.8 Assets Gross amounts of recognised financial liabilities set off in the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Net amounts of financial assets presented in the balance sheet 176.6 155.8 Securities held for trading 727.9 466.6 261.2 Enforceable master netting agreement -95.5 -61.6 Derivative assets net amount 81.1 94.2 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate swaps 19.8 19.8 Derivative liabilities gross amounts -25.2 180.7 of which in fair value hedge accounting 3.7 3.7 Gross amounts of recognised financial assets set off in the balance sheet 0.0 0.0 Currency derivatives 114.0 114.0 Net amounts of financial liabilities presented in the balance sheet -25.2 180.7 of which in fair value hedge accounting 74.6 74.6 Enforceable master netting agreement 95.5 -61.6 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 26.2 26.2 Derivative liabilites net amount 70.3 119.1 Commodity derivatives 41.0 41.0 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 26.9 26.9 For the above financial assets and liabilities, subject to enforceable master netting arrangements or similar arrangements, each Equity derivatives 1.8 1.8 agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when of which in fair value hedge accounting 1.8 1.8 both parties choose to settle on a net basis. In the absence of such mutual decision, financial assets and liabilities will be settled Total 904.4 466.6 437.8 on a gross basis. However, each party of the master netting agreement, or similar agreement, will have the option to settle on a net basis in the event of default of the other party. Depending on the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make a payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement (other than payLiabilities ment), if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60 days after notice of such failure is given to the party, or bankruptcy. Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss Derivatives held for trading Currency derivatives 12.4 12.4 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 0.1 0.1 Commodity derivatives 12.6 12.6 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 8.0 8.0 Equity derivatives 0.2 0.2 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.2 0.2 Total 25.2 25.2 During the financial year, no significant transfers took place between fair value hierarchy Levels 1 and 2. The fair values of hierarchy Level 1 are fully based on quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets of the same assets and liabilities. The fair values of Level 2 instruments are, to a significant extent, based on input data other than the quoted prices included in Level 1, but still mainly based on directly observable data (price) or indirectly observable data (derived from price) for the particular asset or liability. The fair value hierarchy level, to which a certain item valued at fair value is classified in its entirety, is determined in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 7, based on the lowest level of input significant to the overall fair value of the particular item. The significance of the input data has been assessed in its entirety in relation to the particular item valued at fair value. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 62 3.8 Derivatives Derivative contracts and hedge accounting In relation to the incentive plan negotiated with the pilots in October 2014, Finnair entered into an agreement where the market price According to its risk management policy, Finnair Group uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to reduce the of Finnair share has an effect at the end of the plan. Finnair Group has hedged the amount exceeding 12 million euros of the possible exchange rate, interest rate and commodity risks which arise from the Group’s balance sheet items, currency denominated purchase cost effect of this plan with stock options. Fair value hedging is applied on the hedges. The unrealised fair value changes of the options agreements, anticipated currency denominated purchases and sales as well as future jet fuel purchases. are recognised as a liability or receivable in the balance sheet, and in the income statement, the realised hedging results are recognised The derivatives are initially recognised at original acquisition cost (fair value) in the balance sheet and subsequently valued at fair in the staff cost, and the unrealised hedging result is recognised in the fair value changes in derivatives. The premium and the intrinsic value in each financial statement and interim report. The fair values of the derivatives are based on the value at which the instrument value of the stock options is accrued and recognised in the staff costs over the term. Similarly, the incentive plan is treated as a firm comcould be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing and independent parties, with no compulsion to sell or buy in the sales situation. mitment under IFRS. The unrealised and the realised fair value change of the incentive plan is recognised in the staff costs in the income The fair values of derivatives are determined as follows: statement, and the corresponding unrealised fair value as a liability or receivable in the balance sheet. When the stock price exceeds 4 The fair values of all derivatives are calculated using the exchange rates, interest rates, volatilities and commodity price quotations euros, the cost of the incentive plan is also accrued and recognised in the staff costs. on the closing date. The fair values of currency forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values The gain or loss related to the effective portion of the interest rate swap, which hedges the fixed interest rate bond, is recognised as of currency options are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair values of interest rate swap contracts are calfinancial income or expenses in the income statement. The gain or loss related to the ineffective portion is recognised within other opculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of interest rate and currency swap contracts are calculated as the preserating income and expenses in the income statement. The change in the fair value attributable to the interest rate risk of the hedged ent value of future cash flows. The fair values of interest rate options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. fixed interest rate loans is recognised in the financial expenses in the income statement. The fair values of commodity forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of commodity If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item, for which options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. the effective interest method is used, is amortised to profit or loss over the period to maturity. The Group uses credit valuation adjustment for cross-currency interest rate swaps as the maturities of these derivatives are long. The Finnair Group uses cross-currency interest rate swaps in the hedging of the interest rate and foreign exchange risks of foreign curcredit valuation adjustment is not done for the rest of the derivatives as the maturities for these are short and the impact would not be rency denominated loans. Cross-currency interest rate swaps are excluded from hedge accounting, and therefore the fair value changmaterial. Credit risk management is described in more detail in note 3.5. es are recognised in derivative assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, as well as in the financial income and expenses in the income Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the financial statements according to the original classificastatement. The fair value changes of the loans are simultaneously recognised in the financial income and expenses. Realised foreign tion of the derivative. Gains and losses on derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised in accordance with the underlying exchange rate differences, as well as interest income and expenses, are recognised in the financial income and expenses against the exasset being hedged. At inception, derivative contracts are designated as future cash flows hedges, hedges of binding purchase contracts change rate differences and interest income and expenses of the loan. (cash flow hedges or fair value hedges) or as derivatives not meeting the hedge accounting criteria or to which hedge accounting is not Finnair Group uses jet fuel swaps (forward contracts) and options in the hedging of jet fuel price risk. Changes in the fair value of jet fuel applied (economic hedges). Hedging of the fair value of net investments of foreign units or embedded derivatives have not been used. hedging derivatives, which are defined as cash-flow hedges and fulfil the requirements of IFRS hedge accounting, are recognised directly in At the inception of hedge accounting, Finnair Group documents the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instruthe fair value reserve of other comprehensive income. Accrued derivative gains and losses, recognised in shareholders’ equity, are recognised ment, as well as the Group’s risk management objectives and the strategy for the inception of hedging. At the inception of hedging, and as income or expense in the income statement, in the same financial period as the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. If a at least at the time of each financial statement, the Group documents and assesses the effectiveness of hedge relationships by examinforecasted cash flow is no longer expected to occur, and the IFRS hedge accounting criteria are not fulfilled, the fair value changes and the ing the capacity of the hedging instrument to offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item or changes in cash flows. The values of accrued gains and losses reported in shareholders’ equity are presented in the items affecting comparability items for the financial period derivatives in a hedging relationship are presented in the balance sheet item Short–term financial asset and liabilities. in the income statement during the tenor time. Changes in the fair value of jet fuel swaps and options excluded from hedge accounting are Finnair Group implements the IFRS hedge accounting principles in the hedging of future cash flows (cash flow hedging). The princirecognised in fair value changes in derivatives in the income statement, while realised result is presented in Fuel costs. ples are applied to the price and foreign currency risk of jet fuel, the price risk of electricity and the foreign currency risk of lease payFinnair Group uses electricity derivative contracts in the hedging of electricity price risk. The electricity price risk hedges are recognised ments. The IFRS fair value hedge accounting principles are applied to the hedging of foreign exchange and interest rate risk of aircraft as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of the derivatives, defined as cash-flow hedges in accordance with IFRS, are recognised in the purchases and the hedges of the pilot incentive plan. fair value reserve of other comprehensive income. The recognised change in fair value is reversed into the income statement in the same The change in the fair value of the effective portion of derivative instruments that fulfil the terms of cash flow hedging are directly period as the hedged transaction. Changes in the fair value of hedges excluded from hedge accounting (which do not fulfil the IFRS hedge recognised in the fair value reserve of other comprehensive income, to the extent that the requirements for the application of hedge accounting criteria) are recognised in the fair value changes in derivatives over the tenor time of the derivative, and realised gain or loss is accounting have been fulfilled. The gains and losses, recognised in the fair value reserve, are transferred to the income statement in presented in Other expenses at maturity. the period in which the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. When an instrument acquired for the hedging of cash flow The change in the fair value of hedges of operating cash flows not qualifying for hedge accounting is recognised in Fair value changes matures or is sold, or when the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled, the gain or loss accrued from hedging instruments in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls in the income statement. Realised profit or loss on derivatives hedging JPY, remains in equity until the forecasted transaction takes place. However, if the forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to CNY and SEK-denominated operating cash flows is presented in revenue, while profit or loss on derivatives hedging cash flows denominated occur, the gain or loss accrued in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement. in other currencies is presented in Other expenses. Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting The effectiveness of hedging is tested on a quarterly basis. The effective portion of hedges is recognised in the fair value reserve of are recognised in the income statement’s financial income and expenses. other comprehensive income, from which it is transferred to the income statement when the hedged item is realised or, in terms of inChanges in the fair value as well as realised gain or loss on forward contracts used to hedge foreign currency denominated balance sheet vestments, as an acquisition cost adjustment. items of Finnair Group are recognised in financial expenses. Changes in the fair value and realised result of hedges of assets held for sale Fair value hedging is implemented on firm orders of new aircraft, in order to hedge the fixed interest rate bond, and to hedge the inare recognised in Items affecting comparability. centive plan negotiated with pilots. The binding purchase agreements for new aircraft are treated as firm commitments under IFRS, and therefore, the fair value changes of the hedged part arising from foreign currency movements are recognised in the balance sheet as an asset item, and corresponding gains or losses recognised through profit and loss. Similarly, the fair value of instruments hedging these purchases is presented in the balance sheet as a liability or receivable, and the change in fair value is recognised through profit and loss. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63 2016 2015 Ratings of derivative counterparties Positive Negative Fair Positive Negative Nominal fair fair net Nominal fair fair Fair net EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. value values values value value values values value Better than A 105.3 31.9 Currency derivatives A 42.0 -47.3 Jet fuel currency hedging 307.3 16.6 -0.1 16.5 331.6 23.8 -0.7 23.1 BBB 4.1 -9.5 Fair value hedging of aircraft acquisitions 377.1 74.6 0.0 74.6 782.4 81.3 -0.4 81.0 Total 151.4 -24.9 Hedging of lease payments 172.4 9.7 -0.1 9.6 171.2 18.2 -0.1 18.1 Hedge accounting items total 856.8 100.8 -0.1 100.7 1,285.3 123.4 -1.2 122.2 Operational cash-flow hedging (forward contracts) 157.4 5.3 -2.1 3.3 307.5 16.8 -2.0 14.8 Realised derivatives Operational cash-flow hedging, bought options 173.2 5.9 0.0 5.9 180.4 3.7 0.0 3.7 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Operational cash-flow hedging, sold options 245.4 0.0 -2.4 -2.4 318.5 0.0 -4.1 -4.1 Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs -90.4 -77.6 Hedging of assets held for sale 123.7 0.0 -7.3 -7.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Hedging of lease payments Lease payments for aircraft 14.7 15.7 Balance sheet hedging (forward contracts) 118.3 1.9 -0.4 1.5 11.5 0.4 0.0 0.4 Electricity derivatives Other expenses -0.2 0.0 Items outside hedge accounting total 818.0 13.1 -12.2 0.9 817.8 20.9 -6.1 14.7 Interest rate swaps Financial expenses 2.1 1.6 Currency derivatives total 1,674.8 114.0 -12.4 101.6 2,103.1 144.2 -7.3 136.9 Expenses of hedge accounting items total -73.8 -60.3 Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs -24.8 -59.4 Commodity derivatives Operational cash flow hedging Other expenses 14.0 33.4 Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 650,000 26.9 -8.0 18.9 559,000 0.0 -140.7 -140.7 Operational cash flow hedging Revenue -12.3 0.0 Electricity derivatives, MWh 13,140 0.0 0.0 0.0 13,140 0.0 0.0 0.0 Electricity derivatives Other expenses 0.0 -0.7 Hedge accounting items total 26.9 -8.0 18.9 0.0 -140.8 -140.8 Hedging of aircraft sales transactions Items affecting comparability -2.0 0.0 Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 24,000 0.7 -0.2 0.6 26,000 0.0 -4.2 -4.2 Balance sheet hedging Financial expenses 0.5 2.1 Bought options, jet fuel, tonnes 236,000 13.3 0.0 13.3 178,000 0.6 0.0 0.6 Cross-currency interest rate swaps Financial expenses 1.9 -0.2 Sold options, jet fuel, tonnes 472,000 0.0 -4.4 -4.4 329,000 0.0 -26.2 -26.2 Expenses of items outside hedge accounting total -22.8 -24.8 Electricity derivatives, MWh 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 26,352 0.0 -0.3 -0.3 Total -96.5 -85.0 Items outside hedge accounting total 14.0 -4.6 9.4 0.6 -30.8 -30.2 Commodity derivatives total 41.0 -12.6 28.4 0.6 -171.6 -170.9 3.9 Equity-related information Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 150.0 5.2 -0.1 5.2 Shareholders’ equity Hedge accounting items total 150.0 3.7 0.0 3.6 150.0 5.2 -0.1 5.2 The nominal value of shares had been recognised in the share capital before an amendment to the Articles of Association registered Cross currency interest rate swaps 291.8 16.1 0.0 16.1 7.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 on 22 March 2007. Share issue profit and gains on sale of own shares had been recognised in other restricted funds before the change Items outside hedge accounting total 291.8 16.1 0.0 16.1 7.1 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 in the Limited Liability Company Act in 2006. Interest rate derivatives total 441.8 19.8 0.0 19.8 157.1 5.2 -0.3 5.0 The subscription proceeds from the 2007 share issue less transaction costs after taxes as well as share-based payments according to IFRS 2 have been recognised in the unrestricted equity funds. Equity derivatives Hedging reserve and other OCI items include changes in the fair value of derivative instruments used in cash-flow hedging, in addiBought options, millions 3.0 1.8 0.0 1.8 3.0 5.6 0.0 5.6 tion to actuarial gains and losses related to defined benefit pension plans and translation differences. The acquisition cost of repurchased owned shares less transaction costs after taxes is charged to equity until the shares are cancelled Sold options, millions 3.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 3.0 0.0 -1.4 -1.4 or reissued. The consideration received for sale or issue of own shares is included in equity. Hedge accounting items total 6.0 1.8 -0.2 1.6 6.0 5.6 -1.4 4.1 The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is not deducted from distributable equity until decided at the Annual General Meeting. Equity derivatives total 6.0 1.8 -0.2 1.6 6.0 5.6 -1.4 4.1 The hybrid bond is recognised in equity. It is unsecured and subordinated to all senior debt. The hybrid bond does not confer shareholders’ rights, nor does it dilute the holdings of shareholders. Interest expenses are debited from retained earnings on cash basis net of Derivatives total * 176.6 -25.2 151.4 155.7 -180.6 -24.9 tax. In the calculation of earnings per share, interest expenses of the hybrid bond are included in the earnings for the financial year. * The positive/negative fair value of derivatives 31 December 2016 are shown as balance sheet receivables and liabilities. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 64 Number of shares 2016 2015 Hybrid bond Number of outstanding shares in the beginning of the financial year 127,810,910 127,824,023 Shareholders’ equity (after equity belonging to the owners) includes a 200 million euro hybrid bond issued in 2015. The hybrid Purchase of own shares -800,000 bond coupon is fixed at 7.875 per cent per year for the first five years, and thereafter floating, at least 12.875 per cent per year. Finnair can postpone interest payment if it does not distribute dividends or any other equity to its shareholders. The bond has Shares granted from the LTI share plan 2013-2015 55,105 no maturity date, but the company has the right to redeem it in five years and on every interest payment date thereafter. The Shares returned from the share-bonus scheme 2010-2012 -14,893 overall hybrid bond net position recognised in equity is 198.2 million euro, due to issuing expenses. The hybrid bonds are unShares granted from FlyShare employee share savings plans 281,136 1,780 secured and in a weaker preference position than promissory notes. A holder of hybrid bond notes has no shareholder rights. Number of outstanding shares at the end of the financial year 127,347,151 127,810,910 During the year 2016, Finnair redeemed the remaining 38.3 million euro of the 120 million euro hybrid bond issued in 2012. Own shares held by the parent company 788,964 325,205 Earnings per share Total number of shares at the end of the financial year 128,136,115 128,136,115 The basic earnings per share figure is calculated by dividing the result for the financial year attributable to the parent company’s shareholders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the financial year. The result for the financial Finnair Plc’s share capital, paid in its entirety and registered in the trade register, was 75,442,904.30 euros at the end of 2015 year is adjusted for the after-tax amounts of hybrid bond interests regardless of payment date, transaction costs of the new and 2016. The shares have no nominal value. During the year 2016, Finnair transferred a total of 281,136 shares to FlyShare hybrid bond issued and premium paid, when a hybrid bond is redeemed. When calculating the earnings per share adjusted participants and a total of 55,105 shares to participants in Finnair’s share-based incentive scheme 2013–2015. by dilution, the weighted average of the number of shares takes into account the diluting effect resulting from changing into shares all potentionally diluting shares. The Group’s hedging reserve and other OCI items EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Result for the financial year, EUR mill. 85.1 89.4 Jet fuel price hedging 18.9 -140.7 Hybrid bond interest, EUR mill. -18.8 -12.5 Jet fuel currency hedging 16.5 23.1 Premium paid related to redemption of the hybrid bond issued in 2012 -5.5 Hedging of lease payments 9.6 18.1 Transaction costs of the hybrid bond issued in 2015 -2.3 Hedging of interest related to future lease payments -7.7 -8.4 Tax effect 3.8 4.0 The actuarial gains and losses of defined benefit plan 4.1 22.2 Adjusted result for the financial year 70.1 73.2 Translation differences 0.7 0.7 Tax effect -8.3 17.2 Weighted average number of shares, mill. Pcs 127.3 127.8 Total 33.8 -67.9 Basic and diluted earnings per share, EUR 0.55 0.57 Effect of own shares 0.0 0.0 Maturity dates of fair values recognised in the hedging reserve Dividend The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.10 euros per share be distributed for 2016. EUR mill. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Later Total The annual general meeting on 17 March 2016 decided that no dividend was paid for 2015. Jet fuel price hedging 7.4 11.4 0.1 18.9 Jet fuel currency hedging 10.7 5.8 16.5 Finnair Plc's distributable equity Hedging of lease payments 7.9 1.7 9.6 Hedging of interest related to future EUR mill. 31 Dec 2016 lease payments -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -0.7 -4.4 -7.7 Retained earnings at the end of financial year 20.5 The actuarial gains and losses of Unrestricted equity funds 252.2 defined benefit plan 4.1 4.1 Result for the financial year 109.2 Translation differences 0.7 0.7 Distributable equity total 381.8 Tax effect -5.9 -3.6 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.9 -8.3 Total 23.6 14.6 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -2.8 33.8 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65 4 Consolidation Subsidiaries Notes under the Consolidation section include a description of the general consolidation principles and methods of consolidation. The aim Group Group Name of the company ownership % Name of the company ownership % of the section is to provide an overall picture of the group’s structure and principles applied in preparing consolidated financial statements and classifying ownership interests. In addition, the notes include information about subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures Finnair Cargo Oy, Finland 100.0 A/S Aero Airlines, Estonia 100.0 held, acquired or sold by the group. Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, Finland 100.0 Balticport Oü, Estonia 100.0 Finnair ATR Finance Oy, Finland 100.0 LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, Finland * 100.0 4.1 General consolidation principles Finnair Technical Services Oy, Finland 100.0 Amadeus Finland Oy, Finland 95.0 Consolidation Finnair Engine Services Oy, Finland 100.0 Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab, Finland 100.0 Consolidation, consolidation method and classification of ownership interests depends on whether group has power to control Finnair Travel Retail Oy, Finland 100.0 Aurinko Oü, Estonia 100.0 or jointly control the entity or have significant influence or other interests in the entity. When group has power to control the Finnair Flight Academy Oy, Finland 100.0 Matkayhtymä Oy, Finland 100.0 entity, it is consolidated as subsidiary in the group according to principles described in the note 4.2 Subsidiaries. When group Kiinteistö Oy Lentokonehuolto, Finland 100.0 OOO Aurinko, Russia 100.0 has joint control or significant influence over an entity but does not have power to control, entity is accounted for by using eqNorthport Oy, Finland 100.0 FTS Financial Services Oy, Finland 100.0 uity method according to principles set in note 4.4 Investments in associates and joint ventures. If group does not have power Kiinteistö Oy LEKO 8, Finland 100.0 Back Office Services Estonia Oü, Estonia 100.0 to control nor significant influence in the entity, its ownership interests are classified as financial assets available for sale and accounted for according to principles described in the note 3.2 Financial assets. Kiinteistö Oy Air Cargo Center 1, Finland 100.0 Translation of foreign currency items * LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy is Finnair’s 100-percent owned subsidiary but fully under LSG Group’s control. LSG had a call option to purchase Items included in each subsidiary’s financial statements are measured in the currency that is the main currency of operating the shares, but in November 2016 LSG Group decided that it will not exercise its purchase option of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy. As a result, Finnair and LSG started negotiations about new forms of cooperation. In case control of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy would change to Finnair environment of each subsidiary (“functional currency”). The consolidated financial statements have been presented in euro, based on-going negotiations, the company would be consolidated to Finnair Group from change on control date onwards. Potential change which is the parent company’s functional and presentation currency. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies in group of control requires approval from competition authorities. See also note 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals. companies are translated into functional currency by using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Receivables and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies and are outstanding on the closing date are translated using the exchange 4.3 Acquisitions and disposals rate of the closing date. Exchange rate differences are recognised in the income statement. The income statements of foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is not euro are translated into euro by using average rate for the financial year. Balance At the first half of 2016 the Group acquired ATR maintenance business from Nordic Regional Airlines Oy and divested its ownsheets are translated by using the closing rate for the financial period. Translation differences arising from the elimination of ership in associated company Amadeus Eesti AS. During the latter part of the financial year Finnair sold its subsidiary SMT acquisition costs of foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income. When foreign subsidiary is sold, the Oy to American Express Global Business Travel (GBT). In addition, Finnair and the LSG Group started negotiations about new differences are recognised as part of the sales gain or loss. forms of cooperation as the LSG Group does not exercise its purchase option of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy and the partnership agreed in 2012 in its current form will stop in 2017. Finnair owns all shares in LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, however, in accordance 4.2 Subsidiaries with co-operation agreement agreed in 2012 Finnair does not have control for the operative activities of the company. The LSG Group, now in control of the operative activities, had an option to purchase all shares of LSG Sky Chefs Finland until the end-OcConsolidation principles of subsidiaries tober 2016. The LSG Group decided that they will not exercise its purchase option of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy. In case control of Finnair Plc’s consolidated financial statements include the parent company Finnair Plc and all its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are defined as LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy would change to Finnair based on-going negotiations, the company would be consolidated to Finnair companies in which Finnair has control. Control exists when Finnair has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and Group from change on control date onwards. Potential change of control requires approval from competition authorities. The has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Usually Finnair has power over the entity when it owns more than transactions in 2016 did not have material effect to Finnair’s financial statements. 50% of the votes or where Finnair otherwise has the power to govern the financial and operating policies. The acquired subsidiaries are In the beginning of the financial year 2015 the joint venture of Finnair and Flybe Group plc (Flybe UK) was transferred temincluded in the consolidated financial statements from the day the Group has control, and disposed subsidiaries until the control ceases. porarily to Finnair’s ownership as Finnair acquired Flybe UK’s 60% share of Flybe Nordic with one euro on an interim basis. Acquired and established companies are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Accordingly, the acquired comLater on Flybe Nordic was renamed as Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra). Norra was classified as assets held for sale until Finnair pany’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess between further sold the 60 % share to StaffPoint Oy and Kilco Oy. Due to the sale Norra became a joint venture of Finnair and the new purchase price and fair value of the Group’s share of the identifiable net assets is recognised as goodwill. owners. More information on Norra can be found in the note 4.4 Associated companies and joint ventures. In addition, at the All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless there is evidence of impairment related to the transferred asset. The accounting principles of subsidend of 2015 Finnair sold its ownership in Estonian subsidiary Estravel AS, including Estravel’s Lithuanian subsidiary Estravel iaries have been changed to correspond Group’s accounting policies. Vilnius UAB. The transactions did not have signigicant effect to Finnair’s financial statements. Non-controlling interest and transactions with non-controlling interest Non-controlling interests are presented within the equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, separated from equity attributable to owners of the parent. For each acquisition the non-controlling interest can be recognised either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. The carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of the interests at initial recognition added with the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity. = Content of the section = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 66 4.4 Investments in associates and joint ventures Information on the Group’s associates and joint ventures 2015 Profit/ EUR mill. Domicile Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Holding % Associates are companies in which the Group generally holds 20-50 per cent of the voting right or in which the Group has significant Amadeus Estonia Estonia 0.8 0.3 1.1 0.3 33.25 influence but in which it does not exercise control. Companies where the Group has joint control with another entity are considered as Nordic Global Airlines Oy* Finland 1.8 5.8 12.1 -4.2 40.00 joint ventures. The Group’s interests in associated companies and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method. Nordic Regional Airlines AB** Sweden 40.5 39.7 100.7 35.8 40.00 The investment in associates and joint ventures include goodwill recognised at the time of acquisition. The Group recognises its share of Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy Finland 18.7 1.3 1.4 0.8 49.50 the post-acquisition results in associates and joint ventures in the income statement. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate Total 61.8 47.1 115.2 32.8 or a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations on behalf of the associate or joint venture. *Nordic Global Airlines Oy business operations were discontinued in 2015 and the company was liquidated during 2016. Results from the transactions between the Group and its associates are recognised only to the extent of unrelated investor’s inter** Based on financial statement of Nordic Regional Airlines AB (Norra) as of 31 Dec 2015. The Group was formerly known as Flybe Nordic. ests in the associates. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the Norra’s results include profit from nine months period since Norra changed the end date of the financial year from 31 of March to 31 of associates is impaired. In case of such indications, Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverDecember during 2015. able amount of the associate and its carrying value. The impairment is recognised in share of results in associates and joint ventures. Accounting policies of associates or joint ventures have been changed where necessary to correspond with the accounting policies All the associated companies and joint ventures owned by Finnair are unlisted companies, and none of them are considered as adopted by the Group. If financial statements for the period are not available, the share of the profit of certain associated or joint venmaterial compared to Finnair’s operations. Finnair’s share of associated companies and joint ventures continuous results for ture companies is included in the consolidated accounts based on the preliminary financial statements or latest available information. 2016 was 0.1 (0.0) million euro, of which Finnair’s share was 0.0 (0.0) million euro. Nordic Regional Airlines (Norra, formerly known as Flybe Nordic) Flybe Regional Airlines AB (Norra), formerly known as Flybe Nordic AB, is a regional airline company operating in the Nordic countries and in Baltics. Norra has during 2016 operated mainly purchase traffic for Finnair. Since the end of 2015, Norra is a The Group’s share of the result, asset items and liabilities of associates and joint ventures is presented below. joint venture of Finnair, StaffPoint Oy and Kilco Oy where owners have a joint control over the entity. Originally Norra was a joint venture of Finnair and Flybe UK, but as Flybe UK decided to sell it’s 60% share of ownership in the beginning of 2015, the comEUR mill. 2016 2015 pany was transferred temporarily to Finnair’s ownership and treated as assets held for sale, until further sold to new partners At the beginning of the financial year 2.6 4.9 at the end of 2015. The ownership transactions did not have any financial effects to Finnair. Share of results 0,0 0.1 As part of the restructuring of Norra’s operations, at the end of 2015 Finnair transferred the operational receivables of 11.3 Disposals -0.2 -2.2 million euros, and loan and interest receivables transferred from Flybe UK of 19.4 million euros, to Norra to strengthen the eqAt the end of the financial year 2.5 2.6 uity and financial position of Norra Group. Since the receivables had already been written down in previous periods, the transactions did not have an effect in Finnair Group’s results nor financial position in 2015, but had a positive effect in Norra Group’s The disposals in 2016 include associated company Amadeus Estonia. profits in 2015. Finnair has accounted for Norra Group’s net assets according to its accounting principles and no share of profits More information on transactions with associated companies and joint ventures can be found in the note 4.5 Related parfrom Norra has been recognised for 2015 nor 2016. ty transactions. Other associated companies Information on the Group’s associates and joint ventures 2016 Suomen Ilmailuopisto (the Finnish Aviation Academy) is a vocational special purpose aviation school owned by Finnair Oyj Profit/ (49.5%), Finnish Government (49.5%) and the City of Pori (1%). Finnair is not entitled to company’s results nor net assets, but EUR mill. Domicile Assets Liabilities Revenue Loss Holding % possible results need to be used for developing school’s activities. Nordic Regional Airlines AB* Sweden 34.4 33.7 107.9 -0.1 40.00 Amadeus Finland’s associated company Amadeus Estonia was sold to Amadeus IT Group S.A. in 2016. The sale did not have Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy* Finland 19.3 1.7 8.8 0.2 49.50 any material effects to Finnair results. Nordic Global Airlines Oy was a freight airline co-owned by Finnair Cargo Oy, Ilmarinen Total 53.7 35.4 116.7 0.1 and Neff Capital Management which business was closed during 2015 as unprofitable. The company was liquidated during 2016, and the liquidation did not cause any material financial effects to Finnair financial statement. *The presented figures are preliminary and unaudited. = Accounting principles FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67 4.5 Related party transactions 4.6 Application of new and amended IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations Related party of Finnair group includes its subsidiaries, management, associated companies and joint ventures and Finnair The changes in the IFRS standards effective from periods beginning 1st of January 2016 mainly included amendments and impension fund. Subsidiaries are listed in the note 4.2 and associates and joint ventures in note 4.4. Related party transactions provements to current standards and did not have an effect to Finnair financial statements. include such operations that are not eliminated in the group’s consolidated financial statement. Regarding the changes in the standards effecting future periods, Finnair will early adopt the IFRS 9: Financial Instruments Finnish government owns 55.8% (55.8%) of Finnair’s shares. All the transactions with other government owned companies (2014), endorsed by the EU on 22.11.2016, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2017. IFRS 15 Revenue recognition will are with arms length basis. be, in case endorsed by EU, effective from 2018 onwards. IFRS 16 Leasing will be effective from 2019 onwards. Finnair has described the estimated effects of these new standards below in more detail. Other standards issued and effecting future financial periods are not expected to have any significant impact to Finnair’s financial statement. The following transactions have taken place with associated companies and joint ventures: IFRS 9 EUR mill. 2016 2015 IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 and addresses the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and liabilities, inSales of goods and services troduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new impairment model for financial assets. The new hedge accounting rules will Associates 0.0 0.2 align the accounting for hedging instruments more closely with Finnair’s risk management practices. Under IFRS 9, more hedge Joint ventures 42.9 49.3 relationships are eligible for hedge accounting. The change will decrease volatility in Finnair’s operating result, because unrePension fund 0.1 0.0 alised fair value changes of derivatives are recognised in other comprehensive income instead of operating result when cash Purchases of goods and services flow hedge accounting is applied. Changes related to the classification and impairment of financial instruments will not have Associates 2.5 any significant effects on Finnair. The key changes impacting Finnair’s financial statements are described in more detail below. Joint ventures 106.8 126.7 Hedge accounting Pension fund 3.2 4.5 Cost of hedging – IFRS 9 allows the time value of options to be excluded from the designation of a hedging instrument and Receivables accounted for as a cost of hedging. The fair value changes of the time value are recognised in other comprehensive income, Short-term receivables from associates 0.5 and depending on the nature of the hedged item will either be transferred to the Income Statement in the same period that Short-term receivables joint ventures 9.3 12.1 the underlying transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement or will be capitalised into the initial carrying value of a Liabilities hedged item. Under IAS 39, Finnair did not apply hedge accounting when options were used for hedging future cash flows, and Non-current liabilities to pension fund 29.7 2.6 all the unrealised fair value changes of options were recognised in operating result as “Fair value changes in derivatives and changes in exchange rates of fleet overhauls”. Finnair may use options when hedging against foreign currency exchange and Current liabilities to associates 0.9 fuel price risk, and the ability to apply hedge accounting for those will reduce the fair value changes of derivative instruments Current liabilities to joint ventures 0.2 0.1 being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as non-designated derivatives. Hedge effectiveness – Under IFRS 9, IAS 39 requirements for retrospective effectiveness testing as well as for hedge effecTransactions with related parties are with arms length, and are with similar terms than transactions carried out with independtiveness of 80 to 125 per cent are removed. Finnair expects that the hedge ineffectiveness will also be minor for hedge relaent parties. Management remuneration is presented in note 1.3.7. Management has not been granted any loans and there has tionships that become eligible for hedge accounting under IFRS 9. not been any other transactions with management. Risk components – IFRS 9 allows derivatives that are hedging a non-financial component of a price risk that is separately More information on associated companies and joint ventures can be found in the note 4.4. identifiable and measurable to be designated in a hedge relationship for that risk component only. Under IAS 39, non-financial Finnair pension fund components were prohibited from being designated as hedged items. The Group uses options and swaps on jet fuel. It could also use gasoil and Brent crude oil to hedge exposure to movements in the price of jet fuel in the future. In such case, Finnair The Finnair pension fund in Finland is a stand-alone legal entity which mainly provides additional pension coverage to Finnair’s could apply hedge accounting under IFRS 9. Under IAS 39 this would not have been possible. personnel in the form of defined benefit plan, and manages related pension assets. The assets include Finnair’s shares repFinnair Group will apply IFRS 9 hedge accounting on a prospective basis. Accordingly, there will be no transitional adjustresenting 0.1% (0.1%) of the company’s outstanding shares. Real estate and premises owned by the pension fund have been ment to the Group results. mainly leased to Finnair. In 2016 and 2015 Finnair did not pay any contributions to the fund. Pension obligation was 29.7 million euros (2.6) at the end of the financial year. Impairment model The new impairment model requires the recognition of impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL), rather than only incurred credit losses as is the case under IAS 39. The change results in earlier recognition of credit losses on trade receivables. The credit loss allowance is adjusted at the beginning of 2017 accordingly, but the impact recognised in retained earnings is minor (1.2 MEUR). The yearly recognition of credit losses in profit and loss is expected to be low due to nature of the business; flight tickets and other services provided by Finnair are usually paid before the service is delivered. The impairment model does not affect investments in bonds and money market funds included in other financial assets as those are measured at fair value through profit and loss both under IAS 39 and IFRS 9, which already takes into account expected credit losses. With respect to the assets measured at amortised cost, Finnair is actively following such instruments and will recognise impairment through profit and loss if there is evidence of deterioration in credit quality. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 68 Classification IFRS 16 Leases Based on Finnair’s analysis, the application of IFRS 9 will not have any significant impact on the recognition or measurement New leasing standard published in January 2016 will be effective from 2019 onwards, in case endorsed by EU. The standard of the Group’s financial assets. Investments in debt securities, such as commercial paper and deposits, are measured at amorwill replace the previous standard IAS 17 Leases. tised cost, but only when the objective of the business model is to hold the asset to collect the contractual cash flows and the Finnair expects the new standard to have a significant impact to its financial statements. The present value of the future opasset’s contractual cash flows represent only payments of principal and interest. Due to the nature of short-term receivables erating lease payments for aircraft and other lease agreements will be recognised as right-of-use -assets and interest-bearing and other receivables, their book value is expected to be equal to the fair value. Other financial assets, such as investments in liabilities in the balance sheet. Currently, future lease payments are presented in the notes as operating lease commitments at bonds and money market funds, are measured at fair value. The changes in the fair values of financial assets are recognised their nominal value. The currently reported lease commitments at the end of 2016 amounted to 1,359 million euro (see note in the income statement. 2.2 Leasing arrangements for more detail). The leasing standard will also have a significant impact to Finnair’s income statement. In the future, lease cost is divided into IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition depreciation of the right-of-use –asset (operating result) and interest cost for the liability (finance net). The interest cost for the Finnair will adopt the new standard on revenue recognition in the beginning of 2018. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at liability is at its highest in the beginning of the lease term and decreases towards the end of the term while the lease liability an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or seris amortised. Currently, the leasing expenses are accrued over the lease term mainly on a straight line basis and recognised in vices to a customer. The standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS. The standard allows the operating result as lease payments for aircraft and other rents, according to the lease contract terms. entities to use either full retrospective or cumulative catch-up method in the transition. The new lease standard has also a significant impact on the key ratios. In addition to impact on operating result and EBITFinnair has been evaluating the effects of the new standard for different revenue streams (products). Finnair has also worked DA, also cash flow from operating activities will increase as the amortisation of lease liabilities are transferred to cash flow with other airlines through the IATA (International Air Transport Association) Industry Accounting Working Group (IAWG) in cofrom financing activities. Interest-bearing net debt and gearing ratio are expected to significantly increase and equity ratio ordination with the Airlines Revenue Recognition Task Force of the AICPA (American Institute of Certified Public Accountants) decrease due to the changed treatment of operating leases. On the other hand, Finnair currently discloses a key ratio called to agree harmonised accounting treatment for issues requiring clarity under the new standard. “Adjusted gearing”, which takes future operating lease payments into account in the following way: aircraft lease costs for the There are still many open interpretation items within airline industry, which is why Finnair cannot conclude on all the effects, last twelve months are multiplied by 7 and added to the interest-bearing net debt (see Balance sheet “Additional information but overall, Finnair estimates that IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on Finnair financial statements. to Balance sheet: Interest-bearing net debt and adjusted gearing”). According to current understanding, Finnair estimates that IFRS 15 will change the timing of revenue recognition mainly Finnair has been evaluating the effects of the new standard for aircraft and other lease agreements. The most significant in passenger revenue (ticket sales) and ancillary revenue. The changes in recognition are described below and impact is estiimpact identified is that the company will recognise new assets and liabilities for its operating leased aircraft. Regarding other mated to be minor. facilities, such as real estate, airport and terminals and sales offices, Finnair is currently assessing whether these agreements In passenger revenue, customers usually pay their tickets upfront but do not always exercise their rights and tickets remain will meet the definition of a lease in the scope of the new standard, and whether the lease terms exceed the 12 months limit set unused (breakage). According to IFRS 15, if the airline expects to be entitled to breakage, the airline should recognise the exin the IFRS 16 for lease arrangements accounted according to the standard. Finnair has also worked with other airlines through pected breakage amount as revenue in proportion to the pattern of rights exercised by the passenger. Currently ticket revenue the IATA (International Air Transport Association) Industry Accounting Working Group (IAWG) to agree harmonised accounting is recognised when the tickets are used or when the rights expire. In practice the recognition of breakage means that revenue treatment for issues requiring sector specific judgments under the new standard. Major topics still under discussion relate to is recognised earlier but the impact is estimated to be insignificant. assessment of lease term, implicit rate in the lease contract, treatment of maintenance obligations of the aircraft lease contracts In ancillary sales, the revenue related to change fees will be recognised later than currently, since it is considered as a conand whether contracts related to airport hubs and non-hubs, and if so, to which extent, are considered as lease arrangements. tract modification instead of separate revenue transaction. The impact is expected to be minor. Finnair Plus loyalty program point valuation is not expected to change. Within airline industry the discussions concerning measurement of tier status member points is still on-going. Based on the discussions so far, Finnair does not expect the current measurement to change. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 5 Other notes Deferred tax assets and liabilities The Group has evaluated the nature and classification of deferred tax assets. Based on the evaluation, deferred tax assets and Other notes include all such notes that do not specifically relate to any previous subject matters. liabilities levied by the same taxing authority met the requirements for offset eligibility in accordance with IAS12. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown net on the balance sheet. 5.1 Income taxes Changes in deferred taxes during 2016: The tax expense for the period includes current and deferred tax and adjustments to previous years’ taxation. Tax is recognised in Recognised in Recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or other equity items. the income shareholders’ Deferred taxes are calculated for temporary differences between accounting and taxation using the valid tax rates for future years at EUR mill. 2015 statement equity 2016 the closing date. Deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit through future profits is probDeferred tax assets and liabilities able. Temporary differences arise mainly from sales of tangible assets, depreciation and unused tax losses. Deferred tax is recognised Confirmed losses 51.7 -26.2 3.8 29.3 for subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings only when related tax effects are probable. Employee benefits 0.5 1.8 3.6 6.0 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are set off when they are levied by same taxing authority and Finnair has legally enforceable right Property, plant and equipment -59.2 5.8 -53.4 to set off the balances. Finance leasing -3.4 -1.2 -4.7 Other temporary differences -2.1 -0.4 -2.5 Valuation of derivatives at fair value 21.6 -29.0 -7.5 Utilising deferred tax assets related to tax losses requires management to make expectations of future performance of operations. Total 9.1 -20.2 -21.6 -32.7 Deferred tax assets that can be used after more than 12 months 0.5 0.6 Income taxes Deferred tax liabilities that are expected to realise after 12 -60.2 -54.4 months or more EUR mill. 2016 2015 The estimated amount of confirmed tax losses after the 2016 taxable result is approximately 147 million euros. Confirmed tax Taxes for the financial year losses expire earliest within 5–10 years. Current tax -0.5 -0.2 Distributing retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries as dividends would cause a tax effect of 0.3 million euros (0.2). Adjustments recognised for current tax of prior periods 0.1 -0.3 Deferred taxes -20.2 -23.1 Total -20.6 -23.6 Changes in deferred taxes during 2015: Recognised in Recognised in The table below explains the difference between theoretical tax cost calculated with Finnish nominal tax rate 20.0% (20.0%) and tax exthe income shareholders’ pense in the consolidated income statement: EUR mill. 2014 statement equity 2015 Deferred tax assets and liabilities EUR mill. 2016 2015 Confirmed losses 62.3 -10.7 51.7 Result before taxes 105.8 113.2 Employee benefits 5.1 3.0 -7.5 0.5 Taxes calculated using the Finnish tax rate -21.2 -22.6 Property, plant and equipment -51.8 -7.4 -59.2 Different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 0.1 0.2 Finance leasing -2.2 -1.3 -3.4 Tax-exempt income 1.5 0.6 Other temporary differences 1.6 -3.7 -2.1 Non-deductible expenses -1.2 -1.4 Valuation of derivatives at fair value 18.7 2.8 21.6 Adjustments recognised for taxes of prior periods 0.1 -0.3 Total 33.8 -20.0 -4.7 9.1 Income taxes, total -20.6 -23.6 Deferred tax assets that can be used after more than 12 months 0.6 0.5 Effective tax rate 19.5% 20.8% Deferred tax liabilities that are expected to realise after 12 months or more -52.8 -60.2 Effective tax rate was 19.5% (20.8%). Current tax relates to tax cost accrued in sold subsidiary (SMT Oy). = Content of the section = Accounting principles = Critical accounting estimates FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 70 5.2 Disputes and litigation 5.4 Restatement of operating income and key ratios Finnair reports only cases of which the interest is 400,000 euros or more and that are not insured. On 31 December 2016 there Finnair has revised the calculation of revenue. From the beginning of 2016 onwards revenue from non-core businesses, mainly were no such disputes pending. including aircraft leasing income, are reclassified from revenue to other operating income. As of 2016, Finnair has adjusted calculation methods of unit revenue (RASK, unit revenue per available seat kilometre), unit 5.3 Events after the closing date cost (CASK, unit cost per available seat kilometre), unit revenue per revenue passenger kilometre (yield) and cargo unit revenue (Cargo traffic unit revenue per revenue cargo tonne kilometre). The previous calculation formulas included internal items There have not been remarkable events after closing date. which could not be derived straight from the Group’s income statement. The purpose of this change is to improve transparency and the usability of these key figures for investors. Revenue, other operating income, RASK and CASK of comparative periods have been restated to correspond to the changed calculation methods, the restated 2015 key ratios are presented in the tables below. The adjusted formulas for RASK and CASK are described in note Calculation of key ratios. Consolidated Income Statement Restated Reported 2015 2015 Revenue 2,254.5 2,324.0 Other operating income 85.2 15.7 Cumulative key figures Restated Reported 2015 2015 Revenue and result Comparable operating result, % of revenue 1.1 1.0 Traffic data Unit revenue per available seat kilometre, (RASK), cents/ASK 7.08 6.35 Unit cost per available seat kilometre (CASK), cents/ASK 7.01 6.52 CASK excluding fuel, cents/ASK 5.14 4.67 Cargo traffic unit revenue per revenue cargo tonne kilometre, cents/cargo RTK 23.34 21.64 Unit revenue per revenue passenger kilometre (yield), cents/RPK 6.90 6.85 Revenue by product Restated Reported 2015 2015 Passenger revenue 1,766.0 1,749.7 Ancillary and retail revenue 103.2 104.6 Cargo 183.7 183.7 Other revenue 79.1 Travel Services segment 206.9 Travel services 177.8 Travel agencies 23.8 Total 2,254.5 2,324.0 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 6 Parent company financial statements Finnair Plc balance sheet Finnair Plc income statement EUR mill. Note 2016 2015 ASSETS EUR mill. Note 2016 2015 Revenue 6.2 2,102.8 2,025.5 Non-current assets Other operating income 6.3 88.0 103.6 Intangible assets 6.11 18.2 12.1 Tangible assets 6.12 56.1 36.0 Operating income 2,190.8 2,129.1 Investments Holdings in group undertakings 448.6 452.6 Materials and services 6.4 1,055.5 1,114.4 Participating interests 2.5 2.5 Staff expenses 6.5 287.1 268.2 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 0.4 0.4 Depreciation and reduction in value 6.6 12.0 11.4 Loan and other receivables 6.14 223.6 34.1 Other operating expenses 6.7 834.3 794.0 Total investments 6.13 675.0 489.5 Operating expenses total 2,188.9 2,188.0 Deferred tax assets 6.15 12.3 65.3 Total non-current assets 761.6 602.9 Operating profit/loss 2.0 -58.9 Current assets Financial income and expenses 6.8 1.2 -18.1 Current receivables 6.16 443.1 678.7 Marketable securities 6.17 727.9 427.7 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 3.2 -77.0 Cash and bank equivalents 6.18 66.5 277.1 Total current assets 1,237.5 1,383.5 Appropriations 6.9 128.4 128.0 TOTAL ASSETS 1,999.1 1,986.4 Income taxes 6.10 -22.4 -10.1 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Profit/loss for the financial year 109.2 40.9 Equity Share capital 75.4 75.4 Share premium account 24.7 24.7 Other reserves Unrestricted equity funds 252.2 250.4 Legal reserve 147.7 147.7 Hedging reserve 28.3 -94.1 Retained earnings 20.5 -16.1 Profit/loss for the financial year 109.2 40.9 Total equity 6.19 658.0 428.9 Accumulated appropriations 6.20 20.4 20.0 Provisions 6.21 83.5 89.8 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 6.22 357.2 396.7 Current liabilities 6.23 880.1 1,051.0 Total liabilities 1,237.3 1,447.7 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES TOTAL 1,999.1 1,986.4 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 72 Finnair Plc cash flow statement Notes to Finnair Plc financial statements EUR mill. 2016 2015 6.1 Accounting principles Cash flow from operating activities Restatement of operating income Result before appropriations 3.2 -77.0 Finnair has revised the calculation of revenue. From the beginning of 2016 onwards revenue from non-core businesses, mainly Depreciation 12.0 11.4 including aircraft leasing income, are reclassified from revenue to other operating income. Other non-cash transactions -37.9 -14.8 Revenue, other operating income and distribution of revenue by market areas of comparative periods have been restated to Financial income and expenses -1.2 18.1 correspond to the changed calculation methods. The restated 2015 figures are presented in the tables below in notes 6.2 and 6.3. Changes in working capital 59.2 76.7 Foreign currency items Interest and other financial expenses paid -27.8 -30.1 Business transactions in foreign currencies have been valued using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Receivables Received interest and other financial income 9.9 7.8 and liabilities on the balance sheet date are valued using the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Advances paid and reCash flow from operating activities 17.5 -8.0 ceived are valued in the balance sheet using the exchange rate at the date of payment. Exchange rate differences on trade receivables and payables are treated as the adjustments to turnover and other operating expenses. Exchange rate differences on Cash flow from investing activities other receivables and liabilities are entered under financial income and expenses. Investments in intangible and tangible assets -38.7 -14.8 Derivative contracts Proceeds from sales of tangible assets 3.6 28.4 According to its risk management policy, Finnair uses foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity derivatives to Change in long-term receivables 67.3 38.6 reduce the exchange rate, interest rate and commodity risks which arise from the Finnair’s balance sheet items, currency Investments in subsidiaries 0.0 -17.0 denominated purchase agreements, anticipated currency denominated purchases and sales as well as future jet fuel Proceeds from sales of subsidiaries 8.0 0.0 purchases. The balance sheet exposure is hedged only at the Group level. The combined entity-level exposure for all Group Proceeds from sales of associates and joint ventures 0.0 8.4 companies differs from the Group-level exposure by the amount of intercompany items. Therefore, the balance sheet position Received dividends 17.1 0.0 and contracts hedging it are presented only in note 3.5. of the Group financial statements. Similarly, the foreign currency cash flow exposure is only hedged at the Group level to take advantage of the netting effect, and is presented in note 3.5 Cash flow from investing activities 57.3 43.7 of the Group financial statements. Derivative contracts are valued using the rates on the balance sheet date according to Accounting Act 5:2 a §. Cash flow from financing activities The derivatives are initially recognised at original acquisition cost (fair value) in the balance sheet and subsequently valued Purchase of own shares -4.3 0.0 at fair value in each financial statement and interim report. The fair values of the derivatives are based on the value at which Proceeds from loans 0.0 45.5 the instrument could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing and independent parties, with no compulsion to sell or buy Loan repayments and changes -81.7 -52.1 in the sales situation. The fair values of derivatives are determined as follows: The fair values of all derivatives are calculated using the exchange rates, interest rates, volatilities and commodity price Proceeds from hybrid bond 0.0 200.0 quotations on the closing date. The fair values of currency forward contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash Hybrid bond repayments -38.3 -81.7 flows. The fair values of currency options are calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair values of interest Received and given group contributions 139.2 136.0 rate swap contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of interest rate and currency swap Cash flow from financing activities 14.8 247.6 contracts are calculated as the present value of future cash flows. The fair values of interest rate options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. The fair values of commodity forward contracts are calculated as the present valChange in cash flows 89.6 283.4 ue of future cash flows. The fair values of commodity options are calculated using generally accepted option valuation models. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are presented in the financial statements according to the original classification of the derivative. Gains and losses on derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting are recognised in accordance Change in liquid funds with the underlying asset being hedged. At inception, derivative contracts are designated as future cash flows hedges, hedges Liquid funds, at beginning 704.8 421.5 of binding purchase contracts (cash flow hedges or fair value hedges) or as derivatives not meeting the hedge accounting criteChange in cash flows 89.6 283.4 ria or to which hedge accounting is not applied (economic hedges). Hedging of the fair value of net investments of foreign units Liquid funds, at end 794.4 704.8 or embedded derivatives have not been used. At the inception of hedge accounting, Finnair documents the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, as well as the company’s risk management objectives and the strategy for the inception of hedging. At the inception of hedging, and at least at the time of each financial statement, Finnair documents and assesses the effectiveness of hedge relationships by examining the capacity of the hedging instrument to offset changes in the fair value of the hedged item or changes FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73 in cash flows. The values of derivatives in a hedging relationship are presented in the balance sheet item short–term financial Appropriations asset and liabilities. The difference between total and planned depreciation as well as the reinvestment provision made in 2015 is shown as Finnair implements the IFRS hedge accounting principles in the hedging of future cash flows (cash flow hedging). The prinaccumulated appropriations in the balance sheet and their change during the financial year in the income statement. ciples are applied to the price and foreign currency risk of jet fuel and the price risk of electricity. Appropriations contain also given and received group contributions. The change in the fair value of the effective portion of derivative instruments that fulfil the terms of cash flow hedging are directly recognised in the fair value reserve of other comprehensive income, to the extent that the requirements for the apIncome taxes plication of hedge accounting have been fulfilled. The gains and losses, recognised in fair value reserve, are transferred to the Income taxes in the income statement include taxes calculated for the financial year based on Finnish tax provisions, adjustincome statement in the period in which the hedged item is recognised in the income statement. When an instrument acquired ments to taxes in previous financial years and the change in deferred taxes. for the hedging of cash flow matures or is sold, or when the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer fulfilled, the gain or loss accrued from hedging instruments remains in equity until the forecast transaction takes place. However, if the forecasted hedged Pension schemes transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accrued in equity is immediately recognised in the income statement. The mandatory pension cover of the company’s domestic employees has primarily been arranged through a Finnish pension insurance company and other additional pension cover through the Finnair pension fund or a Finnish pension insurance comFinancial assets and liabilities pany. Since 1992, the pension fund has no longer accepted employees other than pilots for additional pension coverage. The Financial assets have been classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (assets held Finnair pension fund’s pension obligation is fully covered with respect to additional coverage. Pension fund liabilities are prefor trading), held-to-maturity investments, loans and other receivables. The classification is made on the basis of the purpose sented in the notes to the financial statements. of the acquisition of the financial assets in connection with the original acquisition. All purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date. Liabilities are recognised at acquisition cost. Financial assets at fair value through profit and Provisions loss as well as assets and liabilities maturing within 12 months are included in current liabilities. Provisions in the balance sheet and entered as expenses in the income statement comprise those items which the company is Finnair assesses on each closing date whether there is any objective evidence that the value of a financial asset item or group committed to covering through agreements or otherwise in the foreseeable future and which have no corresponding revenue of items has been impaired. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen for loans and other receivables enand whose monetary value can be reasonably assessed. tered at amortised acquisition cost on the balance sheet or for held-to-maturity investments, the size of the loss is determined The company is obliged to return leased aircraft at the required redelivery condition. To fulfil these maintenance obligations as the difference of the book value of the asset item and the present value of expected future cash flows of the said financial the company has recognised provisions based on flight hours flown during the maintenance period. asset item discounted at the original effective interest rate. The loss is recognised through profit and loss. Other financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value. Other financial assets include trade receivables, accrued in6.2 Revenue by business area come and prepaid expenses as well as other non-current receivables like loan receivables and other investments as well as the securities for aircraft leases. Other financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals and deferred income. EUR mill. 2016 2015 Derecognition of financial assets takes place when the company has lost its contractual right to receive the cash flows or Revenue by division when it has substantially transferred the risks and rewards outside the company. 2,102.8 2,025.5 Passenger revenue 1,891.4 1,850.2 Fixed assets and depreciation Ancillary services 103.2 70.2 The balance sheet values for fixed assets are based on original acquisition costs less planned depreciation. Land areas are not depreciated. Planned depreciation is based on the expected economic lifetimes: Other 108.2 105.1 • IT software: 3-8 years Distribution of revenue by market areas based on flight routes, % of revenue • Other intangible assets: 3-10 years Finland 17% 19% • Buildings: over 50 years from time of acquisition to a residual value of 10 % or 3-7 % of the diminishing balances Europe 40% 39% • Other tangible assets 23 % of the diminishing balances Other countries 43% 42% Research and development costs Total 100% 100% Except for major software development costs, research and development costs are expensed as they occur. Research and development of aircraft, systems and operations is conducted primarily by the manufacturers. Leasing Lease payments for aircraft are significant. Annual lease payments are treated as rental expenses. Lease payments due in future years under aircraft lease contracts are presented as off-balance sheet items. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 74 Prior period adjustment to revenue and other operating income Restated Reported 6.4 Materials and services EUR mill. 2015 2015 Revenue 2,025.5 2,066.4 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Other operating income 103.6 62.6 Materials and services Operating income 2,129.1 2,129.1 Ground handling and catering expenses 203.5 194.7 Fuel costs 491.5 596.8 Aircraft materials and overhaul 231.1 216.0 Prior period adjustment to revenue by business area Restated Reported IT expenses 68.0 54.7 EUR mill. 2015 2015 Other items 61.4 52.3 Revenue by division Total 1,055.5 1,114.4 2,025.5 2,066.4 Passenger revenue 1,850.2 1,837.4 Ancillary services 70.2 39.4 6.5 Staff costs Aircraft lease income 0.0 142.8 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Other 105.1 46.8 Wages and salaries 227.2 219.7 Pension expenses 42.1 34.5 Distribution of revenue by market areas based on flight routes, % of revenue Other social expenses 17.7 13.9 Finland 19% 17% Total 287.1 268.2 Europe 39% 40% Other countries 42% 43% Salary and bonus expenses of Chief Executive Officer and Members of Total 100% 100% the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer 1.3 1.2 Board of Directors 0.4 0.4 6.3 Other operating income Personnel on average 3,569 3,475 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Aircraft lease income 28.0 28.1 Other rental income 31.9 31.6 6.6 Planned depreciation and amortisation Capital gains on sales of tangible assets 0.2 13.3 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Other income 27.8 30.6 On other long-term expenditure 4.5 4.7 Total 88.0 103.6 On buildings 6.6 5.6 On other equipment 0.9 1.1 Prior period adjustment to other operating income Restated Reported Total 12.0 11.4 EUR mill. 2015 2015 Aircraft lease income 28.1 0.0 Other rental income 31.6 31.6 6.7 Other operating expenses Capital gains on sales of tangible assets 13.3 13.3 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Other income 30.6 17.7 Lease payments for aircraft 249.6 217.3 Total 103.6 62.6 Other rents for aircraft capacity 123.3 116.3 Office and other rents 34.0 31.0 Traffic charges 262.8 258.8 Sales and marketing expenses 67.1 64.0 Other expenses 97.5 106.6 Total 834.3 794.0 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 6.8 Financial income and expenses 6.11 Intangible assets EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Dividend income Other long-term expenditure From group companies 17.1 0.0 Acquisition cost 1 January 37.5 46.5 Total 17.1 0.0 Additions 11.1 4.2 Disposals -6.8 -13.2 Interest income Acquisition cost 31 December 41.8 37.5 From group companies 5.9 7.6 From other companies 0.8 1.1 Accumulated depreciation 1 January -25.4 -33.9 Total 6.7 8.6 Disposals 6.3 12.5 Depreciation and reduction in value -4.5 -4.0 Gains on disposal of shares 4.1 6.2 Accumulated depreciation 31 December -23.6 -25.4 Interest expenses Book value 31 December 18.2 12.1 To group companies -0.2 -1.3 To other companies -25.6 -19.3 Total -25.9 -20.6 6.12 Tangible assets Other financial expenses Tangible assets 2016 To group companies -1.6 -9.9 Other Advances EUR mill. Land Buildings equipment paid Total To other companies -0.3 0.0 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2016 0.7 24.5 7.2 19.1 51.5 Total -1.9 -9.9 Additions 0.0 0.6 1.6 28.6 30.8 Disposals 0.0 -16.7 -2.3 -0.3 -19.3 Exchange gains and losses 1.1 -2.5 Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2016 0.7 8.4 6.4 47.4 63.0 Financial income and expenses total 1.2 -18.1 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan 2016 0.0 -11.4 -4.2 0.0 -15.5 Disposals 0.0 14.9 1.4 0.0 16.2 6.9 Appropriations Depreciation for the financial year 0.0 -6.6 -0.9 0.0 -7.5 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2016 0.0 -3.1 -3.7 0.0 -6.8 Change in depreciation difference -0.3 8.9 Change in reinvestment provision 0.0 -20.0 Book value 31 Dec 2016 0.7 5.3 2.7 47.4 56.1 Received group contribution 128.7 139.2 Total 128.4 128.0 The share of machines and equipment in the book value of tangible assets 31 Dec 2016 7.3% 6.10 Income taxes EUR mill. 2016 2015 Change in deferred taxes -22.4 -10.1 Total -22.4 -10.1 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 76 Tangible assets 2015 Share of Associates and joint ventures parent company % Other Advances EUR mill. Land Buildings equipment paid Total Suomen Ilmailuopisto Oy, Finland 49.50 Acquisition cost 1 Jan 2015 0.7 51.0 8.3 6.5 66.5 Nordic Regional Airlines AB Additions 0.0 0.0 1.0 19.1 20.1 (previously Flybe Nordic), Sweden 40.00 Disposals 0.0 -26.5 -2.1 -6.5 -35.1 Share of Share of Acquisition cost 31 Dec 2015 0.7 24.5 7.2 19.1 51.5 Group companies parent company % parent company % Finnair Cargo Oy, Finland 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy LEKO 8, Finland 100.00 Accumulated depreciation 1 Jan2015 0.0 -20.2 -5.2 0.0 -25.3 Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy, Finland 100.00 A/S Aero Airlines, Estonia 100.00 Disposals 0.0 11.2 1.9 0.0 13.1 Northport Oy, Finland 100.00 Amadeus Finland Oy, Finland 95.00 Depreciation for the financial year 0.0 -2.4 -0.9 0.0 -3.3 Finnair Technical Services Oy, Finland 100.00 Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Ab, Finland 100.00 Accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2015 0.0 -11.4 -4.2 0.0 -15.5 Finnair Engine Services Oy, Finland 100.00 FTS Financial Services Oy, Finland 100.00 Finnair Flight Academy Oy, Finland 100.00 Backoffice Services Estonia Oü, Estonia 100.00 Book value 31 Dec 2015 0.7 13.1 3.0 19.1 36.0 Finnair Travel Retail Oy, Finland 100.00 LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy, Finland* 100.00 The share of machines and equipment in the book value Kiinteistö Oy Air Cargo Center 1, Finland 100.00 of tangible assets 31 Dec 2015 4.9% Kiinteistö Oy Lentokonehuolto, Finland 100.00 6.13 Investments * LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy is Finnair’s 100-percent owned subsidiary but fully under LSG Group’s control. LSG had a call option to purchase the shares, but in November 2016 LSG Group decided that it will not exercise its purchase option of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy. As a result, EUR mill. 2016 2015 Finnair and LSG started negotiations about new forms of cooperation. In case control of LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy would change to Finnair Group companies based on-going negotiations, the company would be consolidated to Finnair Group from change on control date onwards. Potential change of control requires approval from competition authorities. Acquisition cost 1 January 452.6 449.1 SMT Oy was sold on 31 October 2016 to GBT. Additions 0.0 3.5 Disposals -4.0 0.0 Book value 31 December 448.6 452.6 6.14 Non-current loan and other receivables EUR mill. 2016 2015 Associates and joint ventures From group companies 222.1 32.5 Acquisition cost 1 January 2.5 4.7 From other companies 1.5 1.5 Additions 0.0 -2.2 Total 223.6 34.1 Book value 31 December 2.5 2.5 Shares in other companies 6.15 Deferred tax assets Acquisition cost 1 January 0.4 0.4 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Book value 31 December 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax assets 1 January 65.3 73.2 From result for the financial year -22.1 -2.8 From temporary differences -0.2 -7.3 Taxes from previous periods -0.1 0.0 From valuation of derivates at fair value -30.6 2.2 Deferred tax assets 31 December 12.3 65.3 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77 6.16 Current receivables 6.19 Equity UnreEUR mill. 2016 2015 Share stricted Short-term receivables from group companies Share premium Legal Hedging equity Retained Equity EUR mill. capital account reserve reserve funds earnings total Trade receivables 26.6 21.0 Equity 1 Jan 2016 75.4 24.7 147.7 -94.1 250.4 24.8 428.9 Received group contribution 128.7 139.2 Change in fair value of hedging 122.5 Accrued income and prepaid expenses 4.4 3.2 instruments Other receivables 25.6 282.4 Share-based payments 1.7 Total 185.2 445.8 Purchase of own shares -4.3 Result for the financial year 109.2 Short-term receivables from associates and joint ventures Equity 31 Dec 2016 75.4 24.7 147.7 28.3 252.2 129.6 658.0 Trade receivables 8.7 11.2 Total 8.7 11.2 UnreShare stricted Short-term receivables from others Share premium Legal Hedging equity Retained Equity EUR mill. capital account reserve reserve funds earnings total Trade receivables 85.6 101.5 Equity 1 Jan 2015 75.4 24.7 147.7 -85.2 250.5 -16.1 397.1 Prepaid expenses 54.3 31.3 Change in fair value of hedging -9.0 Derivative receivables 74.3 55.8 instruments Other receivables 34.9 33.1 Result for the financial year 40.9 Total 249.1 221.7 Equity 31 Dec 2015 75.4 24.7 147.7 -94.1 250.4 24.8 428.9 Short-term receivables total 443.1 678.7 Distributable equity 6.17 Investments EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Hedging reserve 0.0 -94.1 Short-term investments at fair value 727.9 427.7 Unrestricted equity funds 252.2 250.4 Retained earnings 20.5 -16.1 6.18 Cash and bank equivalents Profit/loss for the financial year 109.2 40.9 Total 381.8 181.1 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Funds in group bank accounts and deposits maturing in three months 66.5 277.1 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 78 6.20 Accumulated appropriations 6.23 Current liabilities EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Accumulated depreciation difference 1 January 0.0 8.9 Current liabilities to group companies Change in depreciation difference 0.3 -8.9 Trade payables 37.9 32.9 Accumulated depreciation difference 31 December 0.3 0.0 Accruals and deferred income 4.5 13.3 Group bank account liabilities 119.8 178.6 Total 162.2 224.8 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Accumulated reinvestment provision 1 January 20.0 0.0 Current liabilities to others Change in reinvestment provision 0.0 20.0 Loans from financial institutions 0.0 23.8 Accumulated reinvestment provision 31 December 20.0 20.0 Advance payments received 0.1 0.1 Trade payables 82.8 70.4 Accumulated appropriations total 20.4 20.0 Accruals and deferred income 616.4 714.7 Reinvestment provision is recorded relating to acquisition of new cargo terminal. Other liabilities 18.6 17.3 Total 717.9 826.3 6.21 Provisions Current liabilities total 880.1 1,051.0 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Provisions 1 January 89.8 87.2 Accruals and deferred income Provision for the period 42.6 31.5 Unflown air transport revenues 348.3 301.7 Provision used -50.8 -39.1 Jet fuels and traffic charges 67.8 67.2 Exhange rate differences 2.0 10.1 Holiday payment liability 52.8 51.7 Provisions 31 December 83.5 89.8 Loyalty program Finnair Plus 33.6 31.9 Of which long-term 62.0 52.6 Derivatives 17.4 180.0 Of which short-term 21.5 37.2 Other items 101.1 95.5 Total 83.5 89.8 Total 620.9 728.0 Long-term aircraft maintenance provisions are expected to be used by 2028. 6.22 Non-current liabilities EUR mill. 2016 2015 Loans from group companies 1.0 1.0 Bonds 153.6 155.2 Hybrid loan 200.0 238.3 Other liabilities 2.5 2.2 Total 357.2 396.7 Maturity of interest-bearing liabilies 1–5 years 150.0 after 5 years 200.0 Total 350.0 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79 6.24 Collateral, contingent liabilities and other commitments 6.25 Derivatives 2016 2015 EUR mill. 2016 2015 EUR mill. Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Guarantees and contingent liabilities Currency derivatives On behalf of group companies 69.0 227.1 Hedge accounting items (forward contracts): On behalf of other companies 0.0 0.1 Jet fuel currency hedging 307.3 16.5 331.6 23.1 Total 69.0 227.2 Hedge accounting items total 307.3 16.5 331.6 23.1 Items outside hedge accounting: Aircraft lease payments Operational cash flow hedging (forward contracts) 157.4 3.3 307.5 14.8 Within one year 297.7 252.2 Operational cash flow hedging (options) After one year and not later than 5 years 1,399.1 1,301.9 Call options 173.2 5.9 180.4 3.7 Later than 5 years 355.6 330.2 Put options 245.4 -2.4 318.5 -4.1 Total 2,052.4 1,884.4 Items outside hedge accounting total 576.0 6.7 806.3 14.3 Currency derivatives total 883.3 23.2 1,137.9 37.4 Parent company has leased the aircraft fleet from the fully owned subsidiary. Commodity derivatives EUR mill. 2016 2015 Hedge accounting items: Other lease payments Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 650,000 18.9 559,000 -140.7 Within one year 27.7 26.6 Electricity derivatives, MWh 13,140 0.0 13,140 0.0 After one year and not later than 5 years 92.5 82.1 Hedge accounting items total 18.9 -140.8 Later than 5 years 168.9 184.0 Items outside hedge accounting: Total 289.1 292.7 Jet fuel forward contracts, tonnes 24,000 0.6 26,000 -4.2 Options Pension obligations Call options, jet fuel, tonnes 236,000 13.3 178,000 0.6 Total obligation of pension fund 331.0 331.7 Put options, jet fuel, tonnes 472,000 -4.4 -329,000 -26.2 Non-mandatory benefit covered -331.0 -331.7 Electricity derivatives, MWh 0 0.0 26,352 -0.3 Total 0.0 0.0 Items outside hedge accounting total 9.4 -30.2 Commodity derivatives total 28.4 -170.9 Interest rate derivatives Hedge accounting items: Interest rate swaps 150.0 3.6 150.0 5.2 Hedge accounting items total 150.0 3.6 150.0 5.2 Interest rate derivatives total 150.0 3.6 150.0 5.2 Equity derivatives Hedge accounting items: Stock options Call options 3.0 1.8 3.0 5.6 Put options 3.0 -0.2 3.0 -1.4 Hedge accounting items total 6.0 1.6 6.0 4.1 Equity derivatives total 6.0 1.6 6.0 4.1 Derivatives total 56.9 -124.2 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 80 Fair value changes of derivatives 6.26 Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value 2016 2015 through profit through fair value through profit through fair value Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value EUR mill. and loss reserve and loss reserve Fair values at the end of the reporting period Currency derivatives -7.6 -6.6 -19.3 -12.7 Milj. euroa 31.12.2016 Level 1 Level 2 Commodity derivatives 39.6 159.7 17.9 1.6 Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Interest rate derivatives -1.5 0.0 -0.6 0.0 Securities held for trading 727.9 466.6 261.2 Equity derivatives -2.5 0.0 3.5 0.0 Fair value changes of derivatives total 28.0 153.1 1.5 -11.2 Derivatives held for trading Currency and interest rate swaps and options 3.7 3.7 Changes in fair value reserve of which in fair value hedge accounting 3.7 3.7 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Currency derivatives 27.8 27.8 Currency derivatives -6.6 -12.7 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 16.6 16.6 Commodity derivatives 159.7 1.6 Commodity derivatives 41.0 41.0 Deferred tax -30.6 2.2 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 26.9 26.9 Changes in fair value reserve total 122.5 -9.0 Equity derivatives 1.8 1.8 of which in fair value hedge accounting 1.8 1.8 Realised derivatives Total 802.1 466.6 335.5 EUR mill. 2016 2015 Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs -90.4 -77.6 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit and loss Electricity derivatives Other expenses -0.2 0.0 Derivatives held for trading Interest-rate swaps Financial expenses 2.1 1.6 Currency derivatives 4.6 4.6 Expenses of hedge accounting items total -88.5 -76.0 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 0.1 0.1 Jet fuel hedging Fuel costs -24.8 -59.4 Commodity derivatives 12.6 12.6 Operational cash flow hedging Other expenses 14.0 33.4 of which in cash flow hedge accounting 8.0 8.0 Operational cash flow hedging Revenue -12.3 0.0 Equity derivatives 0.2 0.2 Electricity derivatives Other expenses 0.0 -0.7 of which in fair value hedge accounting 0.2 0.2 Expenses of items outside hedge accounting total -23.1 -26.7 Total 17.4 0.0 17.4 Total -111.6 -102.7 During the reporting period no significant transfers took place between fair value hierarchy Levels 1 and 2. The fair values of hierarchy Level 1 are based fully on quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets of the same assets and liabilities. The fair values of Level 2 instruments are based to a significant extent on input data other than the quoted prices included in Level 1, but however on data that are observable either directly (price) or indirectly (derived from price) for the said asset or liability. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81 Calculation of key ratios Comparable operating result: Dividend/earnings, %: Available seat kilometres (ASK): Operating result excluding fair value changes in derivatives, changes in the exchange rates of fleet Dividend/share Total number of seats available × kilometres flown overhauls and items affecting comparability ×100 Earnings/share Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK): Items affecting comparability: Number of revenue passengers × kilometres flown Dividend yield, %: Gains and losses on aircraft and other transactions and restructuring costs Dividend/share Passenger load factor, %: ×100 Comparable EBITDAR: Share price at the end of the financial year Share of revenue passenger kilometres of available seat kilometres Comparable operating result + depreciation + lease payments for aircraft Cash flow from operating activities/share: Available cargo tonne kilometres (cargo ATK): EBITDA: Cash flow from operating activities Number of tonnes of capacity for carriage of cargo and mail × kilometres flown Operating result + depreciation Average number of shares during the financial year, Revenue cargo tonne kilometres (cargo RTK): Shareholders’ equity: adjusted for share issues Total revenue load consisting of cargo and mail × kilometres flown Equity attributable to owners of the parent Price/earnings ratio (P/E): Overall load factor, %: Gross capital expenditure: Share price at the end of the financial year Share of revenue tonne kilometres of available tonne kilometres Investments in intangible and tangible assets excluding advance payments Earnings/share Revenue per available seat kilometre (RASK): Liquid funds: Unit revenue (RASK) represents the Group’s revenue divided by available seat kilometres (ASK). Equity ratio, %: Cash and cash equivalents + other financial assets Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Unit revenue (RASK) with constant currency aims to provide a comparative, currency neutral ×100 measurement for unit revenues. All the currency changes and currency hedging results are Adjusted interest-bearing liabilities: Balance sheet total excluded from the measurement. Interest-bearing liabilities + cross currency interest rate swaps in derivative financial instruments Gearing, %: Cost per available seat kilometre (CASK): Interest-bearing net debt: Interest-bearing net debt Unit cost (CASK) represents the Group’s operational costs divided by available seat kilometres. Adjusted interest-bearing liabilities liquid funds ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Other operating income is deducted from operational costs. Adjusted interest-bearing net debt: Unit cost (CASK) with constant currency aims to provide a comparative, currency neutral Interest-bearing net debt + 7 × lease payments for aircraft Adjusted gearing, %: measurement for unit costs. All the currency changes and currency hedging results are excluded Adjusted net debt from the measurement. Average capital employed: ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest Equity + interest-bearing liabilities (average of reporting period and comparison period) Unit revenue per revenue passenger kilometre (yield): Passenger Revenue by product divided by Revenue passenger kilometres (RPK). Return on equity (ROE), %: Earnings per share: Result for the financial year Result for the financial year hybrid bond expenses net of tax Cargo traffic unit revenue per revenue cargo tonne kilometre: ×100 Shareholders’ equity + non-controlling interest (average) Cargo Revenue by product divided by Revenue cargo tonne kilometres (cargo RTK). Average number of shares during the financial year, adjusted for share issues Return on capital employed (ROCE), %: Result before taxes + financial expenses Equity/share: ×100 Shareholders’ equity Average capital employed Number of shares at the end of financial year, adjusted for share issues FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 82 Board of Directors’ proposal on the dividend Finnair Plc’s distributable equity on 31 December 2016 amounts to 381,792,655.73 euros, of which the net result for the financial year 2016 is 109,168,603.59 euros. There have been no material changes in the company’s financial position since the end of the financial year. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.10 euros per share be paid based on the balance sheet to be adopted for the financial year, which ended 31 December 2016, and the remaining portion of the result be retained in the equity. Based on the number of outstanding shares as of 14 February 2017 the total amount of dividend proposed to be paid is 12,734,715.10 euros. Signing of the Report of the Board of Directors and the Financial Statements Helsinki, 14 February 2017 The Board of Directors of Finnair Plc Klaus Heinemann Jouko Karvinen Maija-Liisa Friman Jussi Itävuori Gunvor Kronman Jaana Tuominen Nigel Turner Pekka Vauramo President and CEO of Finnair Plc FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83 AUDITOR’S REPORT (TRANSLATION FROM THE FINNISH ORIGINAL) To the Annual General Meeting of Finnair Oyj Our audit approach Overview Report on the audit of the financial statements Materiality Opinion • Overall group materiality: € 12 000 000 which represents 0,5 % of Group’s revenues In our opinion, • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows Group scoping of the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU • Audit scope: We have audited parent company and four the most significant subsidiaries. In • the financial statements give a true and fair view of both the consolidated and the parent company’s financial performance addition, we have performed group level procedures over specific consolidated accounts and and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements in analytical procedures to assess unusual movements across all entities. Finland and comply with statutory requirements. Key audit matters What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Finnair Oyj (Business ID: 0108023-3) for the year ended 31 December, 2016. The • Deferred revenue on ticket sales financial statements comprise: • Valuation of Finnair Plus Debt • the consolidated statement of financial position, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of • Aircraft maintenance provision changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a summa• Defined employee benefit plans ry of significant accounting policies; and • the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement and notes to the financial statements As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial Basis for opinion statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of signifWe conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice icant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance Independence whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They We are independent of the parent company and of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant are considered material if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions to our audit of the financial statements in Finland, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. these requirements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on the financial statements as a whole. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 84 Overall group materiality € 12 000 000 € (previous year € 12 000 000) How our audit addressed Key audit matter in the audit of the Group the Key audit matter How we determined it 0,5 % of revenues Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied The group’s profitability has been volatile over the last few Deferred revenue on ticket sales years and has been significantly impacted by items affecting comparability. Therefore, we chose revenues as the benchAirline tickets are typically sold in advance when payments received are recWe evaluated the design and tested the opmark as we considered that this provides us with a consistognised as deferred revenue. The deferred revenue related to unflown tickets erating effectiveness of certain controls over ent year-on-year basis for determining materiality, reflecting amounted €348,5 million at the end of 2016. revenue recognition. the group’s growth and investment plans, and which we beAirline ticket sales are recognised as revenue when the flight is flown or when We have tested a sample of tickets recognised lieve is also the benchmark against which the performance ticket has expired. Revenue recognition related to expired tickets is done manas revenues. of the Group is commonly measured by users, and is a genually. This manual adjustment is based on the expiry of the tickets when FinWe have tested a sample of unused tickets in erally accepted benchmark. We chose 0.5 % which is within nair has no obligation to return the related payment to customer. the deferred revenue. the range of acceptable quantitative materiality thresholds Due to magnitude of the balance and related manual adjustment we consider We have performed computer assisted audit in auditing standards. this as a key audit matter in the audit of the Group. procedures to deferred revenue related to unflown tickets. How we tailored our group audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. Valuation of Finnair Plus Debt Group operates domestically through several legal entities. In addition, Group has few small legal entities outside Finland. Finnair loyalty customers can earn Finnair Plus Points from tickets or services We evaluated the Plus debt calculation model Group’s sales is mainly generated by parent company and we have audited the parent company as part of our audit of consolpurchased, and use the earned points to buy services and products offered and tested the calculations therein. idated financial statements. In addition, we have audited four the most significant subsidiaries. We have considered that the by Finnair or its partners in cooperation. We have tested the inputs for Finnair Plus points remaining subsidiaries don’t present a reasonable risk of material misstatement for consolidated financial statements and thus our procedures have been limited to targeted audit procedures over significant balances and to analytical procedures The points earned are fair valued and recognised as a decrease of revenue and included in the calculation. performed at Group level. debt at the time when the points-earning event (for example, flight is flown) is We have tested a sample of point valuations By performing the procedures above at legal entities, combined with additional procedures at the Group level, we have obrecognised as revenue. The debt is derecognised and recognised as revenue against supporting evidence such as historitained sufficient and appropriate evidence regarding the financial information of the Group as a whole to provide a basis for when the points are used to buy a service or a good or when the points expire. cal usage of Finnair Plus points to purchase our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Valuation and revenue recognition related to Finnair Plus debt requires judgeFinnair’s flights based on the company’s valment of management especially related to fair valuation of points and timing uation policy. Key audit matters of revenue recognition related to points expected to expire. As the customers We have evaluated the expiration rate of points Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial can decide how to use the earned points the fair value of the point is defined and the likelihood of points being used in the statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a by allocating the point to award selection based on historical behaviour of light of actual utilisation of points in the year. whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. customers, after which fair value of each award is defined. The liability is calAs in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other culated by taking the total amount of points earned by customers, less the matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. expected expiring of the points. These points are then fair valued as described above, and the result is recognised as liability in the balance sheet. Finnair Plus debt amounted €33,4 million at the end of 2016. We focused on this area because of an inherent level of management judgement required in fair valuation and timing of revenue recognition relating to expiring points. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85 How our audit addressed Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Key audit matter in the audit of the Group the Key audit matter the Managing Director for the financial statements The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements that Aircraft maintenance provision give a true and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governThe Group operates aircrafts which are owned or held under finance or operWe evaluated the maintenance provision model ing the preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. The Board of Directors and ating lease arrangements. The Group is obligated to return leased aircraft at and tested the calculations therein. This includthe Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation the required redelivery condition agreed with the lessor. To fulfil these mained assessing the process by which the variable of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. tenance obligations the Group has recognised airframe heavy maintenance, factors within the provision were estimated, In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the engine performance maintenance and engine life limited part provisions which evaluating the reasonableness of the assumpGroup’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going amounted € 81,6 million as of December 31, 2016. tions, testing the input data and testing matheconcern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alterLiabilities for maintenance costs are incurred during the term of the lease matical accuracy of the calculations. native but to do so. in respect of aircraft leased under operating leases. These arise from legal and contractual obligations relating to the condition of the aircraft when it In particular, we challenged the key assumpAuditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is returned to the lessor. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material tions that were based on the Group’s intermisstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance At each balance sheet date, the maintenance provision is calculated using a nal data, such as expected timing and cost of is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will almodel that incorporates a number of variable factors and assumptions includmaintenance checks and maintenance contract ways detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material ing: likely utilisation of the aircraft; the expected cost of the heavy mainteterms. We also evaluated the provision and the if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on nance check at the time it is expected to occur; and the expected occurrence key assumptions in the light of actual utilisathe basis of these financial statements. of the heavy maintenance check. tion in the year. We focused on this area because of an inherent level of management judgement As part of an audit in accordance good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skeprequired in calculating the amount of provision needed as a result of the comticism throughout the audit. We also: plex and subjective elements around these variable factors and assumptions. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a Defined employee benefit plans basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. The group has defined employee benefit plans where amount of pension benefit We have used auditors expert to review the ac• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate that an employee will receive on retirement is defined and that is usually dependtuarial statement prepared by independent acin the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the ent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The tuaries. This has included assessment of the apgroup’s internal control. liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined pension plans is the propriateness of the actuarial assumptions used • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related dispresent value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period in calculating the defined benefit obligation. closures made by management. less the fair value of plan assets. The net defined benefit liability amounted to €31,9 We have tested valuation of the plan assets re• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of million as of December 31, 2016. lated to defined employee benefit plans by testaccounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using a sample of listed equity holdings against that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude ing the projected unit credit method. Calculation of the defined benefit obligation prevailing market prices at the year end. Rethat a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the requires use of actuarial assumptions such as life expectancy, inflation and future lated to unlisted investments we have created financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evsalary increases. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined independent expectation based on the nature idence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company by discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest rates of high-quality of the investment, historical purchase price or or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will prior year audited valuation and publicly avail• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whethbe paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the relatable information on similar investments and er the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ed pension obligation. compared that to the management valuation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within The plan assets are valued at fair value as of December 31, 2016 and valuation inthe group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision volve use of judgment in particular relating to unlisted investments. and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We considered valuation of the defined benefit obligation and plan assets as a key We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit matter in the audit of the Group due to materiality of the related balances and judgments involved in these estimates. We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial statements. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 86 audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Other reporting requirements Other information The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises information included in the report of the Board of Directors and in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. In our opinion • the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial statements • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Other statements We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements should be adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of profit shown in the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors of the parent company should be discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. Helsinki February 14th 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Mikko Nieminen Authorised Public Accountant FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 87 TAX FOOTPRINT 2016 2015 Finnair’s principle is to pay the indirect and direct taxes it is subject to in each country according to local regulations. The aim Other Other of tax planning is to support business decisions and to ensure their appropriate implementation, also from the perspective Direct taxes payable, EUR million Finland* countries Total Finland* countries** Total of taxation. Finnair Group does not have any structures in place in order to transfer taxable income from Finland to jurisdicEmployer contributions 5.7 1.8 7.5 5.9 3.0 8.9 tions with lower tax rates. Property taxes 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.5 0.0 0.5 Finnair’s international business operations are mainly related to the sales of flight tickets and cargo through Finnair Plc’s foreign sales units, as well as local sales promotion activities. Sales units are not separate legal entities. The sales units’ inOther taxes 1.7 0.0 1.7 1.6 0.0 1.6 come is taxed pursuant to the regulations and double tax treaties pertaining to the international airline business as part of the Public subsidies received -2.1 0.0 -2.1 -1.6 0.0 -1.6 parent company’s taxable income in Finland. The operations of Finnair’s foreign subsidiaries in 2016 and 2015 have been priTaxes included in direct operating marily related to travel and back office services, and they are very minor in scale relative to the Group’s business operations expenses and subsidies in total 5.9 1.8 7.7 6.4 3.0 9.4 as a whole. Finnair has also minor holdings (less than 20%) in some insurance captives located Guernsey islands for business Income taxes payable* 22.6 0.0 22.6 10.1 0.2 10.3 reasons, the results of which are subject to taxation in Finland. Total direct taxes payable 28.4 1.8 30.3 16.5 3.2 19.7 Finnair’s taxable operations in individual countries outside of Finland are minor in scale. Hence, the table below present Finland separately and all other countries together. Country level information for subsidiaries is found in the second table on * Income taxes payable are tax expenses recorded based on the taxable result, which has been utilised against confirmed tax losses. Figures this page. Country level specification for taxes paid and collected outside Finland is found on the next page. include also taxes of SMT Oy during the time the company was part of Finnair group ** Figures relating to other countries include also taxes paid by sold foreign subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. 2016 2015 Other taxes primarily include environmental and electricity taxes. Due to the nature of the international airline business, jet fuel Finnair’s operations in Finland and in Other Other other countries Finland* countries Total Finland countries* Total is tax-free. Public subsidies consist of subsidies received for training and they are primarily related to the aviation training services provided by Finnair. The reported public subsidies do not include subsidies paid to the airline business by the authorities Revenue, EUR million 2,307.9 8.8 2,316.8 2,239.8 14.7 2,254.5 in various countries, as they are considered business secrets. No such subsidies have been received from Finnish authorities. Result before taxes, EUR million 105.1 0.6 105.8 111.8 1.6 113.3 Finnair has confirmed losses in taxation from previous tax periods amounting to approximately 259 million euros. The estiNumber of personnel 4,545 500 5,045 4,276 630 4,906 mated amount of confirmed tax losses after 2016 taxable result is approximately 147 million euros. The confirmed tax losses can be utilised against positive taxable income over the next five to ten years. Income tax (cash tax) becomes due for payment * Figures include also sold subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. Internal turnover has been eliminated. only when previous losses have been utilised in full. More detailed specification of employer contributions paid in other countries is found on the next page. Finland 2016 figures include also SMT Oy for the time the company was part of the Group. Finnair Group’s operative subsidiMore information on direct taxes, such as the taxes pursuant to the consolidated income statement, deferred tax assets and aries are located in Estonia, where income tax is due in connection with distribution of dividends. The Group has also dormant liabilities, and the adjustment of the effective tax rate, is presented in Note 5.1 in Finnair’s consolidated financial statements. subsidiaries in Russia. In 2015 Group’s revenue outside of Finland includes also revenue of subsidiaries sold (Estravel AS, Estravel Vinius UAB, Latvia Branch). Specification for revenue, result before taxes, income tax payable and number of personnel Indirect taxes collected for the Other Other is presented in the below table. financial year, EUR million Finland* countries Total Finland countries* Total Value added taxes, sales 77.0 0.8 77.8 83.4 1.9 85.3 2016 2015 Value added taxes, purchases 103.6 4.9 108.5 99.5 5.6 105.1 Finnair’s operations in other countries Estonia Russia Estonia* Lithuania* Latvia* Russia Value added taxes, net -26.6 -4.1 -30.7 -16.1 -3.7 -19.8 Revenue, EUR million 8.8 0.0 13.2 1.1 0.5 0.0 Withholding taxes on wages and salaries Result before taxes, EUR million 0.6 0.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 and other indirect taxes 87.0 2.8 89.7 84.4 3.1 87.5 Income tax payable 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Excise taxes 0.4 0.0 0.4 0.3 0.0 0.4 Number of personnel 188 0 303 29 15 0 Total 60.7 -1.2 59.5 68.6 -0.5 68.1 * Figures include also sold subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. * Figures include also sold subsidiaries when they were part of Finnair group. Profits of sales units are taxed in accordance with regulations and double tax treaties pertaining to the international airline The most significant indirect taxes collected during the financial year are withholding tax liabilities, value added tax and exbusiness and hence, revenue, result before taxes, income tax payable and number of personnel in other countries are not cise taxes. Finnair was subject to tax audit in 2016 which resulted in Finnish withholding tax payable relating to Finnair own separately adopted in financial statements. Specification of taxes paid and collected in other countries is presented overleaf. foreign crew. Reassessed taxes have been paid. The amount is included in withholding taxes on wages and salaries in 2016. The passenger tariffs collected from flight passengers are not considered as tax-like payments remitted to the authorities subject to reporting as part of the tax footprint, as these payments are usually remitted to the private or public party responsible for airport operations. More detailed specification of taxes collected in other countries is found overleaf. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 88 Country specific information for 2016 is presented below only regarding countries where the amount of taxes paid, collected Country specific information for 2015 is presented below only regarding countries where the amount of taxes paid, collected or deducted is at least 0.05 million euros. Countries where this threshold is not met are presented as two areas below. The figor deducted is at least 0.05 million euros. Countries where this threshold is not met are presented as two areas below. The figures below include taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries and sales units. ures below include taxes paid and collected by subsidiaries, sales units as well as sold subsidiaries when the companies were part of the Group. 2016 2015 Withholding Withholding Employer Value added taxes on Employer Value added taxes on contribuValue added taxes, purValue added wages and contribuValue added taxes, purValue added wages and Country specification, EUR million tions taxes, sales chases taxes, net salaries Total Country specification, EUR million tions taxes, sales chases taxes, net salaries Total Countries Countries Estonia 0.7 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.4 1.0 Estonia 1.5 0.9 0.6 0.4 0.8 2.7 China 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.7 China 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.8 USA 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Lithuania 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.5 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Greece 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Latvia 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.2 0.1 Italy 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 Russia 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Greece 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Spain 0.1 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 Spain 0.1 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.1 Switzerland 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Belgium 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Sweden 0.1 0.1 0.5 -0.4 0.2 0.0 Australia 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 France 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Sweden 0.1 0.1 0.4 -0.4 0.2 0.0 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 France 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Denmark 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.1 0.0 South-Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Singapore 0.0 0.0 0.1 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 Germany 0.0 0.1 0.4 -0.3 0.1 -0.2 USA 0.0 0.1 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.2 -0.2 South-Korea 0.0 0.0 0.2 -0.2 0.0 -0.1 Japan 0.3 0.1 1.3 -1.2 0.6 -0.3 Norway 0.0 0.0 0.5 -0.5 0.2 -0.2 Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.0 -0.4 Japan 0.3 0.0 1.0 -0.9 0.4 -0.2 The UK 0.0 0.0 0.7 -0.7 0.0 -0.6 Germany 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.2 -0.3 Areas Thailand 0.0 0.0 0.4 -0.4 0.1 -0.3 Other Europe countries* 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 The UK 0.0 0.0 0.9 -0.8 0.0 -0.8 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Areas Total 1.8 0.8 4.9 -4.1 2.8 0.6 Other EU-countries* 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.1 Rest of the world** 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia Total 3.0 1.9 5.6 -3.7 3.1 2.5 and Slovenia ** Canada and India * Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal and Slovenia ** Canada and India Employer contributions paid relate to mandatory employer payments regarding employees located outside of Finland. Withholding taxes on salary are collected based on local legislation. Value added tax on sales and purchases relate mainly to passenger sales and cargo services. Total amount of excise taxes outside Finland in 2016 and 2015 has been less than 0.1 million euros and hence this information is not presented on a country-by-country basis. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89 Governance FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 90 MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES General management principles Finnair’s governance model, control environment and activities, internal audit and the roles and responsibiliFinnair’s management system is aimed at achieving strategic goals, creating added value for the company’s ties related to these are described in detail in Finnair’s Corporate Governance Statement on pages 95–106. owners and other stakeholders, managing operational risks and improving the company’s performance. Corporate Responsibility at Finnair concerns everyone and our aim is to incorporate the corporate responsibility The Company’s operations are guided by principles, policies and guidelines defined by the company, including aspects equally in all our processes and product design. The Corporate Responsibility function is headed by the the following: Senior Vice President for Communications and Corporate Responsibility, who is also a Member of the Finnair Executive Board. Reports and all key principles and policies will be discussed by the Finnair Board of Directors, with a • Code of Conduct designated member for corporate responsibility issues, tasked with reviewing Finnair’s operations and guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct also from the perspective of corporate responsibility. The development, coordination and reporting is managed by • Corporate responsibility policy the corporate responsibility function with the support of the steering groups for other key functions. • Environmental and energy policy • Risk management policy and related, more detailed guidelines for different areas Responsible Finnair • Safety and security policies Finnair’s corporate responsibility is reflected in its strategy, vision and values of commitment to care, • Data security policy and guidelines simplicity and courage. Responsibility is integral to all Finnair operations. The purpose of the responsibility • Disclosure policy strategy is to reduce the environmental impact and increase the financial and social return for society. • Insider guidelines • Equality and non-discrimination guidelines Finnair’s corporate responsibility strategy and commitments were updated in 2016. The key areas of corporate • Remuneration policy responsibility and sustainability strategy fall under the following themes: cleaner, caring and collaborative. For • Procurement policy and guidelines on supplier relationship management a more detailed description of these theme and the pertinent indicators, please refer to the GRI section. • Sponsorship guidelines • Anti-competition policy and guidelines Finnair is committed to complying with international and national legislation in its operations, as well as the • The Group’s anti-bribery guidelines ethical operating principles laid out in the Code of Conduct. The previous Code from 2012 was updated in • The Group’s guidelines on conflicts of interest 2016. Related training will ensue in spring 2017. • Board of Directors’ diversity targets In 2014, the Group Executive Board approved additional group-wide guidelines to supplement the Code of In financial reporting, Finnair applies the rules relating to listed companies as well as international financial Conduct with regard to the prevention of bribery and topics including hospitality, conflicts of interest and reporting standards. Most of Finnair’s operational activities are based on official regulations and are subject compliance with anti-competition regulations. Compliance with the guidelines has been promoted by commuto official supervision. Within the group, the legality and acceptability of operations is monitored as part of nicating their content and organising training events. Furthermore, an internal whistleblowing channel was Finnair’s general control and audit processes. The responsibility for regulatory compliance in flight operations launched in 2015. lies with the persons defined and approved by the authorities. Finnair is also subject to supervision relating to finances and, safety and security. The corporate responsibility aspects defined material for Finnair are provided in the Materiality Assessment and the GRI content index. Finnair’s operations and services involve a number of financial, social and environInternal control and audit roles and responsibilities are compliant with the Finnish Companies Act, the Finnish mental considerations. These have been described in more detail in the following sections. Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies and the regulations governing the aviation industry. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91 Public affairs and lobbying Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic added value by producing flight services profitably, Aviation is a strictly regulated industry. Therefore it is important for Finnair to participate in discussions and cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of the environment and society. Responsible operations decision-making regarding its operating conditions. It is part of the company’s growth strategy to aim towards are the cornerstone of profitable business activity, and Finnair takes into account the effects of its operations securing adequate traffic rights. on society. These effects are identified and assessed by the company’s corporate social responsibility and risk management organisations, which work under the delegated authority of the CEO. Finnair pursues its interests in an ethically sustainable manner by appropriately introducing its views, perspectives and expertise. The company does not pressurise or support political decision-makers in any way Finnair’s Board of Directors has set the company’s financial targets, which are provided in information matein pursuing its interests. The legality and ethicality of lobbying activities is controlled as part of the company’s rial for investors. As a public limited company, Finnair is committed to earning a profit for its shareholders. general supervision and audit processes. The company’s profit distribution principles are expressed in Finnair’s dividend policy. Finnair’s financial reporting aims to transparently provide information about Finnair’s financial position and development. The aim of Finnair’s lobbying activities is to maintain relationships concerning relevant policy and to participate in relevant negotiations and the operations of advocacy organisations. When lobbying on various civil Purchasing practices aviation and industry regulation issues, Finnair typically cooperates with various organisations and chambers As provided in Finnair’s Code of Conduct, its procurement operations are entirely based on the fair treatment of commerce. Finnair is an active member of various aviation industry organisations, such as AEA and IATA, of suppliers. The persons who make procurement decisions at Finnair must always be independent of the but also in the Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK), and its sub-associations and in several chambers of business partners concerned. A Finnair employee must declare himself/herself disqualified due to bias whencommerce. ever they are required to make a decision pertaining to a contract or business relationship involving family relationships, ownership in the company concerned (with the exception of a reasonable share of ownership Communications in a listed company) or any other business or debt relationship external to Finnair. Finnair does not accept Finnair aims at open, honest and timely communications. In line with these principles, Finnair’s communicacorruption in any form and requires that its personnel and partners comply with the principles of the UN's tions are also in compliance with regulations governing listed companies and limited liability companies, as Universal Declaration of Human Rights. well as the obligations of the Finnish Act on Cooperation within Undertakings and the communications guidelines of the State Ownership Steering Department. The procurement steering group operating under Finnair’s management is responsible for the steering of the Group’s procurement activity. The management of the Procurement unit has the duty to ensure that Finnair takes different perspectives into consideration and respects all stakeholders’ views of our operations. the personnel carrying out purchasing has access to valid purchasing guidelines and that the guidelines are Finnair’s internal communications are based on reciprocity. Every employee has the duty to communicate observed. matters related to their area of responsibility to the relevant target groups. Those in supervisory roles have a further duty to communicate goals, operations and results to their own work community and create a work Audits are performed in certain product and service groups. Auditing focuses on quality and safety factors. environment that enables genuine constructive discussion. The company systematically develops its commuMany of the company’s procurement categories are subject to regulation, requiring that the suppliers are nication channels to enable more efficient communications and to facilitate constructive discussion. approved by the authorities. This includes all procurement relating to flight safety. The sustainability of the supply chain is of major importance for airlines. which are using partners and service providers to an Economic responsibility increasing degree. Conforming with the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all applicable laws Finnair as a whole has substantial direct and indirect financial implications on Finland’s both national and and statutes is a minimum requirement. Finnair requires that its suppliers comply with essentially similar local economies. ethical standards as the company in its own operations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides clear principles to ensure ethical purchasing. Aviation is a significant industry for Finnish society and the national economy. The accessibility created by airline traffic is a necessity for Finland’s global competitiveness and its economic impact is considerable; aviaResponsibility aspects are considered in cooperation with the corporate responsibility unit. Finnair launched tion is estimated to account for 3–5 per cent of GDP, employment and tax revenue. Finnair’s effective Asian human rights assessments in autumn 2015, which were extended to the supply chain in spring 2016. Finnair strategy is a key element of the GDP contribution of aviation and its impact is estimated at 1–2 billion euros. has a process and guidelines for continuous improvement in supply chain responsibility and for handling non-compliances. Finnair aspires to continuously develop practices that ensure that negative impact, FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 92 including human rights violations, can be mitigated and that responsible sourcing is favored when possible. IATA who are qualified to perform audits of environmental management systems. To improve its performance, Finnair held the first ever Supplier Day for its most important suppliers in autumn 2016. The key notes of the Finnair has identified the most significant environmental factors relevant to its operations and defined targets event were the development of responsible sourcing practices, cooperation and supplier relationships. For for them. more information, see G4-HR9-11. Finnair takes into account environmental considerations in all its flight and ground operations. Besides energy Environmental responsibility solutions that reduce the environmental load, Finnair’s environmental strategy also includes the preservation The biggest environmental impact of an airline is its engine emissions. Modern aircraft are always more effiand promotion of natural diversity, known as biodiversity thinking. In addition, among other things, Finnair cient than previous-generation aircraft, and hence Finnair’s most significant environmental action is to invest has actively supported the rain forest reforestation project in Madagascar in collaboration with the Finnish in a modern fleet. Association for Nature Conservation for several years. Aircraft noise also has an impact on the areas surrounding airports and under takeoff and approach flight In June 2015, Finnair prohibited the transportation of hunting trophies or memorabilia originating from paths. Advances in aerodynamics and engine technology help mitigate aircraft noise. The noise level of the endangered species or their parts in its cargo network. Finnair fleet has been significantly reduced thanks to the on-going fleet modernisation and noise attenuation systems installed in older-generation aircraft. Social responsibility Finnair is a company in a complex, highly technical business. The company has operations and supply chain In addition, other normal operations, including running business and office premises and the fuel of ground partners in dozens of different countries, each with varying laws and practices. The most important social vehicles, produce their share of emissions and environmental impact. These are all managed under Finnair’s responsibility areas concern safety, personnel, the supply chain and customers. IEnvA environmental system. Human rights Finnair’s goal is to be a leading airline in the field of environmental responsibility. The company is committed Finnair’s own operations involve no significant human rights risks or impacts. However, indirect risks and to the common goal of the aviation industry to achieve carbon neutrality by 2020 and to cut the emissions implications may exist in relation to the supply chains and outsourced operations. of our flight operations by half by 2050 from the 2005 level. We comply with current environmental legislation, but our environmental work aims at exceeding statutory requirements and being a pioneer in evaluating, In order to improve the monitoring of its own operations and those of its entire supply chain, Finnair reporting and reducing environmental impacts. continued to develop assessment of the realisation of social responsibility and human rights in 2016. In order to improve supply chain risk management, traceability and the assessment of social impact, Finnair impleFinnair participates actively in civil aviation environmental committees as well as in industry workgroups in mented the SEDEX system together with oneworld alliance. In 2015 and 2016, Finnair has participated in the Finland and the Nordic countries, promoting the reduction of the aviation sector’s environmental load. An joint project of travel industry operators and UNICEF to examine the status of children’s rights within travel open dialogue with different stakeholders and continuous development of operations according to the latest service production chains. The pilot phase of the project was carried out in Vietnam, and the findings of the available information are prerequisites for environmental responsibility. We report on our environmental project will be utilised in other destinations in the future. impacts regularly in annual reports and as a part of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). In addition, we communicate directly with various parties about our operations and gladly answer any questions from our Finnair’s human rights management is described in the Finnair Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and stakeholders or private customers. the company’s personnel management principles. Finnair respects the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Environmental responsibility is managed as part of Finnair’s environmental policy and environmental management system. Finnair Environment and Energy Policy described the goals of the company’s environFinnair signed in 2013 the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative and undertook to comply with the Global mental management. In 2014, Finnair became the first European airline to receive IATA Environmental AssessCompact’s ten principles of corporate responsibility. As required by the Global Compact principles endorsed ment (IEnvA) Stage 2 certification for its environmental management systems. IEnvA is an environmental by Finnair, the company aims to prevent any violations of human rights and the use of forced labour both management system developed by IATA for airlines, which we apply to make use of the best practices in the within its own operations and its supply chain. industry. Our environmental management system has been assessed by third-party auditors authorised by FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93 Personnel At Finnair, the Finnair Health Services unit is responsible for occupational health care services. Finnair Health A major aspect of social responsibility is to do with personnel and their working conditions at Finnair, a major Services focus on preventive care. The model of early caring and the occupational ability risk management employer. Personnel management policies cover all aspects of social responsibility that have been identified system are examples of the guidelines governing preventing health care. as material. The impacts affecting the personnel and the working conditions are managed as based on the HR guidelines and Finnair HR policy. Finnair Health Services, Finnair Aeromedical Centre FAeMC, coordinates and is responsible for the implementation of occupational health care in the entire Finnair group. The operational and service quality of Finnair Management, development and training and employee wellbeing Health Services is based on the European Foundation for Quality Management’s EFQM Excellence Model. The Finnair does not discriminate based on gender, age, ethnic or national origin, nationality, language, religion, quality system is used to ensure that Finnair Health Services meets the requirements for good occupational conviction, opinion, health, disability, sexual orientation or other personal attributes or circumstances. health care practice in both aviation health care and aviation medicine services. The occupational health care and aviation medical services are described in a quality manual. Finnair does not condone harassment in the work community. Reporting infractions is every employee’s right and the company is determined to take steps to intervene in all cases brought to its knowledge. It is the duty Freedom of association and collective negotiation of every group employee to act so that no one is accorded unequal status. Freedom of association and the collective right to negotiate on occupational issues are recognised as fundamental rights in Finland. There is a long tradition of trade union activity in the company. Labour market Finnair offers equal opportunities to everyone with regard to recruitment, work performance, career progresculture in the company has been constructed in such a way that the organisation of workers and collective sion and development. Finnair implements the equal pay principle based on the Finnish Equality Act and negotiations between the company and employee groups are part of normal practice. All Finnair employees gives both men and women equal opportunities for balancing work and family life. In 2011, Finnair signed the have the right and opportunity to agree on terms of employment collectively. The terms of employment of United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, which give guidance on the empowerment of women in the management employees are agreed on locally. Personnel and management remuneration principles are workplace, marketplace and community. described on pages 112–117. Finnair complies with procedures jointly agreed by the employer and employees for the prevention of harassManagement of customer experience ment and inappropriate conduct. The procedure is based on the Finnish Act on Occupational Safety and The aviation industry consists of a strictly regulated value chain comprised of multiple suppliers of products Health and complies with the model recommended by the Finnish Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. and services. As an airline and service company at the top of this value chain, Finnair creates added value for its customers by providing them with a comprehensive and high-quality service product in collaboration with Leadership and competencies are developed on individual, team, unit and organisation level. Learning and its partners. Finnair is responsible for transporting customers and their baggage to their destinations safely, development solutions are typically either adopted by the entire personnel or tailored for specific developsmoothly and punctually. The most significant product responsibility aspects in the Finnair Group’s operations ment needs within a unit. They may also be aimed at developing professional skills, based on official requireare flight safety, food safety, responsibility for individual customers, and responsibility for the cargo carried. ments or in support of personal development. Leadership development was one of Finnair’s key focus areas for 2016, and the efforts will continue in 2017. Development needs in teams and the organisation are identiAt Finnair, situations that deviate from the norm are prepared for in advance. The group has developed fied and the wellbeing and commitment of the personnel are regularly monitored through a personnel survey. processes for various unexpected situations and these are continually updated and maintained. Customers must be able to trust in the fact that they will be cared for throughout the entire service chain. Finnair has Occupational health and wellbeing at work responsibility towards its customers for the overall quality of their experience, regardless of the fact that The target group for the wellbeing at work programme, which Finnair launched in 2011, is aimed at the entire some services are produced by Finnair’s partners rather than the company itself. Therefore, Finnair pays personnel. The aim of the programme is to promote the effectiveness and functionality of the work community increased attention to the selection of its partners and the partners are required to comply with Finnair’s through various annually launched projects and to ensure the wellbeing of personnel through all career stages. quality assurance policies and ethical guidelines. The programme also contributes to employee productivity, the company’s competitiveness and attractiveness as an employer as well as the implementation of the social component of corporate responsibility. A strategic development project for wellbeing at work will be launched in 2016. The aim of the project is to improve the overall wellbeing of the personnel and to reorganise the development of wellbeing at work in the company. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 94 Flight safety Customer data Safety is at the core of all Finnair’s operations. Flight safety and giving priority to it are part of all deciFinnair respects the privacy of its customers and is committed to ensuring that personal details and other sion-making at every stage. Finnair maintains and develops the principles of ongoing development by customer information are processed appropriately. We do our best to guarantee the confidentiality, security adhering to its Safety Management System (SMS). It covers all aspects of flight safety: safety policy, flight and accuracy of customer data under all circumstances. The company processes personal details at all stages safety risk management, safety training and communications for the entire personnel and subcontractor of travel in compliance with the legislation on personal data and regulations issued by the authorities in the chain, continual auditing of operations and the assessment of the potential impact of new factors in the opercountries in which we operate. ating environment. Official regulations and standards set the minimum standards for Finnair’s safety management, which the company aims to exceed in all areas. Cargo and ground handling In cargo transport, Finnair and its subsidiary Finnair Cargo are responsible for transporting customers’ cargo One of the central elements in Finnair’s safety system is the safety reporting concerning the entire staff. The in the condition in which it has been entrusted to us, and in compliance with Finnair Cargo’s General Condicompany encourages its personnel and subcontractors to actively report any processes or elements they tions of Carriage (http://www.finnaircargo.com/en/cargo/generaltransportationterms.html) as well as intercome across that could potentially compromise safety. Each report is analysed and assessed for risk, followed national and national regulations. The aim is to offer cargo customers efficient logistics services. This means, by necessary corrective actions based on this, and the person submitting the report will be notified of the among other things, that cargo entrusted to Finnair Cargo for transport is delivered to its destination exactly outcome of the investigation. Alongside subjective observations, Finnair extensively monitors and analyses as agreed with the customer. objective indicators, such as flight data. Ongoing monitoring and analysis enable a transparent risk level in all areas, which in turn enables prompt action on any indication of altered safety level. Finnair’s Ground Operations unit is responsible for the acquisition, quality criteria and quality control of ground handling services required at airports. The unit’s task is to ensure that the ground services used by Events that seriously jeopardise safety are extremely rare and almost without exception an impartial safety Finnair fulfil the requirements set for them, both in terms of quality and in respect of safety and official reguinvestigation is launched on each event. Safety investigations are coordinated by public officials (Safety Inveslations. tigation Authority) or, if the authorities elect not to investigate the event, Finnair will conduct its own internal safety investigation. The safety investigators always carry out the investigation independently and the compaTo deliver on their service promises, both Finnair Cargo and the Ground Operations unit apply a systematic ny’s management has no opportunity to influence the investigation. evaluation process when selecting subcontractors and partners. Partners are required, for example, to ensure and maintain the expertise of their personnel, and also to ensure that vehicles, equipment and premises A strong safety culture, objective monitoring of the company’s own operations, ongoing development and are appropriate. In addition to quality audits at airports, Finnair also regularly performs quality inspections carrying out corrective measures as well as open dialogue with the authorities governing Finnair’s operations that continually monitor both its own and subcontractors’ work. Finnair Cargo and Ground Operations are guarantee safe and high-quality airline operations. responsible for maintaining and updating their own quality systems and ensuring that operations comply with requirements. Customer care For exceptional situations, Finnair has its own separate unit. All flight traffic irregularities are handled Ground Operations also has an area manager, responsible for airport operations, who has a significant role centrally from Helsinki, thereby gathering the necessary information into one place. In this way, a more in monitoring the compliance of operations with regulations. If some activity does not to some extent comply detailed overall picture of the multiplier effects and costs of the irregularities is obtained, and efforts are with the operations manual or prevailing legislation, the deviation is documented and corrective measures made to minimise inconvenience to the customer. effected immediately. Monitoring and supervision of customer service activity is based on regular auditing, customer feedback and More information about IATA safety and quality audits: http://www.iata.org. customer satisfaction surveys, as well as various mystery customer experiences and external measurements. Our partners’ operations are also continually evaluated. Monitoring is systematic and is used to set targets and check that they are being met. Staff expertise is ensured through training. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 2016 Contents ­ orporate Governance Code is publicly available on the website of the Securities Market Association’s website C Regulatory framework.............................................................................................................................................................................95 at www.cgfinland.fi. Governing bodies.........................................................................................................................................................................................95 General Meetings....................................................................................................................................................................................... 96 This statement has been reviewed by Finnair’s Audit Committee and Board of Directors, and it has been Auditor........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 96 prepared as a separate report from the Board of Directors’ Report. Finnair’s audit firm, PricewaterhouseShareholders' Nomination Board.............................................................................................................................................. 96 Coopers, has verified that the description contained herein and in the financial statements of the main Board of Directors.................................................................................................................................................................................97 features of internal control and risk management related to the financial reporting process are consistent. Committees of the Board................................................................................................................................................................. 99 Company management.................................................................................................................................................................. 100 Governing bodies Main features of the internal control and risk management system The governing bodies of Finnair pursuant to the Companies Act and the Articles of Association are the General pertaining to the financial reporting process............................................................................................................................. 102 Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) and the Chief Executive Officer (the “CEO”). The Description of the overall system............................................................................................................................................ 102 roles of the governing bodies are described below. Control environment........................................................................................................................................................................ 102 Risk assessment.................................................................................................................................................................................. 103 Control activities................................................................................................................................................................................. 103 Governing bodies of Finnair Information and communication............................................................................................................................................ 104 Monitoring and improvement................................................................................................................................................... 104 Internal Audit........................................................................................................................................................................................ 105 Compliance................................................................................................................................................................................................... 105 Shareholders Transactions with closely associated parties......................................................................................................................... 105 Managers' transactions and main insider management procedures.................................................................... 106 Regulatory framework Shareholders’ Annual General This Corporate Governance Statement is prepared in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code Auditors Nomination Board Meeting 2015 for listed companies. It sets out the governing bodies and the principles of governance of Finnair Plc. Finnair complies with the recommendations of the Code without exceptions. The principal legislative authorities on corporate governance of Finnish listed companies are the Companies Act, the Securities Market Act, the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), the regulations and guidelines issued by Compensation and Board of Audit the Financial Supervision, the rules and instructions for listed companies issued by Nasdaq Helsinki and the Nomination Committee Directors Committee Finnish Corporate Governance Code, all of which are complied with by Finnair. Company specific authorities on the governance of Finnair are the Articles of Association and the procedures specified Finnair’s Board of Directors and Executive Board. The Articles of Association, the published procedures and other additional information on Finnair’s corpoCEO rate governance can be found at Finnair’s internet site at https://investors.finnair.com/en/governance. The FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 96 General Meetings Auditor The ultimate authority in Finnair is vested in the General Meeting of Shareholders. An Annual General Meeting The company’s auditor in 2016 was PricewaterhouseCoopers, and Mikko Nieminen was the auditor with prin(the “AGM”) must be held each year by the end of May. cipal responsibility appointed by it. The audit fees paid in 2016 amounted to 0.2 million euros, and the fees for other services rendered amounted to 0.3 million euros. The competence of the General Meeting of Shareholders is set out in the Companies Act and in Finnair’s Articles of Association. The AGM shall annually decide on the following matters: Shareholders' Nomination Board The AGM 2013 decided to establish a permanent Shareholders' Nomination Board. The term of the Nomina• adoption of the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements tion Board continues until further notice. The previous practice since 2008 was that a Shareholders’ Nomina• the use of the profit shown on the balance sheet tion Committee was established annually by the AGMs. • the discharging of the Members of the Board and the CEO from liability • the appointment of the Members of the Board and their remunerations The purpose and task of the Nomination Board is to prepare and present to the AGM, and, if necessary, to an • election of the Chairman of the Board from among the Members Extraordinary General Meeting, proposals on the remuneration of the members of the Board, on the number • the election and remuneration of the auditor. of members of the Board and on the members of the Board. In addition, the task of the Nomination Board is to seek potential future candidates for Board members. The Nomination Board shall forward its proposals to The Board convenes the General Meetings of Shareholders by publishing a notice not earlier than three months the company's Board by 31 January each year. and not later than three weeks before the date of the meeting and always at least nine days before the record date of the meeting. The notice shall be published as a stock exchange release and on Finnair’s website. The Nomination Board consists of four members nominated annually. The company's three largest shareholders appoint three of the members, and the Chairman of the Board serves as the fourth member. The Each shareholder who is registered on the record date as a shareholder in the company’s public register committee appoints its chairman from among its members. The company's largest shareholders entitled of shareholders, maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy, has the right to participate in the General Meeting of to appoint members to the Nomination Board are determined on the basis of the registered holdings in the Shareholders. If a holder of nominee-registered shares wishes to participate in the meeting, he or she has to company's shareholder register held by Euroclear Finland Ltd as of the first working day in September each register temporarily in the register of shareholders. Furthermore, in order to attend the meeting, a shareyear. In the event that a shareholder does not wish to exercise its right to appoint a representative, such right holder must register for the meeting in the manner defined in the notice convening the meeting. passes to the next largest shareholder. A shareholder has the right to have a matter falling within the competence of the General Meeting of ShareThe members of the Nomination Board are not remunerated by Finnair for their membership in the Nominaholders addressed by the meeting, if the shareholder so demands in writing from the Board by the date tion Board. The members’ expenses are reimbursable in accordance with the company’s expense policy. In announced on Finnair’s internet site. addition, the Nomination Board’s costs of using external experts shall be borne by the company. The minutes of the General Meeting of Shareholders and the voting results, if any, shall be made available to The Charter of the Nomination Board is available at the company website. shareholders on Finnair's internet site within two weeks of the meeting. 2015 Nomination Board 2016 Annual General Meeting The Nomination Board established in 2015 consisted of the representatives of three largest shareholders as at Finnair's AGM 2016 was held in Helsinki on 17 March. A total of 320 shareholders, representing 66 per cent the first working day September 2015 i.e. the State of Finland, Keva and Ilmarinen, and of the Chairman of the of the shares and voting rights of the company, participated either in person or by proxy representatives. Board. The composition of the 2015 Nomination Board was the following: All Board members, candidates for Board membership and the auditors of the company were present in the meeting. • Mr. Eero Heliövaara, see above, (Chairman), b. 1956, M. Sc. (Econ.), M. Sc. (Eng.), Director General in the Ownership Steering in the Prime Minister’s Office (Chairman) • Mr. Robin Backman, b. 1971, M. Sc. (Econ.), Portfolio Manager in Keva; FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97 • Mr. Timo Ritakallio, b. 1962, Master of Laws, MBA, President and CEO of Ilmarinen Mutual Pension and Internal Audit. The Board sets the company’s strategic aims and monitors the implementation. The Board ­Insurance Company approves other significant strategic matters, business plans, significant partnerships and other decisions • Mr. Klaus Heinemann, see details on page 116. exceeding the CEO’s decision-making authority. the Board decides on guarantees and other commitments for external liabilities. The monetary limit for the CEO’s decision-making authority is 10 million euros. The Nomination Board convened 3 times and the participation rate was 100%. On 29 January 2016, the Shareholders' Nomination Board submitted to the Board its proposal for the AGM to be held on 17 March 2017. The The Board appoints and removes the CEO and other members of the executive management, evaluates their proposals are available at Finnair’s website. performance and determines their levels of remuneration. The Board also attends to the succession planning of the management. The Board establishes and regularly evaluates the group's personnel policies, including 2016 Nomination Board the compensation structures. The Board evaluates its work on an annual basis. The Board’s charter is availThe Nomination Board established in 2016 consisted of the representatives of three largest shareholders as able on Finnair’s website in its entirety. at the first working day September 2016 i.e. the State of Finland, Keva and Varma, and of the Chairman of the Board. The composition of the 2014 Nomination Board was the following: The Board has determined the diversity principles applying to its composition, which are available to the Shareholders’ Nomination Board when it is searching successors to retiring Board members and preparing its • Mr. Eero Heliövaara, see above, (Chairman); proposal on the composition of the Board to the Annual General Meeting. The diversity principles are neither • Mr. Robin Backman, see above; binding on the Nomination Board nor the AGM. • Mr. Reima Rytsölä, b. 1969, M.Soc.Sc, EVP Investments, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company; • Mr. Klaus Heinemann, see details on page 116. The diversity principles applying to the composition of the Board of Directors are as follows: The Nomination Board convened 3 times and the participation rate was 100%. On 25 January, 2017, the Share• The Board as a whole must have suffient expertise and experience to conduct its duties carefully and holders' Nomination Board submitted to the Board its proposal for the AGM to be held on 16 March 2017. The effectively, taking into account the quality, scope and international nature of the company’s operations, proposals are available at Finnair’s website. the company’s strategic targets and changes in the business environment and society. • The members of the Board must be capable of cooperating with the other members and the manageBoard of Directors ment. The Chairman and the Members of the Board are elected by the AGM. According to the Articles of Associa• The members of the Board should have training and experience that complements each other and expetion, the Board consists of the Chairman and a minimum of four and a maximum of seven other members. The rience from industries that are important for the company. Board elects a Deputy Chairman from among its members. The term of office of the members of the Board • The members should have experience of Board work and conducting managerial duties in business or ends at the close of the first AGM following their election. other areas of society. • The Board shall have at least 40 per cent both men and women. The composition should show diversity According to the Companies Act, the Board represents all shareholders of Finnair and has the general duty to act also in terms of the age distribution, length of service and cultural background. diligently in the interests of the company. Under law, the Board is accountable to the shareholders for the appro• Sufficient continuity should be ensured in reforming the composition of the Board, but the continuous priate governance of the company and for ensuring that the operations of the company are run adequately. term of any member may not exceed 10 years. The accountability for the company’s governance pertains specifically to the assurance of the effectiveness The principles applying to the composition of the Board were fulfilled well in the Board elected in 2016, of the Company’s system of internal controls. The main features of the company’s system of internal controls except for the age distribution. The members represent diverse experience from managerial or Board duties and risk management are described later in this report. Finnair has a number of procedures issued by the in Finland and abroad. The members come from three countries and speak four different languages as their Board of Directors or the Executive Board, designed to enhance the internal controls. The procedures are native tongue. Women represent 43 per cent of the Board members, which meets both the diversity target set assessed at least on an annual basis updated where necessary. by the Council of State in its resolution of 17 February 2015 and the target set by the Board of Directors. In addition to the Board’s statutory tasks, certain significant matters are reserved for the Board’s decision, as At the end of 2016, the term of all members had lasted less than five years. The median year of birth of the set out in the Board’s charter. The Board prepares and adopts its Charter as well as those of for C­ ommittees Board was 1958, and the age differential between the youngest and eldest member was 12 years. On 25 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 98 Participation in Board Participation in Committee January 2017, the ­Shareholders’ Nomination Board gave its prosal on the composition of the Board of DirecName Personal Information meetings in 2016 meetings in 2016 tors for the AGM to be held on 16 March 2017. If the AGM approves the proposal, the median year of birth of Compensation the Board members will be 1957 and the age differential between the youngest and eldest member will be 34 Audit and Nomination years. Klaus W. Chairman of the Board since 27 March 2013 8/8 Heinemann Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 B. 1951, B.Sc. (Econ.) Members of the Board and their independence Main occupation: Board professional Committee membership: Audit Committee The 2016 AGM held on 17 March elected Mr. Klaus Heinemann as Chairman of the Board and Ms. Maija-Liisa until 27 March 2014 Friman, Mr. Jussi Itävuori, Mr. Jouko Karvinen, Ms. Gunvor Kronman, Ms. Jaana Tuominen and Mr. Nigel Turner Harri Kerminen Member of the Board since 24 March 2011 2/2 1/1 2/2 as other members of the Board. The Board elected Mr. Jouko Karvinen as its Vice Chairman. until 17 March 2016 Vice Chairman of the Board since 28 March 2012 The Board assessed the independence of its members and concluded that all members are independent of the B. 1951, M. Sc. Tech, MBA Main occupation: Board professional Company and its major shareholders. Committee memberships: Audit and Compensation and Nomination Committee The ownership of the Directors and companies controlled by them in Finnair Jouko Karvinen Vice Chairman of the Board since 17 March 6/6 5/5 2016 At the end of 2015 and 2016, neither the members of the Board of Directors nor companies under their B. 1957, M. Sc. Tech control held any shares or any rights relating to shares in any company within Finnair Group. Main occupation: Board professional Committee memberships: Audit Committee Maija-Liisa Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 8/8 5/6 Members of the Board in 2015 and their attendance in Board and Committee meetings Friman B. 1952, M.Sc. (Eng.) Main occupation: Board professional In 2016, the Board met 8 times. In addition, the Board made per capsulam decisions 6 times during the year. Committee memberships: Audit Committee See the table below for information on the Board members' participation in the meetings. (Chairman) Jussi Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 8/8 5/5 Itävuori B. 1955, M. Sc. (Econ.) Main occupation: Board professional The Board's work in 2016 Committee memberships: Compensation and In 2016, the Board met 8 times in person and made decisions 6 times without convening. Nomination Committee (Chairman) Gunvor Member of the Board since 28 March 2012 8/8 5/5 Kronman B. 1963, Master of Arts In addition to its duties, under its charter and the law, the Board focused in its work on monitoring the Main occupation: CEO of Swedish-Finnish company’s financial result and status, monitored the implementation of the company’s strategy, and Cultural Centre Committee membership: Compensation evaluated changes in the operating environment as well as their impacts on the company’s strategy and and Nomination Committee confirmed the focus areas of strategy implementation in 2016–2018. The Board made investment deciJaana Member of the Board since 27 March 2014 8/8 5/5 sions required by accelerated growth, product improvements and digital business. The Board reviewed Tuominen B. 1960, M. Sc. (Eng.) the status of flight and occupational safety as well as corporate security and operational quality, and Main occupation: CEO of Paulig Group Committee membership: Compensation related management systems. It also paid attention to the development of risk management and internal and Nomination controls. The Board approved the Group’s updated Code of Conduct. Nigel Member of the Board since 27 March 2014 8/8 4/6 Turner B. 1958, BA (Hon.) Main occupation: Committee membership: Audit Committee More information on the Members of the Board is available on page 116 and on Finnair’s website. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 The Committees of the Board • prepare for the Board decisions on significant changes in the accounting principles or in the valuations of The Board delegates certain of its functions to the Audit Committee and to the Compensation and Nomination the group’s assets; Committee. The Board appoints the Committee members and their Chairs from among the members of the • assess the group’s compliance with laws and regulations; and Board. The minimum number of members is three in both Committees. • maintain contact with the auditors. Each Committee meets regularly under their respective charters. The Committees’ tasks and the work carried After 2016 AGM, the Audit Committee members are Ms. Maija-Liisa Friman (Chairperson), Mr. Nigel Turner and out by them during the year are described in their respective sections below. The Committees report on Mr. Jouko Karvinen. their work regularly to the Board but they do not have decision-making powers independent from the Board, except where expressly authorised by the Board. Copies of the Committees’ charters are available on Finnair’s In accordance with its annual plan, the Audit Committee met 6 times in 2016. The CEO, the CFO, the Head website. of Internal Audit and Risk Management as well as the external auditor also participated in the Committee’s meetings. Finnair's General Counsel acted as the secretary of the Audit Committee. The Committee held Audit Committee closed sessions as well as sessions where the External or Internal Auditors participated without the presence The Audit Committee assists the Board in its task to ensure the proper governance of the company, in of the members of the management. The Committee also performed its annual self-evaluation. particular, by considering the accounting and financial reporting, the Company’s internal control systems and the work of the external auditors. The Audit Committee addresses concerns pertaining to control matters as may be detected by the management or the internal audit or external auditors of the company. These are The Audit Committee's activities in 2016 reported to the Board by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee ensures that appropriate action is taken In addition to its customary tasks, in 2016 the Audit Committee attended selected focus areas, by the management to rectify identified shortcomings. comprising financial reporting segments, financial risk hedging policy, investment, financing and cash management plans as well as IFRS standard revisions and the implementation of new standards, which The members of the Audit Committee are independent of the company and its significant shareholders. The continue in 2017. Another special theme in 2017 is the development of financial management processes members have complementary expertise and business management experience as well as industry experiand controls. ence. The Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient expertise and experience of the matters in its remit. The Audit Committee also: • Reviewed and approved a risk-based action plan and assessed the sufficiency of the resources in the The main duties of the Audit Committee internal control functions; The Audit Committee shall: • Discussed with the auditors and the management the company’s significant accounting policies and the estimates and judgements applied in preparing the reports; • monitor the financial status of the company • Performed an annual self-evaluation and set the Committee’s annual plan for 2017. • monitor the reporting process of financial statements and interim reports and assess the draft financial statements and interim reports • monitor the efficiency of the company’s internal controls, internal auditing and risk management system Compensation and Nomination Committee • monitor the statutory audit and review all material reports from the auditor The Compensation and Nomination Committee assists the Board in matters pertaining to the compensa• assess the independence of the auditors, in particular with regard to their ancillary services and estabtion and benefits of the CEO and other senior management, their performance evaluation, appointment and lishes the procedures and limits applying to the procurement of such services successor planning. The Committee assists the Board also in establishing and evaluating the group's compen• prepare for the Board proposals to the Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the auditor(s) sation structures and other personnel policies. By virtue of a Board authorisation, the Committee ascertains and their remunerations the achievement of targets for short-term incentives and approves the payment of incentives to the CEO and • review the auditors’ and internal auditors’ audit plans and reports other top management. • review the company’s corporate governance statement • prepare for the Board the group’s risk management policies FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 100 The main duties of the Compensation and Nomination Committee Company management The Committee prepares the following matters for the Board: • compensations, pensions, benefits and other material terms of the contract of the CEO Finnair's corporate structure • compensations, pensions and benefits of the top executives of the group, and other material terms of Finnair's two previous business areas: Airline Business and Travel Services (tour operators and travel agentheir contracts to the extent that the same deviate from the customary practice cies) were combined as of the beginning of 2016. The shared functions in Finnair’s Group Administration are • nominations of the CEO and other top executives Finance and Control, People and Culture. Communications and Corporate Responsibility, Legal Affairs and • top executives' succession planning Internal Audit • composition of the Executive Board • equity-based incentive plans • the principal compensation policies and practices regarding the personnel Company Management • management's participation in the boards' of directors of the group and of external companies • major organisational changes • proposals of awarding the members of the management honorary decorations and titles. Board of Directors Reports to Board’s Audit Committee A copy of the Committee’s charter is available on Finnair’s website. After the 2016 AGM, the members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee elected are Mr. Jussi Itävuori (Chairman), Ms Gunvor Kronman, Ms Jaana Tuominen and Mr. Harri Kerminen. All Committee CEO Internal audit members are independent of the Company and of its significant shareholders. The members of the Compensation and Nomination Committee met 5 times in 2016 with an aggregate attendance rate of 100 per cent. The CEO and the SVP, People and Culture were invited to the meetings to assist the Committee. Finnair's General Counsel acted as the Committee’s secretary. Executive Management Customer Experience, Operations, Commercial, Digitalisation, People and Culture, Finance and Control, Legal Affairs, Communications and Corporate Responsibility The Compensation and Nomination Committee's work in 2016 The Committee, among other things: • Prepared for the Board approval the conditions and targets of the employee share saving plan (FlyShare) for the earnings period beginning in 2016; Executive Board Subsets • Reviewed the senior management’s compensation levels compared to the market level, assessed the performance of the management relative to the long and short term incentive targets, and approved the payment of short-term management incentives; Customer Group Risk Digital Traffic Planning Procurement • Assisted the Board in determining the personnel fund’s bonus criteria for 2016 and the semi-annual Experience Management Transformation Board Steering Group Board Steering Group Board targets and conditions for top management; • Assisted the Board in determining the participants, targets and conditions for the next earnings period of the share bonus plan for key personnel; • Assessed the methodology and results of the company’s successor and talent mapping; • Assessed its meeting practices and tasks. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 The CEO In 2016, Finnair’s Executive Board met twice a month on average. A major proportion of the Executive Board’s The CEO is appointed by the Board. The CEO manages the company’s day-to-day operations in accordtime was used in leading key projects relating to Finnair’s strategy and further development of the strategy. ance with guidelines and instructions issued by the Board. The CEO’s instructions from the Board include, in Investments required by the fleet and traffic growth and related operational challenges required the attenparticular, the implementation of Finnair’s strategy, driving of structural change and improving the company’s tion of the Executive Board throughout the year. The Executive Board continued the value and cultural reform profitability. The CEO acts as the Chairman of the Executive Board. initiative, and the comprehensive leadership development programme to support the strategy. The Executive Board prepared for the Board's approval the Group's new Code of Conduct. The Executive Board also The Board determines the CEO’s compensation and sets his short and long term incentive targets. The main focused on the financial position of the company and on the improvevment of operational quality, guidecontents of the CEO’s contract, including his compensation and benefits, are described in the Remuneration lines annd other internal controls, and on the development of the customer experience, personnel wellbeing Statement and on Finnair's internet pages. and working capacity. In addition, it was occupied with ancillary sales, risk management and digital business strategy. The areas of responsibility of the Board of Directors changed materially during 2016 on two occaThe CEO of Finnair is Mr. Pekka Vauramo, b. 1957, M.Sc. (Tech). At the end of the year, he owned 91,102 Finnair sions. shares. Neither he nor any company under his control held shares in other Finnair Group companies. Neither he nor any company under his control had share-based rights in any Finnair Group company at the end of Subsets of the Executive Board 2016. The CEO belongs to Finnair's long-term incentive programmes as well as the FlyShare programme, The Executive Board delegates certain of its functions to five subsets. These subsets’ decision making described in more detail in Note 1.3.7 to the financial statements and in the Remuneration Statement. authority is derived from that of the Chief Executive Officer, set by the Board of Directors. Executive Board Network Planning Group is responsible for fleet and network strategy and short and long-term traffic planThe Executive Board of the Company is led by the CEO and it comprises the senior management responsible ning of Finnair's scheduled, leisure and cargo traffic, among other things. The Group is headed by the Chief for Finnair’s operations and commercial activities, customer experience, digitalisation, finance and control, Commercial Officer, and it meets monthly. people and culture, communications and corporate responsibility and legal affairs. The members’ respective roles and their direct and indirect shareholdings in Finnair as at 31 December 2016 are shown below. Procurement Steering Group is responsible for Finnair's Procurement Guidelines, procurement category structure and related development projects. It also leads supplier relationship management. The Group Hakakari, Eija, b. 1961, M.Sc. (Ed), SVP Human Resources 4,138 convenes at least four times a year and it is chaired by the CFO. Harra-Salonen, Katri, b. 1969, M.Sc. (Tech), eMBA, Chief Digital Officer 0 (Umbrella Strategic Advisory Oy) 0 Customer Experience Board is responsible decisions related to customer experience. These concern issues Järvinen, Juha, b. 1976, MBA, Chief Commercial Officer 2,916 such as the brand, customer service identity, airport experience, the flight product, aircraft interior design Karhu, Piia, b. 1976, Doctor, Business Administration, SVP Customer Experience 0 and lounges. The Board is headed by SPV Customer Experience and it meets bi-monthly. (TJA Consulting Ky) 0 Sarelius, Sami, b. 1971, LLM, SVP and General Counsel 41,823 Digital Transformation Board is responsible for the implementation of the digital strategy and related Schildt, Jaakko, b. 1970, MBA, B.Sc. Engineering, SVP Operations 952 decisions, including those concerning the customer and employee interface, development and IT projects Suominen, Arja, b. 1958, MA, eMBA, SVP Communications and Corporate Responsibility 68,760 related to digital planning and implementation as well as technology. In addition, the development of experVähähyyppä, Pekka, b. 1960, M.Sc (Econ), eMBA, CFO 40,437 tise, innovation and technological capabilities in the area of digitalisation fall within the Board’s remit. The Board convenes approximately once a month and it is chaired by the Chief Digital Officer. The Executive Board members are appointed by the Board, which also determines their remuneration. In addition Executive Board acts as the Group Risk Management Steering Group. Risk Management The duties of the Executive Board include group-wide development projects, the definition of principles and Steering Group is responsible for the Group's strategic risk assessment and the implementation of risk procedures that guide the company’s activities, and the preparation of matters to be dealt with by the Board. management measures. It assesses the adequacy and timeliness of the Group's risk management policy. In The Executive Board also acts as Finnair’s risk management steering group. addition, it approves changes in the risk reporting process, Finnair common risk language and risk model. The Steering Group is headed by the CEO and meets bi-monthly. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 102 Management Board Finnair participates in joint ventures consisting of certain airlines belonging to the oneworld alliance. These Finnair Management Board is principally a communication and co-operation forum designed for the personjoint ventures seek to improve competitiveness and efficiency in a manner benefitting the passengers. nel’s participation in the company’s governance processes, especially with regard to matters that affect the Finnair's influence in the joint ventures is based on contractual arrangements. Decisions by the joint venture personnel. The focus of the Management Board work is on enhancing communication and understanding are sought to be made unanimously. between the personnel groups and the management as to the implementation of the company’s strategic objectives and on sharing information and discussing plans and projects that affect Finnair's personnel. The All Finnair's service providers are expected to comply with Finnair's policies and Finnair's Supplier Code of Management Board also discusses the business plans and financial performance of the Group, the operaConduct, and Finnair is entitled to audit the Supplier’s governance and security practices to ensure this. tional quality and customer satisfaction as well as significant development projects. The Management Board comprises the Executive Board members, certain senior managers and the representatives of all personnel Finnair's Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Conduct are available on Finnair's website. groups. Main features of the internal control and risk management In 2016, the Management Board met 6 times. system pertaining to the financial reporting process Corporate Governance in Finnair subsidiaries Description of the overall system For major subsidiaries, the members of the boards of directors are selected from individuals belonging to The objective of internal control and risk management system pertaining to the financial reporting process is Finnair’s senior management and, in selected subsidiaries, also from representatives proposed by personnel to provide the Board, the Executive Management and other key stakeholders with a reasonable assurance of groups. The key tasks of the boards of directors of subsidiaries include strategy preparation, approving operthe reliability and correctness of financial and operational reporting, as well as compliance with associated ational plans and budgets, and deciding on investments and commitments within the scope of the approval laws, regulations and internal policies. It is built on the principles of Finnair’s overall system of risk managelimits issued by Finnair’s Board. ment which is aligned with commonly accepted COSO ERM framework and ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk management. The subsidiaries of Finnair are presented in the Financial Statements 2016 under Note 4.2. Control environment Governance principles in key partnerships and outsourcings Finnair's Code of Conduct and management system form the foundation for its control environment and backFinnair has equity partnership in Nordic Regional Airlines Oy through Nordic Regional Airlines AB (ownerground for awareness and implementation of control activities across the organisation. Guiding principles of ship 40 per cent). Nordic Regional Airlines Oy is a Finnish regional passenger airline operating ATR turboprop internal control and risk management in Finnair are documented in the Group Risk Management Policy. Other and Embraer 190 aircraft. Its route network is designed to provide convenient feeder connections to Finnair’s key steering instruments supporting control over reporting include, but are not limited to, Accounting princiEuropean and long-haul routes. Finnair’s influence over the governance of the company is secured by shareples, Treasury Policy, Procurement Policy, Credit Policy, Disclosure Policy and Approvals Policy. holding and various contractual rights. Finnair's Board of Directors holds the overall responsibility for the company's internal control and risk Finnair procures certain important operational services from strategic partners. LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy management. The Board has delegated the implementation of efficient control environment and measures to runs the former catering businesses of Finnair at Helsinki Airport. It supplies Finnair’s catering services ensure the reliability of financial reporting to the CEO. The Group CFO is responsible for governing financial pursuant to a multi-year agreement. In late 2016, LSG stated it would not use its option to purchase LSG reporting control environment and acting as the risk owner of reporting risks. The line organisations of busiSkyChefs Finland Oy, as a result of which Finnair and LSG began negotiations on the restructuring of the coopness units and Group-wide functions have the main responsibility for executing day to day control activities eration during 2017. Other strategic service agreements have been made for example in the ground handling pertaining to the financial reporting process. services, with Swissport Finland Ltd, and in the engine and component services with SR Technics, Lufthansa Technik and Rolls Royce, and in the area of IT and mobile services particularly with IBM and Apple. The cost Internal Audit assesses the control environment as well as the status and effectiveness of planned control and quality targets of these agreements have been determined so as to correspond at least to a good general and risk management activities. To ensure the independence of the Internal Audit activity, Internal Audit market level. has a direct functional reporting line to the Audit Committee of Finnair Board and it is positioned to operate FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 The role in the implementation of the internal control and risk management system As a part of internal controls development project, the processes with material impact on financial reporting have been defined and risks threatening the reliability and accuracy of financial reporting assessed in a coordinated manner. Possible changes in internal and external environment are always assessed and processes Three lines of defence updated accordingly. Business segments and common functions Control activities First line of Day to day control and risk management activities pertaining to the Financial reporting instructions have been prepared to be followed across the organization. The instructions defence financial reporting process outlining the content and schedule for the reporting aim to increase the overall controllability of the financial reporting process and ensure that financial statement fulfils the requirements set in the IFRS standards and other applicable principles. Corporate functions Second line of Oversight and continuous improvement of the internal control and risk defence External auditors management environment Risks related to financial reporting are managed through controls aiming to provide reasonable assurance that the information of interim reports and year-end reports are correct and that they have been prepared in Operational level accordance with legislation, applicable accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. Internal Audit These control activities are: Third line of Assessment of control environment, day to day control and risk defence management activities, and overall maturity of the internal control and risk management system • preventive, detective and corrective in nature; • integrated into reporting processes in business units, group-wide functions and subsidiaries; The Board of Directors • operationalized through the implementation of Policies, Guidelines and Principles, Ultimate Reasonable assurance of the achievement of company’s strategic and • captured in Control Catalogues; responsibility operational objectives, reliability of financial and operational reporting, • supported by Manuals and Standards, Process Descriptions and Work Instructions; as well as compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies • monitored and continuously improved through a dedicated governance model. Responsibilities over reporting controls are illustrated in the matrix below: Role Description a­ dministratively under the CEO. The Audit Committee appointed by the Board of Directors oversees the Control Environment Owner Responsible for governing financial reporting control – Group CFO environment and acting as the risk owner of reporting risks financial reporting process and overall maturity of the internal control and risk management system. The Control Catalogue Owner Owner of the process controls defined in the control catalogue described roles and responsibilities are in accordance with the Finnish Companies Act, and the Finnish Corpo– Process Owners rate Governance Code. The picture below summarises the roles of the listed stakeholders in the implementaControl Performer / Reviewer Responsible for executing / monitoring key control(s) defined in tion of the internal control and risk management system. the control catalogue Internal Audit Responsible for audit of reporting processes and related controls according to the annual audit plan Risk Assessment The objective of Finnair's financial reporting risk assessment is to identify, evaluate and prioritise the most significant threats to the reliability of internal and external reporting at the Group, reporting area, unit, f­ unction and process levels. Processes related to financial reporting are subject to on-going risk assessment by the business unit controllers, financial controllers and other shared service centre staff as part of their activities. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 104 The main components and roles associated with control planning, implementation and monitoring are Information and communication summarized below: Information and communication system provides means for Finnair's personnel to capture and communicate information related to risk assessments and control activities across company's operations. The system aims at providing required personnel access to adequate and timely information on accounting and reporting as Report Audit Set Guidelines Findings and Approve well as on related controls. Information regarding control requirements is communicated through common Board of Group Policies policies, dedicated guidelines and process level procedure descriptions. Directors Policies The CFO, supported by Investor Relations function, is responsible for the disclosure of financial information and fulfilment of the communication obligations of a listed company. Investor Relations holds the responsibility over planning and implementation of investor communications and daily contact with investors and Implement analysts. Policies and Executive Board Guidelines, Requirements, Principles Guidelines Monitoring and improvement Finnair's internal control and risk management system is subject to both on-going and periodical monitoring activities to gain reasonable assurance over its appropriateness and effectiveness. On-going monitoring is built into the normal, recurring operating activities of operations and is the responsibility of corporate Control management, business units and group-wide functions. Environment Owner Identify Internal Risks Focus areas of internal control over financial reporting in 2016 and 2017 Audit Control Catalogs and Define Controls Key Activities in 2016 Control Catalog Regular self-assessment of risks and controls was performed as set in the annual calendar of internal Owner control activities. Additionally, the Internal Audit and external auditors performed audits on key controls as defined in the annual audit plan. The controls were updated on the basis of an internal assessment and audit findings. Special attention was focused on process areas where changes in roles and responsibilities had taken place due to restrucControl Apply Manuals Process Work turing. Performer/ and Controls Descriptions Instructions Reviewer Standards Planned Key Activities for 2017 Further development of the controls will be conducted independently and also using any findings and suggestions received from Internal Audit and external auditors. By the end of the year, audits will have been performed on each key process. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 Internal Audit Compliance The Internal Audit is established by the Board of Directors, and its responsibilities are defined by the Audit Finnair is committed to complying with international and local laws and ethical policies in accordance with Committee of the Board of Directors as part of their oversight function. the Code of Conduct updated in 2016. The Company's General Counsel is responsible for Finnair’s compliance function, which supports the business lines and other functions in identifying and complying with the law and The mission of Internal Audit in Finnair is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services corporate governance practices. The key tasks of Finnair’s Compliance function are to ensure compliance with designed to add value and improve the organisation's operations. Internal Audit helps the organisation to the regulation in all operations, excluding those covered by special legislation within the airline operations mitigate factors that might undermine its business objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach and human resources, the maintenance of Finnair's compliance program and the development of ethical busito evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. ness culture. In 2017, the Compliance function will attend especially to the implementation of the new Code of Conduct, preparations for the new data protection legislation and compliance with anti-bribery guidelines. Internal Audit focus areas in 2016 and 2017 Transactions with closely associated parties Finnair has guidelines concerning the avoidance of conficts of interest, which concern, among other things, Key Activities in 2016 business transactions between the Finnair group and people in its employ. The guidelines also apply to the In 2016 Internal Audit set an objective to focus its audit activities to sourcing, third party risk managemembers of the Board of Directors. A permission must be obtained for transactions with the company. The ment and vendor management processes as well as airline operations to support management in their permission can be given by the Executive Board, or the permission concerns the CEO or a member of the corporate strategy. These themes were the overarching objectives throughout the Audit Plan 2016 in all Board of Directors, by the Board of Directors. The requirement to have a permission also applies to transaudit engagements. Other special audit themes during the year comprised strategically important partactions in which the counterparty is a person closely related to a Finnair employee or Board member, or nerships and IT systems. an entity in which these have an ownership of at least 20%. The person concerned may not participate in discussing the matter on the Executive Board or the Board of Directors or participate in preparations, deciPlanned Key Activities for 2017 sions or implementation of the matter on behalf of the company. Internal Audit focus areas and annual plan for 2017 have been approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors in December 2016. Key focus areas of Internal Audit for 2017 are based on and aligned In addition, the members of the Executive Board and the Board of Directors are required to file an annual with corporate strategy, results of risk assessments conducted by company management and recent report of transactions conducted by them or their closely related parties with Finnair during the financial changes in internal processes. Audit activities will pay special attention to the strategic focus areas (profperiod as well as transactions anticipated for the next period. itable growth, customer experience, people experience and digital transformation). The permission and notification procedures only apply to negotiated transactions. Hence, they do not apply to service or product purchases available on normal commercial terms or normal employee discounts. Significant transactions between Finnair and closely associated parties are announced with a stock exchange release in accordance with the rules of Nasdaq Helsinki. Information on transactions with closely associated parties is also provided in note 4.5 to the financial statements. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 106 Managers' transactions and key insider management procedures Inside information within the company and transactions on Finnair financial instruments by persons discharging managerial responsibilities in the company or their closely associated persons are managed in accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) and the insider guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki and of the company. The company’s insider guideline also applies to employees in the so-called informative core of the company. The company maintains a list of persons discharging managerial responsibilities in Finnair (managers), including their closely associated persons and entities, who are under the obligation to notify the company and the Financial Supervisory Authority of their transactions on the company’s financial instruments within three business days of the execution of the transaction. The company is under the obligation to disclose these transactions in a stock exchange release during the same period. The company’s managers refer to the members of Finnair’s Board of Directors and of the Executive Board. The company’s managers and employees in the so-called informative core of the company are bound by a closed window on trading, which begings 30 days before the release of interim or annual results and continues until the end of the release date. The company may also impose other trading restrictions and grant exemptions in accordance with its insider guidelines. The company’s managers and employees in the so-called informative core of the company must give an advance notice to the company before the execution of a planned transaction. In addition they can request an advance assessment of the legality of a planned transaction. The advance notice obligation and advance assessment opportunity are intended to reduce the risk of trading during a closed trading window or at a time when the company has undisclosed inside information. Giving an advance notice does not affect the responsibility of the company’s managers and employees in its so-called informative core regarding the abuse of inside information. The disclosure policy of the company requires, in accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), that the company disclose as soon as possible any inside information it may have. However, the disclosure may be delayed if the requirements specified in the regulation are met. The identification of inside information and decisions regarding the disclosure or delay of disclosure are made by the company’s Disclosure Committee, which includes the CEO, CFO, SVP Communications and General Counsel. The Disclosure Committee assesses information within the company every two weeks or otherwise whenever necessary. If the company delays the disclosure of inside information, it establishes a project-specific insider list and enters the persons with access to the relevant information on the list. The person responsible for insider issues within the company is the General Counsel. Finnair’s insider guidelines are available at the company's website. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 RISK MANAGEMENT AND MAJOR RISKS Risk Management Business units, group functions and subsidiaries of Finnair Group are responsible for implementing Group Risk Finnair operates in a global and highly competitive environment that is sensitive to economic fluctuations. In Management Policy into the management system as well as aligning risk management guidelines and proceexecuting its strategy, Finnair and its operations are exposed to a broad range of risks and opportunities. dures with the Group Risk Management Policy. To exploit opportunities to create value, Finnair is prepared to take and manage risks within the limits of Process its risk appetite (rewarded risks). In relation to flight safety matters, compliance with laws and regulations, Finnair risk management system consists of the following components: and reliability of reporting, Finnair's objective is to minimise risks (unrewarded risks). The purpose of risk management is to provide a systematic approach to the management of rewarded and unrewarded risks in all Establish context and set objectives sections of Finnair's operations. Finnair Group’s Risk Management System ensures that management has a process in place to assess and manage uncertainties associated with set objectives, and those uncertainties are analysed and managed Policy and framework within the boundaries of Finnair’s risk bearing capacity. In Finnair, risk is considered as the potential for loss caused by an internal or external event or series of events that can adversely affect the implementation of strategy, achievement of business objectives or shareRisk Assessment holder value. Both negative events and unrealised positive events are considered as risk. Risk assessments are executed according to the Annual Cycle defined in the Group Risk Management Policy. Finnair's risk assessment process takes place as an integral part of strategy process and operational objecThe Group Risk Management Policy defines the overall framework for risk management at Finnair Group. This tive-setting across the organisation to enable a holistic view on risks and opportunities. framework, while taking into account industry specific requirements, is aligned with the commonly accepted COSO ERM framework and the ISO 31000:2009 standard for risk management. Risk assessment in Finnair Group includes the following phases: • Identification of external and internal events affecting the achievement of objectives; Dedicated Risk Management Standards have been established to support the implementation of the Group • Distinction between risks and opportunities; Risk Management Policy in the following contexts: Treasury, New Ventures, Programs and Projects, Supply • Analysis of identified risks; Chain, Flight Safety, Corporate Security and Information Security. Principles associated with risk management • Integration (aggregation) of risks; in the context of financial reporting are discussed in Note 3.5 on page 56. • Evaluation and prioritisation of risks based on their impact and likelihood. Policy implementation Finnair risk model and criteria for risk evaluation have been established to ensure comprehensive risk identiThe Board of Directors holds the ultimate responsibility for the Enterprise Risk Management system in Finnair. fication and systematic risk evaluation. Assumptions behind strategic objectives are analyzed and validated as It is responsible for approving the Group Risk Management Policy, setting Finnair Group's Risk Appetite and a part of strategic risk assessment. overseeing the effectiveness of Risk Management. A dedicated Risk Coordinator Forum has been established to support coordination of risk assessment activiFinnair Group’s CEO holds the responsibility over the appropriateness of the Group’s Risk Management and ties in units, group functions and subsidiaries, and to ensure these activities conform to the requirements set oversight of Group Risk Management Policy implementation. The CEO, supported by the Risk Management in the Group Risk Management Policy. Steering Group consisting of the members of the Executive Board, is also responsible for reviewing Group Risk Management Policy and risk management priorities. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 108 Risk response The CEO, supported by the Risk Management Steering Group, is responsible for defining risk response strateRisk response strategies shall be applied to prioritised risks in order to reach reasonable assurance that their gies and procedures, and setting risk management priorities. outcomes fall within an acceptable level. These risk response strategy options include: Control activities • Acceptance of risk Risk owners are composed of the members of the Risk Management Steering Group. They are responsible • Avoidance of risk for planning and implementing control measures within business units, group functions and subsidiaries to • Transfer of risk ensure an acceptable level of residual risk, and that the relevant risk interdependencies are appropriately • Mitigation of risk acknowledged. Information and communication Risk management information system aims at providing means for Finnair's personnel to capture and commuControl Environment nicate information related to execution of risk assessments and control activities across company's operations. Identified risks and their control measures are documented in risk logs for follow-up purposes. Dedicated information systems are in place to identify and analyse operational risk events and support associated operational audit activities. Establish context and set objectives Risk reporting to the Board of Directors and to the Risk Management Steering Group takes place on quarterly basis under the coordination of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management function. Status of Risk Management development activities and implementation of control measures are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors six times per year. In addition to the periodical business risk reporting, there are Identify risks and opportunities several reporting lines associated with financial and operational risk reporting to both internal and external stakeholders. Monitoring and continuous improvement Finnair's risk management system is subject to both ongoing and periodical monitoring activities to gain reasonAnalyse risks able assurance over its appropriateness and effectiveness. The implemented risk management system is subject Monitor and to continuous improvement activities based on PDCA (Plan-DoCheck-Act) cycle consistent with ISO 31000:2009. Inform and continuously communicate On-going monitoring is built into the normal, recurring operating activities of operations and is the responsibility improve of the corporate management, business units and group functions. Integrate risks The effectiveness of all flight safety related control activities and the general compliance with official regulations are monitored through the safety and quality system. Within the scope of the safety and quality system, the safety-critical elements of the company are audited annually. Evaluate risks The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for regularly reviewing and monitoring the impleAssess risks mentation of the Group Risk Management Policy and the Enterprise Risk Management process. Group Internal Audit and Risk Management in cooperation with the Risk Manager Forum is responsible for the assessment and Control risks development of the maturity of the risk management system. In order to ensure well-coordinated risk management development activities across the organisation and exchange of best practices, a dedicated Risk Manager Forum consisting of risk management specialists has been established. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 Governance model and reporting lines Risk Management focus areas in 2016 and 2017 Regarding risk management development activities in 2016, risk management's focus was on further improving the Group-wide bottom-up approach in risk management, as well as improving the systematic risk management activities in relation to partners and suppliers. Audit Board of Directors Committee The following activities are the focus areas in 2017: Further integration of risk management into strategic decision making as part of strategy process, implementation of formal risk appetite setting in Risk Management Steering Group as part of continuous risk management, as well as further development of risk management activities in relation to partners and suppliers. CEO Major risks Risk Management Steering Group Globally the airline industry is one of the sectors most sensitive to external shocks, seasonality and cyclical changes in economic conditions. Finnair carries out a comprehensive risk management process to ensure that risks are identified and mitigated where possible although many remain outside our full control. The risks and uncertainties described below are considered to potentially have significant effect on Finnair’s business, Risk financial results and future prospects. This list is not intended to be exhaustive. Manager Forum Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Risk Business Group-wide Coordinator Subsidiaries units functions Forum Risk Management specialists Risk Management information system FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 110 Major risks Risk Definition Our risk responses include, but are not limited to: BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Competitors The risk of competitors or new entrants to the market taking actions to • Continuous monitoring of competitor activities • Product development program(s) establish sustainable competitive advantage over Finnair. • Scenario analysis • Cost-competitiveness program(s) • Contingency planning • Active joint business and alliance cooperation Economic volatility The risk that major economic volatility or other large scale economic • On-going analysis of market trend development • Risk diversification through active vendor portfolio management disturbances slow down travelling. • Periodical risk assessments • Fleet ownership strategy • Contingency planning Traffic charges and The price and availability of overflight rights as well as the price of • Continuous monitoring of political environment • Active cooperation with key stakeholders flight permissions traffic charges, such as arrival, departure and navigation charges result • Lobbying • Enterprise-wide dependency analysis in a negative impact on Finnair’s business operations and profit margin. Country risk The risk that sudden changes in demand, political upheaval, cultural • Continuous monitoring and market intelligence • Contingency planning factors, natural disasters, pandemic or other disturbances in destination • Group level risk assessments • Crisis communication planning countries slow down travelling and/or hinder Finnair's ability to conduct • Foreign unit risk assessments • Network diversification business. Laws and regulations The risk that changes in laws, regulations or their interpretations • Compliance management programme to identify changes in external • Awareness through tailored training programs significantly affect Finnair’s ability to efficiently conduct business. requirements and align internal activities to support compliance • Ensuring ability and resources to execute controls them • Dedicated internal policies FINANCIAL Market risk The risk of incurring additional costs due to adverse movements of the • Treasury policy approved by the Board of Directors • Continuous monitoring of hedging ratio(s) interest rates, unsuccessful currency position and/or rise of jet fuel • Internal controls over Treasury policy implementation • Scenario and sensitivity analysis price. Liquidity risk The risk of incurring additional or unnecessary costs due to inability to • Maintain robust cash balance • Pre-committed aircraft financing generate cash flow. • Diversify funding sources • Maintain an unutilised credit facility and commercial paper programme BUSINESS OPERATIONS Revenue management The risk that Finnair is not capable to perform competitive revenue • Global sales strategy and revenue optimisation process • Executive level monitoring and performance evaluation management to optimise its revenues per seat kilometre. • Daily monitoring of booking trends, issued sales, advance booking • Control measures to ensure timeliness and integrity of revenue reports management information • Monitoring of key variables such as market shares, pricing structure and yields of other relevant airlines as well as route profitability Marketing mix The risk that segmentation and marketing mix decisions on product, • Finnair brand re-positioning • Customer satisfaction and consumer trend surveys price, promotion and distribution do not support creation of sustainable • Continuous benchmarking and strategic positioning of Finnair • New E-commerce organization to safeguard and develop online competitive advantage. product presence Capacity planning The risk that insufficient capacity threatens Finnair’s ability to meet • Network strategy • Deviation analysis customer demands, or excess capacity threatens Finnair’s ability to • Demand forecasting • Continuous process improvement generate competitive profit margins. • Route performance monitoring Human capital The risk that Finnair is not able to execute its strategy due to inadequate • Strategic competency management • Internal communication management quality, commitment or resourcing of human capital. • Continuous improvement of HR processes • Union relations management • Change management program • Contingency planning • Employee wellbeing strategy • Active and open communication with key stakeholders Innovations management The risk of Finnair not being able to produce product/ service/ • Digital vision and strategy distribution and/or process innovations to drive increased customer • Digitalization roadmaps satisfaction and continued cost reductions. • Project portfolio management FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 Risk Definition Our risk responses include, but are not limited to: PARTNERSHIPS Alliances and Joint Businesses The risk that other alliances and/or joint businesses gain competitive • Active alliance cooperation • Joint continuous process improvement activities advantage over oneworld, Finnair’s joint businesses and/or lack of • Joint business governance model • Internal controls over joint business processes performance and missing of targets. • Dedicated alliance and joint business teams Partners and suppliers The risk that quality and availability issues and/or unexpected costs • Supplier relationship management program • Dedicated procurement specialists per supplier category associated with partnerships and suppliers have an adverse effect on • Supplier risk assessments • Scenario analysis Finnair's product and profit margin or suppliers gain bargaining power • Contract risk management • Contingency planning over Finnair. SAFETY & SECURITY Flight safety The risk of endangered flight safety due to poor process design, poor • SMS (safety management system) • Risk assessment process execution or a human error. • SQM Governance (Safety and Quality Board, safety action groups, • Reporting post holder • Monitoring • responsibilities) • Safety and Quality audit program • Continuous analysis • FRMS (fatigue risk management system) Information security The risk of a cyber-attack on aviation systems having an impact on • Risk assessments operations and therefore damaging the Finnair brand. • Security audits and evaluations • Risk management actions The risk that inappropriate parties can access Finnair’s sensitive or • Contingency planning classified information jeopardising its confidentiality and/or integrity. The risk that a large-scale attack or disruption in information systems affects Finnair's ability to conduct its business as planned. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 112 REMUNERATION STATEMENT 2016 Content Salaries, addendums and other compensation components of personnel groups other than those mentioned Introduction.................................................................................................................................................................................................. 112 above are, for the most part, defined in their respective Finnish collective agreements. Outside Finland, Total Compensation at Finnair.......................................................................................................................................................... 112 Finnair follows the pay practices and collective agreements of each country of operation. Compensation is based on job grading................................................................................................................................. 113 Variable pay.................................................................................................................................................................................................. 113 Employment benefits for all personnel include a staff ticket benefit in line with company policy, as well as a Short-term incentives....................................................................................................................................................................... 113 Sickness Fund for employees based in Finland. Certain personnel groups also have a car benefit and mobile Long-term incentives........................................................................................................................................................................ 113 phone benefit in line with company policy. Management remuneration decision-making procedure............................................................................................... 115 Remuneration of the Board of Directors in 2016................................................................................................................. 115 Finnair aims to make work rewarding and interesting through not only monetary incentives, but also by Management remuneration in 2016.............................................................................................................................................116 offering opportunities for development and job rotation within the company. Employees are satisfied at Supplementary pensions................................................................................................................................................................116 Finnair, as evidenced by a high average duration of employment and a very low employee turnover. The Termination of the service contract and severance pay............................................................................................116 average of service years of all employees was 16.5 at year-end 2016. Other benefits........................................................................................................................................................................................ 117 Computational monthly earnings of Finnair’s Finnish personnel groups in 2016¹) Introduction Median2) This remuneration statement describes Finnair’s remuneration policies and the remuneration of the senior Personnel group 2016 2015 2014 management, i.e. the Board of Directors, the CEO and the members of the Executive Board in 2016. Further Executive Board 24,633 20,412 18,486 information is available on the company website at https://investors.finnair.com/en. The remuneration Management Positions 11,296 9,848 8,517 statement has been prepared based on the 2015 Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies Pilots 10,952 10,719 10,216 published by the Finnish Securities Market Association, and it also covers other key components of remuneraWhite Collar Employees 5,651 5,424 5,241 tion that we believe the readers are interested in. Technical Employees 5,070 5,110 5,116 Technical Service Workers 4,857 4,810 4,777 Total Compensation at Finnair Cabin Crew 3,837 4,015 4,207 Remuneration and incentive structures take into consideration the effectiveness and costs of different forms Ground Service Workers 3,796 3,821 3,911 of remuneration. Finnair’s remuneration policies are compliant with local legislation, regulations and pracAviation Employees 3,748 3,593 3,551 tices. The overall remuneration of Finnair’s different personnel groups are compared annually to the local pay 1) Computational monthly earnings: Taxable gross earnings divided by 12 months. levels in similar tasks in every country in which the company operates. ²) The median pay describes the average salary of each group, or the point where half of the employees in the group earn more than the amount, and half earn less. The salary and other incentive structures applicable to the CEO, the members of the Executive Board, senior The calculations only include employees who earned pay for the full year. Temporary layoffs have been eliminated from the calculations. The calculations do not include tax exempt benefits or other untaxed forms of compensasalaried employees, engineers and personnel based in units abroad are as follows: tion, such as daily allowances. The data does not include pilots in supervisor roles. Long-term incentives are not included. The difference in the salary and remuneration of the Executive Board in 2015 and 2016 is explained by the larger composition I. Fixed pay: base salary of the Executive Board, which better supports the growth and strategy of the company. In addition, it was impacted by the STIs II. Variable pay: short and long-term incentives linked to company and individual performance materialising at a higher level than previously due to the company's financial result. III. Employee benefits: perquisites and other personnel benefits FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 Median earnings describe the average pay level of each personnel group, and are not indicative of the total Short-term incentives personnel costs of that group. The median pay of pilots increased in 2016 reflecting among other things compensation for working on vacation days. The median earnings of white collar employees and manageShort-term incentive scheme ment increased in 2016 due to higher short-term incentives based on company result. In addition, there Finnair utilises performance-driven short-term incentives throughout its management. The incentive scheme were changes in management affecting the median pay: the size of the Executive Board increased to support comprises a process of target setting, performance evaluation and performance review. At the target level, the company’s growth and strategy, and on the other hand, the number of other managerial personnel has the short-term variable pay ranges from 2.5–30 per cent of base salary, depending on the job grade. If an decreased by about a third in recent years. individual exceeds his or her targets substantially, the variable pay may, at a maximum, reach 5–60 per cent of the annual base salary. The short-term incentive scheme is based on the company’s six-month budgeting Average years of service in Finnair’s different personnel groups on 31 Dec 2016 period and the variable pay is paid semi-annually. The variable pay is calculated based on the individual’s base salary for the period in question. Personnel group Average years of service The short-term incentives for the CEO and other members of the Executive Board are determined on the basis Executive Board 6,0 Pilots 14,7 of the half-yearly targets set by the Board of Directors. The targets are based on the company’s business Management Positions 15,1 targets set by the Board of Directors for the period in question and on the targets set for the business area for White Collar Employees 16,1 which the individual in question is responsible. The targets are mainly based on financial measures but also Technical Employees 24,8 on operative and quality KPIs, such as customer satisfaction. Technical Service Workers 19,8 Cabin Crew 18,4 The short-term incentive for the CEO and the members of the Executive Board corresponds to 30 per cent of Ground Service Workers 18,9 the base salary at the target level and 60 per cent of the base salary at the maximum level Aviation Employees 20,5 Tour Operator Employees 14,7 According to the government guidelines issued by the Finnish Cabinet Committee on Economic Policy on 13 Tour Operator Travel Guides 6,5 August 2012, the short-term incentive for an individual may not exceed 60 per cent of the annual base salary Tour Operator Professionals 10,9 in any given year. Respectively, according to guidelines issued on 13 May 2016, total incentives (includes both Abroad Employees 7,4 short-term, and long-term incentives) may not exceed 120 per cent of the annual base salary in any given Average of personnel groups 16,5 year. Compensation is based on job grading Personnel fund Finnair uses job grading as the basis for determining the compensation of the CEO, members of the Executive Finnair has a Personnel Fund owned and controlled by the personnel. A share of Finnair’s profits is allocated Board, white collar employees and personnel based in units abroad. Job grading is based on the significance to the fund. The share of profit allocated to the fund is determined on the basis of targets set by the Board of of the job and responsibility within the organisation, rather than hierarchical reporting relationships. Job Directors. The CEO, other members of the Executive Board and the participants of the performance share plan grading is tied to the job, and if a person changes from one job to another, his or her job grade may change. are not members of the Personnel Fund. Based on the comparable operating profit for 2016, 0.5 million euros Job grading enables consistency in compensation-related decisions both internally and compared to the will be transferred to the personnel fund. market. Long-term incentives Variable pay The aim of variable pay is to achieve a flexible and incentivising pay structure that is linked to the company’s Personnel share savings plan Fly Share success and the individual’s own performance. In addition, long-term incentives are aimed at committing the On 27 March 2013, Finnair’s Board of Directors decided to launch Fly Share, an employee share savings personnel and management to the company and to bringing their interests in line with the interests of shareplan. The plan encourages employees to become shareholders in the company, and thereby strengthens the holders. Performance targets are set by Finnair’s Board of Directors. employees’ interest in the development of Finnair’s shareholder value and rewards them in the long-term. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 114 The plan consists of annually starting savings periods which are followed by a two-year shareholding period. The potential reward will be delivered in Finnair shares. The share delivery is split into two or three share Every new savings period is decided separately by the Finnair Board. The fourth savings period of the plan tranches that will be delivered to participants during the three years following the performance period. started on 1 July 2016. If the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the target level, the incentive paid in Finnair shares Participation in the plan is voluntary. Through the plan, each eligible Finnair employee is offered the opportuto the CEO or other member of the Executive Board participating in the plan will be 30 per cent of his or her nity to save a part of his or her salary to be invested in Finnair shares. The amount of monthly savings can be annual base salary. If the performance criteria set for the plan are met at the maximum level, the incentive 2–8 per cent of each participant’s gross base salary per month, with the annual maximum savings set at 8,000 paid in Finnair shares will be 60 per cent of the participant’s annual base salary. For other key personnel, the euros per participant. Shares are purchased with the accumulated savings at the market price quarterly, target level for incentives is 20–25 per cent and maximum 40–50 per cent of the person’s average annual base after the publication dates of Finnair’s interim results. Any dividends paid on purchased shares during the salary according to the job grade. savings period will be automatically reinvested in Finnair shares on the next share purchase date following the payment of dividend. According to the rules of the share program, the maximum value of shares delivered to an individual participant based on the share program in any given year may not exceed 60 per cent of the person’s annual base After the two-year shareholding period, Finnair will award each participating employee one matching share salary. Shares are taxable income for the recipient. for each two shares purchased. The awarded additional shares are taxable income for the recipient. In addition, employees participating in the plan for the first time are rewarded with 20 bonus shares after the first A person is not entitled to the incentive if he or she resigns or is dismissed before the date of payment. In three months. Also the bonus shares are taxable income. addition, during the restriction period the Board of Directors is entitled, at its discretion, to reclaim already delivered shares from a person included in the share plan who resigns or whose service in the company is In 2016, the participants were awarded matching shares for the first time, as the two-year shareholding terminated. period of the first Fly Share plan ended in February, and Finnair delivered a total of 277,596 shares as awarded matching shares to the participants. On 20 December 2016, Finnair's Board of Directors decided on a The Board of Directors is also entitled, subject to a particularly weighty reason, to change or cancel the incennew savings period to begin on 1 July 2017. tive or to postpone its payment. The Board of Directors is entitled to remove a participant from the share plan if the person has committed a significant offence or acted in a manner detrimental to the company or Performance-based long-term incentive plan for key personnel contrary to the company’s interests. Finnair’s Board of Directors approved on 7 February 2013 a new performance share plan for the key personnel of Finnair Group. The share plan replaced the previous program which expired at the end of 2012. The share Performance criteria and realisation of the plans plan encourages the management to work to increase long-term shareholder value. It has been designed in The performance criteria applied to the plan 2013–2015 were the Group’s relative operating EBIT margin accordance with the principles of the statement by the Ministerial Committee on Economic Policy. growth and decrease in unit costs in European traffic. These two criteria were assigned weights of 60 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively. The achieved payout rate of the plan was 27 per cent of the maximum. The The share plan consists of annually commencing individual plans within which the participants have the performance criterion for the share plan’s bridge element was the operating EBIT margin. The targets of the opportunity to earn Finnair shares as a long-term incentive reward, if the performance targets set by the supplementary plan were not achieved. Board of Directors are achieved. The commencement of each new plan is subject to a separate approval of Finnair Board of Directors. The performance criteria applied to the plans 2014–2016,2015–2017 and 2016-2018 are Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) and Total Shareholder Return (TSR). Both of these criteria had a weight of 50 per cent. Each plan contains a three-year performance period which is followed by a restriction period, during which the participant may not sell or transfer the shares received as a reward. The restriction period is three years The target levels and maximum levels set for the criteria are based on long-term strategic objectives set by for the members of Finnair’s Executive Board and one year for other participants. In addition, the CEO and the company’s Board of Directors. Performance against the criteria is monitored quarterly. On 20 December members of Finnair’s Executive Board are required to accumulate and once achieved, to maintain a share 2016, Finnair's Board of Directors decided on a new plan for years 2017-2019. ownership in Finnair corresponding to his or her annual base salary as long as he or she holds a position as a member of Finnair’s Executive Board. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 Long-term incentive plan for pilots Remuneration decision-making procedure Finnair’s Board of Directors approved on 13 October 2014 a new long-term incentive plan for Finnair pilots. The plan is a part of the savings agreement between Finnair and the Finnish Airline Pilots’ Association (SLL) The Shareholder’s Nomination Board that brings Finnair 17 million euros in permanent annual savings. The savings agreement was contingent on the realisation of the incentive plan. Prepares proposal on Board’s remuneration. The plan period is 2015–2018 and the prerequisite for rewarding pilots based on this plan is the achievement of the agreed cost savings over this time period. In addition, the company share price must be at least 4 euros Annual General Meeting at the end of the incentive plan. If these conditions are met, the pilots are entitled to a cash payment. The amount of the payment is based on the Finnair share price. The total payment is 12 million euros with a share price of 4 euros and 24 million euros with a share price of 8 euros, which is also the maximum earning of the Decides on the Board’s remuneration. plan. Divided over the four-year period, the annual earnings potential for one participant is equivalent to 5–10 Compensation per cent of the annual base salary. Board of Directors and Nomination Committee There are approximately 700 pilots eligible to participate in the plan. The cash payment will be delivered in • Decides on the CEO’s and Executive Board members’ spring 2019, provided that the conditions stated above are met. remuneration. Prepares • Decides on the incentives, performance-related remuneration Management remuneration decision-making procedure variable pays and share-based incentive schemes related matters The Board of Directors’ remuneration: The Shareholders’ Nomination Board prepares annually its pertaining to the company as a whole. and proposals proposal for the remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors. The Annual General Meeting of • Sets company level targets of the short-term for the Board. incentive scheme. shareholders makes the final decision on the Board’s remuneration. CEO The remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Board: The Board decides on the salary, incentive schemes and associated targets of the CEO and other members of the Executive Board based on preparatory work carried out by the Board’s Compensation and Nomination Committee. Decisions on remuneration have been made with consideration of the government guidelines. Executive Board Remuneration of the Board of Directors in 2016 The Annual General Meeting (AGM) decides annually on the remuneration and other financial benefits of the members of the Board of Directors and its committees. The election and remuneration of the members of the Board are prepared by the Nomination Board formed by the representatives of the company’s largest shareholders. The remuneration of the Board of Directors and its committees is paid in cash. The members of the Board of Directors are not covered by the company’s share incentive scheme or other incentive schemes. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 116 The annual remuneration and meeting compensation decided by the 2016 AGM for the members of the Board Management remuneration in 2016 of Directors are: In 2016, Finnair’s CEO was Pekka Vauramo. The Executive Board comprised nine members in addition to the CEO. In 2016, the Executive Board got three new members: Piia Karhu, Katri Harra-Salonen and Jaakko • Chairman’s annual remuneration, 61,200 euros Schildt. Meanwhile Ville Iho left the Executive Board on 31st December 2016. The Executive Board members • Deputy Chairman’s annual remuneration, 32,400 euros are presented on page 117. • Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Compensation and Nomination Committee, 32,400 euros, where these individuals are neither the Chairman nor the Deputy Chairman of the Board In 2016, the long term incentives from the LTI program 2013–2015 were paid to the management, in two parts • Other Board members’ annual remuneration, 30,000 euros in June and December. The achieved payout of the program was 27 per cent of the maximum. • Meeting compensation paid per Board or committee meeting is 600 euros when the meeting takes place in the member’s country of residence and 2,400 euros for other meetings. For telephone meetings, the The differential between management remuneration in 2015 and 2016 is explained by the larger composifee is 600 euros. tion of the Executive Board in order to better support the company’s growth and strategy, and the payment of the abovementioned LTI incentives for the first time in three years. Furthermore, it reflects the STI incentives The members of the Board of Directors are entitled to a compensation for travel expenses in accordance with being achieved at higher rates than previously due to the company’s result. Finnair’s general travel rules. In addition, the members of the Board of Directors have a limited right to use staff tickets in accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rules. Under the current rules, the Directors and their Supplementary pensions spouses are entitled to 4 return or 8 one-way tickets on Finnair flights per calendar year in Economy or Business Class. The fare of these tickets is zero, exclusive of any airport taxes, fees and charges, which are payable The CEO by the Directors and their spouses. These tickets constitute taxable income in Finland. The CEO, Pekka Vauramo, accumulates pension and his retirement age is defined in accordance with the Finnish Employees’ Pensions Act. In addition, the CEO is entitled to defined-contribution pension insurance, Annual remuneration for members of the Board of Directors has remained unchanged since 2008. where the contribution equals 20 per cent of the CEO's fixed annual salary (pension contribution under the supplementary scheme as of 2017). The supplementary pension includes vested rights. The pension age is the Remuneration paid to Finnair Board of Directors in 2016 earliest possible retirement age under the Employees' Pension Act. Meeting Annual Board Committee compensations Taxable Executive Board remuneration1) meeting meetings in total benefits2) Total The members of the Executive Board accumulate pension in accordance with the Finnish Employees’ Pensions Members 1.1.–31.12.2016 Act. In addition, the company has a supplementary pension scheme that includes three members of the Klaus Heinemann (chairman) 61,200 8/8 0/0 21,600 0 82,800 Executive Board. The supplementary pension arrangements for members of the Executive Board are collecMaija-Liisa Friman 32,400 8/8 5/6 10,800 4,348 47,548 tive within the meaning of Finnish tax laws. All supplementary pensions taken for the executives are defined Gunvor Kronman 30,000 8/8 5/5 10,800 2,514 43,314 contribution schemes.The annual contribution equals 10 per cent of the income for the year. The supplemenJussi Itävuori 32,400 8/8 5/5 36,000 6,748 75,148 tary pension includes vested rights. The retirement age is 63 years. There are no Executive Board members Jaana Tuominen 30,000 8/8 5/5 10,800 4,457 45,257 with defined benefit supplementary agreements. Nigel Turner 30,000 8/8 4/6 31,800 0 61,800 Members 17.3.–31.12.2016 Jouko Karvinen (deputy chairman) 24,300 6/6 5/5 26,400 3,429 54,129 New Executive Board member service contracts concluded after 1 January 2013 do not include supplementary Members 1.1.-17.3.2016 pension benefits. Harri Kerminen (deputy chairman) 8,100 2/2 3/3 4,800 0 12,900 Termination of the service contract and severance pay Remuneration paid to the Board in 2016. 1) The remuneration is expressed at the annual level but paid in monthly instalments. 2) Taxable benefits include Finnair staff tickets. The members of the Board and their spouses have a right to use staff tickets in The CEO accordance with Finnair’s staff ticket rule. According to Pekka Vauramo’s service contract, both the CEO and the company have the right to terminate the service contract without a specific cause. The notice period is six months for both the company and the CEO. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 In the event that the company terminates the service contract or the CEO resigns in connection with a transfer Other benefits of control over the company, the CEO is entitled to a severance pay corresponding to monthly salary for twelve months in addition to the salary for the notice period. The severance pay does not apply if the CEO resigns or The CEO retires. CEO Pekka Vauramo’s benefits include life insurance, free-time accident insurance, travel insurance, management liability insurance and medical insurance. The life insurance coverage starts at 20 per cent of annual pay Executive Board and increases each year. The total sum may not, however, exceed 500,000 euros. The CEO also has a mobile According to the service agreements of the Executive Board, both parties have the right to terminate the phone benefit in line with company policy. service contract without a specific cause. The maximum notice period is six months for both parties. In the event that the company terminates the agreement, the member of the Executive Board is entitled to a severExecutive Board ance pay corresponding to the base salary of maximum of twelve months in addition to the salary for the The benefits of the members of the Executive Board include free-time accident insurance, travel insurance, notice period. This severance pay does not apply if the contract of employment is cancelled, if the executive management liability insurance and the right to medical insurance. They also have a car benefit and mobile terminates the contract or retires. phone benefit in line with company policy. Management remuneration, the company’s long-term incentive plan and pension contributions are also described in Finnair Financial Statements in note 1.3.7 Employee benefits. Salary and other remuneration paid, euros per year CEO 2016 CEO 2015 Executive Board¹) 2016 Executive Board¹) 2015 Pekka Vauramo Pekka Vauramo Base Salary²) The monthly salaries of the CEO and members of the Executive In total, euros 648,912 648,948 1,686,867 1,196,213 Board are decided by the Board of Directors. Employee benefits Employee benefits are described on page 113 Car benefit, taxable value 0 0 60,201 47,025 Phone benefit, taxable value 240 240 1,887 1,370 Other taxable benefits³) 2,052 2,304 17,145 12,281 In total, euros 2,292 2,544 79,234 60,676 Short-term incentives4) The principles are described on page 117 In total, euros 260,889 215,252 588,791 201,263 Long-term incentives5) Key personnel LTI, monetary and share reward, total 80,793 0 76,383 0 Fly Share, monetary and share reward, total 0 0 13,552 0 In total, euros 80,793 0 89,935 0 SALARY AND OTHER REMUNERATION PAID IN TOTAL 992,885 866,744 2,444,827 1,458,152 1) Salary and remuneration included for Executive Board membership period only. 2) Base salary includes holiday bonus. 3) Other taxable benefits include health insurances and staff tickets. 4) Earning period for incentives paid in 2015 was 1 Jul 2014 30 Jun 2015 and for incentives paid in 2016 1 Jul 2015 30 Jun 2016. 5) No long-term incentives were paid in 2015. The difference in the median pay of the Executive Board in 2015 and 2016 is explained by the larger composition of the Executive Board, which better supports the growth and strategy of the company. In addition, it was impacted by the STIs materialising at a higher level than previously due to the company's financial result.. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 118 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 31 DECEMBER 2016 Klaus Heinemann Jussi Itävuori Nigel Turner b. 1951, Diplom Kaufmann, German citizen. b. 1955, M.Sc. (Econ.), Finnish Citizen. Member b. 1958, BA (Hon.), British Citizen MemChairman of the Finnair Board of Directors of the Finnair Board of Directors since 2012. ber of the Finnair Board of Directors since since 27 March 2013. Member of the Board Committee memberships: Compensation 2014. since 2012. and Nomination Committee (Chairman). Committee memberships: Audit ComCommittee memberships: Main occupation: Senior Partner, RJI Partmittee. Main occupation: Board professional. ners Limited. Main occupation: Key positions of trust: Member of the Key positions of trust: Member of the Board Key positions of trust: Chairman of Advisory Board of Skyworks Holdings LLC, of Barona Group Oy and RJI Partners Oy, and TrueNoord Ltd, an aircraft leasing comAdvisory Board Member Scope Ratings AG, Chairman of the Board of RJI Holding Oy and pany. Director of Avinomics GmbH. Cloudator Payroll Oy. The Board of Directors was elected in the Jouko Karvinen Gunvor Kronman Annual General Meeting held on 17 March b. 1957, M.Sc. (Tech.), Finnish citizen. b. 1963, MA, Finnish citizen. 2016. More detailed information about the Vice Chairman and Member of the Finnair Member of the Finnair Board of Directors since board members and their ownership of Board of Directors since 2016. 2012. Finnair shares can be found at https://inCommittee memberships: Audit ComCommittee memberships: Compensation vestors.finnair.com/en/governance/insidmittee. and Nomination Committee. er-issues/managers-holdings. Main occupation: Board professional. Main occupation: CEO of Hanasaari – the Key positions of trust: Member of the Swedish-Finnish Cultural Centre. Board of Valmet Oyj, Member of FoundaKey positions of trust: Chairman of the tion and Supervisory Board of IMD business Board of Kalevala Jewelry. Vice Chairman of school, Lausanne, Switzerland, and Member the Board of Crisis Management Initiative and of the International Advisory Board of KoPlan International, Member of the Boards of matsu Corporation of Japan. The Finnish Red Cross Blood Service, Helsinki University, Konstsamfundet, The Swedish RoyMaija-Liisa Friman al National Theater Dramaten (Sweden), Rand b. 1952, M.Sc. (Tech.), Finnish citizen. MemCorporations (US/UK) and Augusta Victoria ber of the Finnair Board of Directors since Hospital (Palestine). 2012. Committee memberships: Audit CommitJaana Tuominen tee (Chairman). b. 1960, M.Sc. (Tech.), Finnish citizen. Main occupation: Board professional. Member of the Finnair Board of Directors since Key positions of trust: Vice Chairman 2014. of the Board of Neste Oyj, member of the Committee memberships: Compensation Boards of SCA, LKAB, the Finnish Securiand Nomination Committee. ties Market Association and Boardman Oy. Main occupation: CEO of Paulig Group since Chairman of the Board of Helsinki Deacon2008. ess Institute. Key positions of trust: Member of the Board of Directors of Suominen Oyj, Condfederation of Finnish Industries and Suomen Messut Osuuskunta, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Elintarviketeollisuusliitto ry. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 EXECUTIVE BOARD 31 DECEMBER 2016 Pekka Vauramo Juha Järvinen Jaakko Schildt b. 1957, M. Sc. (Tech). President and CEO as of b. 1976, MBA, BA (hons), Chief Commercial b. 1970, MBA, BSc Engineering, SVP Oper1 June 2013. He joined Finnair from Cargotec, Officer as of 1 November 2014. In Finnair’s ations as of 16 August 2016. Schildt joined a Finnish cargo and load handling company, service since 2012. Mr Järvinen has extenFinnair from Thomas Cook Airlines UK, where where he held different management posisive experience in managing different services he held the position of Accountable Manager. tions between 2007 and 2013, most recentwithin the airline industry. Before his current Previously, Mr Schildt has worked as the head ly as COO of the MacGregor business area position, he served as Managing Director of of Finnair Technical Services, as well as in varin Hong Kong. Between 1985 and 2007 he Finnair Cargo, and prior to that, as Vice Presious leadership positions within SAS Group. worked at Sandvik, a Swedish mining and ident, Ground Handling International at SAS construction company. Scandinavian Airlines. Arja Suominen b. 1958, MA, eMBA, SVP Corporate CommuniEija Hakakari Piia Karhu cations and Corporate Responsibility, in Finb. 1961, M. Sc. (Education), SVP People & Culb. 1976, Doctor, Business Administration, SVP nair’s service as of March 2011. Previously, ture as of 1 of October 2014. Before joining Customer Experience as of 1 March 2016. KarMs Suominen has worked as SVP, CommuniFinnair, she was SVP Human Resources at Stohu has held various leadership positions at cations at Nokia. ra Enso’s Printing and Living division. Her preFinnair since 2013, most recently in charge of vious positions include SVP Human Resources network planning and business development. Pekka Vähähyyppä at Rautaruukki and various HR director posib. 1960, M.Sc. Econ., eMBA, CFO as of 17 Autions in both China and Finland. Sami Sarelius gust 2015. Vähähyyppä joined Finnair from b. 1971, LLM, SVP and General Counsel, in Stockmann where he was CFO in 2000–2015. Katri Harra-Salonen Finnair’s service since 1998. Prior to that, he held financial management b. 1969, M.Sc. (Tech), eMBA, Finnair Chief Digpositions in for example, Nestlé's Nordic ital Officer (CDO) as of 21 March 2016. Harsubsidiaries, OKO-Venture Capital and A-lera-Salonen has made a long career in digital hdet Oy. transformation positions. Since 2012, she has been the founder and CEO of Umbrella Strategic Advisory Ltd. Previously, she was CEO More detailed information about the memof Fjord Sweden in Stockholm and has also bers of the Executive Board and their ownleadership positions at Satama Interactive in ership of Finnair shares can be found at the Finland and Sweden. Finnair website. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 120 INFORMATION FOR THE SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting The shareholder may participate in the meeting either in person or through authorised or proxy representaFinnair Plc's Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 16 March 2017, at 15:00 at the Messukeskus tive. Possible proxy documents shall be delivered by the end of registration period to: Finnair Plc/AGM, HEL Helsinki at the address Messuaukio 1, Conference Centre, Helsinki, Finland. The reception of persons who ACC/502, 010153 Finnair, Finland. have registered for the meeting and the distribution of voting tickets will commence at 14:00. Coffee is served before the commencement of the AGM. AGM 2017 – Important dates 6 March 2017 Record date The notice to convene the AGM 13 March 2017 At 10:00 deadline for giving notice of attendance The notice to convene the AGM and the proposals of the Board of Directors to the AGM will be published as 16 March 2017 At 16:00 the reception of persons registered to the AGM will commence and a stock exchange release and on Finnair’s company website. The notice will contain the agenda for the AGM. At 15:00 the AGM will commence Shareholders are entitled to having an issue put on the Annual General Meeting’s agenda, provided that such an issue requires a decision by the Annual General Meeting according to the Finnish Companies Act, and Board of Directors’ proposal on dividend provided that they request it in writing in due time to be included in the notice. Finnair Plc.’s distributable funds were 181,101,862.30 euros on 31 December 2016. The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of 0.10 euro per share be distributed for 2016. The right to participate in the AGM Each shareholder who is registered on Monday 6 March 2017 in the Company’s register of shareholders mainFinancial information in 2017 tained by the Euroclear Finland Oy has the right to participate in the AGM. Finnair Plc will publish four financial reviews in 2017. The publication dates are as follows: Registration for the AGM • Financial Statements Bulletin for 2016 on Wednesday 15 February 2017 The shareholder who wants to participate in the general meeting and exercise their voting right can register • Interim Report for January–March 2017 on Friday 28 April 2017 to the meeting at the latest on Monday 13 March 2017 at 10:00. Registration can be done: • Interim Report for January–June 2017 on Thursday 20 July 2017 • Interim Report for January–September 2017 on Wednesday 25 October 2017 • In the internet at http://company.finnair.com/en, • By e-mail to: agm@finnair.fi, The financial statements bulletin and interim reports in 2017 will be published at approximately 9:00 am EET. • By phone from Monday to Friday at 9:00–16:00 in the number: +358 20 770 6866, • By fax: +358 9 694 0205 or Financial report, financial statements and interim reports are published in Finnish and English. The material • By mail to: Finnair Plc., Register of shareholders, HEL-AAC/ 502 01053 FINNAIR. is available on the company website. Shareholders can subscribe or unsubscribe for the releases at http:// company.finnair.com/en/media A holder of nominee registered shares is advised to request without delay necessary instructions regarding the registration in the shareholder’s register of the company, the issuing of proxy documents and registration for the general meeting from his/her custodian bank. The account management organization of the custodian bank will register a holder of nominee registered shares, who wants to participate in the general meeting, to be temporarily entered into the shareholders’ register of the company at the latest on Monday 14 March 2016 at 10 a.m. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 Silent period Finnair’s silent period starts three weeks prior to publishing of its interim financials and four weeks prior to publishing of annual financial results. Finnair will not comment on its business or meet with capital market representatives during that period. Changes in contact information Euroclear Finland Ltd maintains a list of Company shares and shareholders. Shareholders who wish to make changes to their personal and contact information are kindly asked to contact their own account operator directly. Finnair cannot make these changes. Assessments regarding Finnair as an investment According to our knowledge, the following analysts have regular coverage on Finnair Group. The list may be incomplete. The listed analysts follow Finnair on their own initiative and Finnair is not responsible for their views. Carnegie, Robin Nyberg, Finland, Tel. +358 9 618 71 234 Evli Bank, Jaakko Tyrväinen, Finland, Tel. +358 9 4766 9314 HSBC, Achal Kumar, UK, Tel. +91-80-4555 2751 Nordea, Pasi Väisänen, Finland, Tel. +358 9 1655 9943 Pohjola, Jari Räisänen, Finland, Tel. +358 10 252 4504 Inderes, Antti Viljakainen, Finland, Tel. +358 44 5912216 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 122 Sustainability FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Finnair updated its materiality analysis for corporate responsibility in 2015 in accordance with the GRI G4 Environment Economy reporting guidelines. The materiality analysis was used to identify the key economic, environmental and social • Fuel efficiency • Financial performance and impacts in Finnair’s value chain as well as impacts on • Energy and greenhouse gas future competitiveness business and stakeholder decisionmaking. Identified material emissions • Local economic impacts • Environmental legislation and The materiality analysis was based on identifying corpothemes and aspects regulation • Efficient air traffic rate responsibility issues emerging from Finnair’s business environment through an analysis of industry trends, of corporate management legislation, corporate responsibility reporting guidelines, responsibility • Biodiversity the reporting of peer companies and issues highlighted by various stakeholders. The identified corporate responsibility aspects were assigned priorities in expert workshops based on their business impact and stakeholder interest.The results of Ethical business conduct and Personnel Customer the prioritisation were reviewed with the representaresponsible sourcing tives of key stakeholders. Finnair’s Executive Board and • Employee safety • Employee safety Board of Directors approved the results of the materi• Code of conduct • Competence development, • Competence development, ality analysis. • Anti-corruption and antiwellbeing, diversity, equality wellbeing, diversity, equality bribery policies and non-discrimination and non-discrimination The material aspects defined as a result of the materi• Human rights ality nalysis were grouped under five themes. This anal• Purchasing practices and ysis was also used as the basis for reporting for 2016. supply chain sustainability FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 124 Finnair’s most significant corporate responsibility Finnair’s material themes and aspects and aspect boundaries impacts are related to ensuring the safety of customers and employees, maintaining the company’s financial Finnair’s theme and material aspect GRI G4 aspects (G4-19) Aspect boundaries (G4-20, G4-21) competitiveness and its role in Finnish society, and the Environment Environmental responsibility aspects (EN) Finnair’s own operations and indirect impacts on greenhouse continuous improvement of fuel efficiency. In addition to • Fuel efficiency • Energy gas emissions (Scope 3) and biodiversity these themes, stakeholder representatives highlighted • Energy and greenhouse gas emissions • Emissions • Environmental legislation and regulations • Waste water and solid waste the significance of employee competence, well-being • Route planning • Biodiversity and equality, as well as ethical operating methods and • Biodiversity • Compliance Economic aspects Economic responsibility (EC) Finnair’s own operations, society and local communities good corporate governance. • Financial results and future competitiveness • Financial results • Local and economic impacts • Indirect economic impacts The following table illustrates the links between Finnair’s Customer Product responsibility (PR) Finnair’s own operations and customers • Passenger well-being and safety • Customer health and safety material themes and aspects with the aspects defined • Customer satisfaction • Product and service information in the GRI G4 reporting guidelines, as well as the aspect • Punctuality • Marketing communications • Customer privacy protection boundaries. Based on the materiality analysis, the GRI • Compliance content reported by Finnair is focused on the most Personnel Social responsibility – Labour practices (LA) Finnair’s own operations significant impacts of Finnair’s value chain. • Employee safety • Employment • Employee competence, well-being, diversity and equality • Employer-employee relations • Occupational health and safety • Training • Diversity and equal opportunities • Equal remuneration Ethical business and responsible sourcing Society (SO) Finnair’s own operations, partners and supply chain • Code of Conduct • Anti-bribery and anti-corruption • Anti-corruption and anti-bribery procedures • Lobbying • Human rights • Restrictions on competition • Purchasing policies and supply chain responsibility • Compliance Human rights (HR) • Human rights screenings • Supplier human rights screenings Economic responsibility (EC) • Purchasing policies FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 125 REPORTING PRINCIPLES Finnair was one of the first airlines in the world to have been adhered to whenever the available data have Finnair Group communicate on its corporate responsibility issues so allowed. If some other measurement or calculation under the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting method has been used, this is mentioned in connection Operating area Business unit / subsidiary Included in report framework. The Annual Report 2016 has been compiled with the key figure concerned. The figures have been Airline business Airline business x in accordance with the GRI’s G4 Guidelines (Core option). presented in time series when this has been appropriate Finnair Cargo Oy x and reliably possible. Finnair Aircraft Finance Oy and FAF x The report covers the parent company, and all Finnish subsidiaries subsidiaries. Figures on economic responsibility are mainly derived Finnair Technical Services Oy x from the financial statements. Other information with Finnair Engine Services Oy x Finnair Group does not report on the operations of respect to economic responsibility is derived from the Travel services Oy Aurinkomatkat Suntours Ltd Abx x foreign subsidiaries, because they are deemed not to group’s various operators. Finland Travel Bureau (SMT)* x Amadeus Finland Oy x be of key significance in terms of the group’s corporate Other functions Group administration x responsibility issues as minor operators. Any exceptions Indicators on personnel are based on active employJoint functions x to this are mentioned separately in connection with each ment relationships as at 31 December 2016. The figures FTS Financial Services Oy x indicator. Finnair does not report on outsourced operaexclude dormant employees and Aurinko Ou, Suntours' Finnair Flight Academy Oy x tions, either. The business units and subsidiaries covered Baltic subsidiary (number of personnel on 31 December *SMT was sold during the last quarter of 2016, reported figures are from January-October. by the report are listed in the adjacent table. 2016). Finnair’s maintenance organisation consists of two indeFinnair’s largest single material cost item is jet fuel. European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) pendent companies: Finnair Technical Services Oy and In this report, jet fuel is treated, however, as energy, “Method A” formula: Amount of fuel contained in aircraft Finnair Engine Services Oy. This approach is justified by because in terms of its purpose and environmental tanks once fuel uplift for the flight is complete – Amount the fact that the operations of both technical services effects it is sensible to understand jet fuel as stored of fuel contained in aircraft tanks once fuel uplift for subsidiaries are the repair and maintenance of aircraft energy. Fuels are also reported on the basis of their subsequent flight is complete + Fuel uplift for that subseand their components, and for this reason their corpomass and volumes. quent flight. This method is used in order to capture the rate responsibility aspects are convergent at the group fuel consumption by the aircraft’s auxiliary power unit level. Hence, they are treated in this report as one unit, Fuel consumption and emission figures for flight opera(APU) on the ground. Finnair Technical Services. tions (Annex 1 EU ETS Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council ) are derived from Where Method A cannot be used, we are using actual Information sources, measurement and the company's own monitoring systems and based on leg consumption (fuel onboard remaining fuel) adding Finnair Group calculation methods actual fuel consumption (Method A EU ETS Monitoring average APU usage. The information of the report has been collected from and Reporting Regulation (EU) N:o 601/2012). Emission the group’s internal statistics systems and also from factor for jet fuel used in the report is 3.15 kg CO2/kg Fuel mass is converted to volume using densities various subcontractors. In terms of measurement and (Default IPCC emission factors, taken from the 2006 IPCC provided by fuel vendor. If density is not available we are calculation methods, the GRI G4 calculation guidelines Inventory Guidelines). using default value 0,800. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 126 For wet-leased flights fuel burn is requested from further adjustment. Information relating to human rights wet-lessor. If not received then fuel burn is calculated by and local communities are derived from procurement aircraft manufacturers specifications or lessors informaagreements, from personnel responsible for procurement, tion on aircraft type fuel burn per block hour. subcontractors and, in terms of the impact of tourism, mainly from Aurinkomatkat-­Suntours, which as a tour Data gaps and erroneous data are handled using operator occupies a key position in this respect. Opersubstitution data as close to actual values as possible. ational compliance with laws and r­ egulations has been The electricity and heat data are based on metered confirmed with the group’s Legal Affairs department. consumption data, and on estimations based on surface area, where direct metering data was unavailable. Customer satisfaction data, on the other hand, are based on customer satisfaction surveys and on feedback Finnair has assessed its Scope 3 emissions based on GHG received by the group. Protocol's Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard). Category 3 (Fuel and Energy Effect of any restatements of information related activities not included in Scope 1-2) primary data provided in earlier reports originates from Finnair’s fuel data base. Emission factor In 2015, Finnair updated its materiality analysis on source: SFS-EN 16258 standard for JET A-1. Emissions of corporate responsibility in accordance with the GRI G4 Extraction, production and transportation of the fuels = reporting guidelines. Impacts and indicators related amount of fuel * 0,0159 tonnes CO2/GJ. to material aspects were redefined in the process. This report follows the same principles. In relation to material streams, the amounts of waste and energy consumption of properties, data have been However, there have been no changes in the data obtained from service providers, goods suppliers and on compared with the previous report. Information on the basis of invoices paid. With respect to Finnair Techchanges in individual indicator data is provided under nical Services, environmental data are also obtained the section on the indicator in question. from monitoring and measuring systems required by their environmental permits. In terms of Technical Changes pertaining to the Finnair’s organisational strucServices’ use of materials, only chemicals are reported, ture and the calculation of financial statement data are because the statistical practice of raw materials and described in more detail in connection with Finnair’s FINNAIR HAS REPORTED spare parts does not allow a comparable way of presentation. Finnair Technical Services is not, however, a financial key figures. ACCORDING TO THE significant user of raw materials, and its main environReporting priorities GRI GUIDELINES EVER mental aspects relate to storage and use of chemicals. In 2013, Finnair discontinued the publication of a sepaSINCE 2008. rate corporate responsibility report and financial report. Information on personnel comes from Finnair’s HR inforAll the data can be found in the Annual Report and this mation system and from parties responsible for the wellGRI section. being of employees. Accident statistics are obtained from the insurance company and they are updated retroactively, The priorities of the report are based on the materiality as a result of which the 2016 figures may be subject to analysis described on pages 123. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 127 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Finnair’s objective is to create sustainable economic Indicators of economic responsibility added value by producing flight services profitably, EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed cost-competitively and in harmony with the needs of the environment and society. Responsible operations EUR mill. 2016 2015 2014 are the cornerstone of profitable business activity, and Direct economic value generated Finnair takes into account the effects of its operations Consolidated turnover 2,316.8 2,254.5 2,284.5 on society. Other operating income 75.5 85.2 18.3 Financial income 1.0 1.3 3.5 Finnair’s Board of Directors has set the company’s finanTotal 2,393.3 2,341.0 2,306.3 cial targets, which are provided in information material for investors. As a public limited company, Finnair is Economic value distributed committed to earning a profit for its shareholders. The Cash paid outside the company, materials and services, other 1,939.0 1,802.3 1,905.4 operating expenses company’s profit distribution principles are expressed Payments to personnel* 341.6 335.6 344.3 in Finnair’s dividend policy. Finnair’s financial reporting Payments made to shareholders and loan providers aims to transparently provide information about Finnair’s Dividend** 0 0 0 financial position and development. Interest and other financial expenses 11.5 9.7 26.9 Payments to governments*** 11.5 9.6 7.6 Finnair’s economic responsibility in 2016 Donations and other charitable payments n/a n/a n/a In 2016, Finnair was deemed by an independent Finnish NGO as a responsible taxpayer whose reporting provides Distributed, total 2,300.2 2,157.2 2,284.3 adequate information to assess the degree responsiEconomic value retained for operational development 93.1 183.7 22.0 bility of its tax planning. Finnair’s tax footprint report is Investments in tangible and intangible assets as well as presented on page 87–89. acquisitions of subsidiaries 516.9 329.7 82.4 Comparable operating result 55.2 23.7 -36.5 Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 8.9 12.2 -6.5 Finnair seeks to make its financial statements easier to read and understand by various specific measures: 1 http://www.finnwatch.org/fi/blogi/365-ruusuja-finnairin-veroraportille (in Finnish) Firstly, the notes are presented as business-based * Payments to personnel include wages and salaries and paid contributions related to pension plans. More information on payments to personnel combinations including related accounting principles, is available in Finnair’s 2015 Remuneration Statement on pages 95–106 of the annual report. ** The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting 2016 that. critical accounting estimates and sources of uncertainty. *** Includes paid income taxes, social security payments and taxes on property. Taxes and charges comparable to taxes paid by Finnair have Secondly, particularly interesting figures are highlighted been discussed also in Finnair’s Tax Footprint Report for 2015 on pages 87–89 of the annual report. with a circle and explained in a text box marked with Note! Payments to governments do not include payments to Finavia, which is an airport operator 100% owned by the Finnish government. a star. Thirdly, illustrating charts are used in various Finnair paid traffic charges and rents totalling 60 million euros in 2016 and 55 million euros in 2015 to Finavia. Of these expenses, approximately 26 million euros (25) were related to air traffic control. In addition, Finnair passed levied passenger charges, totalling sections of the financial statements so as to facilitate approximately 70 million euros in 2016 and 65 million euros in 2015, on to Finavia. understanding the figures. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 128 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks ­ pportunities, financial effects and management o and opportunities for the organisation’s methods related to climate change are described in activities due to climate change detail in Finnair’s responses to the Carbon Disclosure In combating climate change, the main measures are Project (CDP) report. In 2016, the Carbon Disclosure directed at reducing the combustion of fossil fuels. The Project (CDP) recognised Finnair as one of the leading jet fuel used by Finnair is fossil fuel and fuel costs are Nordic companies in climate issues, with a score of A-. FINNAIR IS A LEADING Finnair’s single most significant cost item. Therefore, all AIRLINE IN CARBON DIOXIDE the factors influencing the price of jet fuel similarly influence Finnair’s operating costs. The need to reduce fuel G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations EMISSIONS REPORTING AND consumption and the resultant carbon dioxide emissions All Finnair employees are covered by pension security REDUCING EMISSIONS. has a significant impact on the company’s business operin accordance with the Employee Pensions Act (TyEL). ations. In 2015, fuel made up over a quarter of Finnair’s Pension contributions amounted to 18.0 per cent of operational expenses; therefore efficiency has a material salaries and 13.9 per cent of total personnel expenses impact on the development of shareholder value. in 2016. In addition, some employees are covered by an additional pension fund benefit and management by an In order to reduce its fuel consumption, Finnair follows additional benefit in accordance with their contracts. Of a strategy comprised of four elements: technological group personnel, around 39.2 per cent are covered by development, improvement of operational efficiency, the additional pension fund benefit. Finnair’s pension development of infrastructure and support of a global liability (Finnish Accounting Standards) in respect of its market-based measure to offset CO2 emissions. Finnair own pension fund was 340.0 million euros at the end of operates a modern fleet and invests from 2015 onward 2016. Pension liabilities are covered in full. in fuel-efficient next-generation aircraft to maintain its competitive advantage. G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government For several years now, Finnair has voiced its support for The Finnish Government does not support Finnair’s a global market-based measure for offsetting greenoperations financially. The Finnair Aviation College house gas emissions that would complement the indusconstitutes an exception. The Finnair Aviation College, try’s technological, operational and infrastructural founded in 1964, is a special vocational educational efforts to reduce emissions. In 2016, Finnair participated establishment maintained by Finnair Plc, which operates in the European Union’s Emissions Trading Scheme as a special educational establishment under the Act (EU-ETS), which concerned only Intra-European flights. on Vocational Adult Education (631/1998). The Finnair The direct costs incurred by Finnair from emissions Aviation College’s task is to arrange further vocational trading totalled approximately 1.7 million euros in 2016. training leading to a vocational or special vocational The direct costs of emissions trading in the coming years qualification as well as other further vocational training are difficult to estimate due to potential changes to the required for the practice of Finnair Plc’s and its subsidicurrent ETS model. aries’ operations (Further Vocational Training Arrangement Permit 551/530/2006, 13 December 2006). As a Finnair is a leading airline in carbon dioxide emisprivately-owned educational establishment, the Finnair sions reporting and reducing emissions. The risks, Aviation College funds its operations in accordance with FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129 government aid practices. In 2016, the Finnair Aviation At the group level, Finnair collects and monitors College received a total of approximately 2.0 million spend data on purchases from all suppliers and from euros. all regions. Finnair requires both locally and globally compliance with air operation laws and regulations. G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local Attention is also paid to the appropriateness, supply relisuppliers at significant locations of operation ability, price competitiveness and quality. The products Finnair’s home base is Helsinki Airport, where almost purchased must be sustainable and as safe as possible all Finnair flights depart or arrive. As measured by the for people and the environment. Many of the group’s number of passengers, every single other airport, or procurement categories are officially regulated, in which For several years now, Finnair has voiced so-called outpost, constitutes less than 5 per cent. In case possible suppliers must be approved by the authorits support for a global market-based measure addition, Finnair’s corporate headquarters and the ities. For example, all purchases relating to flight safety for offsetting greenhouse subsidiary for technical operations are located in the are of this type. The company-wide Supplier Code of gas emissions immediate vicinity of Helsinki Airport. Therefore, the Conduct defines the overall policy on sustainability and majority of Finnair’s sourcing is concentrated around the ethics of Finnair procurement activities. Helsinki Airport area. Finnair’s business is by nature complex and in some In 2016, 45 per cent of Finnair’s goods and services respects highly technical. The company has operaprocurement was made with Finnish suppliers. Finnair’s tions and supply chain partners in dozens of different largest single procurement item is jet fuel. In jet fuel countries, each with varying laws and practices. The procurement, Finnair gives significant weight on finanmost important social responsibility areas concern cial factors and reliability of supply. Jet fuel is typically safety, personnel, the supply chain and customers. procured locally on in each flight destination from some Finnair developed cooperation in corporate responsi55 different suppliers. In 2016, over half of Finnair’s bility aspects with domestic suppliers and partners in global fuel purchases were refined locally in Finland. 2016 by sharing best practices in responsible sourcing. The aim of the cooperation was to improve the traceaFinnair Group’s subsidiary, package tour organiser bility of products and services purchased from domestic Aurinkomatkat-Suntours Ltd uses primarily small and suppliers within the supply chain traceability of products In 2016, 45 per cent of Finnair’s goods medium-sized hotels, which are, as a rule, locally owned. and services purchased from domestic suppliers. and services procurement was made In addition, Aurinkomatkat has a local representative with Finnish suppliers at each of its destinations, from whom the company purchases, among other things, ground transfers, tour arrangements and other operational services. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 130 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Finnair’s business is complex by nature, and in some • The score of the We Together @Finnair survey was Equality and non-discrimination are foundational values Employees by group respects highly technical. The company has operations 3.69 (H2 2016) for Finnair. The Working Group for Equality, established and supply chain partners in dozens of different coun• Finnair signed a cooperation agreement with in 2015, drafted Finnair’s Equality Plan. The goal of the % tries, each with varying laws and practices. The most UNWomen Working Group and the Plan is to promote equality with important social responsibility areas concern safety, regard to customers as well as employees. We also engage personnel, the supply chain and customers. Responsibility for personnel in active cooperation with the Office of the Non-DiscrimiAs Finnair is a significant employer, social responsibility nation Ombudsman in Finland to develop our practices. Finnair’s social responsibility in 2016 is materially related to the company’s personnel and • Finnair revised its Code of Conduct and began working conditions. Personnel management policies cover G4-10 Total number of employees by related training all aspects of social responsibility that have been identified employment type, employment contract, • Finnair implemented the SEDEX supplier auditing as material. region and gender tool chosen by the oneworld alliance and Finnair’s total number of employees did not increase conducted risk surveys on suppliers The impacts affecting personnel and working conditions much in 2016 despite it being a year of new recruitment: • Finnair organised a Supplier Day event and commuare managed based on Finnair’s strategic HR guidelines the total number of employees increased particularly nicated its responsibility efforts extensively to partand HR policy. Finnair’s values—Commitment to Care, due to growth in the number of flight personnel, but Cabin Crew (SLSY) 31% ners Simplicity and Courage—which serve as a guideline for other factors, such as the divestment of SMT, reduced Pilots (SLL) 18% • The Working Group for Equality completed Finnair’s everyone at Finnair and which were refined and clarified the total number. White Collar Employees (FYT) 14% Equality Plan. The plan reviews the current situin cooperation with personnel in 2016, are increasingly Abroad 10% ation and defines objectives and actions for the reflected in day-to-day operations according to Finnair’s At the end of 2016, the number of Finnair employees in Technical Services (IAU) 7% Ground Service (IAU) 6% coming year personnel. The process of refining the core values also active employment relationships was 4,642, which is 105 Technical Employees (FT) 4% • Aurinkomatkat is perceived by consumers as the involved the renewal of Finnair’s employee survey. The more than the year before. Geographically, the majority Aviation Employees (LTH) 3% most sustainable tour operator according to the new We Together @ Finnair survey helps the company of personnel work in Finland, particularly at Helsinki Management 2% Sustainable Brand Index survey, Scandinavia’s determine what areas it has been successful in and what Airport or in its immediate vicinity. Travel Guides 2% largest brand survey focused on sustainable develareas need improvement. The employee survey covers the Travel Agency Staff 1% opment and responsibility. The survey is based on following key themes: My job, Managerial and supervisory On 31 December 2016, there were 523 Finnair employees Travel Agency Professionals 1% the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact initiawork, Teamwork, and My employer in active employment relationships working outside tive. Finnair joined Unicef and other travel industry Finland. Of these, 158 worked in financial management operators to survey the human rights impacts of Leadership development continues to be one of Finnair’s in the Baltic countries, 17 in travel agencies and tour travel and tourism in a pilot project in Vietnam in key HR focus areas. Development needs in teams and the operators based in the Baltic countries, and 75 as guides 2015–2016. An assessment of aviation and children’s organisation are identified and the welfare and commitat Aurinkomatkat Suntours’ holiday destinations. The rights was also produced as a final report commisment of the personnel are regularly monitored by an rest are employed in sales and customer service duties sioned by Unicef. employee survey. in Finnair’s passenger and cargo traffic. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 131 Full-time staff accounted for 97 per cent of Finnair the supply chain and outsourced operations. In order certain period of time. An exception is Finnair’s Financial employees in 2016, and 97 per cent of staff were to improve the monitoring of its own operations and Services Office, which only serves permanent employees employed on a permanent basis. The average age of those of its entire supply chain, Finnair continued the of Finnair Plc or its subsidiaries who are its members. employees was 43.7 years. project it began in 2015 to assess the realisation of social responsibility and related risk assessment. Finnair also G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered implemented the SEDEX system as part of its sourcing operational changes, including whether these by collective bargaining agreements processes and operating methods to improve supply are specified in collective agreements All Finnair employees in Finland have the right and chain risk management, traceability and the assessment Significant operational changes in Finland are governed +105 opportunity to agree on their terms of employment of social impacts. The system was implemented in coopby the Finnish Act on Cooperation within Undertakings. through collective bargaining. Senior management eration with the oneworld alliance. Depending on the matter in question, the minimum time constitutes an exception to this, as its terms of employperiod applied can range from one day to six weeks. The ment are agreed on locally or individually. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new collective bargaining agreements that concern Finnair employee hires and employee turnover do not include provisions that run counter to these legisFinnair currently has employees abroad in 26 counlative provisions. Finnair personnel grew tries. The employment contracts and terms of employNew personnel 2016 by 105 new employees ment are based on local legislation. Employees have (New hires and replacements only, internal transfers and re-entries into For redundancies and layoffs, the minimum notice in 2016 the organisation excluded) the opportunity to agree on their terms of employment period pursuant to the Act on Cooperation within Underthrough collective bargaining in countries in which that Age group Men Women takings applies in addition to the statutory notice period is the local practice. Finnair does not limit its employees’ <30 108 236 for redundancies and layoffs prior to the termination of rights to participate in trade union activities. 30–50 190 168 employment or payment of wages. The statutory notice >50 13 14 period for layoffs is two weeks and the notice period for G4-12 Description of the employees made redundant ranges from 14 days to six organisation’s supply chain Turnover 2016* months depending on the duration of their employment. Our diverse supply chain is built around our route (Voluntary) Some collective bargaining agreements contain provi3.69 network. It includes suppliers regulated by the aviation Age group Men Women sions on notice periods for layoffs that are more advanindustry, suppliers and service providers who specialise <30 7.1% 16.1% tageous to employees.. in airlines, as well as suppliers who make it possible 30–50 2.0% 4.8% for us to conduct our core business. Our international >50 0.9% 0.6% G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce supplier network enables us to operate at a world-class Yhteensä 3.8% represented in formal joint management level, implement our growth strategy and provide new worker health and safety committees that The score of * See breakdown of personnel by age group on page 135. value-added services to customers. help monitor and advise on occupational We together @Finnair ealth and safety programs employee survey was 3.69 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees At Finnair, cooperation on occupational health and safety period regarding the organisation’s size, that are not provided to temporary or part-time is organised in compliance with Finnish occupational structure, ownership or supply chain employees, by significant locations of operation health and safety legislation. Personnel have representaFinnair’s own operations involve no significant direct Finnair employees enjoy the same benefits irrespective tion in official occupational health and safety commitsocial responsibility risks or impacts. However, indiof their type of employment. Some benefits are such that tees at the company level or the business unit level. The rect risks and implications may exist in relation to they enter into effect only after employment has lasted a occupational health and safety of Finnair’s personnel FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 132 abroad is also taken into consideration in the work of the Work-related accidents are divided into workplace accibasis. Radiation exposure levels have not exceeded the committees. The occupational health and safety commitdents and business trip accidents. The table below shows annual maximum level. All flight personnel can check tees operate at the company level, representing various all accidents that resulted in at least one day of sickness their cumulative radiation exposure by accessing a personnel groups. In large subsidiaries, employees are absence and occurred during work-related travel or at browser-based system that provides information on also represented by occupational health and safety delethe workplace actual hours of flight duty performed and a mathematgates at the department level. Occupational health and ical calculation of cosmic radiation exposure based on 16 safety delegates are selected via elections for two-year Loss time injury frequency (LTIF) refers to the number of the routes flown. No employee’s radiation exposure has terms. Occupational health and safety elections were workplace accidents per one million working hours. exceeded the annual maximum level (6 mSv). most recently arranged in November–December 2015, with the term of the elected delegates starting at the The airline’s ground personnel include Group manageFinnair Health Services offers employees inoculations LTIF beginning of 2016 and concluding at the end of 2017. ment, support services, ground crew and operative against work-related infectious diseases and influenza. Employee health and safety issues are also handled by ground personnel. The Health Services unit actively monitors the epideFinnair’s Trust Forum. Members of the Executive Board, miological situation of various infectious diseases and HR management, delegates and occupational health and G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high issues instructions to employees as necessary. In addi16 workplace accidents per safety organisations are invited to join the forum. The risk of diseases related to their occupation tion, Health Services continuously monitor the epidemione million working hours (LTIF = Loss time injury forum provides background information and discusses Medical examinations pertaining to exposure at work ological situation and other risks in Finnair’s destination frequency) matters such as equality and non-discrimination, planning include examinations concentrating on the effects of countries. and changes pertaining to employees on a broad basis. carcinogenic substances, solvents and other chemicals, Medical check-ups at noise, vibration and working night shifts. To prevent/ Finnair in 2016 G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, minimise exposure to such work-related health hazards, Finnair Oy occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteethe primary focus is on implementing working methods Group functions 14 / 240 ism, and total number of work-related fatalities and procedures that involve minimal exposure to Commercial 41/177 There were two cases of suspected occupational hazards. Cosmic radiation assessments were conducted Customer Experience diseases at Finnair.There were no accident-related for a total of 17 pregnant members of flight personnel Helsinki Airport employee fatalities in 2016 (the most recent fatality was in 2016. Finnair Health Services has monitored the Customer Service 73 /251 in 2005). ­radiation exposure of all flight personnel on a q­ uarterly Inflight Customer Service 519/1551 Operations Flight OPS 105/729 Operations other 40/214 Work-related Workplace Loss time Business trip Finnair Health Services offers Age group accidents accidents injury frequency accidents Finnair Cargo Oy 41/87 employees inoculations Airline’s flight personnel 73 58 23 15 Finnair Flight against work-related Airline’s ground personnel 22 13 8 9 Academy 14/39 infectious diseases and Finnair Technical Services Oy 24 17 18 7 Finnair Technical influenza Finnair Cargo Oy 1 0 0 1 Services Oy 149/539 Finnair Flight Academy Oy 1 1 18 0 Aurinkomatkat Oy 2 1 4 1 Total 123 90 16 33 * Loss time injury frequency (LTIF) refers to the number of workplace accidents per one million working hours FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 133 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in decreased slightly from the previous year. The accident tours. In addition, several training events will be held formal agreements with trade unions tool and the related processes were updated in the first for supervisors and managers in 2017 with the theme of Finnair’s primary occupational safety forums are the joint half of the year, which enabled more efficient sharing of Developing the Safety Culture. Safety reporting is seen occupational health and safety committees of personnel accident information during the second half of the year. as having a key role in this development, and providing and the employer. The update also improved the tool’s reliability. comprehensive support to safety reporting will be one of the focus areas in 2017. The development of occupational health and safety is The number of work-related safety observations tripled based on the occupational health and safety action plan, the focal areas of which are updated annually. in 2016. This creates a good foundation for shifting the focus of activities even more towards proactive measThe development of shared occupational safety practices for workplaces continued in 2016. Finnair took 190,503 ures. The risk assessments conducted in 2016 were the convening role in cooperation meetings between hours The focus areas in 2016 were: mostly focused on renovated premises and changed the companies that work in and around aircraft during • Reducing accidents working conditions. turnarounds. The meetings included sharing informa• Developing the reliability and usability of the accition on actual hazardous situations and accidents. The dent reporting tool The “threat of violence” training designed the previous meetings increased the understanding of critical hazards Total • Activating the safety observation process year was rolled out for all customer service personnel. from the perspective of different participants, as well as training hours • Further developing expertise in investigating acciAnother point of focus was the occupational health and processes that are perceived to be difficult. dents safety competence of inflight supervisors. Workplace • Threat of violence training in customer service bullying was discussed as part of several occupational In addition, Finavia convened a cooperation forum functions health and safety training modules, but this area neverconcerning the entire airport, with Finnair’s representa• Risk assessments, taking into account changes in theless requires more attention in 2017. tives also participating in the forum. the airport area and the fleet • Taking workplace bullying into consideration in In the fourth quarter of 2016, the operating units drafted As an aviation industry employer, Finnair has also partic44 occupational health and safety training function-specific plans aimed at reducing the accident ipated in the development of the occupational safety • Developing the safety culture in the appropriate frequency. The measures outlined in the plans will mostly of its employees in cooperation with representatives of direction be implemented in 2017. The planned improvements labour market organisations in a transport and logistics include a more prominent role for occupational safety in group coordinated by the Centre of Occupational Safety. hours One trend that can be highlighted in relation to developperformance assessments, as well as increasing the visiments in these focus areas is that the accident frequency bility of supervisors, and developing their roles, on safety Training hours G4-LA9 Average hours of training Employees 31 December 2016 (active employees only) Training hours per employee per employee Weighted Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men average Employees 7266 9763 17029 Employees 284 410 694 Employees 26 24 26 Office staff 9208 11008 20216 Office staff 544 568 1112 Office staff 17 19 18 Cabin 81166 10992 92157 Cabin 1378 188 1566 Cabin 59 59 59 Pilots 62906 Pilots 20 825 845 Pilots 74 Management 445 981 1426 Management 24 48 72 Management 19 20 20 Total 190503 Total 2250 2039 4289 Total 44 Gender is no specified in the source data for all labour agreement sectors. In addition, some of the agreements for foreign cabin crew do not allocate training expenses and hours to Finnair's figures FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 134 The working group promotes occupational safety, occu• A management development project was carried • 360-degree assessments and related development pational health and safety cooperation and the develout as part of the Operations unit’s strategic OPS discussions were carried out in a few units opment of working life in aviation industry workplaces. Excellence project http://ttk.fi/toimialat/kuljetus_ja_logistiikka/ilmailuala • Finnair’s Leadership Forum concept was continued C. Team development and coaching • MOVE onboard supervisor training was updated • Individual coaching programs for key individuals G4-LA10 Programs for skills management • Fourth iteration of project manager training continued Maintaining employee competence has a significant • Group coaching programs for different target effect on the implementation of strategy. Competence Developing the competence of Finnair’s employees to groups continued development needs are surveyed by unit and by indisupport competencies related to the digital transformavidual in conjunction with performance reviews. As the tion: D. Professional competence development and only airline company in Finland, it is particularly c­ ritical induction training that Finnair maintains an appropriate level of avia• FitForFuture Slush Edition program for about 100 • #JoinFinnair induction training for all new tion-specific competencies. interested Finnair employees employees • Open DigiMornings lectures in the HOTT audito• Safety training for all employees, with targeted At the end of 2016, The strategic development of competencies requires rium, with various themes related to the digital training for special groups 56 per cent of Finnair’s cooperation with various parties. Learning and develtransformation • General competence development, including the employees were women opment solutions are built at the company, unit, team development of competencies related to systems, and individual levels. In addition to traditional classB. Customised personnel development solutions languages and purchasing room teaching, competence is developed by a variety of • Engaging personnel on a broad basis in Finnair’s methods, including learning on the job, online learning, Culture Journey Permanent themes include making the airport a safe workshops, coaching and mentoring. Competence • A350 training program for A350 flight personnel workplace, developing occupational safety training in development was made more systematic by launching and service concept developers the aviation industry, occupational health awareness for a competence development process at the unit level to • Renewal and implementation of cabin crew training supervisors, and occupational safety card training. Other identify current and future key competencies from the perspective of the business and the implementation of strategy. Training and development measures will be • Service Days 2016 in line with the UNCE concept, aimed at ground and flight crew to ensure a consistent service experience for customers professional training organised in 2016 included outstation training, first aid and emergency training, basic and recurrent training, systems training and cooperation 43.5 increasingly closely linked to these identified needs. • Training related to the transformation of cargo with Helmi Business College. operations and the implementation of Skychain The technical professional training for flight personnel • Professional technical training for pilots related to The Finnair Aviation Academy, founded in 1964, is a is produced in cooperation with Finnair Flight Academy, the growth strategy and training for new pilots. special vocational educational establishment maintained The average age of while Finnair’s technical services unit handles its own • Change support in areas including IT and OCC by Finnair Plc, which operates as a special educational Finnair’s personnel in professional technical training. The People Development (Operations Control Center) establishment under the Act on Vocational Adult Educa2016 was 43.5 years unit is responsible for strategic competence development. • Training related to the development of the tion (631/1998). Its task is to arrange further vocational customer management system used in sales, and training leading to a vocational or special vocational qualifiDevelopment areas in 2016 included the following: maintaining related user competencies cation as well as other further vocational training required • Induction training in sales for the practice of Finnair Plc’s and its subsidiaries’ operA. Development of managerial and supervisory work • Sales coaching was continued and a concept was ations (Further Vocational Training Arrangement Permit • Leaders’ Next MOVE leadership training continued created for sharing best practices 551/530/2006, 13 December 2006). As a privately-owned for all Finnair managers and supervisors • Finnair Negotiation Champions training educational establishment, the Aviation Academy funds its FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 135 operations in accordance with government aid practices Management THE IMPLEMENTATION OF and it is a member of Business Education Establishments ELO (Elinkeinoelämän oppilaitokset Elo ry). Age group Men Women THE SEDEX SYSTEM WAS <30 30–50 0 32 20 0 CARRIED OUT IN COOPERATION G4-LA11 Percentage of employees >50 16 4 WITH THE ONEWORLD ALLIANCE. receiving regular performance and career development reviews Performance and career development reviews cover G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of all Finnair personnel. The PD process (Performance of women to men by employee category, by operations that have been subject to human Dialogue) is a management tool based on biannual significant locations of operation rights reviews or impact assessments discussions that guide the setting and achievement of The base salaries of female employees were, on average, Finnair continued the project it began in 2015 to develop targets, the evaluation of performance and manage10 per cent lower than the corresponding base salaries of the realisation of social responsibility and related risk ment, and development. males in personnel groups (management and white collar assessment. In the previous year, the current policies and employees) falling within the scope of position evaluation procedures were reviewed against the UN Declaration of G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and (Mercer). The total number of personnel included in the Human Rights as well as guidelines and best practices for breakdown of employees per employee category comparison was 736, of which 359 (49%) were female. businesses. Risks related to human rights violations in according to gender, age group, minority group Finnair’s own operations, the operations of Aurinkomatkat membership, and other indicators of diversity Wage-setting for other personnel groups is based on Suntours and the supply chain were also assessed. At the end of 2016, 56 per cent of Finnair’s employees payscale salaries and raises based on the number of were women and 44 per cent were men. Three of the years in service, which leads to equal levels of remunerAfter assessing the risks related to human rights violaseven members of Finnair’s Board of Directors are ation between men and women. tions in the supply chain, Finnair implemented the SEDEX women. The average age of Finnair’s personnel in 2016 system to improve risk management, the evaluation of was 43.5 years. Of the personnel, 28 per cent were over Human rights social impacts and traceability in the supply chain. The 50 years of age, while nine per cent were under 30 Finnair’s own operations involve no significant direct implementation of the SEDEX system was carried out in years of age. Finnair does not maintain statistics based social responsibility risks or impacts. However, indirect cooperation with the oneworld alliance. As part of the on ethnicity. risks and implications may exist in relation to the supply system’s implementation, suppliers of key significance chain and outsourced operations. In order to improve with respect to social responsibility risks and economic All personnel* the monitoring of its own operations and those of its contribution were identified and invited to engage in entire supply chain, Finnair launched a project in 2015 more comprehensive assessments conducted under the Age group Men Women to develop methods to assess the realisation of social SEDEX system. Assessment of the direct geographical and <30 131 303 responsibility and human rights and related risk assessindustry-­specific social responsibility risk of all suppliers 30–50 1,479 1,422 >50 551 768 ment. These development efforts continued in 2016 with that are significant regarding customer experience was the deployment of tools for supply chain risk managemade using a risk assessment tool. From now on, Finnair * Employees of travel agencies and tour operators in the Baltic countries ment and the assessment of social impacts in cooperaaims to include all new suppliers in the SEDEX system have not been taken into account in the breakdown. tion with the oneworld alliance. See G4-HR9-11 below. starting from the bidding phase. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 136 FINNAIR REQUIRES ITS SUPPLIERS Finnair is aware of the environmental and human rights risks related to the most critical categories and TO COMPLY WITH SIMILAR ETHICAL geographical areas, and the company aims for continSTANDARDS AS THE COMPANY DOES uous improvement to prevent risks. Communication related to the supply chain’s human rights impacts and IN ITS OWN OPERATIONS. the responsibility efforts of the sourcing organisation was improved to increase awareness both internally and externally in 2016. Finnair organised its first Supplier G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were providers to an increasing degree as it expands its Day event for its most significant suppliers, with the main screened using human rights criteria international route network. Conforming with the UN’s themes being related to the development of responsiFinnair has its own ethical guidelines for suppliers Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all applibility, cooperation and supplier relations. (Supplier Code of Conduct) and subcontractors, and all cable laws and statutes is a minimum requirement for suppliers are required to comply with them. All partners suppliers. Finnair requires that its suppliers comply with Society and subcontractors, moreover, are obliged to comply similar ethical standards as the company does in its own Aviation is a strictly regulated industry. As such, it is with the principles of the UN Universal Declaration of operations. Finnair’s Supplier Code of Conduct provides important for Finnair to participate in discussions and Human Rights as well as local legislation. clear principles to ensure ethical purchasing. Respondecision-making regarding its operating conditions. It is sibility aspects are considered in cooperation with the part of the company’s growth strategy to aim at securing Finnair began human rights assessments in the previous social responsibility unit. adequate traffic rights. year and extended them to the supply chain in spring 2016. Finnair implemented the SEDEX system to improve supply Finnair continued the human rights assessments it first Finnair pursues its interests in an ethically sustainable chain risk management, traceability and the assessment began in autumn 2015, and the related risk assessments manner by appropriately introducing its views, perspecof human rights impacts in cooperation with the oneworld were extended to the supply chain in spring 2016. The tives and expertise. The company does not pressurise or alliance. As part of the system’s implementation, suppliers supply chain risk assessments were used to identify the support political decision-makers in any way in pursuing of key significance with respect to social responsibility risks sourcing categories and geographical areas that are the its interests. The legality and ethics of lobbying activities and economic contribution were identified and invited to most critical with respect to social responsibility, and is controlled as part of the company’s general superengage in more comprehensive assessments conducted efforts were made to increase responsibility in sourcing under the SEDEX system. In addition, assessment of the in these areas in 2016. Suppliers of key significance direct geographical and industry-specific social responwith respect to social responsibility risks and economic sibility risk of all suppliers that are significant regarding contribution were identified and invited to engage in the customer experience was made using a risk assessment SEDEX system, which facilitates more comprehensive tool. The aim is to engage new suppliers in the SEDEX impact assessment and risk management. Assessment FINNAIR ORGANISED THE FIRST SUPPLIER system starting from the bidding phase. See G4-HR11 below. of the direct geographical and industry-specific social DAY FOR ITS MOST SIGNIFICANT responsibility risk of all suppliers that are significant G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential regarding customer experience was made using a risk SUPPLIERS, WITH THE DEVELOPMENT negative human rights impacts in assessment tool. To monitor the realisation of responOF RESPONSIBILITY, COOPERATION, the supply chain and actions taken The sustainability of the supply chain is of major imporsibility, the need for social audits is assessed based on information including industry-specific risk surveys and AND SUPPLIER RELATIONS AS THE tance for the airline as Finnair uses partners and service assessments obtained through the system. MAIN THEMES. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 137 vision and audit processes. Finnair is committed to identification and avoidance of conflicts of interest and complying with international and national legislation in related conduct. Links its operations, as well as the ethical operating principles laid out in the Code of Conduct. In 2014, the Group ExecG4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Finnair’s General Conditions of Carriage utive Board approved additional group-wide guidelines country and recipient/beneficiary http://www.finnair.com/INT/GB/info/conditions-of-carriage to supplement the Code of Conduct with regard to the Finnair does not support any political parties or persons. prevention of bribery and topics including hospitality, Finnair Notice on Passenger Rights conflicts of interest and compliance with anti-competiProduct responsibility https://www.finnair.com/go/documents/PDFs/Finnair-Noticeon-Passention regulations. The aviation industry consists of a strictly regulated ger-Rights-2012.pdf value chain comprised of multiple suppliers of products G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of and services. As an airline and service company at the Cargo guidelines and conditions of carriage operations assessed for risks related to top of this value chain, Finnair creates added value for http://www.finnaircargo.com/en/cargo/guidelines.html corruption and the significant risks identified its customers by providing them with a comprehensive The identification and assessment of risks related to and high-quality service product in collaboration with its http://www.aurinkomatkat.fi/matkaehdot corruption are part of the general risk assessment of the partners. We are responsible for transporting customers (Aurinkomatkat general conditions of travel, in Finnish) company and its business units, and Finnair’s business and their baggage to their destinations safely, smoothly units conduct an analysis of risks related to corruption and punctually. Montreal Convention as part of the company’s general risk survey. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEXThe most significant product responsibility aspects in the :22001A0718(01):FI:HTML G4-SO4 Communication and training on Finnair Group’s operations are flight safety, food safety, anti-­corruption policies and procedures responsibility for individual customers, and responsiEU Package Travel Directive Finnair’s Code of Conduct includes an anti-corruption bility for the cargo carried. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEXsection, and the receiving and giving of bribes is strictly :31990L0314:FI:HTML prohibited. Preventing corruption is the responsibility G4-PR3 Type of product and service information of everyone at Finnair, including the heads of business required by the organisation’s procedures for Minimum Air Transport Passenger Rights when passengers are denied boarding operations and the internal audit. product and service information and labelling, against their will or a flight is cancelled or delayed and percentage of significant products and http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEXCertain job descriptions at Finnair are such that they are service categories subject to such information :32004R0261:FI:HTML considered to have a higher than normal risk of corruprequirements tion associated with them. All those handling such tasks Finnair’s operations are regulated by numerous offiFinnish Personal Data Act are offered the opportunity to participate in anti-corrupcial regulations and international agreements. For the http://www.finlex.fi/fi/laki/ajantasa/1999/19990523?search%5Btype%5D=pition training in business units and subsidiaries. Finnair’s customer, the most important product information ka&search%5Bpika%5D=henkil%C3%B6tieto Code of Conduct and Guidelines for Anti-Bribery, Corpoissues relate to the conditions of carriage and customrate Hospitality and Hosting of Public Officials are also er’s rights. communicated to the employees handling such tasks. The Group’s Guidelines for Anti-Bribery, Corporate The duty to disclose relating to the conditions of carriage Hospitality and Hosting of Public Officials specify more is based on the Montreal Convention, and the content of detailed guidelines concerning bribery and hospitality, the Convention has also been codified in official reguand the Group’s Conflict of Interest Guidelines cover the lations. Finnair’s General Conditions of Carriage are FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 138 enclosed with travel and cargo documents, and are also service renewals. Based on feedback, we have develIn autumn 2016, the Airs@t comparisons were also available on the company website. The special condioped the customer experience at the airports and in conducted on North American routes. tions for package tours are based on the EU Directive the cabin, with development efforts focused on areas 90/314/EEC. The conditions relating to package tours including check-in, lounge services, inflight entertainSurvey-based data plays an important role in the develprovided by Finnair are to be found in the tour operament and inflight meal and beverage services. Proactive opment of the customer experience. In 2016, Finnair’s tors’ travel documents, travel brochures and websites. customer compensation in airport services has also been overall customer satisfaction was close to the level seen developed further. Customer feedback helps improve in recent years. Of all customers completing the survey in The airline has a duty to communicate the passenger’s the overall customer experience, and feedback is also 2016, 76 per cent rated their experience between 8 and rights if a passenger is denied access to a flight, the important for motivating customer service personnel. 10 on a scale of 1–10 (75 per cent in 2015). Finnair’s Net 76 per cent rated their passenger’s flight is cancelled or the flight is delayed. Promoter Score, which measures customers’ likelihood customer experience between This duty is based on EC Regulation 261/2004. At the In addition to spontaneous customer feedback, customer of recommending Finnair’s services, was higher than in 8 and 10 same time, the airline must inform customers with perceptions of the service experience are monitored 2016 almost all through the year, with score reaching a whom they can file a complaint. Finnair complies with by using questionnaires on scheduled flights, and the new record (48%) under the current measurement printhese regulations in its customer service operations. results are reported monthly. Finnair’s customer satisciples in May 2016. The NPS for the full year was four faction survey covers all scheduled traffic destinations percentage points higher than in 2015. The strengths of A customer’s protection of privacy is prescribed by the operated by Finnair and Norra. The survey is conducted Finnair’s service included efficient and smooth ground Finnish Personal Data Act 22.4.1999/523. using e-mail questionnaires based on partial random services and effective transfers at Helsinki Airport. sampling, performed 1–7 days following the flight. The Customers also appreciate Finnair’s cabin e­ nvironments— G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Finnair monitors the customer feedback it receives and reports on the feedback to the unit concerned at survey’s key indicators are the general rating of the flight experience as well as ratings of various elements such as booking, airport services and in-flight services. On its Asian and European routes, Finnair also particwith the new A350 aircraft receiving particularly high scores—and friendly inflight service. Development areas highlighted previously in customer feedback include inflight entertainment and meals. Finnair placed a 48% least once per month. In urgent matters the feedback is ipates in IATA’s competitor monitoring surveys, which particular focus on these areas last year, which was forwarded immediately. In 2015, customer feedback was track the quality of service experienced by the customer reflected in higher scores. utilised in monitoring customer reactions to product and in comparison to the most important competitors. Net Promoter Score Finnair’s customer satisfaction surveys also cover reached a new record the services of LSG Sky Chefs Finland. In addition (48%) under the current to customer satisfaction surveys at the Group level, measurement principles Finnair’s customer satisfaction with flight as a whole in 2016 Finnair’s subsidiaries also commission their own in May 2016 customer satisfaction surveys. Intercontinental Business Class Intercontinental Economy Class Europe Business Class Europe Economy Class 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Very dissatisfied 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Very satisfied 10 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 139 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Finnair’s environmental responsibility management is 2016, Finnair’s fleet included seven Airbus A350XWB in the investment universe extensively, covering Total jet fuel consumption based on the principle of continuous improvement. Enviaircraft. environmental and social responsibility as well ronmental responsibility is managed with the help of the • CO2 emissions from flight operations increased by as corporate governance. Finnair’s peer group in tonnes company’s environmental policy and system. The environ4.9 per cent from the previous year, while available the review comprises globally 77 companies in the mental and energy policy lays out the targets for environtonne kilometres (ATK) increased by over 8 per cent transportation and logistics sector, including major mental management. over the same period. airlines. Finnair was awarded the rating B-, the • Measured by the unit-specific CO2 emissions of highest in the peer group, along with the designaIn 2014, Finnair became the first European airline to revenue tonne kilometres, emissions decreased by tions ”Prime” and ”Industry Leader”, corresponding receive IATA Environmental Assessment (IEnvA) Stage 2 4 per cent from the previous year. to a buy rating for responsible investors. certification for its environmental management systems. • The volume of waste increased by approximately 5 IEnvA is an environmental management system developed per cent from the previous year. G4-EN3 Energy consumption by IATA for airlines, which Finnair applies to make use of • The total consumption of anti-icing fluid increased within the organisation the best practices in its industry. by 80 per cent compared to the previous year. Finnair’s primary energy consumption consists of the • Finnair joined the energy efficiency pact of the use of transport fuels. Aviation is very energy-intensive Finnair’s environmental management system is assessed by Confederation of Finnish Industries, Ministry of and Finnair’s largest environmental load arises from Finnair 768,055 tonnes third-party auditors authorised by IATA who are qualified to Economic Affairs and Employment and the sectoral flying and particularly from the use of fossil jet fuel. NoRRa 81,395 tonnes perform audits of environmental management systems. To business organisations. The pact requires a reducWet Lease 23,057 tonnes improve performance, Finnair has identified the key envition of 4 per cent in properties’ energy consumpFuel consumption Other* 1 641 tonnes ronmental aspects of its operations and set targets related tion by 2020 from the level of 2017 and a further 7.4 Finnair’s total consumption of jet fuel comprises flights to them. per cent by 2025. operated by Finnair itself, flights operated by Norra *Other consumption = cargo flights • Finnair was identified as a Nordic leader again on Finnair’s behalf as well as so-called wetlease flights Finnair’s key environmental aspects are: in 2016 in climate-change related corporate leased on a short-term basis from other operators due to actions and communication to investors and other lack of fleet or crew. In addition, jet fuel is consumed on • Emissions from the use of jet fuel stakeholders by CDP, the independent internatransfer and training flights as well as test runs by tech• Flight noise tional not-for-profit for promoting environmental nical services. • The energy consumption of properties reporting. Finnair was listed in the Nordic Disclo• The use of anti-icing fluid sure Leadership Index with the score A–. In the In 2016, Finnair’s jet fuel consumption increased by • Cabin waste Nordic countries, there were 39 companies that 41 million kilogrammes or approximately 4.9 per reached the Leadership level by achieving the score cent compared to the previous year. The higher total Finnair’s environmental responsibility in 2016 A or A–. consumption of fuel was primarily due to traffic • Finnair continued the replacement of its Airbus A340 • The German ESG rating company oekom research growth. The breakdown of total consumption in 2016 is wide-body aircraft with next-generation Airbus A350 AG updated its analysis of Finnair as a responsible presented in the adjacent chart. XWB aircraft that are on average 25 per cent more investment at the beginning of 2016. The analysis fuel-efficient than their predecessors. At the end of looks into the sustainability efforts by companies FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 140 Finnair’s fuel consumption 2014–2016 Energy consumption of finnair’s properties 2011–2016 Jet fuel 2016 2015 2014 Energy GJ/MWh 2016** 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Jet fuel (Jet A-1), kg 874,148,241* 833,294,028 736,022,045 Electricity MWh 33,253* 34,294 39,811 46,104 52,584 54,721 MWh 10,516,003 10,024,527.2 8,854,345.2 GJ 119,711 123,459 143,320 165,974 189,302 196,996 GJ 37,857,612 36,088,298 31,875,643 Change % -3.0 -13.9 -13.6 -12.3 -3.9 -2.3 Change % 4.9 13.2 -0.8 Heat MWh 35 890* 26 182 50 986 56 200 63 002 59 551 Ground vehicles GJ 129 204 94 257 183 550 202 320 411 379 455 072 Petrol, Diesel and Fuel Oil 71,164 53,318 55,016 Change % 37.1 -48.6 -9.3 -10.8 5.8 -15.4 MWh 703 525 542 GJ 2,530 1,890 1,951 Total MWh 69 143* 60 477 90 797 102 304 115 586 114 272 Change 33,5 -3.1 -10.2 GJ 248 915 217 716 326 869 368 294 416 110 411 379 Total Change % 14.3 -33.4 -11.2 -11.5 1.1 -9.6 MWh 10,495,294 10,025,052 8,854,887 Change from 2007, % -39.5 -48.2 -22.3 -12.5 -4.8 -2.2 GJ 37,860,142 36,090,188 31,877,594 * These figures are externally assured. Change % 4.9 13.2 -0.9 **2016 Figures include Finnair flight operations building (TOKE) that was not included in comparison periods. * These figures are externally assured. NoRRA's fuel consumption is included as of 4/2015. Energy and heating consumption of properties In 2016, the energy consumption of Finnair’s properFINNAIR AIMS TO EXCEED ties amounted to 69,143 MWh. Of this amount, electricity AUTHORITIES' REQUIREMENTS AND TO consumption accounted for 33,253 MWh, while heating energy accounted for 35,890 MWh. The consumption of BE A BELLWETHER IN ENVIRONMENTAL heat increased materially from the previous year due ASSESSMENT, REPORTING AND to the introduction of aircraft hanger no 11 and the new RESPONSIBILITY. cargo terminal. In addition, the energy figures for 2015 did not account for the heat energy consumption of the old cargo terminal. The combined consumption of heating energy by these three properties in 2016 amounted to approximately 6,500 MWh. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 141 G4-EN5 Energy intensity Fuel efficiency of flights operated by Finnair in 2009–2016 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Fuel efficiency of Finnair aircraft Consumption, tn Finnair’s target is to reduce the CO2 emissions of its own g/RPK* 31.4 32.5 32.4 32.7 34.3 37.9 38.0 38.1 traffic operations relative to revenue tonne kilometres g/ASK* 25.4 26.5 26.3 26.2 26.8 27.9 29.0 28.6 (RTK) by 20 per cent per seat by 2017, using 2009 as the g/RTK 260.5 272.0 269.3 272.8 284.5 301.1 289.3 323.4 baseline. g/ATK 170.2 180.4 179.9 179.5 183.8 185.4 187.3 186.6 * Fuel consumption of taxiing and flight excluding consumption by the Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) Finnair’s measures to improve its fuel efficiency focus primarily on flights operated by the company itself. Finnair monitors the fuel efficiency of its flights primarily by the payload indicator (RTK), which accounts Finnair’s opportunities to have an impact on the fuel effipredecessors. The CO2 emissions of the aircraft have also for the passenger load factor, the volume of cargo transciency of flight operations leased from NoRRA and other declined by a corresponding amount. ported and the distance between the origin and desticooperation partners are mainly limited to route plannation. The following chart illustrates the fuel efficiency ning, fleet utilisation and load factor optimisation. By the end of 2016, Finnair had seven next-generation of all Finnair flights in 2009–2016, and the table below Airbus A350 XWB wide-body aircraft, which were used to shows the fuel efficiency of commercial flights operated Energy efficiency of Finnair’s properties replace six Airbus A340 aircraft. In addition to providing by Finnair itself over the same period. The properties owned and leased by Finnair are mainly a first-class travel experience, the new Airbus A350 XWB located in the Helsinki Airport area. The combined size aircraft offer 20 per cent more cargo and passenger in cubic metres of these properties was 2 million m3 in capacity than their predecessors, and are approximately Developments in fuel efficiency of flights operated 2015, and the energy efficiency was 29,100 KWh/m3. 25 per cent more efficient than their predecessors in by Finnair in 2009-2016 terms of fuel consumption. fuel kg/100RTK 2016 Figures include Finnair flight operations building (TOKE) that was not included in comparison periods. The fleet investment, which is the most significant in 35 the company’s history, will see Finnair take delivery of 30 Energy consumption figures are not available for a total of 19 Airbus A350 XWB aircraft. They support the 26.1 Finnair’s offices (sales etc.) abroad, as their energy company’s pursuit of the target of reducing CO2 emis25 consumption is typically invoiced as a fixed part of rent. sions by 20 per cent per one hundred tonne kilometres 20 flown by the end of 2017, using 2009 as the baseline. 15 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Owing to the energy-intensive nature of its operations In addition to fleet modernisation, Finnair strives to 10 and the resulting costs, Finnair naturally has a strong improve fuel efficiency by other means. The ongoing 5 aspiration to make its operations more energy efficient, fuel conservation program has achieved a reduction of 0 particularly by striving to reduce jet fuel consumption. several per cent in jet fuel consumption in recent years. 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Airlines with an environmentally friendly mindset, such A 2 per cent increase in fuel efficiency in Finnair’s traffic as Finnair, strive to operate a modern fleet. The average corresponds to approximately 15 million kilogrammes of RTK = revenue tonne kilometres, i.e. capacity use according to payload weight age of the fleet operated by Finnair was approximately fuel, which in turn corresponds to a reduction of nearly Flights operated by Finnair, excluding NoRRA. 10 years at the end of 2016. Next-generation aircraft 50 million kilogrammes of CO2. consume approximately 25 per cent less fuel than their FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 142 The most significant factor affecting the fuel consumption of an aircraft is its weight. The use of new techIn October, Finnair organised its annual energy conservation week, during which information and energy THE STANDBY WEIGHT OF FINNAIR nology and high-quality lightweight materials have conservation tips were distributed internally. Every AIRCRAFT DECREASED WITH NEW enabled Finnair to reduce the empty weight of its aircraft. Weight, along with safety, is a key consideration day of the week had its own theme, and in relation to each theme personnel were encouraged to discuss and TECHNOLOGY AND LIGHTER, in all aircraft equipment purchases. consider the significance of energy conservation as well BETTER QUALITY MATERIAL. as new ways to save energy. Finnair has also invested in fuel efficiency in its operational functions. For example, single engine taxiing is Finnair Facilities Management joined a nation-wide used whenever possible, and the use of APU engines (the energy efficiency agreement in the service sector, which Finnair wants to find an ecologically, financially and auxiliary power unit, or APU, generates electricity and is part of the implementation of Finland’s long-term socially sustainable fuel solution. The projects that are pressurised air for various aircraft systems) has been energy and climate strategy and the framework decision currently underway play a significant role in achieving optimised to reduce emissions and noise. These measof the Council of State on energy efficiency measures. this objective. ures alone result in annual fuel savings of several million The agreement obliges Finnair to reduce its properties’ kilogrammes. energy consumption by 7 per cent from the 2016 level G4-EN7 Reductions in energy by 2020. requirements of products and services In addition to various fuel efficiency projects, Finnair continued its economical flying training program introTogether with local partners, Finnair is evaluating the Development of in-flight duced in 2012 and aimed at all Finnair pilots. The aim of possibility of establishing a biofuel hub at Helsinki processes of the service product In October, Finnair held its the training is to implement consistent operating pracAirport. The company is part of a project led by the The main service process reform in 2016 was standardiannual energy saving week. tices and disseminate information on the factors that Finnish Ministry of Transport and Communications that sation of the loading of the European narrowbody fleet. During the week, information and tips on different influence overall flight economy. These include optimal also includes Finavia and Neste Oil as partners. Finland Finnair standardised the instructions for the loading ways to save energy were airspeed and altitude, as well as continuous descent is very well positioned to be among the first countries in of the narrowbody fleet and simplfied and harmonised disseminated internally approach (CDA). Finnair’s flight planning is also aimed at the world to introduce biofuels in broader and continthe packing and loading process. The reform supports achieving optimal fuel efficiency by selecting the most uous use in aviation. Renewable biobased diesel is the work of the cabin crew, since it enables faster start economical route alternatives whenever possible. considered a potential alternative to biokerosene due to of the cabin service and smoother customer service. its lower investments required for continuous producIn addition, in 2016 Finnair adopted a single service Finnair engages in international cooperation with the tion, and therefore lower costs. Renewable biobased trolley standard for the entire Finnair fleet. The reform aim of increasing the efficiency of airspace use and diesel has not yet received international approval for use enables the cross-use of the new-generation light trolintroducing new flight paths on routes used by Finnair to as aviation fuel, but the approval process is underway. leys in across the fleet. These reforms generate savings improve fuel efficiency. in material cost and fuel costs due to weight savings. Finnair is an active member of the Nordic Initiative for In addition, the provide a considerable improvement in In March 2016, Finnair participated in the internaSustainable Aviation working group comprised of Nordic work ergonomics. tional Earth Hour for the eighth time by switching off airlines, airport operators and government ministries its advertising lights at the airport and in various propwho are working together with aircraft manufacturers The so-called expanded bonded store operations used erties for a whole weekend and informing personnel of to expedite the development of biofuel in the aviation in long-haul destinations was developed further. Prodways to conserve energy when at work as well as when industry. ucts used in restocking aircraft at outstations are now off duty. ­transported to Finnair’s 11 year-round destinations in FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 143 CDA-approaches to Helsinki 2014–2016* at Helsinki Airport, for example, when there are a lot of In planning its destination programs, Aurinkomatkat parallel approaches, using CDA is not possible. Suntours carefully evaluates their potential effects on % the environment and biodiversity. The operations aim to 80 The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has avoid excursions to sites where visits could pose a threat 70.5 specified noise certification limits for aircraft and their to biodiversity. Customers are informed at destinations 70 engines. Over 90 per cent of Finnair’s fleet is compliant on appropriate conduct to preserve biodiversity. 60 with the specifications for Chapter 4, which is the newest 50 and quietest ICAO noise category. The remaining below 10 For several years, Finnair has also actively supported a 40 per cent of Finnair’s aircraft are categorised in Chapter 3. rain forest reforestation project in Madagascar in collab30 oration with the Finnish Association for Nature Conser20 Other products and services vation, although the company does not operate any 10 flights to the area. 0 G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of 14 15 16 activities, products, and services on biodiversity In the airline business, Finnair supported both cultural and Finnair wants to find an in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity regulating services by prohibiting the transportation of ecologically, financially and * The criteria for Continuous Descent Approach (CDA): socially sustainable fuel At any stage of approach below 1,800 metres the value outside protected areas hunting trophies or memorabilia originating from endanaircraft does not maintain level flight more than gered species or their parts in its cargo network. Furthersolution 30 seconds. Finnair takes environmental aspects into consideration on more, in 2016 Finnair signed the United for Wildlife (UFW) the ground and in the air. Besides energy solutions that Buckingham Palace declaration of the Duke of Cambridge three-month intervals, which means that the products reduce the environmental load, Finnair’s environmental to prevent the illegal smuggling of wild animals. As a signado not need to be flown back and forth from Helsinki, strategy also includes the preservation and promotion of tory, the company has undertaken to promote the awarewhich saves fuel. natural diversity, known as biodiversity thinking. Finnair ness of different stakeholders about this topic. has assessed the ecosystem services, or benefits provided Flight noise to people by nature, that are most relevant to its business, The significance of biodiversity in Finnair’s airline busiOne typical adverse environmental effect of air transport as well as its most significant impacts on them. ness will be highlighted further in the coming years is noise. The noise produced by aircraft is mainly engine through climate change mitigation measures. When noise and aerodynamic noise. The level of engine noise is Of the different categories of ecosystem services, biofuels replace fossil fuels in the future, the company greater in takeoffs, while the level of aerodynamic noise cultural services and regulating services are the most wants to ensure that the primary production of the raw grows during approaches. relevant to Finnair’s business. Cultural services include materials of the renewable energy sources it uses is in tourism, spiritual value and aesthetic value. Regulating line with the principles of sustainable development and Finnair has reduced noise by modernising its fleet and services include the regu lation of air quality and the does not compromise ecosystem services. For example, by scheduling takeoffs and landings at less undesirable climate, disease control, pest control and pollination. in the manufacturing of biofuel, measures must be taken times from a noise perspective. However, Finnair also not to indirectly lead to changes in land use (ILUC). operates flights in the evenings and at night, at which Finnair’s core business and key product areas benefit The objective is to ensure that arable land used for times noise is perceived to be more disruptive. The use of ecosystem services in various ways. Cultural services are growing food crops is not used to produce raw material the continuous descent approach (CDA) also helps reduce particularly important for travel services. Accordingly, for biofuel, which would result in either the clearing of flight noise within 10 kilometres of the airport. However, Finnair’s travel agency Aurinkomatkat Suntours has forests or wetlands to create space for food production the use of CDA requires uncongested airspace and good participated in various local projects to maintain biodior a decline in food production. weather conditions. During the busiest afternoon hours versity at various destinations for several years. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 144 Regulating services have a significant impact on both Finnair's direct greenhouse gas emissions the airline business and travel services. The local decline 2014–2016 of biodiversity erodes the operating conditions of the CO2 tn 2016 2015 2014 tourism industry and increases the risk of infectious Flying, AY 2,753,567* 2,624,876 2,318,469 diseases. Climate change can lead to an increase or exacerbation of extreme weather phenomena, which in Ground equipment, AY 186,571 139,538 143,867 FINNAIR REDUCED ITS CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS RELATIVE Total 2,940,138 2,625,019 2,318,613 turn could restrict aviation or, in the worst case, prevent Change % 12.0 12.3 -0.9 it entirely in some regions. * These figures are externally assured. Calculated from p. 140 total TO REVENUE TONNE KILOMETRES International cargo operations by both air and sea consumption table. (RTK) BY 19.4 PER CENT FROM adhere to the International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures of the Food and Agriculture Organisation G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse THE 2009 LEVEL BY 2017. (FAO), which regulate, among other things, the quality gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) and characteristics of timber used in logistics. Timber In Finland, the energy consumption of buildings must be treated so that no parasites or insect pests are accounts for more than a third of total greenhouse gas transported along with it. Correctly-treated timber is emissions. Finnair uses means such as repairs and alteralso stamped in line with the standard. ations, as well as user training, to ensure the energy efficiency of its business premises in order to mitigate G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse the greenhouse gas emissions arising from the energy gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) consumption of its buildings. Nearly all of Finnair Group’s greenhouse gas emissions arise from flight operations. Flying primarily causes two Of the district heating and electrical energy used by kinds of direct greenhouse gas emissions: carbon dioxide Finnair, 12 per cent was produced by natural gas, 46 and water vapour. Water vapour is the most important per cent by coal, 2 per cent by heavy fuel oil and 40 per greenhouse gas in the atmosphere, but it is not generally cent by mixed waste. In 2016, the CO2 emissions arising examined directly as a human-derived greenhouse gas from the production of heating energy amounted to emission, because the water vapour in the atmosphere 9,583 tCO2, calculated according to the emission factor is mainly the result of natural evaporation. Air transreported by the heating energy supplier (267 kg CO2e/ port is in a special position in this respect because the MWh). The location-based emissions of heat consumpwater vapour generated by the engines is released high tion amounted to 6,568 tCO2. Calculated based on the Finnair's indirect greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere, which increases the atmosphere’s H2 average emission factor for Finnish district heating joint 2014–2016 O content above the cloud layer. However, not much is generation areas 183 g CO2 e/MWh). CO2 tn 2016* 2015 2014 yet known about the potential impacts of water vapour Electricity 8,843 7,545 8,877 emissions from aviation. The CO2 emissions attributable to the production of Heat 9,583 6,415 14,428 electrical energy in 2016 were 6,950 tCO2, calculated Total 18,426 13,959 23,305 In 2016, the greenhouse gas emissions of Finnair’s traffic according to the emission factor for average electricity Change % 32.0 -40.1 -11.0 amounted to approximately 2,940,138 tonnes of carbon purchasing in Finland (209 g CO2 e/MWh) and 8,843 tCO2, *These figures as well as location based CO2 emissions are externally dioxide. This figure covers Finnair’s total fuel consumpaccording to the supplier-specific emission factors (191 g assured. 2016 Figures include Finnair flight operations building (TOKE) tion (see table on fuel usage in 2014–2016). and 267 g CO2 e/MWh). that was not included in comparison periods. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 145 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse Finnair’s indirect CO2 balance also includes the capacity G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) purchased from other operators by Finnair Cargo. In gas (GHG) emissions intensity The greenhouse gas emissions arising from the produc2016, this cargo capacity produced approximately 8,943 The emissions intensity of an aircraft goes hand in hand tion of jet fuel constitute a significant proportion of tonnes of CO2 in total. The amount includes cargo flights with its energy intensity. In other words, as the energy Finnair’s indirect greenhouse gas emissions balance. that were operated solely due to Finnair Cargo. consumption of the aircraft increases, its emissions More than 55 per cent of the jet fuel used by Finnair and increase. Norra is produced at the Neste oil refinery in Porvoo’s In addition, significant material flows are also generated Kilpilahti district. The greenhouse gas emissions arising by Finnair’s subcontractor LSG Sky Chefs Finland Oy. The The ratios for jet fuel and the energy consumption of from the production and transport of jet fuel amounted emissions arising from these materials, such as food and properties are reported under EN5 Energy intensity. to an estimated 601,936 tonnes of CO2 in 2016 (exterbeverages served on flights, were not reported in 2016. nally assured). The greenhouse impacts of the material flows could not G4-EN19 Reduction of be estimated. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The purchases of Airbus A350 XWB wide-body aircraft Finnair’s long term target was to reduce the carbon Due to reduced energy represented Finnair’s most significant investment in Information on truck transport by Finnair Cargo is emissions in its mainline traffic relative to the revenue consumption of buildings, 2016. The indirect greenhouse gas emissions arising absent from this report. Finnair Cargo purchases transtonne kilometres (RTK) by 20 per cent from the level of the company cut its indirect from the manufacture of four aircraft represent an port services from truck companies, and the statistical 2009 by 2017. The target was completed almost in full, carbon dioxide emissions by estimated 8,484 tonnes of CO2 on Finnair’s emissions practices of these companies do not allow actual emisas the relative annual carbon emissions decreased by 4,880 tonnes from 2014 balance. sions to be calculated at present. Finnair Cargo’s main 19.4 per cent during the period. The primary indicator partners in truck traffic use vehicles classified as EURO 4 used by Finnair in its emission target setting is RTK, since At the end of 2016, Finnair had a total of 708 leasing at a minimum. it measures fuel consumption and emissions in relation cars. Their combined emissions amounted to 1,663 to the distance travelled and the volume of passentonnes of CO2, which is 4.5 per cent higher than in the When there is humidity in the air and the temperagers and cargo. After all, flying with an efficiently filled previous year. The average CO2 emission per leasing car ture is close to or below freezing, airlines use de-icing aircraft is the most environmentally friendly way to fly. amounted to 115 g CO2/km, which is 12 per cent less than and anti-icing to ensure the safety of their operations. The achievement was largely based on the purchase of a year earlier. De-icing involves cleaning impurities on the exterior of new aircraft as well as an improvement in the passenger the aircraft, while anti-icing involves spraying the exteand cargo load factors. In addition, fuel efficiency was Business travel by Finnair employees primarily involves rior with a protective substance, propylene glycol (hereimproved during the period by modernising existing fleet the company’s own flights, the emissions of which after referred to as glycol), to prevent ice from accuand by improving processes. are reported under Scope 1. Commuting by Finnair mulating on it. In 2016, the total consumption of glycol employees caused an estimated 3,408 tonnes of CO2 was 1,110,455 litres, and the water mixed with glycol The calendar year 2015 was mild with little snowfall. Whenever there is humidity in emissions in 2016. The reduction in emissions from the amounted to 1,580,451 litres. The number of de-icing The ice removal season ended already at the end of the air and the temperature previous year was primarily due to a higher number of and antiicing treatments during the year was 4,805. The February and did not begin again until Christmas. Thereis close to or below zero, personnel reporting bus or train as their commuting greenhouse impact of glycol could not be estimated, fore the consumption of ice removal agent in terms of airlines conduct ice removal method. since no emission factor is available for it. litres was low (also the basis for environmental charge). and prevention to ensure safe In contrast, the ice removal season 2016 lasted longer operation The CO2 emissions caused by crew transportation at into the spring, and the three-week period of very low Helsinki airport station level amounted to slightly more temperatures (below -18 C) in January increased the than one tonne in 2016. consumption of glycol. In addition, there were several FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 146 days at the end of 2016 with snowfall or storm, which Fleet’s NOx emissions 2014–2016 also contributed considerably to the increase from the previous year. As a result, the consumption of glycol kilograms tonnes % rose by almost 80% in 2016 from 2015. 20 1,200 100 17.4 Agreements made with the Helsinki Airport in 2016 977 80.4 15 900 75 contained, however, elements leading to optimal fluid consumption. Finnair uses CheckTime, a solution developed by the Finnish company Vaisala that utilises accu10 600 50 40% rate weather analysis equipment at airports to measure the water value of rainfall and, based on the measure5 300 25 ment results, calculates the saturation point for de-icing and anti-icing fluids. By implementing the CheckTime 0 0 0 Finnair was able to reduce its relative solution and t­ raining employees who use anti-icing fluids, 14 15 16 14 15 16 glycol consumption by almost 40 per Finnair was able to reduce its relative glycol consumption Average NOx emissions (kg)/LTO cycle Share of fleet below CAEP/6 limit cent by the end of 2016, using 2006 as by almost 40 per cent by the end of 2016, using 2006 as Total NOx emissions (tonnes)/year the baseline the baseline, without compromising on safety. Due to the reduction in properties’ energy consumption, Finnair’s indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) decreased by 4,880 tonnes. database covers the NOx emissions of different engine G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other types during one internationally defined landing-takeoff significant air emissions cycle (LTO) up to the altitude of 915 metres (3,000 feet). Besides carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides (NOx) are the ICAO has set a CAEP/6 target level for NOx emissions, most significant air emission of flying. NOx emissions and Finnair monitors the achievement of this target by arise in combustion processes that take place at high using the percentage indicator “Proportion of the fleet temperatures. represented by aircraft that are under the CAEP/6 limit”. The calculation covers Finnair’s own fleet and does not Nitrogen oxides contribute to the formation of ozone account for emissions by external flight operators in Airbus A350XWB-hankinnat olivat in the lower atmosphere, but destroy methane, which Finnair’s purchased traffic (such as wet leases involving Finnairin merkittävin investointi is a powerful greenhouse gas, in the atmosphere. The Finnair leasing an aircraft and its crew). vuonna 2016 impact of nitrogen oxides is complex and in many respects still not fully understood. In addition to NOx emissions, Finnair’s operations give rise to volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. The basis of the calculation of NOx emissions produced VOC emissions are harmful to the environment by, for by the engines of Finnair aircraft is the aircraft example, contributing to the formation of ozone in the engine-specific emission database compiled by the UN lower atmosphere. Lower-atmosphere ozone, moreover, International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). The is harmful to both human and animal health and flora. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 147 The VOC emissions from Finnair’s technical operations G4-EN24 Total number and have declined significantly in recent years. The most volume of significant spills significant individual factor in this decline is the disconIn 2016, Finnair had no significant spills burdening the tinuation of aircraft painting operations. Finnair Technical environment. Operations (FTO) nevertheless maintains the capacity to paint aircraft in order to prepare for unexpected inciG4-EN29 Monetary value of significant NONE OF THE WASTE dents. FTO holds an environmental permit granted by the fines and total number of non-monetary GENERATED IN FINNAIR'S environmental protection authorities, which r­ egulates the use of volatile solvents and specifies limits for emissanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations OPERATIONS IS ANY LONGER sions. In 2016, FTO's VOC emissions totalled 3.54 tonnes, Finnair was not subject to any fines or other sanctions DISPOSED IN A LANDFILL IN remaining clearly below the allowed limit. for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations during the reporting period. FINLAND, AS IT IS PROCESSED G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by THERMICALLY. type and disposal method The total amount of waste generated by Finnair Amounts of waste and utilisation percentage increased by approximately 5 per cent, or over 200 2012–2016 tonnes, from the previous year. The increase/reduction tonnes % in the total weight of waste is primarily attributable to 6,000 100 traffic growth. 100% The company placed even more focus on waste recovery 4,500 75 and sorting. Finnair has set waste management objectives of increasing waste recovery, cost efficiency and 3,000 50 safety, as well as reducing the volume of waste. In practice, this means that waste will be utilised as either 1,500 25 energy or material. 0 0 Waste generated by Finnair’s operations is no longer 12 13 14 15 16 disposed of in landfills in Finland. The combination of mixed waste and energy waste is made possible by the Composting Reuse thermic processing of waste at Ekokem’s power plants Recycling Other* Energy use Utilisation, % in Riihimäki. Following a change in applicable regulaLandfill site tions, food waste originating from outside of the EU that is subject to the EU by-products Regulation can now be directed to thermic processing, allowing it to be utilised with other waste in generating district heating and electricity. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 148 GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Human Rights Location Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and p. 3–4; 90–94; 130; 135–136 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. p. 90–94; 130; 135–136 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; p. 90–94; 131 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; p. 90–94; 130; 135–136 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p. 90–94; 130; 135–136 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p. 90–94; 130; 135–136 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; p. 90–94; 139; 143 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and p. 6; 18–20; 90–94; 139; 142–144 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies p. 90–94; 139; 142–144 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. p. 90–94; 137 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 149 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX Code GRI content Location Further information General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the CEO p. 3–4 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 3–25; 49; 57–59; 107–112 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Finnair Group Plc G4-4 Primary brands, products and services p. 8; 17; 28 G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Tietotie 9 , 01053 Finnair G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations p. 12 or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 29–31 G4-8 Markets served p. 12 G4-9 Scale of reporting organisation p. 23–25 G4-10 Total number of employees and breakdown by employment type, employment contract, region and gender p. 130 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 130–131 G4-12 Description of the organisation's supply chain p. 131 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain p. 131 G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation p. 95–107 G4-15 List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation p. 3–4; 18–19; 90–95 subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the p. 18; 90–95 organisation is active Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements p. 124–126 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries p. 123–124 G4-19 Material aspects identified p. 123–124 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for each material aspect p. 123–126 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation for each material aspect p. 123–126 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements p. 123–126 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries p. 123–126 Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p. 18 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 18; 123–124 G4-26 Organisation's approach to stakeholder engagement p. 18 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to them p. 18 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 150 Code GRI content Location Further information Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 1.1.2016–31.12.2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content Communications, Finnair Plc Tietotie 9, 01053 Finnair. comms(a) finnair.com G4-32 GRI content index p. 149 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Some of the indicators externally verified Governance Governance structure and composition G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body p. 95–107 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Description of the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethicp. p. 8–17; 90 Specific standard disclosures Disclosures on management approach DMA General disclosure on management approach p. 90–94 Economic indicators Economic performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 127 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation's activities due to climate change p. 128 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations p. 128 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government p. 128–129 Indirect economic impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts p. 16; 91 Procurement practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation p. 129 Environmental indicators Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation p. 139–140 G4-EN5 Energy intensity p. 141 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 141–142 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p. 142–143 Biodiversity G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity p. 143 value outside protected areas FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 151 Code GRI content Location Further information Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p. 144 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p. 144 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) p. 145 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p. 145 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 145–146 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 146–147 Effluents and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 147 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills p. 147 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and p. 147 regulations Social indicators Labor practices and decent work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region p. 131 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of p. 131 operation Labor/management relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements p. 131 Occupational health and safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and p. 131–132 advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by p. 132 region and gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation p. 132 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions p. 133 Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category p. 133 G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in p. 135 managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category p. 135 Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group p. 135 membership and other indicators of diversity FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 152 Code GRI content Location Further information Equal remuneration for women and men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation p. 135 Human rights Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments p. 135 Supplier human rights assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria p. 136 G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken p. 136 Society Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified p. 137 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 137 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents Public policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary p. 137 Anti-competitive behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes No incidents Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations No incidents Product responsibility Customer health and safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 70%, p. 94–95 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products No incidents and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation's procedures for product and service information and labelling, p. 138 and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and No incidents labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p. 138 Marketing communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including No incidents advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data One incident Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and No incidents services OMA Punctuality p. 21 FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 153 INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT To the Management of Finnair Plc Practitioner’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Selected environmental information based on the proWe have been engaged by the Management of Finnair Plc (hereinafter also the Company) to perform a limited assurance engagecedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance with ment on selected environmental performance indicators for the reporting period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016, to be the terms of our engagement. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Finnair Plc for our work, disclosed in the Sustainability section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2016 (hereinafter the Selected environmental information). for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. Selected environmental information We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) The Selected environmental information consists of the following performance indicators: 3410 “Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements”. That Standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected environmental information is free from material misstatement. 1. Fuel consumed by all flights under the Finnair Plc’s callsign. 2. Energy consumed in Finnair Plc’s properties. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance en3. Heating consumed in Finnair Plc’s properties. gagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement 4. CO2 emissions originating from the consumption referred to in point 1. involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the Selected environmental 5. CO2 emissions originating from the consumption referred to in points 2 and 3. information. The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of materi6. CO2 emissions in Scope 3 category 3 (Fueland energy-related activities). al misstatement of the Selected environmental information. Management’s responsibility Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: The Management of Finnair Plc is responsible for preparing the Selected environmental information in accordance with the Reporting criteria as follows: • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the Selected environmental information • Assessing how Group employees apply the Company’s reporting instructions and procedures For items 1 and 4 of the scope above: • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and systems on a sample basis • Finnair’s own reporting instructions (described in the Sustainability section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2016). • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. For items 2, 3 and 5 of the scope above: Limited assurance conclusion • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that caus• Finnair’s own reporting instructions (described in the Sustainability section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2016). es us to believe that Finnair Plc’s Selected environmental information for the reporting period ended 31 December 2016 is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria. When reading our assurance report, For item 6 of the scope above: the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of sustainability information should be taken into consideration. • The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard as applicable. • •Finnair’s own reporting instructions (described in the Sustainability section of Finnair Plc’s Annual Report 2016). Helsinki, 14 February 2017 The Management of Finnair Plc is also responsible for such internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of a Selected environmental information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Practitioner’s independence and quality control Sirpa Juutinen We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants Partner issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, Sustainability & Climate Change objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. FINNAIR ANNUAL REPORT 2016 154 CONTACT INFORMATION House of Travel and Transportation Finnair Oyj Tietotie 9 A (Helsinki Airport) 01053 FINNAIR Tel. +358 600 0 81881 (1,25e/answered call + local charge) www.company.finnair.com www.investors.finnair.com www.facebook.com/finnair www.facebook.com/finnairsuomi www.twitter.com/Finnair www.twitter.com/FinnairSuomi blogs.finnair.com blogit.finnair.fi www.instagram.com/feelfinnair/
