Landsvirkjun’s Corporate Social Responsibility Progress and focus in 2016 1 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2 Contents CEO Message 5 Foreword 6 CSR at Landsvirkjun 7 The history of Landsvirkjun’s CSR 7 Key focus areas of Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy 9 Stakeholder Engagement 10 Landsvirkjun’s key stakeholders 10 Open and transparent communication 11 The UN Sustainable Development Goals 12 The Value Chain 13 Projects in 2016 13 Climate Change and Environmental Impact 14 Environmental Policy 14 Information from Landsvirkjun’s Green Accounts 2016 15 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GRI 305-1,2) 15 Reduction of GHG emissions (GRI 305-5) 15 Specific land reclamation and re-forestation projects in 2016 15 Landsvirkjun’s energy consumption (GRI 302-1) 16 Waste and hazardous waste (GRI 306-2) 16 Information to CDP 17 Employees 18 Landsvirkjun’s human resources policy 18 Overview of Landsvirkjun’s employees at the end of 2016 (GRI 405-1) 19 Employee safety issues 2016 (GRI 403-2) 20 Projects in 2016 21 Knowledge Dissemination 22 Projects in 2016 22 Sustainable Societies 23 Projects in 2016 23 CSR focus in 2017 25 UN Global Compact / GRI Index 26 3 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 4 CEO Message Landsvikjun aims to be among Iceland’s leadtake the feedback into account as we further iming companies when it comes to corporate soprove our performance in the area. cial responsibility (CSR) and we are proud of our achievements so far. We continue to strengthen the We continue our work towards gender equalcompany’s position in areas concerning CSR. ity. In order to reach our goals, we are placing an increased emphasis on issues relevant to equalLandsvirkjun has been a member of the UN Global ity. Among relevant projects in 2016 was LandsCompact since 2013 and continues to support its virkjun’s support for a new association for women Ten Principles on the environment, human rights, in the energy sector. labour rights and anti-corruption measures. In addition to our support of the UN Global Compact, we CSR at Landsvirkjun means creating value and have decided to implement certain goals of the UN respecting and protecting our natural resources Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted and the environment. Our CSR work also conby member states at the end of 2015. Landsvirkjun cerns sharing our expertise in order to effectively will emphasize three SDGs that fit the company’s contribute to society. We have an important role focus areas. Landsvirkjun will emphasize three to play. The company is in the process of adopting SDGs that fit the company’s focus areas: climate new focus areas in which simplification and transchange, sustainable energy and gender equality. parency figure as guiding principles. We continue These goals all support Landsvirkjun’s on-going to aim for more effective stakeholder engagement work toward increased social responsibility. to further enhance the approval for our operations. Climate change has been high on the global agenda Sincerely, following the Paris agreement on climate change in December 2015. In line with its commitments, Landsvirkjun submitted for the first time the CDP climate change questionnaire in 2016 and received feedback on the company´s performance. We will Hörður Arnarson, CEO. 5 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Foreword Companies play an important role in our society. education, a strong social system, effective work By adopting a CSR policy companies commit to towards gender equality and a powerful innovation taking environmental and societal factors into sector. It is important to keep these foundations account alongside economic ones. This involves in mind when determining the focus areas of an effective relationship with stakeholders and a CSR, both within companies but also in terms of drive to develop policies and activities in harmony relevant government policies. with the environment. Working toward CSR commitments can benefit a company by enhancing The context in which Icelandic companies operate its image and approval ratings, offering a better has undergone important changes in recent view of risks and opportunities for innovation, as years. With increased globalization it becomes well as facilitating stronger company culture. necessary to better monitor the impact of Icelandic companies abroad. These aspects may not seem The Icelandic business environment is unique important at first glance, but various risk factors in many ways. Icelanders are privileged when can appear when particlar suppliers and business it comes to certain environmental and societal partners are considered. Foreign markets are factors, given the fact that the country’s electricity increasingly demanding that companies consider production is generated from renewable energy their wider impact on society and the environment sources. Iceland is also advanced when we look to and Icelandic companies are now paying increased the foundations of society, such as a high level of attention to these issues. 6 CSR at Landsvirkjun Landsvirkjun’s role is to maximise the potential Landsvirkjun adopted a new policy on CSR. The yield and value of the natural resources we have goal of the CSR policy is to increase the positive been entrusted with, in a sustainable, responsible impact of the company for its stakeholders and and efficient manner. All of the company’s operdecrease the negative impact on the environment ations are geared toward fulfilling this role. We and society. are continuously guided by our values of progressiveness, prudence and reliability as we develop Landsvirkjun aims to be among Iceland’s leadnew projects and continue to improve our existing ing companies when it comesto CSR policies and power stations. its implementation processes. We are one of the founding companies of Festa – the Icelandic centre It is important to note that CSR has only recentfor CSR and a member of UN Global Compact. With ly been formalized within the Icelandic business our UN Global Compact membership we are comenvironment in comparison to other countries. In mitted to adhering to the Ten Principles regarding its own way, Landsvirkjun has been guided by CSR the environment, human rights, labour rights and principles since its founding, for instance, with anti-corruption. In the last two years, Landsvirkland reclamation in Hekla area, close to the Búrfell jun has published the dedicated Communication Power Station, which marked the company’s first on Progress (COP) reports, which outline the comlarge construction. Formal work on Landsvirkjun’s pany’s work on the Ten Principles. The reports are policy on CSR started in 2008 and a status report accessible on the UN Global Compact’s website, on CSR, Grunnur að nútíma lífsgæðum (only availwww.unglobalcompact.org able in Icelandic), was published in 2009. In 2011, 7 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y However, the focus of this report is different. The CSR manager is responsible for the relevant Instead of issuing a specific UN Global Compact day-to-day work. In light of the wide implications COP for the third time, the focus of this report is on of CSR in the company, involving various parts of the implementation of Landsvirkjun’s wider CSR society, the implementation of the CSR policy also policy, and at the same time the report serves as a includes other departments of the company. In COP for progress on the Ten Principles of the UN addition, working groups were created for specific Global Compact. projects and they report to the executive board where the relevant decisions are made. Landsvirkjun’s board and CEO are responsible for the implementation of the company’s CSR policy. The history of Landsvirkjun’s CSR CSR has several interfaces. The timeline shows the key milestones connected to CSR since the founding of the company in 1965. 1965 1997 2006 > National law on the creation of > Power contract between > The first environmental report Landsvirkjun Landsvirkjun and Norðurál > ISO 14001 certification > Power contract with ISAL > Environmental policy (environmental management) 1970 1998 2008 First work on soil conservation begins All employees undergo an > Landsvirkjun Power established environmental awareness training > ISO 27001 certification (information security management) 1973 2000 The start of collaboration with the Nature Conservation Committee The first female CEO 2009 OHSAS 18001 certification (occupational health and safety) 1981 2001 Þjórsárver declared as a protected area >The first female power station manager 2011 > Gender equality policy > CSR Policy 1982 > Landsvirkjun becomes a founding member of Festa Icelandic Re-vegetation starts around Blöndulón 2003 centre for CSR > Power contract with Alcoa 1995 > ISO 9001 certification (quality management) 2013 > The first female board member Landsvirkjun becomes member and chair of the UN Global Compact > The first operation that undergoes an environmental impact assessment 2005 Green accounting starts 2016 Landsvirkjun submits climate change information to CDP 8 Corporate Governance Environment Health and Safety Society Value Chain Knowledge Dissemination Key focus areas of Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy The organization of CSR activities at Landsvirkjun Key policies related to was originally based on the ISO 26000 standard Landsvirkjun’s CSR work: and its definitions on the key elements of CSR. ›› Environmental policy Following internal work, as well as engagement with stakeholders, it was decided that six key fac›› Human resources policy tors would define the company’s core CSR policy. ›› Landsvirkjun’s code of conduct Those focus areas are corporate governance, the value chain, the environment, society, health and ›› Landsvirkjun’s requirements towards safety and knowledge dissemination. Although contractors and service providers with good governance is defined as a separate focus area regard to environmental matters and safety due to the nature of the category, it impacts all the ›› Code of conduct for suppliers of Landsvirkjun other categories. Annual goals are therefore not systematically defined for good governance in the ›› Business integrity in the value chain same way that they are defined for the other focus ›› Landsvirkjun’s gender equality policy areas. In recent years, Landsvirkjun has engaged with these six focus areas in a number of ways, and relevant goals have been published on Landsvirkjun’s home page. Various policies and relevant processes have been developed to support Landsvirkjun’s CSR work. The policies are published publically to offer stakeholders a better vision and understanding of how the company operates and to encourage more active stakeholder engagement. 9 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Stakeholder Engagement Regular communications with stakeholders are The owner / Icelandic government an important part of Landsvirkjun’s operations. The Icelandic finance minister appoints LandsThrough open and transparent communication, we virkjun’s board of directors for a one-year term. can deliver our messages and, more importantly, Regular communication takes place between the receive feedback from the public on our operations. executive board, CEO and the government, e.g. The communication takes place through difference through monthly reports from from executive board means, ranging from individual discussions to meetings. larger organized meetings. We also rely on opinion surveys to evaluate our performance and gauge the Suppliers and partners public’s perception of the company. Landsvirkjun makes it very clear in its contracts with suppliers and partners that the company´s We plan to introduce further processes which make code of conduct is to be respected, including Landsstakeholder feedback as fruitful as possible for the virkjun’s CSR commitments. The means of engageimplementation and development of Landsvirkjun’s ment with suppliers and partners is determined by CSR policy. the nature of the relationship and extent between Landsvirkjun and the its counterparty. Landsvirkjun’s key stakeholders Customers Effective communication between Landsvirkjun Communities around Landsvirkjun’s power stations and its customers is a key criterion for a successful All of Landsvirkjun’s power stations rely on relationship which seeks to respect the interests of communication plans to best engage with their both parties. stakeholders. Through organized work with communities, Landsvirkjun can successfully meet the The public varying communication needs of stakeholders. An emphasis is placed on creating diverse ways to openly communicate with the public. Examples Employees include open meetings, social media, information Monthly staff meetings are held in Landsvirkjun’s centres and visits to the company. headquarters for all company employees, with remote access available for employees working The energy sector at power plant sites around the country. In these Engagement with other companies in the energy meetings, employees can provide feedback relating sector takes place, for instance, through the Fedto the daily work environment as well as on the eration of Icelandic Energy and Utility Companies company’s strategy and focus areas at each time. Samorka. Samorka organizes various conferences and seminars. Landsvirkjun’s CEO is a member of Samorka’s board of directors. Employees Communities around Landsvirkjun´s power stations The owner / Icelandic government Suppliers and partners The energy sector The public 10 Customers Open and transparent communication Landsvirkjun is an energy company owned by the Landsvirkjun’s means of communication: Icelandic nation. The company plays an important ›› Open meetings role in society. We put emphasis on sharing information with the public and initiating debates and ›› Information centres forums for the views and interests of those affected ›› Visits by the company’s operations. ›› Landsvirkjun.is Our communication policy strives to create sup›› Websites for environmental impact port and consensus for open communication with assessments of power plant options stakeholders. We want to make it easy for people to gather information on the company and share ›› Annual reports and other published materials suggestions on what could be done better. ›› Social media 11 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y The UN Sustainable Development Goals Towards the end of 2015, all 193 member states of policies and regulations. However, governments the United Nations agreed on the 17 UN Sustainare not solely responsible for the implentation of able Development Goals, or Global Goals. The 17 the goals, but all associated societal sectors. A lot goals have 169 sub-goals and which are intended of expectations are put on companies to pull their to be met with by 2030. The goals that correspond weight so that the goals can be reached. Companies to the Icelandic context are the goals on sustaincan choose the goals that best fit their operations able energy, the sustainable use of land and gender and where they can make the most impact. Other equality. It is noteworthy that the goals, with its agents, such as organizations and individuals can political statement, and action plan and follow-up also play their part in various ways. strategies, use a stronger tone than has previously characterized UN agreements. Landsvirkjun will focus specifically on three of the Global Goals, which are well suited for the comIt is first and foremost in the hands of the world’s pany’s focus areas. Those goals are climate action, governments to set the stage for how the Global sustainable energy production and gender equality. Goals will be reached. Each country can structure The international UN goals will further support the approach to the goals in terms of what best fits Landsvirkjun’s on-going work in these areas. their individual context, e.g. when setting new 12 The Value Chain Landsvirkjun is furthering its emphasis on evaluProjects in 2016 ating the societal and environmental impact of its value chain, which includes companies in Iceland Green steps and abroad. The following groups form the key In 2016, Landsvirkjun fulfilled the first step out focus points of Landsvirkjun’s value chain: of five in the ‘green steps’ issued by the Environmental Agency of Iceland. The first step focuses ›› Entities working indirectly for Landsvirkjun such as on various actions to increase the efficiency of the contractors, sub-contractors, employees, temporary use of resources and making office processes more work agencies etc. environmentally friendly. ›› Landsvirkjun suppliers and service providers who sell products or services to the company. Rules on chain reliability ›› Landsvirkjun’s business partners and customers. In August 2016, Landsvirkjun’s board approved rules of chain reliability. The rules are intended to In 2015, Landsvirkjun began implementing the ensure that any counterparty working indirectly company’s code of conduct for suppliers, which for Landsvirkjun (contractors, sub-contractors or outlines Landsvirkjun’s requirements when it temporary work agencies) enjoys rights and emcomes to ethically sound operations and good ployment terms in accordance with law and wage governance. The code of conduct considers, among contracts. Prior to the implementation of the rules, others, issues such as child labour, conflict of interthe contracting party was obliged to apply collecest and ethics, among others. The code of conduct tive wage bargaining contracts and laws, but with for suppliers is based in part on the code of conduct the new rules, this responsibility is further defined. for Landsvirkjun’s employees as well as the princiThe code grants Landsvirkjun recourses to enforce ples of the UN Global Compact. the rules as the provision includes penalties for non-compliance by a counterparty for neglecting to provide information on request. Mapping of the supply chain In order to gain a better oversight of the societal and environmental impact of its suppliers, Landsvirkjun has initiated the process of mapping them. This work is extensive and the accessibility of the relevant information differs between suppliers. This work will continue in 2017. 13 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Climate Change and Environmental Impact Landsvirkjun places great emphasis on producing Environmental Policy energy in a sustainable way, in harmony with the environment and society. We have set goals Landsvirkjun is at the forefront of environmenin the fight against climate change and we work tal issues and the company supports sustainable with international organizations and standards development within society. The company is to discover new ways for improvements and to committed to acquiring knowledge on the envisuccessfully meet our commitments. ronmental impact of its operations and seeking measures to reduce any such impact. Following the Paris Climate Change Conference in 2015, Landsvirkjun signed the “Caring for Climate” The Environmental Policy targets are the following: declaration. By signing the declaration we commit ›› Use natural resources more efficiently to becoming a carbon neutral company by 2030. Landsvirkjun was also among a group of companies ›› Carbon neutral operations that signed the statement issued by Festa and the ›› Operate in harmony with nature and the appearance City of Reykjavik on goals for climate action. A total of land of 104 companies and organizations signed the statement. ›› Stakeholder engagement ›› Operations without environmental incident This chapter outlines the key areas of Landsvirkjun’s environmental performance in 2016. Emphasis is put on information concerning climate change and references to GRI indicators. Further information on Landsvirkjun’s environmental performance is available in Landsvirkjun’s 2016 annual report, which is accessible on Landsvirkjun’s home page. 14 Information from Landsvirkjun’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GRI 305-1,2) 2016 Green Accounts Landsvirkjun’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions Landsvirkjun’s total electricity generation was in 2016 were approx. 48,000 tonnes CO2 –eq. The 13,411 GWh in 2016 or approx. 73% of all electricity GHG emissions can be traced to the following generation in Iceland. Landsvirkjun generates 96% sources: of its electricity from hydropower, 4% from geo›› Geothermal power stations (67%) thermal energy and 0.04% from wind energy. ›› Hydropower stations (31%) ›› Burning of fossil fuels (vehicles, machines etc.), waste disposal and SF6 emissions from electrical equipment (approx. 2%) Further information on Landsvirkjun’s 2016 GHG emissions can be found in the 2016 annual report. GHG emissions from Landsvirkjun’s operations between 2012 and 2016 by source. Tonnes CO2–eq 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 Emissions from Emissions from Emissions Emissions from Emissions geothermal reservoirs at from fossil fuel waste disposal from electrical production and hydropower consumption and equipment research stations air travel 15 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Reduction of GHG emissions (GRI 305-5) ›› Skálmholtshraun in Flói will be partially utilized for Landsvirkjun is involved in extensive land reclare-forestation and this decision is being formalized in mation and re-forestation projects of the areas surthe master plan. rounding its power stations. Carbon sequestration ›› Preparations have started for increased re-forprojects are carried out through land reclamation estation with Blanda Power Station in the land of and re-forestation in collaboration with the Soil Eiðsstaðir. Conservation Service of Iceland and the Icelandic Forest Service. In addition, Landsvirkjun offsets its emissions from the burning of fuel and waste Landsvirkjun’s energy consumption (GRI 302-1) disposal in collaboration with Kolviður. Energy losses and Landsvirkjun’s own energy With Kolviður, Landsvirkjun’s total amount of carconsumption amounted to 120 GWh in 2016, which bon sequestered is estimated to be 22,000 tonnes is around 1% of the total energy production. A large CO2–eq plus 1,001 tonnes of CO2–eq. After the percentage of this is due to the power stations’ own carbon sequestration has been taken into account, energy consumption. The percentage of enerLandsvirkjun’s carbon footprint is therefore around gy losses and own energy consumption has been 25 thousand tonnes CO2–eq. around 1% of total energy production in recent years. Specific land reclamation and re-forestation projects in 2016 Waste and hazardous waste (GRI 306-2) The following were among the land reclamation and re-forestation projects conducted in 2016: The total quantity of waste produced in 2016 was approx. 208 tonnes: 153 tonnes were sent away for ›› Landsvirkjun started work on land reclamation recycling or reuse, approx. 44 tonnes were landwithin the Hólasandur fence by Theistareykir with filled, with less than 11 tonnes of inert waste. the assistance of the Soil Conservation Service and in accordance with an agreement with Thingeyjarsveit. ›› A three-year contract was signed with the Forest Service on Skarfanes in Landsveit and the Soil Conservation Service on land reclamation of up to 500 ha in the land of Kot/Steinkross in Rangárthing ytra. Quantity of waste for recycling and landfill as well as the quantity of inert waste from Landsvirkjun’s operations between 2012 and 2016, including averages for the same period. Tonnes 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Average 2012-2016 400 300 200 100 0 Waste for disposal Waste for reuse and recycling Inert waste 16 The quantity of hazardous waste produced each An increase in the amount of oil waste from the year is mostly related to the scope of maintenance year before can largely be explained by an inciwork carried out by the company. In 2016, approx. dent in the Laxá II station where oil needed to be 21 tonnes of hazardous waste (mostly oil waste) drained from a broken transformer. was sent away for disposal. Quantity of hazardous waste between 2012 and 2016. LV total 2012 LV total 2013 LV total 2014 LV total 2015 LV total 2016 Hazardous waste for disposal: kg 2.582 3.999 7.685 7.333 4.966 – Batteries and electrical equipment kg 1.237 2.921 6.222 3.013 1.870 – Other hazardous waste kg 1.345 1.079 1.463 4.320 3.096 Oil waste: kg 2.750 1.828 14.976 6.355 16.029 Total hazardous waste kg 5.332 5.827 22.660 13.688 20.995 Information to CDP The feedack from CDP was as follows: In 2016, Landsvirkjun completed for the first time ›› Further analysis is needed on how environmental CDP’s climate change questionnaire. Through changes impact the operations of the company and the CDP questionnaire and the feedback process, how the company can further implement a climate Landsvirkjun was able to obtain a better view change policy into the company’s management on its position with regard to international peers system. abroad as well as what could be done better. ›› A closer view is needed on how environmental issues can be integrated into the company’s sales and marketing strategies. ›› Analysis is needed on which climate change factors impact the company’s operations and what risks and opportunities they create for the company’s future operations. The above-mentioned feedback will be taken into account during 2017 and the results of the on-going work will be accounted for in the information that the company submits to the CDP next year. 17 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Employees Landsvirkjun’s human resources department Key focus areas of the human resources policy: works toward improvements and facilitating open ›› We hire capable and progressive employees discussions within all of the company’s departments. In 2016, saw a specific focus on health ›› We welcome new employees and say goodbye to initiatives with emphasis on training and services. departing staff with respect Performance review processes were also further ›› We create a positive working environment with focus developed with focus on making the reviews more on flexibility relaxed and more frequent. ›› We acquire knowledge and share it Landsvirkjun’s Human Resources Policy ›› We put focus on effective and performance-driven management Landsvirkjun is one of the leading workplaces in Iceland. The company’s employees are the key to ›› We strive for gender equality and are a family friendly its achievements and success. A central emphasis is company therefore put on continuously fostering the knowledge, skills and wellbeing of employees. 18 Overview of Landsvirkjun’s employees at the end of 2016 (GRI 405-1) On-site staff % On-site staff % Men 79 100.0 Under 30 6 7.6 Women 0 0.0 30-50 31 39.2 All 79 100.0 Over 50 42 53.2 All 79 100.0 Specialists and project managers % Specialists and project managers % Men 88 73.9 Under 30 13 10.9 Women 31 26.1 30-50 56 47.1 All 119 100.0 Over 50 50 42.0 All 119 100.0 Directors % Directors % Men 7 87.5 Under 30 0 0.0 Women 1 12.5 30-50 4 50.0 All 8 100.0 Over 50 4 50.0 All 8 100.0 Managers % Managers % Men 24 70.6 Under 30 0 0.0 Women 10 29.4 30-50 21 61.8 All 34 100.0 Over 50 13 38.2 All 34 100.0 Summer jobs / students % Summer jobs / students % Men 4 36.4 Under 30 10 90.9 Women 7 63.6 30-50 1 9.1 All 11 100.0 Over 50 0 0.0 All 11 100.0 Various jobs % Various jobs % Men 6 20.7 Under 30 4 13.8 Women 23 79.3 30-50 8 27.6 All 29 100.0 Over 50 17 58.6 All 29 100.0 Specialized office jobs % Specialized office jobs % Men 0 0.0 Under 30 0 0.0 Women 18 100.0 30-50 4 22.2 All 18 100.0 Over 50 14 77.8 All 18 100.0 Board of Directors % Board of Directors % Men 3 60.0 Under 30 0 0.0 Women 2 40.0 30-50 2 40.0 5 100.0 Over 50 3 60.0 5 100.0 19 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y 2016 employee safety issues (GRI 403-2) company’s headquarters. Accidents of summer employees were 7 but part of those accidents occurred The health and safety policy is an important part of outside working hours. Landsvirkjun’s operations, where safety and good facilities for employees are an absolute priority. ›› A threefold increase of accidents among Landsvirkjun’s contractors, from 9 in 2015 to 27 in 2016. Key information on safety issues in 2016: This increase may partially be explained by the increase in projects for contractors during the year ›› There was a decrease in the number of accidents but this is not the only possible explanation. The amongst full-time employees, from 13 to 6. locations of the accidents are as follows: 11 in Theistareykir, 6 at the expansion of Búrfell Power Station, ›› The number of accidents leading to absence from 2 in Laxá (intake), 7 in power stations and 1 at the work was the same as the year before. One accident headquarter offices in Reykjavik. Action is needed in (not serious) occurred during 2016, leading to 11 days this area. of absence. ›› The H200 number (number of absence accidents ›› The most common accidents were due to a fall or / 200,000 working hours) is unchanged between due to pinching. Registered accidents occurring on years or 0.34. the way to or from work were 2, both related to the Registered Accidents 2014 2015 2016 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Total number Absence Accidents of Accidents of H200 Share of absence of accidents accidents summer contractors hours (%) resultemployees ing from accidents or illness per total working hours Projects in 2016 Improved health with SideKick Women in the energy sector Landsvirkjun started collaborating with the startLandsvirkjun became a supporter of “the assoup company SideKick on health initiatives within ciation for women in the energysector” in Octothe company. SideKick works through an app, ber 2016, as part of its commitment of working which assists employees in taking steps towards toward gender equality in the energy sector. The a healthier lifestyle in various ways. By using the agreement signed by Landsvirkjun entails supSideKick app actively, Landsvirkjun employees port for the association over a two-year period. also contributed to a good cause as participation in The association was founded in the beginning of the initiative were accompanied by donations to 2016 and counts over 200 members. Its goal is to UNICEF. enhance the participation of women in the energy sector, strengthen the bond between them and to encourage education and training of women in energy related subjects. Landsvirkjun has one board member in the association’s board of directors. 20 21 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Knowledge Dissemination Landsvirkjun is a leader in the research and JA Iceland sustainable use of renewable energy sources. The Landsvirkjun actively participates in the organicompany fosters increased knowledge, innovation zation Junior Achievement (JA) in Iceland. JA is an and technical improvements and works in collabinternational membership organization, which oration with universities, research institutes and operates worldwide and has projects involving independent experts. more than ten million students every year from 122 countries. In 2016, Landsvirkjun provided four Numerous employees are involved in knowledge mentors for the project but around 300 young endissemination both inside and outside the compatrepreneurs from eight Icelandic colleges confrontny. To name a few examples, Landsvirkjun’s emed the challenge of founding and running compaployees are involved in teaching, research, guide nies in JA Iceland’s innovation challenge. Hörður interns and welcome student groups who want to Arnarson, Landsvirkjun’s CEO, is the chair of the learn about the company’s operations. Every year, organization’s board. Landsvirkjun initiates various projects concerning the knowledge sector, such as innovation projects, Research on the impact of hydropower plants on the provision of grants for for energy projects and fish stocks the environmental research, as well as providing For decades, Landsvirkjun has initiated and advice and mentoring for projects at the university conducted extensive research on the impact of level. hydropower stations on fish stocks. An open meeting was held in January 2016 to announce major results of the research. Through the sharing Projects in 2016 of information we hope that our experience, and the challenges we have faced, may be used for the Let’s Brainstorm development of new technology in this field that In the summer of 2016, Landsvirkjun organized could further reduce future environmental impact seminars on new opportunities in the energy secon fish stocks. tor, in collaboration with KPMG, Innovation Center Iceland and the Icelandic Geothermal Cluster. The Startup Energy Reykjavik seminars focused on new opportunities and the Landsvirkjun continued its work on the Startbackdrop for entrepreneurship. Among ideas that up Energy Reykjavik (SER) project. In 2016, five came up during the discussions were the multiple mentors from Landsvirkjun provided guidance to use of geothermal streams, tourism connected to entrepreneurs and the company offered 20 million energy production, geothermal heat pumps, apps ISK to the project. A total of seven startups were and a geothermal beach. Moreover, participants financed within the SER program during 2016, the in the seminars received information on various names of which can be viewed on SER’s homepage, forms of assistance available to entrepreneurs in www.startupenergyreykjavik.com. the energy sector. It was encouraging to see that a large number of women participated in the seminars given that the energy sector is traditionally regarded as a male-dominated industry. The seminars were held in the towns of Húsavík, Egilsstaðir, Blönduós and Selfoss. 22 Sustainable Societies Landsvirkjun places an emphasis on building a The interaction between tourism and energy strong collaborative alliance with society by proproduction moting transparency in working methods, encourEnergy production in Iceland is an attraction for aging knowledge dissemination and ensuring that tourists, some of which visit the country primarsociety benefits from our operations. ily to discover the benefits of renewable energy. According to a survey conducted by Gallup in April Projects in 2016 2016, 97% of tourist who responded to the survey were positive towards energy production in Iceland EIMUR and 82% said they were very positive. Following The project EIMUR was created in June 2016. The this survey, Landsvirkjun began taking further project aims to promote the increased sustaininterest in tourists’ views toward particular power ability of societies by diversifying the utilization stations. of natural resources in the Northeast of Iceland, through the interaction between society, the enIn the summer of 2016, Landsvirkjun initiated anvironment, natural resources and the economy. In other survey, conducted by the University of Iceaddition to Landsvirkjun, the following parties are land, on how tourists experience the area around involved in the project: Húsavík Energy, NordurorBlanda Power Station. ka (utility company), Eyþing (association of 13 municipalities in the Northeast), Iceland Tourism, Among interesting results from the survey were the the Icelandic Geothermal Cluster, and economic following: development corporations in the area. Among its ›› 87% of tourists stated that they had not noticed the activities, EIMUR seeks to facilitate the research power station or related structures. and utilization of the so-called side streams in energy production, agriculture and other sectors, ›› 92% of tourists consider unspoiled wilderness part support the increased use of electric cars in the of the attractiveness of the area, even if some power area and establish a resource park. The sponsors station structure can be seen. of the project made an initial contribution of 100 ›› 89% consider the area around Blanda Power Station million ISK and the project is expected to run for at natural but 7% consider it to be man-made. The least three years. results of the survey show that when relevant factors are taken into consideration in the designing of power plants, they can promote rather than detract from tourism. 23 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y North-eastern Sustainability Initiative – Grants from Landsvirkjun’s Community Fund 2016 Theistareykir Power Station In 2016, there were three rounds of funding from The North-eastern Sustainability Initiative was reLandsvirkjun’s Community Fund. The total visited in 2015 in collaboration with municipalities amount of grants was 5,780,000 ISK. in the area and other stakeholders. Among grants were the following: The area embedded in the initiative spans from ›› The Red Cross in Iceland: Christmas assistance Vaðlaheiði in the west to Jökulsá á Fjöllum in the (1,000,000 ISK) east. This is the area most likely to be affected by the construction of the Theistareykir Power ›› Ice Hockey Iceland – activities for children and teenStation, industrial operations in Bakki as well as agers, prevention and gender equality (500,000 ISK) by increased activity related to tourism in Þingey›› Save the Children Iceland – Friendship project, matejarsýslur. rial for elementary schools (250,000 ISK) The Theistareykir Power Station was open to the ›› Home and School, the National Parents Association – public on 3 July 2016 where visitors were invited to Bullying, good advice for parents (250,000 ISK) learn about the construction of the power station and the planned operations. Nearly 300 people A full list of allocated grants in 2016 is available on visited the station. Much emphasis has been put on Landsvirkjun’s website. effective communication with the local community including several meetings encourage commuReception for asylum seekers nity engagement and sharing of information. In mid-December, Landsvirkjun invited children of asylum seekers and their parents to a reception in Landsvirkjun’s headquarters. The reception was held in cooperation with the Red Cross in Iceland. The children were treated to a magician’s show and offered the chance to work with crafts, and when the reception came to an end, the children received presents. At the end of the reception the children received presents. A group of Landsvirkjun’s employees volunteered at the reception. 24 CSR focus in 2017 Goals and progress regarding the key areas of In 2017, Landsvirkjun will specifically emphasize Landsvirkjun’s CSR work in 2017 is accessible at three of the UN Sustainable Development Goals Landsvirkjun’s website, Landsvirkjun.com. In the (see page 12) concerning climate action, sustainfollowing months Landsvirkjun will pay increased able energy production and gender equality. Work attention to more seamlessly align CSR policy to towards the new goals will be couched in terms the company’s general strategy. Part of that work of existing focuses and goals of Landsvirkjun in will be further strengthening of our stakeholder the relevant areas, as well as embedding them engagement. in related strategies and policies of the Icelandic government. 25 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y UN Global Compact / GRI Index UN Global Compact Principles GRI Standards Relevant material in the report 1. Businesses should support and respect the Chapter on CSR at Landsvirkjun (see code of protection of internationally proclaimed human conduct and code of conduct for suppliers). rights. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are Chapter on CSR at Landsvirkjun (see code of not complicit in human rights abuses. conduct and code of conduct for suppliers). Chapter on the value chain (see rules on chain reliability). 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Chapter on CSR at Landsvirkjun (see code of association and the effective recognition of the conduct and code of conduct for suppliers). right to collective bargaining. Chapter on the value chain (see rules on chain reliability). 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of Chapter on CSR at Landsvirkjun (see code of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. conduct and code of conduct for suppliers). Chapter on the value chain (see rules on chain reliability). 5. Businesses should uphold the effective Chapter on CSR at Landsvirkjun (see code of abolition of child labour. conduct and code of conduct for suppliers). Chapter on the value chain (see rules on chain reliability). 6. Business should uphold the elimination of GRI 405-1 Chapter on employees. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary GRI 302-1, Chapter on climate change and environmental approach to environmental challenges. 305-1,2, GRI 305-5, impact. GRI 306-2. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to GRI 302-1, Chapter on climate change and environmental promote greater environmental responsibility. 305-1,2, GRI 305-5, impact. GRI 306-2. 9. Businesses should encourage the GRI 305-5 Chapter on climate change and environmental development and diffusion of environmentally impact. friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption Chapter on the supply chain (see Landsvirkjun’s in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. code of conduct and code of conduct for suppliers). Other material Overview of employees (position, gender, age) GRI 405-1 Chapter on employees. Health and safety of employees GRI 403-2 Chapter on employees. 26 27 L A N DS V I R K J U N’S CO R P O R AT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y Landsvirkjun Háaleitisbraut 68 103 Reykjavík Sími: 515 9000 landsvirkjun.is landsvirkjun@lv.is Mars 2017 28
