2 04 CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE 06 RÖNESANS 06 About The Company 07 Rönesans Milestones 09 2017 At a Glance 10 Companies 11 Mission, Vision, Values 12 Organizational Management & Governance 16 Memberships & Awards 18 ABOUT THE REPORT 20 GREEN PERSPECTIVE 20 Community Services 30 Employees & Workplace 36 Environment 45 Health and Safety 48 ETHICS 50 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE 4 Since our inception in 1993, Rönesans has transformed into a giant world competitor consisting over 65,000 employees working in 22 countries. Our growth has responded responsibly to the changing dynamics of today’s resource limited world, by aggressively investing in sustainable frameworks and installing best management practices in all our projects. Twenty-four years of experience in leading the forefront of construction and trade has helped develop our corporate responsibility to the highest standards. Rönesans Holding, as a UN Global Compact Participant, adapts Environmental and Social Sustainability philosophy to protect particularly human health, natural and cultural heriatages in all activities throughout the projects’ lifecycle by positively influencing its stakeholders, communities and environment. As Rönesans, we also support continously Global Compact by making its principles part of strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broder development goals of the United Nations. Our triple bottom line approach “people, the planet and economy” is at the heart of our business. We believe sustainable business practices not only have immediate positive impacts on environment and society, but also provide long-term economic benefits to future generations. This belief has established a foundation of trust and built symbiotic relationships with our stakeholders and local communities over the years. I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to our clients, who shared our vision, and for their continued support. At Rönesans, we solve sustainability challenges through the adoption of innovative measures in design, technology, and management. Most importantly, we listen to our stakeholders; through their active inclusion in every phase of our projects, we ensure our corporate social responsibility in achieving the triple bottom line. Our green vision is not only to be ranked in the top 10 construction companies in the world by our economic performance but also achieving this goal by being more and more respectful to the environment. I would like to thank all my colleagues who contributed this report which is a great way to express how much Rönesans cares environment and social life. Dear stakeholders, Your support and encouragement is key to meet the expectations of our company and, to serve our communities better by improving our sustainability approach. Thank you. İpek Ilıcak Kayaalp Chairperson of the Board RÖNESANS About The Company Rönesans Holding is established in 1993 by Dr. Erman Ilıcak, furnishes services as the main contractor and investor in 22 countries throughout the world. Operating in such fields as construction, real estate development, energy and health, the Holding is the 38th largest international contracting company of the world and the 10th largest contractor of Europe in the “Top 250 International Contractor List” announced by the Engineering News Record (ENR). Rönesans Holding currently constructs shopping malls, offices, hotels, houses, composite structures, heavy industry plants, infrastructure projects, manufacturing industry plants, chemical and pharmaceutical plants, food and beverage processing plants, automotive and machine factories, government buildings, health complexes and power plants with its 65,000 employees.. Rönesans Holding currently operates in Russia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, the Netherlands, Algeria, Belarus, Germany, Nigeria, Switzerland, Austria, Iraq, Qatar, Libya, Finland, Belgium, Mozambique, Sint Martin, Luxembourg, Gabon, Curocao and and aims at implementing new projects in the Commonwealth of Independent States, as well as the Middle East, African and European countries. 6 Rönesans Milestones 1993 2007 2010 • Dr. Erman Ilıcak establishes • Rönesans becomes the second • Rönesans launches operations in Rönesans Construction in St. largest contractor in Russia. Turkmenistan. Petersburg, Russia. • Rönesans Energy is founded and • İstanbul Optimum Outlet Shopping becomes operational upon obtaining Center is recognized as the best 1998 the first hydropower plant certificate. shopping center by International • The company wins its ﬁrst large• A joint venture is established with Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) scale construction tender, the Baltika Amstar Global, US-based real estate and Turkish Federation of Shopping Beer Plant facilities. investment company, for an array of Centers and Retailers (AMPD). shopping centers. • Kozzy Shopping Center enters 2000 service in Kozyatağı, İstanbul. • Rönesans Construction opens its Moscow Office. 2008 2011 • Sochi International Airport, the first • Rönesans Heavy Industries is 2001 infrastructure project, is launched in founded. • The company enters the real estate cooperation with Strabag. • Rönesans Forum Business Center development sector. • Renaissance Plaza, a Class A office and Crown Plaza Hotel open in St. project, opens in St. Petersburg. Petersburg. 2004 Operations expand to North Africa • Rönesans Energy becomes a partner • Rönesans inaugurates its first and Middle East. in Özlüce Hydroelectric Power Plant shopping center investment, Optimum • Rönesans Middle East and Africa (HPP). Outlet in Ankara. (Rönesans MEA) is founded in • ICBC recognizes Kozzy Shopping • Renaissance House, Rönesans’ Istanbul. Center as the best shopping center. ﬁrst office building in St. Petersburg, • Adana Optimum is selected as the enters service. 2009 best shopping center in the outlet • A shareholding agreement is category by AMPD. 2005 concluded with Porr AG. • The first of the eight Mega Shopping • Qatar Office opens. 2012 Center projects in Russia enters • Rönesans wins its first tenders in • Operations begin in Azerbaijan, Iraq, service in Nizhny Novgorod. Libya. Belarus and Gabon. • Rönesans Energy starts operations • Rönesans ranks 81st in ENR’s “Top 2006 at its first project, Yalnızca 225 International Contractors” list. • Rönesans enters ENR’s “Top 225 Hydropower Plant. Rönesans Healthcare Investment is International Contractors” list. established. • Rönesans Real Estate Investment is • İzmir Optimum Outlet Shopping founded in Ankara, Turkey. Center opens. • Ankara Optimum Shopping Center expansion building enters service. 2013 2015 • Rönesans gains recognition as • Rönesans becomes the world’s the largest international Turkish 37th largest construction company, contractor in ENR’s list, in which it and the 10th in Europe, according to has risen to the 64th place. ENR’s rankings. • Rönesans Medical is established. • Rönesans undertakes the Liquefied Operations are launched in Nigeria. Natural Gas (LNG) Plant, its first • The construction of Rönesans project in arctic Yamal Peninsula, Pravda, LEED Gold certified by the US Russia. Green Building Council, is completed. • RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office • RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office Project is acknowledged as the first Project is completed. LEED Platinum-certified campus • Rönesans opens Samsun, office project of Turkey and Europe. Kahramanmaraş and Şanlıurfa Piazza • Adana City Hospital is recognized as shopping centers. the “Best PPP Healthcare Project of 2015” by Partnership Award. 2014 • Rönesans rises to the 53rd place in 2016 ENR’s list. • Rönesans places as Europe’s 10th • Rönesans acquires Heitkamp largest contractor in ENR’s list. Ingenieur und Kraftwersbau GmbH. • European Bank of Reconstruction • The construction of Ammonia and and Development (EBRD) and its Urea Manufacturing Plant, the largest partners award the best sustainable industrial facility in Turkmenistan, is energy projects in Turkey. completed. • Sena hydroelectric power plant • Rönesans undertakes the development of the Gotthard Base receives the “Most Advanced Carbon Tunnel Project, the world’s longest Project Award”. rail tunnel, which crosses through the • Rönesans Holding becomes Alps. a signatory of the Women’s • TED Rönesans College is opened in Empowerment Principles platform, cooperation with Rönesans Education which was established under the Foundation (REV) and Turkish partnership of UN Global Compact and Education Association. UN Women. • Rönesans purchases 19.9% stake • Rönesans Energy adds Şanlıurfa HPP in the Netherlands-based Ballast to its production portfolio. Nedam, becoming the largest Gotthard Base, the world’s longest shareholder. railway tunnel, is completed by a • LEED Platinum-certified Rönesans consortium that includes Rönesans Tower (Allianz Tower) opens in Construction. İstanbul. • Rönesans signs a shareholding • Rönesans Infrastructure Consulting agreement with IFC, a member of the is founded. World Bank Group. • Rönesans Real Estate Investment enters into a strategic partnership • Stoilensky Gok, Europe’s largest iron with the Government of Singapore ore pelletizing plant, built by Rönesans Investment Corporation (GIC). Heavy Industries, commences production in Russia. • Following its financial closure, Elazığ City Hospital Project is confirmed as a Green and Social Bond by Vigeo EIRIS, which appraises environmental, social and governance-related aspects of projects in international markets. • REV provides 100 new university graduates with job opportunities at Rönesans Holding and its affiliated group of companies through its “Young Discovery Program Pusula.” 8 2017 AT A GLANCE Rönesans rises to 38th place ENR’s top global contractors list, and ranks 10th in Europe. Yozgat City Hospital, Turkey’s first PPP project, enters service after 19 months of construction. Ballast Nedam, one of Rönesans group companies, prepares to undertake a PPP road and tunnel project in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Mega Silk Way, built by Rönesans Construction specifically for EXPO-2017 in Astana, Kazakhstan’s capital city, opens its doors to visitors. İzmir Optimum becomes Aegean Region’s largest shopping center after transitioning away from an outlet concept and into a regular shopping center with additional buildings. Ballast Nedam, a Rönesans Holding group company, assumes the expansion of Castries Haven in Saint Lucia along the Caribbean Sea. Financial closure of İkitelli City Hospital, to be built by Rönesans Healthcare Investment, is completed. More than 2,000 seismic isolators are set to be installed in the hospital, which, once finished, will be the world’s largest building equipped with seismic isolators. Rönesans ranks 38th in ENR’s list of “Top 250 International Contractors” worldwide and 10th in Europe. Federation Tower Moscow, Russia Companies • Rönesans Construction (RC) is involved in engineering, procurement and construction contracts primarily as a construction company. Its primary focus is on large commercial and industrial projects such as shopping malls, hotels, business centers, hospitals, government & private offices and industrial plants for public and private clients. • Rönesans Heavy Industries (RHI) carries out its activities in construction of petroleum chemicals, gas, energy, metallurgy, mining and processing plants. The main service areas of RHI include engineering, procurement, logistics, construction and test commissioning works. • Rönesans Real Estate Development includes Rönesans Real Estate Investment (in Turkey, Rönesans Gayrimenkul Yatırım A.Ş. RGY) and Desna Real Estate Investment (in Russia, Desna) and provides construction and development of residential and commercial real estate. • Rönesans Healthcare Investment Company (RSY) carries out investment in the healthcare sector under the public private partnership scheme in Turkey. • Rönesans Energy (REN) carries out investment and development of energy projects, including renewable energy. • Rönesans Middle East & Africa (MEA) was established in 2008 and opened its first office in Libya. It now works in several countries building stadiums, hotels, residences and hospitals. 10 Mission, Vision, Values OUR MISSION OUR VISION Is to contribute to the benefit of our employees and Is to maintain our leading position in Turkey and to be society through high quality and innovative projects that ranked among the top 10 construction companies in the we take on even under challenging and variable market world. We aim to be a unique and dynamic business in conditions. We implement our mission by virtue of being each target sector by maintaining sustainable growth. reliable and dynamic in rendering our services and by making a visible difference in each market sector where we are active. OUR VALUES INTEGRITY COMPETENCE We are committed to the values described in our Code of We believe that by employing competent people we Conduct which puts integrity first. At Rönesans we are ensure the highest quality of our projects. Competent convinced that honesty is the best policy. We promote employees demonstrate a high level of knowledge and encourage honesty, integrity and transparency in all and skills. They perform their work conscientiously, our business processes and corporate communications. thoroughly, and accurately. They feel confident when it comes to assuming responsibility; thus, they are • To Do Things Right is Rönesans perceived as reliable colleagues and strong team players. • Showing True Respect To All is Rönesans • Representing Trust is Rönesans • Being Aware and Extending Your Knowledge is Rönesans • Discovering For More Creativity is Rönesans • Challenging Yourself To Reach Excellence is Rönesans TEAMWORK CARE FOR THE FUTURE We understand the importance of team spirit and Rönesans is a dynamically growing company that follows teamwork. The most impressive results are achieved long-term development strategies and aims to establish by close-knit teams which, we believe, we have at solid relationships with its employees, clients and other Rönesans. We place great emphasis on coordination and stakeholders; by envisioning a clear destination and the harmonization of efforts of our team members because future of our company. Therefore, we ensure the right road this ensures success and great accomplishments for to arrive at the best results possible and even exceed our company. At the same time, we strive to provide the expectations which we have set. We are determined our employees with an encouraging and inspiring work to move forward without stopping, to set new goals and environment where everyone can fulfill their potential, expand our horizons in order to make people’s lives safer, develop their talents, and come up with the most more comfortable, and more enjoyable. efficient and creative solutions for our clients. • Giving a Chance is Rönesans • Building With Passion is Rönesans • Being A Bridge Between The Past and The Future is • Marching Together For A Greater Success is Rönesans Rönesans • Presenting The Same Quality Everywhere and Every Time is Rönesans Organizational Management & Governance Rönesans is governed and represented by a board of highly reputed industry leaders and professionals. Our Board of Directors determines the company’s management organization, establishes the necessary arrangement for financial planning, appoints senior management, strengthens risk management, creates the company committees, and oversees whether the persons involved in management comply with the laws, articles of association, internal guidelines and the Board’s written instructions. The Board also holds General Assembly Meetings with the participation of the shareholders and ensures the implementation of decisions taken in General Assembly. The secretarial services, control, management and archiving of corporate documents of the Board is undertaken by Legal Affairs Department. Rönesans adopts the legality and the rule of law in its all works and in this way it provides the legality of the administrative affairs of the company. BUSINESS ASPECTS 12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM Rönesans has a corporate governance system that relies on a set of key components to operate and ensure accountability, efficiency, and the successful distribution of rights and responsibilities among different participants. These include the Performance, Process and Document, and the Strategic Management systems. The communication channels in these structures are bidirectional, and these frameworks also serve as a platform for individuals and groups to relay critical concerns to the highest governance body. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rönesans has developed a well-structured performance management system to help the company achieve long-term strategic objectives. In the system, the overall Rönesans mission and vision are translated to the diverse business units and corporate functions while the business streams are planned in detail with the involvement of executive management. Subsequently, those plans are communicated across the company and linked to the short-term and long-term operations of the business units. As a result of the system, Rönesans’s overall strategy has been successfully translated into operational terms. PROCESS AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Process Management System defines the structures of the business units and the organization as a whole, clarifies rights and responsibilities of each individual and standardizes the work processes through corporate procedures and standards, ensures compatibility among corporate functions, and minimizes ambiguity in operations while providing transparency and accountability. It minimizes redundant approval procedures and non-value adding control mechanisms involved in the company’s daily operations reducing extensive time spent, idle processes and waste of waiting. As a part of the process management system, standards related to the operations of diverse business units are developed. In the system, the operational roles and responsibilities of these functions are captured, work principles and authorizations are discussed and process diagrams representing the sequence of these operations are established. CENTRALIZED DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Document Management System ensures that any information, knowledge and documents can be successfully captured, classified, formatted, retrieved, reported, delivered, integrated, and secured; that is, wholly managed. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rönesans’s strategic management approach includes the formulation and implementation of the company’s goals over the long term based on the organizational strengths to enhance competitive advantage and meet customers’ and employees’ expectations. Rönesans formulates its strategy to give direction and establish the company’s scope of operations over the long term, and to maintain success in a changing and competitive environment, while considering internal dynamics and the external operating environment. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is a keystone in implementing corporate, sustainability and social strategy. Rönesans attaches high importance to comply with law, transperency and accountability. Rönesans Risk Management is implemented to prevent any contingency with a potential negative impact on the attainment of qualitative or quantitative activities. Its aim is early identification and control of the risks including market risks, operational risks, financial risks and information security risks linked to Rönesans’ global business. In this way, the potential impact of identified risk can be minimized and future threats to the company inhibited. Stakeholder Management Rönesans attaches great importance to meet expactations collaboratively with all stakeholders. To share the Company’s values, support and encourage stakeholders for good relationship, Rönesans implements Stakeholder Engagement Procedure (SEP). SEP requires efficient management and implementation of resources and responsibilities. Rönesans identifies the stakeholders’ requirements, wishes, and expectations, addresses them discerningly, incorporates them into its business activities. Rönesans has many stakeholders including: • Customers • Employees • Suppliers • Business partners • Local and neighboring communities • Investors • Non-governmental organizations • Government authorities • Media • Academics • Social and environmental agencies Rönesans SEP aims to engage relevant stakeholders for a purpose to achieve accepted outcomes, manage their business more consciously for the well-being of all major stakeholders while fulfilling their highest business purposes, intercorporate vision, mission and values. Five main categories are identified in SEP to manage key issues of each stakeholder group in Rönesans value chain. • Material Channel: Tools and methods which includes necessary information in order to manage material issues • Material Issues: Key factors for each stakeholder • Impact Channel: Rönesans uses various methods depending on target audience in order to increase the efficiency of communication. Communication methods including consultation and disclosure channels are integrated to SEP as Impact Channels. • Impacts: Direct or indirect outcomes of Rönesans activities on stakeholder groups • Description: Main stakeholder groups of Rönesans are classified as Society, Employees, Investors, Business Partners and Customers. Scope of each main stakeholder group is provided in Description section. 14 Memberships & Awards As a leading contractor both in Turkey and across the world, Rönesans placed 38th in the “World’s Top 250 International Contractors 2017” list by ENR, and ranked 10th in Europe. 2017 • Ranked 38th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • TISK GAN Award (‘The Young Discovery Program – Pusula’) • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – Yozgat Education and Research Hospital, Yozgat, Turkey • First LEED EBOM (Existing Building Operation and Maintenance) certified office buildingRenaissance Plaza, St. Petersburg, Russia • The Firm Generating the Highest Employment in Anatolia Award 2016 • International Finance Corporation (IFC) equity investment • Ranked 44th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Participant • European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Sustainability Award Most Advanced Carbon Credit Project for SENA HEPP 2015 • Ranked 37th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • European Property Awards The Best Office Interior Design • USGBC LEED Platinum Certification RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project • UN Global Compact Participant 2014 • Ranked 53rd on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • CRE Federal Awards Russia’s Best Large Shopping Center: Aura Shopping Center, Yaroslavl, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2014 • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – TED Rönesans College, Istanbul, Turkey • USGBC LEED Platinum Certification – Rönesans Tower, Istanbul, Turkey • Asia-Pacific Region International Property Awards Best Public Service Interior 2013 • Ranked 64th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • International Property Awards – Best Commercial Renovation/ Redevelopment Europe/ Russia; Best Office Development Russia: Renaissance Pravda Class A Business Center, St. Petersburg, Russia • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – Renaissance Pravda Business Center, St. Petersburg, Russia 2012 • Ranked 81st on ENR’s “Top 225 International Contractors” list • CRE Federal Awards Russia’s Best Large Shopping Center: Aura Shopping Center, Novosibirsk, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2012 • Shopping Center, Novosibirsk, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2012 16 ABOUT THE REPORT This report covers the environmental and social performance of Rönesans during the period from September 2016 to September 2017 and illustrates our corporate culture driving our achievements. We refer to the company’s subsidiaries and its joint ventures as “The Group” and use consolidated annual data from our global operations in all sectors and businesses to highlight our performance. This report also describes the practical actions that Rönesans has taken to implement UN Global Compacts principles in each of the four issue areas; human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. The performance figures in our Green Projects was reviewed by U.S Green Building Council as part of the LEED certification process. We did not employ an external agency to audit this report itself. This report was directed by Sustainability Office of Rönesans Holding. Please contact us via e-mail (sustainability@ronesans. com) for questions related to this report. 18 GREEN PERSPECTIVE COMMUNITY SERVICES RÖNESANS YOUTH DESIGN THE SUSTAINABLE “FUTURE” Rönesans Holding organized the third “Design the Sustainable Future” contest, a now traditional event designed to instill a culture of sustainability in university students. Aiming to achieve sustainability in the triangle of ‘human, environment and economy’ in projects across 22 countries, Rönesans Holding utilizes the contest as a way to promoting the use of green and eco-friendly materials, as well as alternative ideas with respect to construction techniques. The Sustainable Future Contest awarded the winners at a ceremony organized by Rönesans Holding, which believes that a sustainable future can only be built by young people. Theme of this year’s contest, receiving over 3,000 student applications from 133 universities across Turkey, was “Sustainable Recreation and Youth Center” in architecture, and “Sustainable Construction Management” in engineering. While the projects were evaluated through a variety of criteria including sustainability, recycling performance, energy efficiency, waste reduction, use of innovative materials, water efficiency, and creation of sustainable living and educational environments, students who placed in the competition were awarded monetary prizes and offered internship at Rönesans Holding. The Goal: To Reach 100,000 University Students in Five Years One of the project’s most distinguishing features is its scope that spans the entire Turkey. On occasion of “Sustainability Seminars” that took place as part of the contest, Rönesans management met with engineering and architecture students from various cities across Turkey. Through these seminars, which were not limited to metropolitan universities, Rönesans has reached out to more than 20,000 university students across Turkey from Van to Amasya and Trabzon to Manisa over the last three years. The goal is to connect with 100,000 students in the next five years through the seminars, which will help introduce the concept of sustainability to future architects and engineers in the most effective way. Inspirational Speeches by Doyens of Architecture The award ceremony featured world-renowned architects sharing their experiences on the “trends and sustainability in the construction sector”. Michael Pawlyn, a TED Talks speaker and a pioneer of biomimicry, which is roughly defined as nature-inspired design, was one of the most highly anticipated speakers at the award ceremony. Also speaking at the ceremony were the highly innovative architects Emre Arolat, Nevzat Sayın and Han Tümertekin. Having embarked on its journey with a sense of responsibility and respect for environment and society, Rönesans believes that construction of healthier and more ecofriendly buildings for future generations can only be ensured by instilling the culture of “sustainability” in university students. 20 “Sustainability” Talks At the award ceremony of “Design the Sustainable Future Contest” held in TED Rönesans College, world renowned architects shared their experiences on the “trends and sustainability in the construction sector” with architects and engineers of the future. Designing the future with “I take my inspiration from the streets” inspirations from the nature Han Tümertekin, another participant in the ceremony, Pointing out that nature has been in a constant state of defined his duty as an architect as offering people better evolution and learning for 3.8 billion years, Michael Pawlyn and happier living environments. “We usually omit said: “Nature is a unique source of sustainable solutions. creating environments that could give people a better There is nothing that keeps us, architects and designers, life. My solution to this is to observe the daily life,” from utilizing these,” and added: “The key is to consider remarked Tümertekin. He claimed the streets to be the yourself among the leaders that design the future in a most exhaustive learning environment for a designer and positive direction... Whichever project or company we advised the young audience: “Many components such as work for, we should keep this in mind in every decision the use of materials, natural character, or functionality and every step of the way.” are used in the daily life. Open your eyes and look around. Streets teach a lot if you know how to look.” “Do not tear down, rebuild” “Sustainability: critical and challenging” Sharing an alternative definition of sustainability with Emre Arolat said, “Regardless of its location and the youth, Nevzat Sayın noted: “Sustainability does type, filling a building with trees does not brand it not necessarily involve tearing down and rebuilding. sustainable”, and emphasized his view: “I think what Sustainability occasionally means making a call on we call sustainability goes far beyond placing trees on converting an old, idle industrial building into another balconies.” Arolat reminded the youth that sustainability structure, maintaining the structure based on those is one of the most critical yet most challenging topics, calls, and ensuring the use of it as an interesting venue”, and went on: “Architecture is a giant basket. It contains and he continued his remarks: “Sustainability is not only location, wind, politics, public works, economy, culture, about tearing down everything and building something demands, so on and so forth. It is an arduous task, but else in its place from scratch, it may very well come as a one that we must keep on learning…” transformation...” RÖNESANS BECOMES THE “COMPASS” FOR YOUNG PEOPLE Rönesans Holding has taken on another educational support program through Rönesans Education Foundation (REV) as a mission in order to support the development of skilled young people, who will shape the future. “Young Discovery Program Pusula”, organized in 2016 for the first time, provided new university graduates with job opportunities at Rönesans Holding and its affiliated group of companies. The program, which already stands out as one of the best corporate social responsibility programs that provide new graduates with employment opportunities in Turkey, aims at developing professional competences and qualifications of young people, as well as enabling them to adopt the business culture and prepare for the business life. Record Number of Applications The program, announced in May 2016, already reached thousands of young people through seminars organized at 12 universities in 12 cities. The project, which received more than 11,000 applications from 156 universities across 81 provinces of Turkey, involved face to face interviews with 1,000 young people in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Elazığ, Adana and Samsun. Following the evaluations, 100 new graduates from relevant departments of economics and administrative sciences, architecture and engineering faculties were employed for a period of one year at Rönesans Holding and its group of companies, where they would prepare for the business life. In 2017, the program will again offer 100 young graduates the opportunity to start their career at Rönesans Holding and its group of companies and gain a unique experience at an international. Pusula: First Experience, First Award ‘Young Discovery Program Pusula’, organized in 2016 for the first time, won Global Apprenticeship Network (GAN) Turkey Special Award at “Corporate Social Responsibility Awards” 2016 hosted by Turkish Confederation of Employer Associations (TISK). The award is given to companies which offer on-the-job training (apprenticeship, skills training, internship) and contribute to increasing knowledge and awareness thereof.) Offering new university graduates their first career opportunity through the “Young Discovery Program: Pusula”, Rönesans Holding aims to act as a bridge between education and professional life. 15 DIFFERENT 100 DEPARTMENT YOUNG We offered you different We are together We wanted to be workplace with willing PUSULA your compass options people 2016 We gave the We were there opportunity to know your day profession 156 DIFFERENT NT 11 DIFFERENT %45 FEMALE, UNIVERSITY CITY %55 MALE 22 SUSTAINABLE LIFE PROJECT Committed to the principle of acting with a sense of responsibility and respect for humans, environment and natural life as well as building a more sustainable future, Rönesans carries out social responsibility projects and volunteer activities to raise social awareness among children and the youth. Rönesans Volunteer Team developed the Sustainable Life Project to encourage children to reflect on the concept of sustainability from early ages on, and develop awareness with respect to their environment. The program lasts two class hours and involves activities which probe questions such as “What does ‘sustainable’ mean?”, “Why does it matter?”, “What can we do?”, and “How can we act, produce or consume in an environmentally responsible way?” The project, which comprises interactive classroom activities and fun education materials, was implemented in secondary schools in cooperation with Ataşehir District Directorate of National Education. 20 Rönesans volunteers offered environmental training to 800 students with activities carried out as part of the Global Employee Volunteer Week Give & Gain Day. Throughout these activities, the volunteers asked students plenty of creative questions to arouse their curiosity, and reflected on sustainable life together with them. Moreover, the school and its students were offered education cards, posters and badges, specially designed gifts for increasing the impact of the project. 20 Rönesans volunteers offered environmental training to 800 students as part of the Sustainable Life Project, which aimed at encouraging children to reflect on the concept of sustainability from early ages on and raising awareness in this area. VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL COACHES PROJECT 20 voluntary coaches from Rönesans Volunteer Team participated in the project, which was carried out in cooperation with Ministry of National Education Directorate General for Vocational and Technical Education and Association of Private Sector Volunteers. Mentoring 90 female students who study in the department of Construction Technologies at Küçükyalı Industrial and Technical Vocational High School, voluntary coaches from Rönesans staff both helped students socialize and improve themselves, and set a role model for their professional development. Prior to the meetings, all volunteers attended a two-day coaching training and received information from specialists about the activities to be carried out. Voluntary coaches also planned special trainings for senior students on topics such as interview techniques and CV preparation, in addition to organizing activities to enhance the personal development and social awareness of students at regular monthly meetings throughout the year. Moreover, the volunteers hosted the students in their own offices and meeting rooms, thus enabling them to experience a real working environment. As part of the program, which also supported the students who planned to do internship on construction sites, students gained significant experiences for their professional development. Experiencing a different social occasion with their students at the closing meeting organized in Rahmi Koç Museum at the end of the year, the volunteers completed 750 hours of voluntary work. Within the scope of the project, the building of Küçükyalı Industrial and Technical Vocational High School, which offers education to students, was renewed with improved physical conditions. All floors, ceilings and walls in the school were restructured in order to create a healthier educational environment both for students and teachers. Furthermore, nearly a thousand books were donated to the school library during the year. Vocational High School Coaches Project in Numbers 20 volunteers Number of volunteers from 90 Number female student of female students 750 hours Duration of voluntary work in one Rönesans staff mentored year 24 TRAFFIC AWARENESS TRAINING FOR CHILDREN OHSE (Occupational Health, Safety and Environment) unit of Rönesans Medical Construction’s construction site in Bursa provided traffic awareness training at Doğanköy Primary School, which is located within the impact area of its operations. Primary school students learned about the dangers of construction site machinery (trucks, mixers, trailer trucks, etc.) as well as the basic traffic safety rules. IMAGES THAT DESCRIBE LOVE BEST Winners were announced for this year’s “Love Images” themed photography contest, which has been organized for five years by Optimum Outlet, Optimum, Kozzy and Piazza Shopping Centers, Rönesans Real Estate Investment projects, in cooperation with Fotopya, photography art portal, and Creative Children’s Association. Images that best describe love were selected at the “Love Images Photography Contest”, organized by Optimum, Kozzy and Piazza Shopping Centers in cooperation with Fotopya, photography art portal, and Creative Children’s Association in order to explore future photographers and encourage children to freely express their thoughts and feelings through photos by attracting their interest in this area. A total of 5,902 photographs were received for the contest from 2,046 people in the categories of adult, teen and child. BOOK COLLECTION CAMPAIGN Aiming to support school libraries with book donations and to recycle outdated or worn-out books as waste paper, the project brings together children and teens with thousands of books, while contributing to the future by saving trees. In 2017, children and youth libraries were founded in four schools across different cities with books collected through book donation boxes placed in shopping centers operated by Rönesans. This social responsibility project also encouraged people to take individual responsibility with different volunteering opportunities. A total of 102 mature trees were saved from being cut down in one year thanks to the waste papers recycled as part of the project, which received the voluntary support of university students in sorting out the books and setting up and organizing the libraries. A total of 102 mature trees were saved from being cut down in one year thanks to the waste papers recycled as part of the project, which received the voluntary support of university students in sorting out the books and setting up and organizing the libraries. TOY DONATION BOXES Toy donation boxes placed in Istanbul and Ankara send toys to toy libraries every year with contributions of Rönesans employees. The toys collected during 2016 were used to create an amusing toy library in Keriman Çetinkaya Preschool, which was constructed by REV in Kahramanmaraş. Additionally, a children’s library was founded in the school during the same year, and a healthier educational environment was created for children through a new floor arrangement in the entire school. In the school, located in a socio-economically challenged region, a nutrition program has been launched to ensure a healthy diet for children, while extra materials were provided to improve children’s selfcare habits. The Foundation also met winter clothing and stationery needs of the students, and organized collective birthday parties and celebrations for April 23rd National Sovereignty and Children’s Day. Toys and books collected with toy donation boxes reached Kahramanmaraş Keriman Çetinkaya Preschool. SUPPORT FOR THE FIGHT AGAINST CANCER For thousands of children who struggle with cancer every year, the most important role falls upon healthcare institutions in which they receive treatment. REV supported their fight by contributing to the improvement of physical conditions in the Oncology Department of Dr. Sami Ulus Children’s Hospital. REV also provided educational materials to a children’s playroom in another oncology service in İzmir. In addition, REV shared social media posts with #kanserikesfet (#explorecancer) hashtag on February 15 Childhood Cancer Day in order to raise awareness and support NGOs engaged in this area. 26 REV SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM The REV Scholarship Program, which has been conducted as part of REV’s main activities since its establishment, has provided grants to 6,000 students to date. In addition to offering financial education support, the multifaceted program also supports students’ personal development through an online education platform and voluntary activities. Every year, hundreds of young scholarship holders receive online training on a variety of areas for their personal development, while also contributing to the society with at least 50 hours of voluntary work annually. Scholarship holders both take part in the solution of a social problem and improve themselves in different areas through voluntary projects realized individually or in cooperation with various non-governmental organizations. Reaching a total of 20,000 volunteer-hours over a year, the scholarship holders grow their social impact with each passing year by being a part of different projects from children to environmental problems, elderly people to health, and education to youth activities. Scholarship Program with Increased Social Benefit Every year, hundreds of young scholarship holders receive online trainings on different areas for their personal development, while also contributing to the society with at least 50 hours of voluntary work. Reaching a total of 20,000 volunteer-hours over a year, the scholarship holders grow their social impact with each passing year by being a part of different projects from children to environmental problems, elderly people to health, and education to youth activities. 20.000 volunteer-hours over a year REV ACADEMY – PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM REV Academy – Personal Development Program is an online education platform which has been specially prepared with the use of distance education technologies to ensure an extensive development opportunity for university students who receive scholarship from REV. Through the platform, which offers scholarship holders qualified and permanent learning opportunity by removing the limitations of time and space in personal development, the participants spent a total of 3,000 hours on the trainings over a year. The program consists of online trainings in three main fields, including ‘Personal Development’, ‘Introduction to Business Life’ and ‘Being an Active Responsible Citizen in the 21st Century’, offering young people life experience and reaching out to thousands of people every year. Additionally, REV Academy prepared an education film as part of the program in order to raise awareness among the youth about Global Objectives for Sustainable Development, and broadcasted it at its official website and on social media. Moreover, scholarship holders who watched the film were encouraged to develop a social project for an objective of their own choice. who studied at permanent buildings Education support to 547 öğrenci 6,000 students with REV Scholarship Program 55,000 m2 2,513 students of permanent buildings constructed, receiving education in including schools and libraries permanent buildings 11,000 applications 3,000 hours of education to Young Discovery Program Pusula through REV Academy Online Personal Development Program in a year 28 Activity Areas The Netherlands Headquarters Rönesans Holding Turkey, Ankara Russia Turkmenistan Rönesans Holding Russia, St. Petersburg Operation Locations Germany Switzerland Austria Qatar Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Belarus Libya Belgium Luxembourg Curacao Mozambique Turkey Finland Nigeria Gabon Russia Ghana Sint Maarten The Netherlands Turkey Iraq Turkmenistan Marking nearly a quarter century of numerous achievements, Rönesans Holding continues to make a difference with projects in hundreds of cities across 22 countries and three continents Rönesans values its employee’s professional and personal success and development. Based on these strategies the Talent and Development Management processes have been applied. As a part of talent management, employees competency evolutions are repeated annualy then after evaluations who were specified as high potential are attended Assessment Center. As a result of these processes; Rönesans’s high potential pool and employees’ strengths and development areas are identified. Trainings and development activities in Rönesans are based on two major outputs. First one is strategies of the group, and the other one is talent and performance management evaluations results. Also to increase the effectiveness of our trainings and development activities we use blended learning methods as in class, on the job and online trainings. For Rönesans creating own leaders inside the group is one of the most important strategy and in parallel with this strategy; leadership development of our executives (top and mid level management) are supported by Talent and Development Management. Accordingly; we have generated two different “Leadership and Executive Development Programs”. The first program designed for the manager and directors, is oriented into coaching and leading strategy has 3 modules and takes 6 days. Additionally, for mid level managers a different program is applied which is oriented into team management skills and abilities. This program has 2 modules and takes 4 days. In addition to in class trainings, we are also supporting our leaders with Mentorship Program. The program includes our board members and top management. Not only the leaders but also our young talents are the target group. With this program, we aim to widespread our strategy and organizational culture to our young talents as well. 30 Besides Leadership Program we also present our employees optional trainings and mandatory trainings in order to support their own development needs, optional trainings are presented each year. For this year some of the optional trainings are stated below. • Claim Management • Conflict Management • Stress Management • Advanced Excel • Excel Dashboard • Project Management Methods and Practices • Strategic Thinking and Innovation • Preparing Technical Report and Presentation • Value Engineering • Risk Management in Projects • Cost and Budget Management in Projects For technical development based on health and safety, quality and job specific needs, For this year some of the mandatory job specific needs, some of the mandatory trainings provided in 2017 are stated below; • Allplan • API 650&653 Tank Inspection Training Service • WPS PQR Training • Rönesans Orientation e-Learning Programs • IOSH Managing Safely • ISO 9001 Trainings • Advanced Access • Basic Access • Advanced AutoCAD • Green Building Design Criteria and Building Technologies: LEED Standard Perspective • Public Private Partnership (PPP) & Other Investment Financing • Project Management with Primavera 6 (Basic) • Project Management with Primavera 6 (Advanced) • Vsphere 6.5 Installation, Configuration and Management • Revit Mep In conclusion; between September 2016 and September 2017 we can refer our training and development activities with numbers as, 32,824 hours, 14.5 hour/employee and 2,1 day/employee Rönesans’s Human Resources Principles Employee Satisfaction and Motivation • Conducting surveys and interviews about employee satisfaction • Allowing for career possibilities and skill development • Offering a workplace environment in which business and private lives are balanced • Awarding employees who deliver an outstanding performance • Providing fringe benefits Dynamism, Innovativeness and Team Spirit • Encouraging creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship • Ensuring a flexible and dynamic workplace environment • Cultivating a strong team spirit in order to achieve sustainable success Right Person for the Right Job • Selecting employees who are capable of adding value to Rönesans culture, vision and mission • Effectively assessing the education, knowledge, experience and skills of candidates and employees Investment in Human • Adopting the principle of continuous and sustainable development • Organizing training for personal and professional development • Making contributions to development of skills Diversity And Non-Discrimination Diversity and nondiscrimination are basic principles of Rönesans’s Human Resources Policy. The company does not tolerate any form of discrimination and promotes equal opportunities and equal treatment for all, regardless of race, nationality, social background, disability, political or religious beliefs, gender, and/ or age. An individual’s dignity, privacy and personal rights must be respected. Degrading employees through psychological stress or in other ways is under no condition tolerated. Conducting operations in various countries, Rönesans promotes staff diversity in terms of gender, professional, ethnical, and cultural backgrounds. Diversity helps the company to be closer to its local clients, partners and communities. Gender Equality Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality Rönesans, having made a public commitment to 7 principles of Women’s Empowerment Principles since February 2016, aims to increase environmental and social corporate policies that will advance social gender equality. Women’s Empowerment Principles platform is one of the most prominent global initiatives of the private sector, aiming for the empowerment of women in order to enable them to have a place within the economic life, in all sectors and all levels. Women’s Empowerment Principles platform adopts 7 core principles. These are: • Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality • Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination • Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers • Promote education, training and professional development for women • Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women • Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy In 2017, we were participant of all meetings that comprise of equal oppurtunity, gender equality headlines. 32 Green Office: Future’s Workplace Rönesans Holding acts with a sense of responsibility for the environment and adopts sustainable strategies aimed at preventing problems that would endanger environmental health in the projects it conducts. With the strategies it adopts, Rönesans has completed numerous projects with LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certificate. One of these projects is the first high-rise structure A Class office project in Turkey to be awarded LEED Platinum Certificate: Rönesans Tower (Allianz Tower). Rönesans Tower meets complete credits on water efficiency and regional priority credits besides have almost all credits on sustainable sites and indoor environmental quality. Rönesans offers a unique sight of İstanbul and a privilege on working at 186 meter-tall LEED Platinum Certificated building to own employees. % 29 Energy Efficiency %48,5 Indoor %60 Outdoor Water Use Reduction 80,5 days daylighting 34 Environment 1Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) Environmental sustainability and social responsibility are deeply valued and adapted as core principles in Rönesans. Therefore, every step taken towards the company’s future, brings the need of continuous improvement on environmental and social actions. In order to fulfill the requirements of this improvement, Corporate Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) has been conducted since 2016. ESMS; is the entirety of the documentation and systems that are established with the purpose of monitoring, management and improvement of environmental and social sustainability performances in the activities conducted by Rönesans. All applications within the scope of Rönesans Holding ESMS are designed in parallel with international standards. Sustainability Department is responsible for the application, monitoring and supervision of the systems established within the body of ESMS in such a manner that is in accordance with the legal legislations in effect in the geographical region where the operations are carried out. The applications within the scope of Rönesans Holding ESMS are divided into 6: • Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy • Environmental and Social Management Procedures • Environmental and Social Management Documentation • Waste Register System • Energy Consumption Monitoring System • Greenhouse Gas Emission Management System Since the beginning of 2017, Rönesans has been ensured ESMS to adopt and perfom as minimum requirement by all group companies within the body of its own. 2Waste Generation Waste Register System is established for effective monitoring and management of any waste originating from activities carried out in projects and operations within the body of Rönesans Holding group companies. Through this system, any information related with the type, quantity, transportation and disposal of the generated waste are regularly monitored. Waste Register System is developed in accordance with the international standards, laws and regulations and through the use of this system it is aimed to establish an effective waste management process in all projects and to define goals that could make a prospective difference in this field through regular monitoring of the waste. Waste 2016* Paper (ton) 470,870 Wood (ton) 838,140 Metal (ton) 2,817,896 Plastic (ton) 84,535 Electronic Waste (kg) 214 * Data is taken from Annual Monitoring Report (AMR) consists January,2016 Hazardous Waste (kg) 71,641 through December, 2016 reporting period. 36 3GHG Emission Management It is estimated that construction of buildings has very important impact on the environment related to energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission. Rönesans considers environmental responsibility a strict requirement and has implemented several sustainable strategies in order to prevent probable damages that may be caused by its operations. Improvements related to greenhouse gas reduction or removal are made in accordance with TS ISO 14064-2 Standard that has scope as given below: Scope 1: Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions released from sources owned or under its control Scope 2: Purchased electricity, steam, heating, cooling etc. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations Scope 3: All other indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions not covered under Scope 2, eg. Greenhouse Gas Emissions related to transportation activities where the establishment is not the owner and not directly controlled, Greenhouse Gas Emissions etc. which may be caused by recycling or disposal of the products used. Rönesans Holding GHG Management Procedure is applied regarding following purposes: • To ensure that all documents, data and references used in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions are properly and appropriately supplied and used • To ensure the data flow activities carried out under the annual greenhouse gas emission report are not misrepresented and the relevant activities are identified • Provision of guidance on measures and actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions production In 2017, Rönesans Holding began to calculate GHG emissions related to activities of all subsidiaries. Data on activities leading to greenhouse gas emissions are collected, recorded and reported by the enterprises and projects. All data are recorded on electronic data systems. The necessary data flow within the management activities of greenhouse gas emissions is provided through GHG Management Procedure. GHG emission calculations are carried out at the end of all these steps. In 2018, it is aimed to take actions for reducing GHG emissions which are arising from activities. 4LEED Certified Projects Rönesans, having embraced the continuous progress principle and the environmental responsibility mentality as an integral part of its corporate culture, is considered to be a pioneering and leading company in its sector with regards to designing, constructing and operating projects with sustainability principles. Rönesans, acting with a sense of environmental responsibility, has become one of the prominent actors in the sector through successful green building applications. Some of Rönesans’ buildings with LEED certificate are: • Yozgat City Hospital (Gold LEED Award, August 2017) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Yozgat City Hospital is a top class city hospital located in Yozgat. This project is the first hospital in Turkey to receive LEED certification by the US Green Building Council. Yozgat City Hospital is a general hospital with 475 beds and includes Acute, Newborn Intensive Care Unit, Intensive Care Unit, Radiology, Angio Unit, Chemotherapy Unit, Nuclear Medicine Unit ve Physiotherapy Centre. The hospital, which has a construction period of 24 months, was built on a total construction area of 142.000 m2 and the gross building area is 128.118 m2. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 12/18 5/9 15/39 8/16 11/18 6/6 3/4 38 • RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project Block C (Platinum LEED Award, June 2015) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The implementation of sustainability in the architectural design and engineering of this A+ class Office Project led it to obtain Leed Platinum Certificate. It is located on E-5 in Küçükyalı, consists of three office buildings in A+ class standard. RönesansBiz Küçükyalı comes to forefront by its easiness of transportation, modern architecture and environment-friendly design. Compared to conventional buildings, significant amount of water saving is obtained due to selection of efficient water fixtures and smart landscape design. In addition, energy performance is optimized by the use of automation systems, energy-efficient lighting fixtures and integration of efficient electrical and mechanical systems. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 25/28 8/10 22/37 7/13 10/12 6/6 4/4 • Rönesans Tower (Platinum LEED Award, September 2014) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The Rönesans Tower is a Class A high-rise office and the first tall structure in Turkey to receive the Leed Platinum Certificate by the US Green Building Council. The 186-meter-tall Rönesans Tower is located on the Asian side of Istanbul, at the intersection of two major highways where the two continents connect. Rönesans Tower has a different appearance from every angle and is going to become a new symbol for the city. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 27/28 10/10 19/37 6/13 11/12 4/6 4/4 40 • TED Rönesans College (Gold LEED Award, May 2014) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. The TED Rönesans College is a top class private school located in the district of Maltepe in Istanbul. This project is the first school structure in Turkey to receive the Leed certification by the US Green Building Council. The college is designed to house 1,254 students. The kindergarten has six classrooms, a gym, as well as indoor and outdoor playgrounds. The elementary school has physics, chemistry, biology, music, visual arts, and computer classrooms as well as club rooms. A band room, a dance hall and a physical education hall are planned to be shared high school and elementary school units. The college has a total outdoor area of 6,300 m², including ceremony grounds, sports fields and playgrounds. The college has an indoor sports facility for 284 people, a dining hall for 564 people and a multipurpose hall for 297 people. The administrative section covering a total area of 500 m² includes an executive board unit and offices. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 18/24 8/11 11/33 6/13 10/19 5/6 4/4 • Renaissance Pravda Business Center (Gold LEED Award, September 2013) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. The Renaissance Pravda Class A business center is the sixth real estate project implemented in St. Petersburg. The office building is located in the heart of St. Petersburg, in the former St. Petersburg headquarters of the famous Pravda newspaper founded in 1912. A distinctive feature of the project is its unique architecture.The interior reflects the classical atmosphere of St. Petersburg: some balconies and street lights are placed in an impressive four-storey atrium. The Renaissance Pravda is designed to offer comfort and flexibility to its tenants, enabling them to plan their office space in accordance with their wishes and requirements. The Renaissance Pravda Business Center has become the first office building in Russia to receive LEED Gold Certification from the USGBC. In addition to this, the project won three prestigious awards at the International Property Awards ceremony held on September 24th, 2013, in London. The building was selected as the best office development project in Russia and the best commercial project both in Russia and in Europe. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 19/28 8/10 22/37 3/13 10/12 4/6 4/4 42 • RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office Project (Gold LEED Award, November 2012) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office, has a difference making value by its position in Class A Office concept with its sophisticated technology and environment-friendly architectural understanding. With its interior garden and yard creating a sense of “outdoor space” the project offers to office employees habitable spacious business areas just in the center of the city. The Mecidiyeköy office project was developed on an 3,917 m² plot in Mecidiyeköy. The gross leasable area is 14,316 m². Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 8/10 15/37 4/13 8/12 5/6 4/4 • Renaissance Plaza (Silver LEED Award, May 2012) The project was designed to meet LEED Silver standards. Renaissance Plaza” is one of the largest “A” class business centers of Saint Petersburg located in the historic part of the city. This 8-storeyed building with its imposing air was created with usage of fine architectural and most modern technological solutions. Renaissance Plaza Business Center is comprised of three buildings joined together by a well-furnished green internal yard. Renaissance Plaza is now the first LEED EBOM Certificated office building of Russian Federation. LEED EBOM (Existing Building Operation and Maintenance) certification system identifies and rewards current best practices and provides an outline for building’s to use less energy, water and natural resources; improve the indoor environment; and uncover operating inefficiencies. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 3/26 7/14 21/35 3/10 9/15 5/6 2/4 LEED GA & AP Certificate Program In 2015, LEED GA & AP certificate program was initiated in all of the regions we operate as Rönesans Holding, in order to raise environmental awareness among our employees and to train employees who are competent in green buildings, which is one of the important topics in today’s construction sector. Within the scope of the program, free access to educational documents and technical support are provided to our employees who are chosen from various lines of work according to their competences and various prizes are rewarded to those who successfully pass the examination and gain the right to the certificate. Within the scope of the program which has been in effect since 2015, 77 of our employees have successfully completed the process and were gained the right to LEED GA & AP certificates. 44 Health and Safety At Rönesans, we are determined to make occupational health and safety an inseparable part of our corporate culture. We believe that every accident can be prevented through reliable risk analysis and a proactive health and safety management system. We are working continuously to improve health and safety management policies by constantly bridging the communication gap between the management, employees, subcontractors and clients. Rönesans established a centralized Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Department in 2014 to improve management between our network of offices and projects. This body consists of health and safety management representatives, construction safety steering committee, safety and environmental action committee, safety managers, safety advisors, and safety supervisors. The department exercises a state-of-the digital network system for health safety data collection, monitoring, and reporting. This implementation has resulted in a drastic increase in the quality, type, and frequency of incident reports. In all operation areas, project managers, site engineers and labor personnel are also better interconnected and more prepared to deal with incidents. Our HSE Management System incorporates guidelines and reporting standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) of the United States and the European Agency for Safety & Health at Work (EU OSHA). It operates via the following mechanism, • Provide mandatory HSE training to all employees, starting at the recruitment stage • Cover emergency protocols via dynamic educational courses not only for employees but also subcontractors • Train all site-specific employees on-site with HSE induction training and project-specific HSE training • Screen potential work-related health risks in employees working on-site via medical checkups • Timely inspection of hazardous conditions on-site. • Validate the efficiency and accuracy of the HSE Management System by routine monitoring, data analysis, and regular internal/external audits • Comply with local and global industry standards in health and safety requirements related to handling of equipment and materials. Rönesans Holding’s successful Accident Prevention Program and commitment of Rönesans Holding Top Management achieved a drastic reduction at incident/accident frequency rates. 2017 Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) Rate: 1.14 *U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate= Total Recordable Cases*200000/Total Man-Hours (OSHA) TRIF Rate provided above is collated from the date between September 2016 September 2017 HSE Recognition Programs Adopting a zero-accident culture throughout its projects, Rönesans Holding develops and promotes programs that ensure the well-being and safety of its personnel, contractors, and visitors. Rönesans Holding recognizes and rewards employees for compliance with safety protocols and successful progression toward and achievement of their safety goals to develop and reinforce an organizational norm that working safely is valued and expected. 46 HSE Trainings Rönesans Holding believes that safe and healthy working has to be a key priority for everyone at work and this requires real competence, not just commitment and good intentions. Therefore, Rönesans Holding implements an HSE Training Program which: • Helps employees to identify hazards and adopt safe and healthy working practices, • Helps to avoid the pain, anguish and financial costs that accidents and ill health cause • Fosters a positive culture of health and safety, in which unsafe and unhealthy working are not tolerated, • Enables employees to spot ways to improve health and safety management, • Enables to meet legal duty to protect the health and safety of employees and others. Adequate resources have been allocated for HSE trainings and training targets have been set for Rönesans Holding; as a result, approximately six-fold increase has been achieved for training rates in last three years. 48 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle Businesses should support Principle Make sure that they are not 1 and respect the protection 2 complicit in human rights of internationally proclaimed abuses. human rights; and Labour Principle Businesses should uphold the Principle the elimination of all forms of 3 freedom of association and the 4 forced and compulsory labour; effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle the effective abolition of child Principle the elimination of discrimination 5 labour; and 6 in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle Businesses should support Principle undertake initiatives to 7 a precautionary approach to 8 promote greater environmental environmental challenges; responsibility; an Principle encourage the development 9 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle Businesses should work against 10 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 50 Ankara, Turkey Portakal Çiçeği Sokak, No:33 Y.Ayrancı Ankara 06540 Turkey Phone: +90 312 840 10 00 Fax: +90 312 442 58 16 E-Mail: ankara@rencons.com Istanbul, Turkey Küçükbakkalköy Mahallesi, Kayışdağı Caddesi No:1 34750 Ataşehir Istanbl Phone: +90 216 430 60 00 E-Mail: istanbul@ronesans.com St. Petersburg, Rusya 26A Ulitsa Shatelena St. Petersburg, 194021, Russia © 2017 Phone: +7 812 740 63 70 Rönesans Holding / Sustainability E-Mail: stpetersburg@rencons.com 52
