UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 We’re proud to have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2002 and are deeply committed to its mission to support companies to operate responsibly in line with the ten principles and take strategic action in advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals. pwc.com Chairman’s statement As the world experiences exponential change the opportunity is now to ensure the shift is towards a sustainable, inclusive future. That’s why we believe the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals are so important. They provide a common north star and facilitate trust through encouraging and enabling transparency. We are proud to reaffirm our long held commitment to the ten principles and support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. “This is a rare Through our Communication on Progress we invite you to learn more about our approach. opportunity, as individuals and as a network, to Robert Moritz step into the major PwC Global Chairman challenges facing our world and influence the outcomes on an unprecedented scale.” PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2016 | 2 Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Businesses should: Human Rights and Labour Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 Support and respect Make sure that Uphold the freedom of the protection they are not association and the of internationally complicit in effective recognition proclaimed human rights of the right to human rights abuses collective bargaining Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Uphold the Uphold the Uphold the elimination elimination of all effective of discrimination forms of forced abolition of in respect of and compulsory child labour employment and labour occupation Environment Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Support a Undertake Encourage the precautionary initiatives to development approach to promote greater and diffusion of environmental environmental environmentally challenges responsibility friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2016 | 3 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2016 | 4 2016 Progress Summary What we achieve at PwC is entirely dependent on how we put our Purpose and our values at the centre of everything we do. 2016 has been a significant year for PwC with the release of our refreshed global Code of Conduct and a renewed set of global values. We care about, respect and support internationally proclaimed human rights. We work to guard against complicity in human rights abuses. We comply with applicable labour and employment laws, and draw on internationally recognised labour principles, including the principles in the UN Global Compact and aims of the International Labour Organisation, in how we do business. PwC Code of Conduct PwC PwC| |UNGC UNGCCommunicatio n on Progress 2016 | 5 Communication A refreshed Code Global values Environmental of Conduct for that unite us Stewardship a changing world Our values and behaviours define Across the globe, our firms the expectations we have for are guided by our Network Polici es • Stand ard working with our clients and Environment Statement. We ics • s • each other. Et h Pw care for the environment and are committed to understanding • C Law • Importantly, the creation of these nal s ssio values started with our people. and reducing our impact on the ofe • Pr Through the Global Values Survey, world – starting with our own w P w C P ur pose • P 130,000 people across the PwC footprint through to working with n d uct network shared their views on our clients and advocating for of C o de what our values should be. change. Our efforts are focused Cv Co on reducing energy use from our Our values are: C alu s e • Pw • offices and air travel – which Pw s ion are the greatest source of our Cb e h av u l at io u r s • Re g emissions. Across the network Act with wehave achieved an 8% reduction The trust that our clients, communities and our people place integrity per employee in GHG emissions since FY14. in PwC, and our high standards of ethical behaviour, are fundamental to everything we do. As we go Make a about our work it’s important we Take a detailed look at difference have a frame of reference for the how we uphold the UNGC decisions we make every day. Our in our Communication Code of Conduct (Code) can guide on Progress. us, no matter where we are or what Care we do. It’s how we do business. The Code reinforces the importance of conducting business within the framework Work together of professional standards, laws, and regulations, together with our own policies, values, and standards, even as we work across Reimagine borders. It outlines the values and the possible behaviours that define how we do business. It holds us accountable to be open-minded and responsive and to give our best. Read more about our Code of Conduct here. PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2016 | 6 Contributing Community Investment to the SDGs We’re focused on helping individuals build the skills they need to prosper and building the The work we do every day capacity of NGOs and the social We help complex systems function enterprise sector. In FY16 over – whether capital markets, tax 60,000 people from across the PwC systems or the economic systems network invested over 800,000 within which business exists. We hours of professional services and employ over 230,000 people who skilled volunteering to help deliver work to help our clients achieve on these outcomes. their ambitions, make informed Find out more business decisions and deliver accurate and reliable disclosures. Contributing to: In addition, our Sustainability & Climate Change team is actively helping companies get to grips with the goals – preparing diagnostic and navigation tools Diversity & Inclusion to help them identify the goals of At PwC we respect and value most relevance and understand differences. We’re proud to be their significance to their business. a founding 10x10x10 IMPACT We actively work to help clients champion of the UN’s HeforShe adopt sustainable practices and movement, and want to help move integrate sustainability into the needle on gender equality and management and reporting. harness the immense power of our Find out more network to promote inclusion and foster greater equality. Contributing to: Find out more Contributing to: PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2016 | 7 pwc.com © 2017 PwC. All rights reserved. PwC refers to the PwC network and/or one or more of its member firms, each of which is a separate legal entity. Please see www.pwc.com/structure for further details. This content is for general information purposes only, and should not be used as a substitute for consultation with professional advisors. At PwC, our purpose is to build trust in society and solve important problems. We’re a network of firms in 157 countries with more than 223,000 people who are committed to delivering quality in assurance, advisory and tax services. Find out more and tell us what matters to you by visiting us at www.pwc.com. 127046336
