Corporate Responsibility 2016 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Five things you should know about this report In this report, we outline our approach to corporate responsibility and report on our performance in 2016. When you read the report, please note the following: 1. It is our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact Our Communication on Progress covers the financial year 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. With this document, we fulfil the requirements of section 135 and subsection 135a of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, etc. See our compliance overview on page 34. 2. We assess and report on material issues In order to give a balanced overview of corporate responsibility matters related to our business, we assess and report on material issues. These issues either represent a significant risk or opportunity for us in our business operations or could possibly affect our stakeholders’ views of Danske Bank. We assess materiality periodically as part of our reporting process. 3. Our reporting is systematic in its scope and treatment of information The report covers the Group’s five main business units and activities in our core markets. We prepare performance data according to our Corporate Responsibility Reporting Principles, which are available on our website. Deloitte has verified selected performance data according to the ISAE 3000 assurance standard. 4. The report is part of Danske Bank Group’s annual reporting This report is part of Danske Bank Group’s annual reporting, along with Annual Report 2016 and Risk Management 2016, which present detailed information about our financial results and risk management practices. You can find more detailed and segmented data on corporate responsibility issues in the Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2016, in the Statement on Modern Slavery Act 2016, in the Statement of Carbon Neutrality 2016 and in our Materiality Assessment 2016. 5. We welcome and value your feedback Please provide us with feedback and suggestions, which can help us improve our reporting and meet your needs. Contact Dorte Eckhoff, Head of Corporate Responsibility, at deck@danskebank.dk. The front page photo The front page photo was taken by Mette Kramer Kristensen, a photographer for Hus Forbi. Hus Forbi is a Danish newspaper sold by homeless or otherwise socially marginalised vendors in the streets of Denmark, and the Hus Forbi organisation has given us permission to use the photo. In 2016, MobilePay launched a pilot project in partnership with Hus Forbi. Now 35 homeless people across the country can offer purchasers of Hus Forbi the option of paying with MobilePay. The money from the sales is transferred to a Danske Bank cash card, and the vendors can use the cash card even if they do not have a bank account. The pilot project will give us experience we can use in developing a potential permanent solution. Read more on page 17. Contents 04 Foreword from CEO Thomas F. Borgen Governance and compliance 32 Governing corporate responsibility and Our business and CR Strategy commitments 34 Compliance overview and 2016 key 06 A Nordic universal bank performance indicators 08 Strategic direction 35 Assurance statement Strategic themes FOSTERING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE 10 Encouraging sound finances in the younger generation 12 Contributing to growth ACCESSIBLE FINANCE FOR EVERYONE, EVERY DAY 14 Making banking easy for everyone 16 MobilePay brings us closer to a cashless society Core business CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY 18 Creating long-term value RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS 22 Demonstrating accountability RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER 26 Becoming a values-based organisation ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 28 Mobilising climate efforts RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 30 Promoting responsibility in our supply chain 4 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Foreword from CEO Thomas F. Borgen Corporate Responsibility 2016 5 Corporate responsibility plays a central role in realising our vision of being recognised as the most trusted financial partner. At Danske Bank, we are a mirror later in life, it also contributes to of our customers and the societies sound economic developments. In we are part of. When they do 2016, we offered websites, online well, so do we. We have always games, teaching material and recognised that our position in information for parents in order society carries a responsibility, to improve children’s and young and it is important to me that we people’s financial confidence in an conduct our business in a way that inspiring way. is sustainable and that creates greater opportunities for current We support economic growth and future generations. as part of our core business of providing capital for investments, In 2016, we integrated corporate absorbing risks, innovating the responsibility further in our financial infrastructure, and helping core business. For example, people and businesses realise their we worked steadily to combat ambitions. In 2016, we invited financial crime, to clarify our all interested Danish, Norwegian, positions on responsible lending and Finnish banks to participate and investment, and to increase in a new MobilePay partnership. our attention to cybersecurity. Furthermore, we expanded The Moreover, we continued to use Hub, our programme for startups, our expertise to foster financial to the Swedish and Norwegian confidence and provide access to markets and increased our financial services. commitment in Denmark. The Hub helps new businesses pursue their Almost ten years ago, we growth plans and international joined the United Nations ambitions, and in the coming Global Compact. As part of our years we will intensify our efforts continuing commitment, we to assist startups and small and support the UN’s 2030 Agenda medium-sized businesses. for Sustainable Development and the 17 Sustainable Development Throughout 2016, we also Goals. Reaching these challenging continued to engage with our goals, which range from reducing stakeholders to better understand inequality to ensuring economic their concerns, explore how we growth, will require the full can work together, and get their attention of governments, the views on how we can do more private sector, civil society, and to create long-term value in a people like you and me. sustainable way. As a leading financial institution in the Nordic countries, we contribute to the pursuit of a variety of the UN goals, but to maximise the value of our efforts, we have so far chosen to use our expertise to Thomas F. Borgen advance two in particular: “Quality Chief Executive Officer Education” and “Decent Work and Economic Growth”. We encourage children and young people to learn about personal finance at an early age in order to build their financial confidence. This not only benefits the individual 6 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Our business and CR Strategy A Nordic universal bank Danske Bank Group is a Nordic universal bank with bridges to the rest of the world. We offer a full range of banking services to personal customers, businesses and large institutional clients. Our business is driven by an ambition to create long-term value for our customers, investors and the societies where we operate. The Essence of Danske Bank Vision To be recognised as the most trusted financial partner Strategic core We are a modern bank for people and businesses across the Nordics with deep financial competence and leading, innovative solutions Customer promise We help customers be financially confident and achieve their ambitions by making daily banking and important financial decisions easy Core values We deliver expertise – make knowledge relevant We act with integrity – be responsible We create value – make a difference We progress through agility – embrace change and be responsive We believe in collaboration – engage, listen and act The Essence of Danske Bank is the foundation on which we develop our business, execute our strategies and build partnerships throughout our value chain. Serving our customers at five main business units in 2016 Our employees serve a broad variety of industries and customers at our five main business units. The units are segmented according to the characteristics of their customers, products and services. Personal Banking serves Corporates & Institutions serves Northern Ireland serves personal personal customers large Nordic corporate and and business customers The unit provides proactive advice institutional customers The unit provides banking activities to customers and makes day-toThe unit provides strategic advice, through a network of branches in day banking simple and efficient financial solutions and products Northern Ireland and leading digital through innovative digital solutions. in capital markets, fixed income, channels. currencies and commodities, and 4,623 employees 1,289 employees transaction banking. Total income DKK 12.1 billion Total income DKK 2.1 billion Profit before tax DKK 5 billion 1,796 employees Profit before tax DKK 1.1 billion Total income DKK 10.6 billion Profit before tax DKK 4.8 billion Business Banking serves small and We also offer mortgage finance medium-sized businesses through Realkredit Danmark, real The unit offers leading Wealth Management serves the estate brokerage through ”home”, solutions in financing, investing, Group’s entire customer base and leasing through Nordania cash management and risk The unit encompasses expertise Leasing, and we have a number of management through a large within pension savings, private group support functions and nonnetwork of national finance banking, and wealth and asset core activities. centres, branches, contact management. The unit includes centres and online channels. Danica Pension, Danske Capital and Private Banking customers 2,662 employees with complex finances. Total income DKK 11.2 billion Profit before tax DKK 6.7 billion 1,948 employees Total income DKK 8.6 billion Profit before tax DKK 4.8 billion Our business and CR Strategy Corporate Responsibility 2016 7 Danske Bank has provided banking services for more than 145 years. Our core markets are Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland, and we also operate in Northern Ireland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. We have additional offices in several other European countries, the US and Russia as well as support functions in India. DKK 48 billion Total income in 2016 DKK 25.4 billion Profit before tax in 2016 Norway Finland 13.1% Sweden Return on equity before goodwill impairments in 2016 3.4 million Customers* Denmark 19,303 * In Personal Banking, Business Banking, Northern Ireland, Full-time employees, end-2016 Corporates & Institutions and Wealth Management (Private Banking customers only), end-2016. More insights You can find more details on our financial performance, market positions and business strategy in our Annual Report 2016 and our quarterly financial fact books. Engaging customers through multiple touchpoints in 2016** 272 38.7 million 63 million BRANCHES ATM TRANSACTIONS SELF-SERVICE eBANKING TRANSACTIONS (2015: 300) (2015: 43 million) (2015: 70.5 million) 10 million 171 million 43 million CALLS TO OUR 24/7 MOBILEPAY TRANSACTIONS SELF-SERVICE MOBILE AND TELEPHONE SERVICE TABLET BANKING TRANSACTIONS (2015: 10.5 million) (2015: 81 million) (2015: 39.7 million) ** Calls and transactions are from 2016; the number of branches is from the end of 2016. 8 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Our business and CR Strategy Strategic direction The Corporate Responsibility Strategy sets our course for the period until 2018. It delineates our ambition to increase financial confidence and access to financial services and to integrate corporate responsibility in our core business. Danske Bank has an important role in contributing to financial decisions and ensuring a responsible transition financial stability and economic growth. Our Corporate to future financial services. Furthermore, we work to Responsibility Strategy sets forth two strategic themes integrate corporate responsibility in our core business by and five areas of focus to integrate responsibility in our contributing to society, fostering responsible customer core business. With the two strategic themes, we aim relationships, being a responsible employer, reducing to foster financial confidence and provide accessible our environmental footprint, and ensuring responsible finance for everyone by enabling people to make sound supplier relationships. Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2015-18 Foundation The Essence of Danske Bank Our vision, strategic core, customer promise and core values Contributing to Our role financial stability and economic growth Strategic Fostering Accessible finance themes financial confidence for everyone, every day Responsible Responsible CR in core Contributing Responsible Environmental customer supplier business to society employer footprint relationships relationships Corporate responsibility governance, policies and reporting We are two years into our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, which we developed on the basis of stakeholder consultation, materiality assessment and market trend analysis. Our strategy is dynamic in order to adjust and to accommodate the needs of our business units, local markets and new developments. Our business and CR Strategy Corporate Responsibility 2016 9 Contributing to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and We contribute to a variety of the promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the UN in 2015. Our 2017 target: For example, we contribute To help 10,000 children and young people in our to Health and Well-being, markets improve their financial skills in 2017. Gender Equality, Climate Action and Partnerships through our Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2015-18. Further, we Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic have chosen to advance goals growth, full and productive employment and decent work No. 4 and 8 in particular. for all. Our 2017 target: To support startups by facilitating applications to 2,000 startup jobs and guiding 800,000 visitors to discover Nordic startups on The Hub platforms in 2017. Jeanette Fangel Løgstrup Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Group Marketing & Communications at Danske Bank Question: Why is Danske Bank focusing on Sustainable Development Goals No. 4 and 8? Answer: The Sustainable Development Goals call for action from every one of us. Countries, companies and civil society have to put forth their best effort for the world to reach these challenging goals. To maximise the impact of our efforts, we have so far chosen to focus on quality education and decent work and economic growth. By focusing on financial literacy among children and youth as well as supporting startups in their growth ambitions, we aim to make our expertise available for the benefit of the generations to come. 10 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: FOSTERING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE Encouraging sound finances in the younger generation The Sustainable Development Goal Gaining knowledge about money and finances at a young No. 4 age contributes to sound finances later in life. We offer Ensure inclusive and equitable quality websites, online games, teaching material for schools and education and promote lifelong learning information for parents in order to improve children’s and opportunities for all. young people’s financial confidence in an inspiring way. Our 2017 target: Key initiatives in 2016 included the rollout of our SMART To help 10,000 children and young people in our markets improve their Money and SMART Partnership programmes and the financial skills in 2017. development of our Young Dreams workshops. 2016 Performance We believe that a higher level of Many people – including children, financial literacy and education young people, students and 10,000 not only enriches the life of the parents – benefit from improving 9,000 individual but also contributes their financial literacy. Therefore, 8,000 to healthy economic growth in our financial confidence initiatives 7,000 society. Consumers with financial are aimed at these groups in order 6,000 knowledge and healthy personal to prepare the younger generation 5,000 finances help increase competition, for a healthy financial start to adult 4,000 innovation and product quality in life. 3,000 the financial sector by challenging 2,000 us to develop better and more 1,000 efficient products and solutions. 0 In 2016, 7,408 children and young people improved their financial skills by “50,000 young people are registered participating in Money Week, our SMART Money programme in Denmark and our as bad debtors in Denmark’s largest Young Dreams workshop in Finland. Further, some 67 schools registered for debtor register, RKI” our SMART Partnership programme in Source: calculations from The Danish Bankers Northern Ireland. Association on the basis of data from Experian (2016). Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2016 11 Promoting sound financial habits Our online In December 2015, we collected universes our educational materials in the SMART Money programme. The Moneyville programme, which was developed Moneyville is a fun game in in collaboration with the Danish which 5 to 9 year-olds can learn Maths Association, consists of a about the value of full range of websites, games and money. They can teaching material. Pupils take part earn money and in games and exercises such as decide themselves digital polls and a game in which whether to spend it or save it. Since its they test their knowledge about launch in 2008, the money and compete in groups. Moneyville website Older pupils can get a visit from has had over one of our financial advisers who 7 million users. engages them in discussions about understanding financial assets, avoiding pitfalls such as opaque payday loans, and protecting themselves against cybercrime. Increasing financial literacy One hundred and forty-one schools have registered for our SMART Partnership Control Your Money programme in Northern Ireland since the launch in 2015. The programme Control Your Money is an consists of cross-curricular modules in which students increase their financial educational website that teachers can use to teach 10 to 15 yearliteracy. In 2016, we added a new module about running a business. The olds about personal finances. The modules were presented by local employees who are trained as Youth pupils can carry out missions, Ambassadors. In 2016, we also launched SMART Junior – a version of the such as arranging and financing a programme for primary school pupils. Fifty schools have registered for this trip abroad and moving away from version. home. Since its launch in 2010, 71,367 Control Your Money missions have been completed. Moneyville Live Together with W5, Northern children, the exhibit introduces Introducing Money Ireland’s award-winning science the concepts of money and At the Introducing Money website, and discovery centre for families, finance in interactive exercises. parents can find age-specific we developed Danske Bank Children created profiles and information on how to talk with World of Moneyville in 2016. played Moneyville on iPads their children and youngsters Intended for primary school installed at the exhibit. about money and personal finances – on subjects ranging from children’s first pocket money and after-school jobs to managing Nurturing young dreams their own finances. Since its launch in 2014, the website has had 10,746 visitors. Together with our Finnish partner, Youth Academy, we want to encourage young people to dream and live out their dreams. In 2016, we developed a workshop for upper secondary schools and vocational schools. The young people were encouraged to think about their dreams and what it would take More insights financially to achieve them. Some 680 pupils attended 28 test workshops, which were held in eight cities. By the end of 2017, we will have launched You can find more information on a nationwide campaign with 130 workshops at schools, Danske Bank our SMART Money programme offices and big public events. The campaign is part of the programme for the in Corporate Responsibility Fact centenary of Finland’s independence in 2017 and the celebration of Danske Book 2016. Bank Finland’s 130th anniversary. 12 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: FOSTERING FINANCIAL CONFIDENCE Contributing to growth Startups are essential for innovation and economic growth. In order to foster growth at startups, we provide platforms for knowledge sharing and facilitate The Sustainable Development Goal access to capital and financing. Key initiatives in 2016 No. 8 included launching The Hub in Norway and Sweden and Promote sustained, inclusive and supporting events across the Nordics. sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. To succeed in their growth To support startups in fulfilling ambitions, startups must be their potential, we make our Our 2017 target: well equipped to navigate in a expertise available by providing To support startups by facilitating competitive environment. The advice, access to capital, applications to 2,000 startup jobs and main barriers have proven to be and entering partnerships to guiding 800,000 visitors to discover recruitment and access to bestaccelerate our efforts and coNordic startups on The Hub platforms practice tools and venture capital. create solutions. For example, in 2017. By removing the barriers, startups together with Danica Pension, ATP can focus on commercialising their and PensionDanmark, we have Jobs posted on The Hub in 2016 ideas and innovating their business established a DKK 1 billion fund model to stay attuned to their to which businesses can apply for 2,000 customers’ expectations and needs. equity loans. 1,600 1,200 800 The Hub – a platform for startups 400 The Hub is an online platform shared platform for Nordic startups tailored to the needs of startups and increase collaboration across 0 with a global outlook and an borders between investors and ambition to expand quickly. The entrepreneurs. Visits to The Hub in 2016 platform makes it easier to recruit 800,000 skilled employees, raise capital and We founded The Hub together with 700,000 gain access to best-practice tools. our strategic partner Rainmaking, 600,000 which is an experienced player in We launched The Hub in the Danish startup community. In 500,000 December 2015, and today Sweden, we also partnered up with 400,000 it is one of the largest job and SUP46, one of Sweden’s leading 300,000 investment platforms for startups startup hubs, and additional 200,000 in Denmark. In 2016, we expanded partners will be invited to join the 100,000 The Hub to Sweden and Norway. platform on an ongoing basis. 0 Our ambition is that it will be a Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2016 13 With The Hub, we participate Sponsoring in conferences and events a gazelle event for startups For the past 13 years, we have across the Nordic region. In 2016, sponsored conferences at regional we attended conferences such as centres in Lithuania to promote Sweden Demo Day (Sweden’s largest growth at SMEs as well as an startup conference), TechBBQ (the annual gazelle event at which largest startup and innovation summit companies with the highest growth and development rates receive in Denmark), and Slush Finland (the awards. In 2016, more than biggest startup event in the Nordics). 1,500 SMEs attended the gazelle event and got the opportunity to expand their networks and receive DenmarkBridge recognition for their business success. Danske Bank is a founding member of DenmarkBridge, a membership-driven initiative established in 2016 because strategic networking is a key ingredient in understanding, adapting and developing disruptive innovations. The Early Warning initiative is intended to build a bridge between Danish companies and Silicon for small businesses Valley by creating a community based on high-level strategic networking and Many companies get in trouble at knowledge sharing. some point. The difficulties range from financial problems and market changes to leadership issues. Boosting the Finnish economy Experience shows that, in times of crisis, impartial guidance reduces the number of bankruptcies, The Finnish economy has been the hype surrounding software encourages second chances, and weak for the past four years, startups. We addressed SMEs on changes the stigma associated and in 2016, we organised an three tracks: cooperation between with bankruptcy. Early Warning is a Danish counselling programme event called Growth 2016 for startups and re-starts, funding, that offers free, impartial and SMEs, investors and specialists. and the challenges of marketing confidential advice to SMEs that To support areas outside the and expanding businesses abroad. are undergoing a crisis. It is a capital region, we held the event The event was attended by 730 collaboration between consultants, in Tampere, Finland’s thirdpeople, and numerous one-onvolunteer advisers and lawyers largest city. The focus was on one meetings between venture initiated by the Danish Ministry of the conventional manufacturing capitalists and startups resulted in Business and Growth. In 2016, industry and commerce, immediate funding decisions. three financial advisers from businesses that do not benefit from Danske Bank joined Early Warning. Kasper Vardrup Partner Rainmaking Loft Question: What opportunities does the partnership with Danske Bank provide? Answer: Danske Bank has enabled us to develop The Hub into a product superior to others in the market by providing funds and inducing an air of seriousness and legitimacy to the product. In just a year, we have grown to become one of the largest job and investment facilitators in Denmark. The Nordics is a genuine innovation powerhouse for startups and growth enterprises. In fact, Nordic growth enterprises are attracting an impressive quarter of all investments in Europe. With Danske Bank as a partner, it has been obvious to open The Hub to other Nordic countries and provide Danish enterprises with access to Nordic investors and vice versa. The same goes for talents with preferences to startups. This workforce is extremely mobile and to them relocating is no hindrance. 14 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: ACCESSIBLE FINANCE FOR EVERYONE, EVERY DAY Making banking easy for everyone Rapid technological advances and changing customer expectations mean that our digital reach is increasingly important. To ensure a responsible transition to digital financial services, we aim to take a leading role in developing innovative products that are accessible, easy to use, and secure. A key initiative in 2016 was relaunching our Step-by-step meetings. As customers become more services – and to feel secure using 38% accustomed to digital services, they also expect a seamless them. of 65-74 year-olds use a experience. Therefore, we are To increase accessibility for tablet to access the Internet constantly challenging ourselves everyone, we have launched to provide products that enable several customised solutions self-service around the clock. for senior citizens, the visually 17% of 65-74 year-olds use At the same time, we want all our customers to be able to impaired and other customers with special needs. smartphones for banking gain access to our products and Source: The Danish Agency for Culture and Palaces, 2016. Step-by-step meetings 2.0 For some seniors, digital banking digital banking services. Over the using a tablet to access the is easily done. For others, it can years, we have seen increasing Internet. In the second course, be a challenging experience. In our demand for training in the use participants learned how to use contact with elderly customers, we of mobile devices. Therefore, in tablet banking, including how seek to help them and explain all 2016 we decided to relaunch to check their account balance, the solutions we have developed the Step-by-step meetings in pay bills and transfer money. to make banking easier. Denmark to teach senior citizens In autumn 2016, we held two how to use tablets for online pilot courses in the Danish city In Denmark and Northern Ireland, banking and payments. The new of Odense with 30 participants. we invite elderly customers to meetings consisted of two courses The experience from the pilot Step-by-step meetings. At the combined with the opportunity to project will enable us to refine the outset, our focus was on making get help from a personal adviser. meetings for wider application. computers part of their daily lives The first course was intended to and guiding them through our make the participants comfortable Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2016 15 To increase accessibility for personal customers who need to deposit and withdraw money, For customers in Denmark who are unable we have arranged for some 190 To help visually impaired customers, to visit branches or ATMs, need someone post offices in Denmark to provide we have keyboards in Braille and to make payments on their behalf, or have these services. so-called synthetic speech at many difficulty remembering a PIN, we offer a cash ATMs in Denmark, Sweden and card. It has a PIN that is easily memorised, Northern Ireland. In Denmark, we also a maximum balance of DKK 5,000, and no offer monthly account statements in overdraft facility. It can be used at all ATMs Braille and home deliveries of cash and shops that accept MasterCard. once a month. For all customers with eBanking, To accommodate customers who are we offer online meetings for easy not confident with digital banking, access to advisers. Advisers can we developed Easy Banking. It is a display graphics and calculations on the screen during the meetings. In 2016, we held some Accessible simplified version of our eBanking system in Denmark. The system has only three basic functions – account 60,000 online meetings. finance for overview, bill payment and transfer, including transfers to a cash card. everyone To support young people, we launched To keep up with customers’ diverse and Youth Direct – a department where changing lifestyles, we offer several advisers have first-hand knowledge of self-service solutions as well as 24/7 the financial issues young customers For customers with special needs telephone support. face, such as student housing and who have difficulty with digital study abroad. communications, we offer correspondence by ordinary post at no extra cost. 16 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Strategic themes STRATEGIC THEMES: ACCESSIBLE FINANCE FOR EVERYONE, EVERY DAY MobilePay brings us closer to a cashless society MobilePay is our best example of the convenience and instant access that digital solutions can offer. Since 2013, more than 3.3 million people in Denmark have downloaded MobilePay, and the payment platform is gaining ground in Norway and Finland. From the beginning, we made MobilePay available to everyone, not only Danske Bank customers. A major development in 2016 was opening the platform to all interested Nordic banks, ensuring more resources to develop the solution for the benefit of consumers, businesses and society at large. We created MobilePay to address platform that is subject to constant About MobilePay the need for very simple money innovation and new features. MobilePay enables people to transfer transfers, and MobilePay feeds Features such as “Payment link”, and receive money and make payments into our strategic effort to provide a simple value-add for small in apps, physical stores and online accessible finance for everyone. businesses, which can now easily shops simply by using a smartphone. In 2016, we invited all interested accept invoice payments via For businesses, handling less cash also Danish, Norwegian and Finnish MobilePay Business by means of means increased security and reduced banks to participate in a MobilePay accounting tools such as Dinero. administration. Businesses pay a fee for partnership. The partnership The solution makes it possible to using MobilePay, while the app is free of charge for consumers and available to will ensure that consumers and attach a MobilePay button to an anyone with a smartphone. businesses have a widely used, invoice so that customers can pay user-friendly mobile payment conveniently with MobilePay. Strategic themes Corporate Responsibility 2016 17 Making charitable donations easy Since fewer people carry cash MobilePay to collect donations. and collectors, and marketing these days, charitable organisaIn collaboration with ISOBRO, the materials. tions sometimes miss out on Danish Fundraising Association, donations. MobilePay has given MobilePay developed a “free In 2016, MobilePay added a them access to a larger donor of charge” package that allows new feature that allows donors group since it allows donations to charitable organisations to use in Denmark to report donations be made whenever and wherever it MobilePay Business for collections through the bank to the charity suits the donor. and donations without paying a fee. organisations, which then do the The package includes transactions tax reporting so that donors can get In 2016, more than 270 and subscriptions, training in their tax deductions more easily. charitable organisations used using MobilePay for fundraisers MobilePay in figures 2016 9 out of 10 3.3 million 5,500 171 million +270 72% SMARTPHONES USERS WEBSHOPS TRANSFERS CHARITABLE NOT DANSKE HAVE THE APP MADE ORGANISATIONS BANK CUSTOMERS The figures cover the Danish market Providing digital solutions for homeless people How can we prevent digital solutions purchasers of Hus Forbi the option from having negative consequences of paying with MobilePay. The for organisations and people who money from the sales is transferred still rely on cash? A cashless to a Danske Bank cash card, and society will affect more than 2,600 the vendors can use the cash card homeless people who raise money even if they do not have a bank by selling the Hus Forbi newspaper account. The card can be used at all in the streets of Denmark. In 2016, ATMs or wherever MasterCard is MobilePay launched a pilot project accepted. The pilot project will give in partnership with the Hus Forbi us experience we can use to develop organisation. Now 35 homeless a potential permanent solution. people across the country can offer Rasmus Wexøe Kristensen Secretariat Director at Hus Forbi Question: How do MobilePay and the cash card solution help the homeless? Answer: It is important that our vendors are able to sell as many newspapers as possible. It is a vital income that makes their life on the streets more bearable. The combination of a cashless payment and the cash card is the big advantage. Often they don’t carry a valid ID, and when you don’t have an address, it is very difficult to get a bank account and a debit card. With this solution, we reduce some of the stigmatising effects that homeless people unfortunately experience with increased digitalisation. The solution also provides new opportunities for Hus Forbi as it will be quicker and easier to get payments to our vendors regardless of where they are in the country. We hope the pilot will lead to a permanent set-up. 18 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Creating long-term value We strive to create long-term value, increase transparency, and engage in dialogue with our stakeholders. Key developments in 2016 included clarifying our positions on tax and our ambitions for engagement with various stakeholder groups. Shareholders VALUE CREATION DKK 16.2 billion Distributed in 2016 to our 266,000 shareholders, including a DKK 8.1 billion share buy-back. 46% of our shareholders are based in Denmark, 19% in the UK, Employees and 21% in the US and Canada. Banking customers DKK 13.8 billion DKK 1,689 billion Salaries, bonuses and social security costs paid in 2016 for our Loans issued for banking 19,303 employees. customers in 2016. At the end of 2016, 50% of Loans to Personal Banking customers our employees were women and represent 44% of all loans, and loans to Business Banking customers 39%. Suppliers 50% were men. DKK 7.4 billion Payments for products and services delivered by our 13,746 suppliers in 2016. Asset management Most of our suppliers are in the IT, Tax authorities premises and facilities management, DKK 1,420 billion and professional services fields. DKK 5.5 billion Assets under management consists Tax on the profit for 2016. of our conventional life insurance business (Danica Traditionel), asset management (Danica unit-linked and Danske Capital) and assets under advice (the investment decision is taken by the client) from personal, business and private banking customers. More insights You can find more details on our financial performance and value distribution in Annual Report 2016. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 19 CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY Policy commitment We want to contribute to growth and prosperity through the products and services we deliver and by innovating the financial infrastructure. We are committed to conducting our business in a responsible and transparent manner and to making our expertise available for the benefit of the societies in which we operate, for example, through education, corporate volunteering and supporting growth initiatives.* Increasing transparency Acting in a transparent manner and with integrity is a Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 • Create value for all our stakeholders fundamental principle in our engagement and dialogue • Contribute to financial stability with society. In 2016, we updated our Tax Policy • Contribute to economic growth to clarify what we mean by having a responsible • Transparent tax payments and transparent approach to tax. The policy sets • Transparency, contributing to communities and stakeholder out a conduct for responsible behaviour that our engagement employees must follow, which includes that we do not tolerate any illegal actions on tax. If any customers or business partners engage in tax fraud or tax evasion, we cooperate with the authorities in accordance Target 2018 Performance 2016 with all applicable rules and regulations. In line with our core values, we do not participate in any abusive 12.5% ROE 13.1% ROE tax arrangements. Through the policy we commit A return on shareholders’ Return on equity in 2016** to being transparent, to seek a pro-active, open and equity above 12.5% by cooperative relationship with the tax authorities and 2018 at the latest** to disclose our tax payments in accordance with national and international requirements and good practice among peers. Key actions 2016 • Contributed to economic growth and financial stability through our services and innovation of the financial infraSara Jespersen structure Project Manager, • Invited all interested Danish, Norwegian and Finnish banks The Tax Dialogue, at Oxfam IBIS to participate in a new MobilePay partnership • Updated our Responsibility Policy and Stakeholder Policy • Engaged in dialogue with tax authorities and clarified our Question: positions on tax What does IBIS expect from companies with • Engaged in activities and partnerships to support our regard to responsible tax practices? communities Answer: We expect all types of companies and corporations to be transparent on their tax policy, strategy Outlook for 2017 • Conduct a study, in collaboration with Copenhagen Busi­ and the account data to support how these are ness School, to determine our impact on Danish society implemented in practice. A clear communication • Strengthen our programmes in financial confidence and on tax positions that acknowledge the challenges accessibility linked to the Sustainable Development Goals of the current tax framework and how to address • Increase transparency on our approach to tax and continue dialogue with tax authorities these in the short term and the long term is in • Update our Stakeholder Policy our view essential to bring the agenda forward. • Develop a process for coordinating our donations and More companies like Danske Bank go through an monitoring corporate volunteering internal consultation to clarify their positions and make their tax policies public available, which is an important first step. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. Other supporting policies includes our Stakeholder Policy and Tax Policy. ** For more detailed information, see Annual Report 2016. 20 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business CORE BUSINESS: CONTRIBUTING TO SOCIETY How we engage with our stakeholders Employees and their representatives Our ambition is to: • build a truly customer centric culture where employees are empowered, guided by our core values In 2016, we launched new tools to promote employee engagement through dialogue and discussion, and we continued Customers to cooperate with employees’ organisations and local unions. Our ambition is to: At Wealth Management Denmark, we launched an initiative • be the most trusted financial partner called Health Week to increase employees’ awareness of issues • deliver the best customer experience related to health and well-being. • help customers become financially confident and achieve their ambitions by making daily banking and important financial decisions easy In 2016, we engaged in dialogues with customers in personal meetings, on social media and at our multiple touchpoints. We continued to simplify our products by making them more transparent and easy to use, for example by offering 200 customers the opportunity to try the beta version of June, our new online investment product. During the beta period, we will use their feedback to keep improving June. Business partners, financial industry associations, suppliers and market participants Our ambition is to: • be an open and credible partner Investors and analysts and a trustworthy and responsible Our ambition is to: representative of the sector • comply with the Investor Relations policy and to be an open and transparent partner • achieve a stable and diversified investor base In 2016, we invited all interested Danish, Norwegian and Finnish banks to participate in a new MobilePay partnership for the In 2016, we engaged in an ongoing dialogue benefit of users, businesses and society at with investors and analysts by holding large. meetings with them individually, in small groups and together with management at roadshows in Europe and the US. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 21 Interest organisations Our ambition is to: • be an open, collaborative, and value creating partner, that engages in a true dialogue Governments and politicians Our ambition is to: • be a constructive partner driven by an In 2016, we had an ongoing ambition to create value for society dialogue with Oxfam IBIS on • have an open and collaborative dialogue and deliver responsible tax practices expertise in a transparent way in order to understand their views and expectations as we reviewed our Tax Policy. In In 2016, we participated in political festivals such as addition, Danica Pension and Folkemødet in Denmark and Almedalsveckan in Sweden by Børneulykkesfonden developed engaging in debates and events on broader societal issues the Active Generations such as growth, corporate responsibility and the role of the programme to promote healthy financial sector. habits across generations in Denmark. Regulators and authorities Supporting local communities Our ambition is to: Another way we contribute to society is by • be an open and credible expert, and a participating in local charitable work and corporate constructive partner in developing and volunteering. implementing regulation In Northern Ireland, we launched a new programme called “Danske Time to Give”. Since the launch, we have volunteered 233 hours. In In cooperation with regulators and Estonia, we joined “Let’s donate time”, a scheme authorities, we have engaged in an led by the Estonian Employers’ Confederation in effort to ensure that the coming Basel which employees get one paid day off per year to do standards on simplicity, comparability voluntary work. and risk sensitivity are balanced in order In Norway, we developed Danske Charity, to secure Nordic and Danish specificities in which employees can get a paid day off to do such as the Danish mortgage system. corporate volunteering at one of ten NGOs. It will be implemented in 2017. In India, we embarked on a new initiative in collaboration with the NGO, Need Base India, to finance the rehabilitation and education of 25 underprivileged boys. In Lithuania, our employees participated in the Endomondo challenge, in which they tracked the results of their sports activity with the app. Afterwards, the calories burned were converted into food The media, opinion leaders, experts and the and donated to the “Food Bank”: 3 million calories general public were converted to 45,000 food portions and distributed to vulnerable social groups in 2016. Our ambition is to: In Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden and • be an open and collaborative partner for the media Northern Ireland, employees voted for charities that and to ensure fair and balanced coverage would receive the annual Christmas donations. In • show availability to external stakeholders 2016, they selected the Danish Julemærkefonden, the Finnish Hyvä joulumielikeräys, the Norwegian Kirkens Bymisjon, the Swedish Musikhjälpen, and In 2016, we improved our dialogue with the media. As TinyLife in Northern Ireland. In addition, we made digitalisation and disruptive business models become 50 donations totalling DKK 1.7 million through the more important in the financial sector, we share our Danske Bank Fund. expertise about this area at meetings and briefings with journalists. More insights You can find more information on our corporate volunteering in Corporate Responsibility Fact Book 2016. 22 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Demonstrating accountability We work constantly to integrate responsibility measures in our investment and lending practices and to build responsible customer relationships by offering proactive advice. Key developments in 2016 included the formulation of sector-specific position statements and measures to prevent financial crime. We offer a wide range of financial on our integrity when we offer advice. produced the biggest improvement products. Some products are In 2016, we continued to simplify in customer satisfaction among complex, and the customer’s our products and services and to personal banking customers in choice may have important financial develop our expertise, systems and the Danish industry according to consequences. It is therefore processes in order to be able to the EPSI annual report on Danes’ essential that customers can rely exercise best practice. Our efforts satisfaction with their banks. Publishing new position statements In 2016, we developed five sector-specific position business partners and the portfolio companies we statements. The statements clarify how we invest in. The statements, which cover fossil fuels, work with screening and ESG risk analysis. They forestry, climate change, arms and defence, and establish a general framework for proactive dialogue mining and metals, apply to all the markets where about risks and opportunities with our customers, we operate and encompass all our operations. More insights You can find more information on our customer satisfaction performance in Annual Report 2016. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 23 Responsible investing When customers entrust us with their savings, we RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER have an obligation to serve their interests by delivering RELATIONSHIPS both competitive and sustainable returns. To do so, we integrate ESG considerations in all our investment practices. We screen our investment universe and Policy commitment holdings on an ongoing basis to ensure that we are We want to build long-term responsible customer relationships through advice with a high level of integrity, through easy access to investing only in companies and assets that adhere financial products and services and through responsible investment sufficiently to international principles of corporate and lending practices and high information security. We integrate responsibility. We are signatories to the UN-backed environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations in our Principles for Responsible Investment and local social investment practices, and will, when necessary, act as active owners. investment forums. In addition, we invest with respect to international principles for We believe that well-functioning corporate human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We want to ensure that loans and credit facilities are granted based governance is a precondition for producing competitive on a professional credit assessment, making sure our customers and sustainable returns. When necessary, we seek to understand the implications of taking out loans. In collaboration with influence the companies we in­vest in through dialogue our customers, we include environmental, social and governance and voting at general meet­ings and participation in aspects in our lending activities.* nomination committees. Through ongoing dialogues between our investment teams and companies on both financial and non-financial matters, we are able to act as active owners and investment managers Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 • Provide responsible customer advice in evaluating companies’ corporate governance. We • Prevent financial exclusion by offering access to financial products focus our ownership efforts on companies where it and services can have substantial impact. Our ownership efforts • Improve the customer experience are therefore mainly focused on companies domiciled • Offer responsible investment opportunities for customers in the Nordic countries, funds with significant holdings • Integrate responsible lending principles in credit practices and where clients have authorised us to do so. In • Build customer trust through reliable IT security 2016, we cast votes by proxy at more than 200 company general meetings. Customer satisfaction target Performance 2016** Number 1 or 2 Personal Banking Launching a new fund in our focus segments in all our On target in 3 of 4 countries Nordic markets for Personal In 2016, we launched a new fund, European Banking and Business Banking.** Business Banking Corporate Sustainable Bonds. The fund selects On target in 4 of corporate bonds on the basis of two criteria: 4 countries a financial assessment of the company and an evaluation of the company’s sustainability efforts. Investments in the fund may include the development of new sustainable technologies, Key actions 2016 water purification and biotechnology, for example. • Published position statements on responsible investing and lending • Updated our Whistleblowing Policy • Continued to simplify products and services The Montreal Pledge • • Continued customer-focused training programmes Conducted a human rights risk assessment in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights While companies are already feeling the physical • Implemented our Responsible Investment Strategy, including active ownership measures impact of climate change, many companies also • Implemented an action plan to expand communications and face even more acute non-physical risks, such education on IT security as shifting market trends and public policies that accelerate the transition to a low-carbon economy. In 2016, we signed the Montreal Pledge – a pledge to measure and publicly Outlook for 2017 disclose the carbon footprint of our investments. • Develop a strategy for raising our ambition on responsible The first step is measuring the carbon footprint investing • Update and publish new position statements on how we work of selected funds, and we plan to expand the with screening and ESG risk analysis coverage to all of our Danske Invest equity and • Increase our attention to cybersecurity bond funds in 2017. • Host an IT security conference in Copenhagen * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. Supporting policies include our AML Policy, Responsible Investment Policy, Security Policy, Credit Policy, Position statements, Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy. ** For more detailed information, see Annual Report 2016. 24 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS Responsible lending We grant loans and other credit facilities on the basis of a professional credit assessment of the customer’s needs and financial situation. It is in both our and the customer’s interest that credit facilities are granted only when the customer understands the associated obligations and risks. For business customers, in addition to assessing the customer’s needs and repayment ability, we consider the purpose for which the funds will be used and assess possible conflicts with our corporate responsibility principles. If we assess a customer relationship to be contrary to our principles, we seek a solution in collaboration with the customer. If the only option available is terminating the credit relationship, we do so in a controlled process. In 2016, we updated our Credit Policy to more explicitly articulate the assessment of ESG risks in our credit standards. We also appointed 17 ESG champions to support our relationship managers in their assessment of ESG risks. Understanding our human rights impacts To better understand our potential human rights including recommendations to expand our coverage impacts, we conducted a high-level, group-wide risk of human rights issues in some of our policies and assessment in 2016 in collaboration with the Danish procedures, to strengthen our internal approach to Institute for Human Rights. The assessment was based human rights issues, and to improve our reporting on on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human human rights performance. Rights. Forty-seven recommendations were made, Cathrine Bloch Poulsen-Hansen Programme Manager of the Corporate Engagement Programme, at the Danish Institute for Human Rights. Question: What is the role of the financial sector in promoting respect for human rights? Answer: The financial sector has a unique opportunity to serve as a multiplier for human rights. By setting firm human rights expectations for the companies they invest in and for their customers, banks can contribute to the human rights on a massive scale. However, very few banks have performed a human rights risk assessment on the full scope of their activities. We commend Danske Bank for embarking on this journey to identify and address actual and potential human rights impacts. We have recommended Danske Bank to further build capacity among relevant employees and increase its communication on human rights due diligence to raise awareness internally and externally of its role, responsibility and leverage in lending and investment activities. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 25 Keeping our customers safe As we digitalise our business, Advisory Group on Financial It offers advice on how to protect we also increase our attention Services. We also take part in local yourself against fraud and cyberon cybercrime at all levels. We banking security forums to ensure crime. make global threat assessments that we have a broad perspective regularly so that we can adjust on fraud. One activity that we have already rapidly to new kinds of threats launched is a set of five customer and shield our customers from In 2016, we started gathering seminars on cybercrime related attacks. We participate in a our IT security communication to recent CEO-whaling fraud number of networks in order to be initiatives in a single programme. attempts. Some 170 customers, at the forefront of developments. The programme is intended for mainly from the UK, attended the For example, we participate in personal customers, businesses seminars. Europol’s European Cybercrime and anyone else who wishes to Centre, where we sit on the stay up to date on IT security. Preventing financial crime License Financial crime is a major problem for society. Estimates for the processes and systems and to train our employees thoroughly. to operate Nordic countries alone suggest For example, we have automatic Every year, employees that money laundering involves monitoring of transactions and associated with the Personal billions of euro every year in screening of customers in order to Banking and Wealth each country. To ensure that our check if they are on international Management business units, services are not abused for illegal sanctions lists. must complete mandatory purposes like money laundering “License to operate” and other criminal activities, we In March 2016, after an on-site eLearning courses. seek continuously to improve our anti-money laundering inspection, The training covers issues the Danish Financial Supervisory such as whistleblowing, Authority (FSA) issued eight competition law, anti-money orders to Danske Bank. The laundering measures, market final resolution from the FSA manipulation and our Code also included a report to the of Conduct. In 2016, some Danish Prosecutor for Special 6,000 employees had to Economic and International complete the training. If they Crime for investigation related did not do so by year-end, to correspondent banking. they were Throughout 2016, we have made denied substantial efforts to comply with access to regulation and in September, customer we submitted a statement on data. compliance with the orders. 26 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business Becoming a values-based organisation CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER We believe an engaging and inclusive workplace is a prerequisite for running a high-performance organisation that is driven by our core values and meets our business objectives. Key developments in 2016 included reinforcing our diversity ambitions and increasing our focus on employee engagement. Creating an engaging and a shared foundation and the towards our 2017 gender targets. inclusive workplace opportunity for employees to In addition to gender composition, We see employee engagement as express their individuality at work, we see an increase in the cultural a cornerstone for delivering the we will be able to attract and retain diversity of our senior management best customer experience. Having the diverse people we need for the teams. This is the result of a open and honest conversations future. recent increase of non-Danish about how things are going and hires in management positions giving feedback to both our team Focusing on diversity and and our emphasis on working and top management are essential competency development in in global teams. Specifically, we in making Danske Bank an even our workforce have established a global team better place to work. At the We seek to foster a diverse structure, in which leaders and same time, we seek to shape an workforce that reflects the employees work together across environment where different kinds preferences and tastes of our national and cultural borders. of people feel welcome, integrated customer base. We promote and valued. diversity, including a balanced Moving forward, we want to gender composition, in managerial broaden our diversity efforts to Our work environment builds on positions at all levels and in encompass not only inherent our core values, but we also take the recruitment, search and diversity such as gender, age specific working preferences, selection of new employees. For and nationality but also acquired lifestyles and life stages into example, candidate pools for diversity in terms of opinions, account when we define cultural senior positions always include ways of thinking, personalities initiatives. Such initiatives include at least one candidate from the and educational backgrounds. We flexible working conditions, underrepresented gender. We will also continue to develop our mentoring programmes and the materialise our commitment to employees’ competencies and to promotion of role models as well addressing gender imbalances by adjust our organisation to changing as seminars and networking being signatories to the Danish market requirements. opportunities. We believe that by Charter for Diversity. In 2016, maintaining a balance between we made good overall progress Addressing gender biases in Sweden In 2016, Danske Bank Sweden launched an initiative biases and the consequences for customers and called Danske Inclusion to increase leader and employees. The leaders passed on what they learned employee awareness of gender issues related to to their teams, and together they discussed how to unconscious biases. The programme included an address the issues identified – both in their own team extensive, mandatory three-day training module for and in their customer base. leaders at all levels, who learned about their gender Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 27 Necessary adjustments RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER In order to succeed in today’s market and stay competitive in the future, we need to be as efficient as possible. Part of our strategy to Policy commitment We want to be a responsible employer by acting on our core achieve this is through digitalisation and new values, providing challenging and meaningful work, and giving our ways of working. This means that we must adjust employees an opportunity to develop and grow. We want to sustain our organisation on an ongoing basis and also, a healthy and safe working environment and a collaborative culture unfortunately, that we must close down a number where our employees feel engaged, and where our leaders are of positions. We work to limit the adverse effects expected to role model our values, drive customer centricity, and of this process through, for example, natural inspire their employees to succeed. We want to promote diversity attrition, job rotation and employee development. and a global culture, ensure equal opportunity and eliminate In autumn 2016, we granted 244 employees a discriminatory treatment, while protecting our employees’ privacy, right to freedom of association and collective bargaining and right voluntary severance agreement and reduced the to raising concerns without fear of retaliation.* number of layoffs to 77 employees in Denmark as The Danske Bank group is committed to working towards part of these efforts. increasing the share of the underrepresented gender (women) in executive and managerial positions. The goal is to increase the number of female managers at all levels.** Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 Engaging our employees • Integrate core values in people practices • Develop a culture of continual learning In 2016, we introduced new tools to facilitate a con• Broaden the diversity and inclusion agenda structive ongoing dialogue on employee engagement: • Ensure a healthy and safe working environment Team Talk and PULSE. Team Talk enables a structured • Engage employees in corporate volunteering activities team dialogue about what creates a good workplace, whereas PULSE measures engagement throughout the Group. In this way, PULSE is a channel for direct Gender targets 2017 Performance 2016 communication from all employees to senior management, and it offers a 25% Annual General 25% Annual General Meeting-elected women on Meeting-elected women on temperature check on strategic themes the Board of Directors*** the Board of Directors*** such as empowerment, collaboration, innovation and our core values. 12.5% women on the 0% women on the Executive Board Executive Board 38% women in 35% women in management positions management positions Henriette Fenger Ellekrog Senior Executive Vice President Key actions 2016 and Head of Group Human Resources • Updated Diversity and Inclusion Policy • Rolled out a leadership model and launched a matching Question: leadership curriculum Why has Danske Bank launched • Launched a new framework to discuss employee engagement at all levels of the organisation new employee engagement tools? • Implemented learning agendas to develop a culture of continual learning Answer: • Increased focus on diversity and inclusion, including gender Engagement is the main driver of composition performance as highly engaged • Increased the visibility of female executives and second-level female managers in selected areas employees are crucial in creating the best customer experience. Therefore, Outlook for 2017 we have launched new • Increase our focus on diversity and inclusion, setting and cascading new targets and launching supporting initiatives tools that will help us • Continue to strengthen our leadership through leadership enhance engagement development matching our leadership model through dialogue • Continue to work on identifying, developing and retaining the and discussion – and right competencies ultimately enable us to • Roll out our updated Code of Conduct • Continue to engage employees in corporate volunteering activities become a more valuesbased organisation. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. ** From Danske Bank’s Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Other policies support­ing this area include our HR policies and the Code of Conduct. *** In 2016, six men and two women on the Board of Directors were Annual General Meeting-elected and we reached our 2017 gender target of 25% Annual General Meeting-elected women on the Board of Directors. 28 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business CORE BUSINESS: ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Mobilising climate efforts We work constantly to improve our environmental management systems in order to minimise the footprint of our products and operations. Key developments in 2016 included becoming the first Nordic bank to join the Climate Bonds Partnership Programme and engaging our employees in Danske Bank Earth Day. In November 2016, the Paris environmental reporting to include The 18,664 tonnes of emissions Agreement took effect solidifying figures from our operations in India. we could not eliminate, we offset by international cooperation for Our CO2 emissions totalled 18,664 investing in carbon credit projects climate action and sending a tonnes, a minor decline of 1% from in India, Turkey, Lithuania and signal to the private sector that the level in 2015. We reduced Uganda. All the projects guarantee a rapid transformation was heat and paper consumption by a reduction of CO2 emissions. needed in the global economy. optimising the branch network Besides reducing CO2 emissions, At Danske Bank, we have and digitalising documents. In the projects promote sustainable implemented an environmental 2016, we continued to eliminate development in their local management system to minimise CO2 emissions from electricity communities. The investments our CO2 emissions and manage our by switching from a mixture of are managed by a carbon asset environmental impact as effectively electricity sources to sourcing management company and are as possible. The system helps renewable electricity certified verified according to international us improve our environmental by Guarantees of Origin and standards such as the Gold performance on an ongoing basis. International Renewable Energy Standard. In 2016, we expanded our Certificates. More insights You can find more information on our environmental impact in Statement of Carbon Neutrality 2016. CDP score 2016 Danske Bank is a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Danske Bank Score Industry average Project (CDP). The CDP is a not-for-profit organisation A: Leadership that scores companies on their climate performance. In 2016, it adopted a new four-step approach in measuring a company’s progress towards carbon disclosure leadership. B: Management Danske Bank received a score of B in recognition of the C: Awareness actions, policies and strategies we have implemented to address environmental issues. The CDP’s new approach and the information requested are fundamentally different D: Disclousure from before, so the 2016 score is not directly comparable with our earlier scores. On the basis of our score, the CDP recommends that we plan further emission reduction Governance Risk and Emissions Verification and strategy opportunity managetargets and activities and provide examples of management management ment methods implemented to identify risks and opportunities. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 29 Danske Bank Earth Day The WWF’s Earth Hour is an annual global event in which people switch off their lights for one hour to show they care about the future of our planet. Earth Hour is not about how much energy is saved during the hour. Rather, it is a chance to put spotlight on the issues that the planet faces and to inspire millions around the world to live more sustainably. In the UK, we have supported Earth Hour since its ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT inception in 2007, switching off all lights, except security lights, at our head office. In 2016, we expanded this to an all-day event called Earth Day, with various initiatives throughout the Group. The activities included turning Policy commitment off the lights at all corporate offices, an environmentally We want to achieve a strong environmental performance by friendly lunch in canteens, campaigns to reduce food working systematically to limit the negative environmental waste and paper consumption, and measures to impact of our business operations. We want to minimise the promote public transportation, car pooling and cycling. environmental impact of our operations and reduce our CO2 A survey showed that 76% of our employees felt that emissions through energy and environmental management in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard.* the Earth Day initiative made them think about how they could behave in a more environmentally friendly way. Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 Green bonds • • Revise the Climate Strategy Continue to develop the environmental management system In 2016, we joined the Climate Bonds Partnership • Increase transparency and communication Programme as the first Nordic bank. Joining the Climate • Reduce energy consumption 15% from the 2014 level Bonds Partnership Programme gives us an opportunity (megawatts) to help shape the standards for future green bonds together with global financial institutions. The Climate Bonds Initiative – an investor-focused not-for-profit organisation promoting large-scale investment in the low-carbon economy – leads the programme. Energy target 2018 Performance 2016 15% reduction 6% reduction in overall energy in overall energy consumption from the consumption from the level in 2014 (megawatts)** level in 2014 (megawatts)** Sean Kidney CEO, The Climate Bonds Initiative Question: Key actions 2016 What opportunities does the partnership with • Continued implementing energy-reducing projects and Danske Bank provide? initiatives in order to reach our overall energy-reduction target • Expanded environmental reporting to include our Answer: operations in India The Climate Bonds Initiative is a driving force for • Engaged employees in an Earth Day event to raise universal standards, which help promote green awareness of environmental issues and promote bonds for investors, issuers and underwriters. We behavioural change commend that Danske Bank as a major Nordic financial institution has taken an active role towards the transition to a low carbon economy and Outlook for 2017 • Increase energy efficiency at our offices green finance, committing to sustainable business • Continue to implement energy-reducing projects and practices and climate-related investments. Partnerinitiatives in order to reach our overall energy-reduction ing gives us the opportunity to work cooperatively target of 15% by 2018 with the Danske Bank, on green bond awareness, • Increase environmental awareness among employees by expanding Earth Day to a larger environmental event labelling and standards, to expand the growing green bond market in northern Europe, as they intensify their efforts towards a zero emissions future. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. ** The overall energy consumption in 2014 was 121,126 megawatts. 30 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Core business CORE BUSINESS: RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS Promoting responsibility in our supply chain We strive to establish lasting relationships with our suppliers, and we continue to develop our procurement processes to ensure that we minimise any adverse impacts in the supply chain. Key developments in 2016 included an improved responsible sourcing process and a new Supplier Code of Conduct. Responsible sourcing is an screening and our sector-specific suppliers that deliver goods and important part of our procurement questionnaires as well as to services to any of our business process when we tender new request that suppliers have due units and subsidiaries, and it is contracts, and in 2016 we diligence processes. part of all contracts. revised our approach to ensure that suppliers comply with our We clarified our requirements In October 2016, we implemented responsibility standards. The in the Supplier Code of Conduct, the Supplier Code of Conduct and human rights risk assessment which also states that suppliers responsible sourcing process, conducted in 2016 provided are responsible for setting the which included training 60 Group valuable input. It identified a same or comparable standards for Procurement employees as well need to strengthen the human their subcontractors. The Supplier as communications to relevant rights aspect of our supplier Code of Conduct applies to all stakeholders at all business units. A responsible sourcing process based on dialogue We base our responsible sourcing process on dialogue and try to avoid burdening suppliers with unnecessary questions and time-consuming processes. Our risk assessment process consists of three steps, and many suppliers need to go through the first one only. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Levels Prequalification Self-assessment Corrective questions questionnaire action plan Suppliers Contracts above If assessed as high risk or If self-assessment in scope DKK 1 million contract above DKK 10 million result unsatisfactory Level 1: Level 2: Level 3: On the basis of information about the Suppliers that pose a high risk are If the result of the in-depth type of products or services in the asked to complete an additional inquestionnaire shows that the tender and where they are produced, depth questionnaire about their ESG supplier does not live up to the we assess the risk profile of the policies and performance. We use expected standards, it will be supplier and whether it is relevant to Verisk Maplecroft and Ecodesk as asked to engage in dialogue and, ask further questions. external partners to assess the counif necessary, agree on a corrective try and category risk and to evaluate action plan. If this does not resolve the replies from the suppliers. Verisk the issues to our satisfaction, we Maplecroft provides background may not select the supplier or may information for our risk assessment stop using its services. of conditions in 198 countries. Core business Corporate Responsibility 2016 31 Spending per category in 2016 3,000,000,000 2,500,000,000 2,000,000,000 1,500,000,000 RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIER 1,000,000,000 RELATIONSHIPS 500,000,000 0 Banking Professional Premises Services and Facility IT Policy commitment Management We want to ensure responsible supplier relationships by integrating environmental, social and ethical standards and by focusing on impact and risk. We aim at maintaining In 2016, we had 13,746 suppliers, and Group Procurement constructive relations based on dialogue and improvement and collaborated with our business units on more than 1,300 expect that our suppliers share our adherence to international contracts. Our largest spending was on IT and Premises principles for human rights, labour rights, the environment and Facility Management. IT procurement includes not and anti-corruption. Furthermore, we integrate environmental only hardware and software but also IT consultants and requirements if a product have potential adverse environmental services. Professional services include HR, marketing and impact in order to increase both financial and environmental communications services as well as services for travel, performance.* meetings and events, whereas the largest share of the spending for Banking was on the procurement of market data. Ambitions and strategy 2015-18 Erin McVeigh • Update Supplier Policy with detailed guidelines for Head of Americas Consulting at environmental and social responsibility Verisk Maplecroft • Implement responsible sourcing screening process • Conduct dialogue with non-compliant suppliers Question: What are the most significant supply chain risks and challenges for financial institutions like Supplier target 2017 Performance 2016 Danske Bank? All tenders in scope to 88% of tenders in go through the responsible scope went through the Answer: sourcing process** responsible sourcing The biggest concern and challenges for companies process since the process was implemented in today is how to identify and understand the social October 2016** and environmental risk beyond first tier of the supply chain. This agenda is being driven by a multitude of factors from new regulations like those related to modern slavery and conflict minerals Key actions 2016 all of which are driving businesses to focus on • Conducted a human rights risk assessment in accordance transparency and visibility within the supply chain. with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Many companies are still struggling to gain • Re-vitalised responsible sourcing process and developed a new Supplier Code of Conduct visibility across tier one of their supply chain • Trained Group Procurement employees in the responsible making it very difficult for them to predict and sourcing process mitigate risk. We work together with Danske Bank to provide country and product/sector risk scores combined together with internal management data allowing them to narrow the lens and focus more on Outlook for 2017 specific risks which may affect their supply chain. • Develop a plan for onboarding existing suppliers in the responsible sourcing process • Assess and evaluate high-risk suppliers by means of a Danske Banks approach may not be unique but self-assessment questionnaire we would definitely believe that their proactive • Implement an audit programme for suppliers and follow up approach to assessing risk is best business practice on suppliers’ corrective action plans and we would thoroughly support that more financial institutions follow their lead. * From Danske Bank’s Responsibility Policy. Other policies that support this effort include Danske Bank’s Supplier Code of Conduct. ** Tenders involving Group Procurement according to the Procurement Policy. 32 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Our business, strategy and governance Governing corporate responsibility and commitments We govern our business activities according to internationally recognised principles of corporate responsibility. Our policies outline the way we conduct our business in a responsible and transparent manner, and we report on our performance annually. Danske Bank has a two-tier management structure, with and to develop and oversee the implementation of the a board of directors and an executive board. The Board Corporate Responsibility Strategy and related policies of of Directors receives annual updates on our corporate Danske Bank Group. In addition to the Business Integrity responsibility performance and activities and has final Board, a number of local committees and boards exist approval of our Responsibility Policy. The Executive throughout the Group, which drive day-to-day decisions Board has appointed the Business Integrity Board, which on corporate responsibility. is chaired by CEO Thomas F. Borgen and consists of the Executive Board members and heads of the Group’s The Corporate Responsibility department coordinates business units and support functions. The purpose of the implementation of the Board’s decisions and the the Business Integrity Board is to set the ambition level Corporate Responsibility Strategy throughout the Group. Business Integrity Board Board of Directors Decision making Executive Board Business Integrity Board Implementation Business units and support functions Governance and compliance Corporate Responsibility 2016 33 Responsibility Policy Our Responsibility Policy was updated in 2016. It provides the overall Supporting frame for our strategic priorities and addresses key Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) risks and impacts associated with our core policies business activities. In the Policy, we recognise the importance of supporting To elaborate on commitinternational commitments that assist businesses in operating responsibly ments in our Responsibility and endorse the following: Policy, we have a number • UN Global Compact of supporting policies and • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises statements covering our • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights core activities: • UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment • UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative • Anti-Money Laundering • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Policy • The ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles of Rights at Work • Credit Policy • Code of Conduct • Diversity and Inclusion Policy Potential risks • • Procurement Policy Remuneration Policy • Responsible Investment The potential ESG risks that Danske Bank faces and the impacts of its Policy activities are similar to those of most Nordic financial institutions. They • Security Policy involve issues that the Bank itself causes directly, for example because • Stakeholder Policy of how we treat employees, how our business operations impact the • Succession and Talent environment, and how we engage with our customers. They may also be Management Policy issues that we contribute to or are linked to through business relationships, • Supplier Code of such as labour issues in our supply chain. When it comes to our investments Conduct and lending to business customers, we may be associated with the ESG • Tax Policy impacts of the business we invest in or provide credit to. • Whistleblowing Policy • Position statements We have a responsibility to act with due diligence throughout our business, on fossil fuels, forestry, and the way we manage that responsibility reflects our sphere of influence. In climate change, arms addition to our policies, we have a number of directives and procedures that and defence, mining and support us in identifying, assessing and addressing ESG risks and impacts. In metals 2016, we updated a number of our policies and procedures on the basis of a high-level, group-wide human rights risk assessment. Whistleblowing scheme In order to protect our integrity, employees must have easy access to a means of reporting wrongdoings to management. For this reason, the Group has established a whistleblowing scheme. Any potential wrongdoing no matter its potential financial and non-financial impact for Danske Bank is suitable for being reported through our whistleblowing scheme, which applies to all employees and members of our management. In 2016, we updated our Whistleblowing Policy supported by further awareness activities across the Group. More insights You can find more information on our corporate governance in Corporate Governance Report 2016. 34 Corporate Responsibility 2016 Compliance overview Corporate responsibility in core business Contributing Responsible Responsible Environmental Responsible Governance to society customer employer footprint supplier and commitrelationships relationships ments Voluntary commitments and legal requirements Pages 18-21 Pages 22-25 Pages 26-27 Pages 28-29 Pages 30-31 Pages 32-34 UN Global Compact Human rights: Principles 1-2 X X X X X Labour: Principles 3-6 X X X X Environment: Principles 7-9 X X X X Anti-corruption: Principle 10 X X X X X Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Companies, etc. Corporate responsibility, including human rights and climate: Section 135 X X X X X X Gender distribution at management level: Subsection 135a X 2016 key performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 Business operations (DKK millions)* Total income 47,959 45,611 45,330 Operating expenses 22,642 23,237 23,972 Profit before tax 25,357 17,762 7,969 Financial services employer tax and social security costs 1,659 1,520 1,529 VAT 1,126 933 1,184 Tax 5,500 4,639 4,020 Net profit for the year 19,858 13,123 3,948 Net profit for the year before goodwill impairment charges 19,858 17,724 13,047 Return on avg. shareholders’ equity (%) 13.1 8.5 2.5 Return on avg. shareholders’ equity before goodwill impairment charges (%) 13.1 11.6 8.6 Employees Number of full-time employees (FTE), end of year* 19,303 19,049 18,603 Percentage of women in workforce (%) 50 51 54 Percentage of women in management (%) 35 35 36 Employee turnover (%) 11 11 9 Average years of service 13 14 15 Absence due to illness (avg. number of illness days per employee) 5.3 6 6 No. of injuries or incidents of post-traumatic stress related to robberies 85 93 73 Employee Engagement (%)** 66 Environment CO2 emissions (tonnes)† 18,664 18,836 37,807 CO2 emissions per employee (tonnes/FTE) 0.97 1.0 2.0 Energy consumption (electricity and heat) (MWh)†† 113,441 111,708 121,126 Energy consumption per employee (MWh/FTE) 6.1 6.3 6.7 Electricity consumption (MWh) 60,311 57,166 61,355 Heat consumption (MWh) 53,130 54,542 59,861 Road transport (company vehicles and employees’ cars) (1,000 km) 13,883 13,969 16,643 Air transport (1,000 km) 67,570 61,392 52,662 Paper consumption (tonnes) 1,161 1,598 1,726 * Data are from Annual Report 2016 and Fact Book Q4 2016. The financial highlights for 2015 and 2014 have been restated owing to the treatment of Danica Pension under the new Wealth Management unit and reclassification of equity finance income from Net trading income to Net fee income. See note 2 in Annual report 2016 for more information. For a definition of ratios, see Definition of Alternative Performance Measures on page 44 in Annual report 2016. ** In 2016, we replaced our annual Employee Opinion Survey with new tools to facilitate a constructive ongoing dialogue on employee engagement. This means that the Employee Engagement Index has replaced two HR indicators on Employee satisfaction and motivation as well as perceived opportunities for professional and personal development (Read more about our new Employee Engagement Tools on page 27). †  Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT and include estimated figures for the remainder of the Group in 2014 and 2015. In 2016, we included exact figures from our operations in IN. †† Data cover DK, SE, NO, IRL, NI, FIN and LIT. In 2016, we included figures from our operations in IN. Corporate Responsibility 2016 35 Assurance statement Independent Assurance Report To the Management and the stakeholders of Danske Bank engagement. Considering the risk of material misstatement, We have assessed Danske Bank’s 2016 Corporate Responwe planned and performed our work to obtain all information sibility Report (‘the Report’) to provide limited assurance on and explanations necessary to support our conclusion. selected 2016 data on page 34 of the Report. The Report covers Danske Bank’s international activities from 1 January We performed our on-site reviews at Danske Bank’s Head Ofto 31 December 2016. fice in Copenhagen in November 2016 and in January 2017. Our work has included interviews with key functions in Danske Our assessment was performed in order to assess whether: Bank, inquiries regarding procedures and methods to ensure that selected CR data and information have been incorporated • All environmental data and all employee data on page 34 in accordance with the reporting principles. We have assessed in the Report have been stated in accordance with the processes, tools, systems and controls for gathering, consolicriteria defined by the reporting principles; dating and aggregating CR data at Group level, and performed • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions analytical review procedures and tested CR data prepared at for 2016. Group level against underlying documentation. We express a conclusion providing limited assurance. Furthermore, we have received documentation that the consolidated CO2 emissions have been offset by purchase of offset Management’s responsibility certificates. Finally, we have evaluated the overall presentation The Management of Danske Bank is responsible for collecting, of the report, including the consistency of information. analysing, aggregating and presenting the information in the report, ensuring that data are free from material misstatement, We have not performed site visits or interviewed external whether due to fraud or error. Danske Bank’s non-financial stakeholders, nor have we performed any assurance procereporting principles contain Management’s defined reporting dures on baseline data or forward-looking statements such as scope for each data type. The criteria for the reporting princitargets and expectations. Consequently, we draw no concluples can be found at https://www.danskebank.com/da-dk/ sion on these statements. CSR/rapportering/Pages/rapportering.aspx Conclusion Auditor’s responsibility Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention causing Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion us not to believe that: on the environmental data and all employee data on page 34 in the Report. Furthermore, our responsibility is to provide limited • the employee and environmental data subject to our review assurance on whether Danske Bank has offset its consolidathave been stated in accordance with the criteria mened CO2 emissions for 2016. We have conducted our work in tioned in the reporting principles; accordance with ISAE 3000, Assurance Engagements Other • Danske Bank has offset its consolidated CO2 emissions than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and for 2016. additional requirements under Danish audit regulation to obtain limited assurance about our conclusion. Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab is subject to International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) 1 and, accordCopenhagen, 1 February 2017 ingly, applies a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Deloitte with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicaStatsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab ble legal and regulatory requirements. Business Registration No. 33 96 35 56 We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by FSR Danish Auditors (Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants), which are based on the fundamental Jens Ringbæk Marie Voldby principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence State-Authorised Lead Reviewer and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Public Accountant A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance Danske Bank A/S Holmens Kanal 2-12 DK-1092 København K Tel +45 3344 0000 CVR No. 61 12 62 28 København danskebank.com
