Gran Living ApS Communication on Progress 2017 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT With the aim to continue the focus on the social and environmental responsibility of our company, we Gran Living ApS reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We, Gran Living, will continue to pursue the process of integrating the Ten Principles within our strategies, policies and operations and undertake projects to advance our support hereof. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To communicate about our overall strategy and daily actions and operations to integrate the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our business, we hereby launch our second Communication on Progress. Yours sincerely Kathrine Gran Hartvigsen Creative Director Gran Living ApS, Denmark, COP for 2017 OUR STORY Gran Living ApS AYTM Behind Gran Living ApS is the couple Kathrine and The brand AYTM was established by Gran Living Per Gran Hartvigsen who has successfully run the ApS in 2015. AYTM designs luxury home interior in company since 2004. Ever since its foundation, timeless designs. AYTM approaches the concept of the company has designed and imported quality Nordic design in a sophisticated and elegant manner home interior for leading chains and has extensive with focus on high quality and exquisite details. In experience with trend spotting, developments of its spite of their simple idiom, the products are own designs and production of interior for the home. eyecatching and impactful. HUMAN RIGHTS FAIR WORK Gran Living support and acts in Gran Living cares about the safety and compliance with human rights and well-being of our employees at all times. expects our business partners to do We strive to provide a healthy environment likewise. We strongly repudiate childand expect our business partners to do OUR CSR POLICY and forced labour. We acknowledge the same, as we believe it goes hand in diversity and the rights of employees. hand with motivation and results. Therefore we will not accept any kind At Gran Living we acknowledge our social of discrimination or violations of rights. and environmental responsibilities. Based on our capabilities, we voluntarily take the initiative to protect the workers and the environment in the areas in which we operate and we continuously seek to improve conditions for the employees and the surroundings. ENVIRONMENT Gran Living cares about the environment with concern for the future. We focus ANTI-CORRUPTION on the long term consequences of our Gran Living refrains from corruption activities and strive to prevent, minimize and bribery in any form. We believe in and remedy adverse impacts our activities ethical and fair business practises, and place on our earth, and we expect the expect from both own employees and same from all parties throughout our external business partners to avoid any supply chain to secure the best possible kind of unethical business practises. conditions for future generations. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Gran Living will not conduct business with any supplier engaging in or benefiting directly from human rights or labour rights abuses. Gran Living expects all suppliers to support and respect the protection of internationally declared human rights and labour rights. ACTIVITIES EXECUTED IN 2016 • Gran Living has conducted CSR audits with a number of suppliers, to check that our suppliers comply with our code of conduct. Our goal for 2016 was to conduct audits with 50% of active suppliers. This goal was not reached in 2016. We aim to reach our goal in 2017 with extended focus and specified procedures. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2017 • Conducting CSR audits with 50% of active suppliers • Gran Living is launching our first GoodWeave certified rugs. ACTIVITIES EXECUTED IN 2016 • Gran Living is participating in the project ‘Rethink Business – Fokuseret Værdikædesamarbejde’ with the aim to reduce the use of environmentally harmful materials in packaging for our brand AYTM. Read more about the project: http://rethinkbusiness.dk/projekter/fokuseret-vaerdikaedesamarbejde/ ENVIRONMENT • Gran Living has initiated a CO2 calculation via Klimakompasset to monitor our CO2 emissions with the aim of reducing the CO2 emissions where possible. Gran Living expects suppliers to work systematically to prevent and minimise environmental impacts of its activities, including prevention of pollution, secure RESULTS AHIEVED IN 2016 sustainable use of resources, climate change mitigation and adaptation and protection of the environment, • Gran Living has reduced the amount of printing with 26,28 per biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats, as employee (based on FTE’s). well as improve performance of others within its sphere of influence, through a proactive approach and responsible management of its environmental aspects. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2017 • Initiate the process of using sustainable and recyclable packaging for AYTM. • Initiate the process of using FSC certified wood • Create a specified due diligence procedure to comply with EUTR requirements for import of wooden products. • Specify requirements in our Code of Conduct to support our suppliers is using environmentally friendly packaging material. ACTIVITIES EXECUTED IN 2016 • In our Supplier Code of Conduct we have made a clear statement that we do not engage in business relationships where corruption ANTI CORRUPTION and bribe are necessary to drive business. • Our company policy has a clear statement that no employees at Gran Living ApS are allowed to take bribe. Gran Living expects suppliers to refrain from and prohibit corruption and bribery at all times and in RESULTS AHIEVED IN 2016 any form, including active and passive bribery and corruption in the private and public sphere. The • All suppliers have received our Supplier Code of Conduct and are supplier shall refrain from using bribery or any other obliged to sign this in order to commit their business to avoid method to unjustly influence business partners, any form of corruption and bribe. public officials or the judiciary.Gran living expects suppliers to instruct their agents, intermediaries ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2017 and other third parties with whom the organisation has operating relationships to neither engage in nor • Our goal for 2017 is to collect signed Supplier Code of Conducts tolerate that they engage in any act of corruption. from all active suppliers in order to have signed commitments from all suppliers to align with our policy of no corruption and bribe. • In 2017, Gran Living will compose a company policy and guideline to the employees to prevent corruption and bribe. GRAN LIVING Aps Polensgade 15 DK-8000 Aarhus C VAT No. 27615244 E-MAIL: mail@granliving.dk TLF: +45 8678 2620
