Sustainability Report 2016 www.danfoss.com Contents Danfoss in brief Danfoss became a signatory to the UN Global CEO Comment 3 Danfoss engineers technologies that enable the world of Compact in 2002. We continue to support the tomorrow to do more with less. We meet the growing need Global Compact and its principles, which govern Financial results 2016 4 our sustainability efforts. for infrastructure, food supply, energy efficiency, and climateThe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 5 friendly solutions. Our products and services are used in Sustainability highlights 6 areas such as refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, motor Danfoss sustainability program 8 control, and mobile machinery. We also operate in the field of Targets, efforts, and achievements 9 renewable energy, as well as district energy infrastructure for cities and urban communities. Energy & Climate 12 Product Compliance & Transparency 14 The Group is divided into four business segments: Danfoss Our people 15 Power Solutions, Danfoss Cooling, Danfoss Drives, and Danfoss Reference to other pages in this Heating. Danfoss Power Solutions is a leading player in sustainability report Ethical Conduct & Human Rights 18 hydraulic systems and components for powering off-highway Reference to other reports, which can Community and stakeholder engagement 20 mobile machinery. Danfoss Cooling is a market leader in the be downloaded from danfoss.com Notes 21 air-conditioning and refrigeration industries. Danfoss Drives’ key expertise lies in low-voltage AC drives, power modules, Reference to danfoss.com and stacks for a number of industries. Danfoss Heating enjoys leading positions within residential heating, commercial heating, and district energy. Follow us here: The Sustainability Report 2016 serves as the Danfoss Group’s Report on Danfoss is a privately-owned company which has grown and Corporate Social Responsibility, cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial www.facebook.com/danfoss improved its skills and expertise in energy-efficient solutions Statements Act (FSA). It forms part of the Management’s Review provided in the Annual Report 2016, covering the accounting period of January 1 to December over more than 80 years. Danfoss was founded by Mads www.twitter.com/danfoss 31, 2016. Together with the Annual Report 2016, the Sustainability Report 2016 Clausen, and today the company is controlled by the Bitten http://plus.google.com/+danfoss fulfills the requirements under section 99a and 99b of FSA. and Mads Clausen Foundation. www.youtube.com/danfossgroup www.linkedin.com/company/danfoss Danfoss A/S Nordborgvej 81 6430 Nordborg Denmark Tel.: +45 7488 2222 CVR no. 20165715 Email: danfoss@danfoss.com Sustainability Report 2016 2/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes CEO comment The launch of the UN Sustainable Development Goals in As a global leader for energy-efficient solutions, Danfoss “We stand more ready than ever to transform 2015 marked an opportunity of a lifetime – not only for the participated in the COP22 climate conference in Marrakesh, the ambitious global climate agreement into world, but for citizens, cities, and companies alike. If we are to Morocco. We stand more ready than ever to transform succeed, it requires action from all of us. the ambitious global climate agreement into action by action by accelerating the uptake of the best accelerating the uptake of the best available technology that available technology that can be implemented We have the opportunity to work together across sectors, can be implemented today. today. businesses, civil society, and at all levels of government to create livable, sustainable, and competitive solutions that will Our sustainability program continues to be the foundation for benefit us all. our in-house focus on sustainability by providing guidance within our defined focus areas: Energy & Climate; Product Danfoss is an active player when it comes to living up to the Compliance & Transparency; Environment, Health & Safety; Sustainable Development Goals. We lead by example by Ethical Conduct & Human Rights. In 2016, we have made solid combining digitalization, innovation, and energy efficiency progress within all four areas. to create sustainable solutions. This not only improves our environmental footprint, but also frees money to be spent elsewhere. An example is the Sustainable Development Goal no. 7 – “Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all”. This is at the core of what we do – saving Niels B. Christiansen energy. Energy efficiency and sustainability are not about President & CEO limiting our options or comfort. On the contrary, they are about innovation and creating new opportunities. Sustainability Report 2016 3/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Financial results 2016 Read more in the Annual Report 2016 at www.danfoss.com > About > Financial information Key figures DKKbn Sales Local currency growth EBIT margin Free cash flow before M&A Leverage ratio NIBD to EBITDA ratio Employees worldwide 39.2 6% 10.9% 3.4 55.2% 1.6 25,292 Results in line with expectations Sales split on Sales split on regions segments In 2016, the Danfoss Group continued its positive performance and delivered satisfactory financial Western Europe results in line with expectations. Eastern Europe Danfoss Power Solutions North America 5% 3% The year was characterized by continuing low global growth conditions with a mixed business 16% Danfoss Cooling Asia-Pacific environment across markets and sectors. Sales grew 3% to DKK 39.2 billion, corresponding to Danfoss Drives 30% Latin America 21% 6% growth in local currency. EBIT improved 4% to DKK 4.3 billion, leading to an EBIT margin Danfoss Heating Africa-Middle East 39% of 10.9% and net profit of DKK 2.9 billion, up 13% on last year. Results were driven by a strong 25% performance in Danfoss Cooling and good growth traction in Danfoss Power Solutions. The strong free cash flow before M&A was kept high at DKK 3.4 billion, and the free cash flow 24% 29% 8% ended at DKK 1.5 billion, due to the acquisitions completed in the third quarter of 2016. Sales and growth Earnings Innovation spend Sales DKKbn Sales growth in local currency EBIT DKKbn EBIT margin R&D spend DKKbn % of sales 40 6.0% 4.4 14% 1.8 4.4% 1.6 4.3% 4.2 12% 38 4.0% 1.4 4.2% 4.0 10% 1.2 4.1% 36 2.0% 3.8 8% 1.0 4.0% 3.6 6% 0.8 3.9% 34 0.0% 0.6 3.8% 3.4 4% 32 -2.0% 0.4 3.7% 3.2 2% 3.6% 0.2 30 -4.0% 3.0 0% 0.0 3.5% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sustainability Report 2016 4/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes The prioritized Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Read more about our specific activities related to the prioritized SDGs on page 22-24 6: Clean water Danfoss provides solutions for water and wastewater handling to optimize 12: Responsible Danfoss helps meet the growing need for better quality food supplies by improving and sanitation and reduce energy consumption. This consumption agricultural productivity. We also help to Ensure availability leads to increased energy efficiency and lower operating cost in, for example, a and production ensure high food safety, reduce food loss, and keep food fresh all the way up to the and sustainable waste water treatment plant. Ensure sustainable consumer as efficiently as possible. Our products can be found everywhere in management of water consumption and cold rooms, on slaughterhouse conveyor and sanitation for all production patterns belts, and even behind the refrigeration counters in supermarkets. 7: Affordable Danfoss is a world leader in energyefficient technologies, which enable 13: Climate Danfoss’ products and solutions contribute to significant reductions of carbon and clean customers and societies to get more action emissions from industry, residential, and energy out of less. Energy saved doesn’t pollute and doesn’t cost. By picking the lowTake urgent action to commercial buildings. We provide highvalue, high-performance components Ensure access to hanging fruits offered by energy-efficient combat climate change for a broad range of mobile equipment technologies, we can meet growing applications, reducing fuel consumption, affordable, reliable, energy demand, boost the economy, and its impacts and emissions. Our products contribute sustainable, and and afford renewable energy sources. to the optimization of heating, ventilation, modern energy for all and air-conditioning systems to suit the individual needs and lifestyles. 11: Sustainable By 2030, an additional 1.5 billion people will live in our cities. The demand for 17: Partnerships Danfoss engages with multiple stakeholders through partnerships, cities and infrastructure to support this is massive. for the goals participation in task forces and work communities We help build roads, buildings, and energy systems for the world’s growing Strengthen the means groups, events, conferences, and through direct engagement with Make cities and human cities and support progress for people, of implementation and policy-makers and thought leaders. communities, and businesses across We will proactively shape the future settlements inclusive, the world. Our solutions are making a revitalize the global of energy systems, efficient buildings, safe, resilient, and difference in ensuring the sustainable partnership for and food chains, thinking energy sustainable cities of tomorrow. sustainable development efficiency first. Sustainability Report 2016 5/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Key sustainability events in 2016 Danfoss sponsors female soccer Focus on six SDGs after Danfoss integrates EHS Moving from talk to action to protect women’s rights Global Compact Summit in management systems at COP22 in Marrakesh Danfoss sponsors the female soccer As a result of the Global Compact Leaders Danfoss launches the global Environment, As part of business efforts to encourage tournament “Global Goals World Cup” held Summit, Danfoss decides to focus on the Health, and Safety (EHS) governance together timely action on climate change, Danfoss in Copenhagen, Denmark, to highlight six Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), with a new global EHS policy. The aim is to organizes solution panels with public and the importance of cooperation between which are the most relevant for business, as guide the Danfoss business segments in their private partners. Together with the United governments, decision makers, and we have a direct impact. work to integrate environment, health, and Nations Environment Programme, Danfoss companies to protect women’s rights. safety in their management systems. showcases the opportunity of district energy for cities at COP22. 04.16 05.16 06.16 07.16 08.16 09.16 10.16 11.16 12.16 Joining photo exhibition Future energy solutions in Danfoss joins EP100 and commits to Danfoss highlights benefits from “Women Empower Business” focus at Climate Week double own energy productivity investments in energy efficiency To place the focus on women’s rights in In order to create livable, sustainable, and Danfoss joins the EP100 initiative to To visualize the environmental and financial developing countries, Danfoss joins the competitive energy solutions for the future, highlight the company's leadership on benefits by investing in energy efficiency, photo exhibition “Women Empower Business” Danfoss joins the Climate Week in New York. energy productivity. We commit to doubling Danfoss participates in a de-risking tool in Denmark. The exhibition is hosted by The event offers a unique opportunity to our own energy productivity by 2030, in project initiated by EEFIG (Energy Efficiency The Confederation of Danish Industry, and cooperate across sectors, businesses, civil accordance with the goal of the Global Financial Institutions Group). Danfoss Danfoss’ contribution shows the doctor's society, and at all levels of government. Alliance for Energy Productivity. provides 37 cases, which highlight the clinic and daycare center at our factory in business opportunities in energy efficiency. Chennai, India. Sustainability Report 2016 6/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Sustainability highlights 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Good Acceptable Resource consumption and climate Poor Energy consumption (MWh) 363,300 604,611 583,635 586,799 568,930 Of which electricity (share) 58% 63% 67% 67% 71% Of which heating (share) 42% 37% 33% 33% 29% Energy intensity (MWh/DKKm) 16.2 18.0 17.0 15.4 14.5 Energy productivity (DKKm/GWh) 61.7 55.6 58.9 64.8 68.9 CO2 emissions (tons) 126,873 219,299 229,245 234,440 233,716 Of which from electricity (share) 78% 80% 83% 84% 87% Of which from heating (share) 22% 20% 17% 16% 13% CO2 intensity (kg CO2/MWh) 349 363 393 400 410 CO2 intensity (ton CO2/DKKm) 5.7 6.5 6.7 6.2 5.9 Water consumption (m3) 637.082 841,433 806,784 840,926 888,570 Health & safety Lost Time Injuries 136 172 165 127 121 Lost Time Injury Frequency (per 1 million hours) 5.8 4.7 4.4 3.4 3.3 Lost Days due to Lost Time Injuries 2,883 3,039 2,458 2,205 2,309 Lost Day Rate (per 1 million hours) 121 82 66 59 63 Medical Treatment Incidents 120 110 Medical Treatment Incident Rate (per 1 million hours) 3.2 3.0 Minor Incidents 751 651 Minor Incident Rate (per 1 million hours) 20.2 17.7 Near-miss Incidents 2,925 3,561 Near-miss Incident Rate (per 1 million hours) 78.7 96.9 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Ethical behavior Dismissals due to unethical behavior 47 31 30 31 43 Number of inquiries in AskUs 69 75 85 90 Number of cases in Ethics Hotline 112 123 93 112 People Number of employees 23,092 22,463 24,117 23,420 25,292 Percentage of female managers 18 18 18 18 Female members of the Danfoss Board 0 0 1 1 2 Female members of Danfoss Group Management 1 2 2 2 2 Sustainability Report 2016 7/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Danfoss Prioritized focus areas sustainability program Energy Product Compliance & Climate & Transparency • Ambitious climate strategy • Compliance with product • Energy savings in legislation buildings • Product & material • Energy savings in declaration processes • Product regulatory • CO2 reduction in transport governance • EU energy audits • Conflict minerals • Procurement of energy • ECO-design • Circular Economy Our sustainability program is based on global megatrends, Policies, governance and risks our expectations to the growth areas food, infrastructure, We have established policies and guidelines to supplement climate, and energy, and input from managers and other key legislation. employees in Danfoss. These policies and guidelines as well as the sustainability governance The program has four focus areas: Energy & Climate, Product structure are described on page 25. Compliance & Transparency, Environment, Health & Safety, and Ethical Conduct & Human Rights. The program will be Environment, Ethical Conduct implemented in 2014-2017. The efforts and achievements Risk and compliance related to each of the four focus areas are described in the Like our industry peers, we are exposed to a number of Health & Safety & Human Rights following sections of this report. general and basic risks, relating to customers and markets, factories and suppliers in the supply chain, law and regulatory The program supports the Core & Clear business strategy with regimes, and internal processes and systems, among others. • Safety on the shop floor • Ethics Handbook regards to profitable growth and will ensure achievements Our exposure to such risks is similar to the general risk • Global Incident • Human rights due in prioritized areas through a clear structure, goals, and exposure of our peers. Management System diligence follow-up. • “One EHS“ governance, • Compliance programs For more details about the risks related to sustainability and climate, policies, and targets • Mergers & acquisitions For more information about our Core & Clear strategy, business reference is made to page 27. • Reduce Lost Time Injury model, and financial performance, see the Annual Report 2016 at Frequency (LTIF) www.danfoss.com > About > Financial information. Sustainability Report 2016 8/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Targets and Prioritized focus areas 2016 achievements Targets 2016 Achievements 2016 in 2016 Energy & Climate Develop program for process energy savings. Danfoss Business System developed M4L (More for Less) including focus on energy savings in the factories through employee engagement. Maintain strong focus on building renovation Danfoss’ global energy-saving project continues and was and refurbishment. extended to the 27 largest factories. Energy savings of 30% expected in buildings alone. Strengthen support to local initiatives driving Danfoss continues to support development of local green transformation. green initiatives for energy production and distribution. Implement CO2 calculation model for transport. An emissions calculation tool has been implemented and is assessed for suitability. Develop processes for validation of products’ Processes developed and tested as part of a Derisking climate performance claims. Energy Efficiency Platform under “Energy Efficiency Financial Institutions Group” (EEFIG). Product Compliance & Transparency Develop and implement Group Regulatory Governance. Group Product Compliance governance structure established with representatives from all segments and key group functions. Priorities and work groups defined. Strengthen processes for product compliance. Processes under development in line with Danfoss' Achieved model for business process development. Achieved with minor gaps Implemented solution with external service provider to Not achieved strengthen compliance within conflict minerals. Sustainability Report 2016 9/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Prioritized focus areas 2016 Targets 2016 Achievements 2016 Environment, Health & Safety Develop and launch “One EHS” approach to environment, Development of “One EHS” approach framework initiated. health, and safety. Governance structure and new policy in place. Establish a Global Incident Management System for workSoftware solution specified and selection of third-party related injuries and incidents. provider is in process. Implementation will be completed in 2017. Reduce the Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF reduced 3% from 3.4 in 2015 to 3.3 in 2016. by 10% compared to 2015. Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Develop and run pilot for Human Rights Due diligence processes developed. due diligence process. Pilot project on human rights due diligence and integration conducted in Danfoss’ Eastern Europe Region. Develop revised process for screening of business partners Improved screening and due diligence processes regarding anti-corruption and export control. regarding anti-corruption and export controls developed and implemented. Re-training of employees in the compliance programs AntiApprox. 9,300 employees and managers trained in anticorruption@work and Fair-competition@work. corruption, and all relevant managers and directors were trained in ethics. Achieved Achieved with minor gaps Develop and implement new Data Privacy compliance Important milestones in the data privacy compliance manual. program were reached, including the approval of Danfoss Not achieved binding corporate rules. Sustainability Report 2016 10/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Targets in 2017 Prioritized focus areas 2017 Targets 2017 Targets 2017 Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Implement program for process energy savings, including Group processes and tools for monitoring, communicating, employee engagement program. and implementing new regulations defined and implemented. Reduce energy intensity in buildings through global energyAll suppliers with a Danfoss framework agreement have saving project in the 27 largest factories. subscribed to the Danfoss Negative List restricting certain chemicals, substances and minerals. Develop processes for validation of products’ climate performance claims. Conflict minerals due diligence with 1,300 suppliers and with response rates of 75% for Danfoss Cooling, Danfoss Drives, and Implement scheme for putting an internal price on carbon. Danfoss Heating, and 55% for Danfoss Power Solutions. Environment, Health & Safety Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Develop, implement, and validate processes and procedures Conduct human rights due diligence and integration projects to comply with ISO 14001:2015. in India and China. Implement Global Incident Management System for workCompliance training of all relevant employees, managers, and related injuries and incidents, including training and statistics. directors, in the subjects of ethics, anti-corruption and fair competition. Reduce LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) by 10% compared to Further develop and improve compliance programs regarding 2016. export controls and data privacy. Sustainability Report 2016 11/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Energy Our climate targets Energy and emissions 2015 2016 & Climate Total energy consumption [GWh] Electricity consumption (GWh) 587 395 569 405 50% Energy for heating (GWh) 192 164 Energy intensity [MWh/DKKm] 15.4 14.5 reduction in energy use by 2030 Energy productivity [DKKm/GWh] 65 69 + Total CO2 emission [ton] CO2 emission from electricity [ton] 234,400 198,654 233,716 202,803 50% less CO2 emissions from actual 30% energy cut in the 27 largest CO2 emission from heating [ton] CO2 intensity [kg CO2/MWh] 35,786 400 30,913 410 energy used factories worldwide CO2 intensity [kg CO2/DKKm] 6.2 5.9 Climate strategy accordance with the United Nations’ “Business Leadership production line processes will be systematically examined for In 2015, we launched our ambitious “Climate Strategy 2030”, Criteria on Carbon Pricing”. A framework is currently being further energy cuts. which requires us to reduce our own energy intensity and developed, and we strive to implement it in selected areas of CO2 intensity by 50% before 2030. To achieve these goals, we the organization during 2017. Energy consumption and CO2 emissions have set in motion a number of measures to further reduce Since 2007, Danfoss’ energy intensity was reduced by 40% our energy consumption and drive greener technology Energy-saving projects in buildings through energy-saving projects in the largest factories. Energy investments in buildings and processes. In 2016, we continued the implementation of energy-saving productivity has in the same period improved by 67%. projects at the 27 largest factories worldwide, accounting We have chosen not to buy our way to carbon neutrality, but for 84% of Danfoss’ total energy consumption. Half of the In 2016, Danfoss emitted 233,716 tons of CO2 as a result of its rather to put our money where our mouth is with our own energy consumed is used for buildings, and the rest is used in electricity and heat consumption compared to 234,400 tons in solutions. We take a very practical approach, showing that we production processes. The annual energy consumption in these 2015. The sources were both scope 1 emissions (its own plants can reach ambitious energy and climate targets with existing buildings amounts to more than 245 MWh, of which 30% can for the generation of power and heat) and scope 2 emissions technology. This fits with our growth themes: Infrastructure, be saved. Half of the expected energy savings was achieved in (purchase of power and heat from external sources). Food, Climate, and Energy, and provides the backbone and 2016, and the remaining savings will be effective in 2018. license to engage in the public debate and offer quality The CO2 intensity of the energy used in 2016 increased solutions to our customers, which are reliable in the long run. Gas consumption was reduced by 20% at Danfoss' largest slightly to 410 kg CO2/MWh. The main cause for the increase factory, located in Nordborg, Denmark, with a further energyis increased electricity consumption in countries with high Danfoss reports climate-related risks, opportunities, and CO2 savings potential of up to 40%. The savings are primarily carbon intensity in the electricity supply. The energy intensity emissions to CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project. Our reports and obtained through optimization of the ventilation, heating, and fell 6% to 14.5 MWh/mDKK in 2016 versus 15.4 in 2015. This other information can be found at www.CDP.net. cooling control systems, using our own products. is caused by a 3% decrease in the total energy consumption combined with a 3% increase in net sales. Putting a price on carbon Based on these experiences, we are intensifying our efforts to Danfoss is committed to set an internal price on carbon in energy-optimize our buildings all over the world. In addition, Danfoss’ electricity consumption was the source of 87% of the Sustainability Report 2016 12/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Solar park installed Energy use compared to sales Net Sales Energy 2MW solar park installed at headquarters, equal 2007 2016 40% drop in energy use to the annual power use of 400 houses Indexed with 2007 as base year compared to sales by 2016 Group’s total CO2 emissions in 2016, corresponding to 202,803 buildings. The largest sources of emissions are turned or cast Environmental due diligence tons. Heating contributed to 30,913 tons of CO2 emissions. metal parts (60%), electronics and electromechanical parts We follow a strict due diligence procedure when dealing (18%), and plastics (13%). An in-depth analysis will be made in with potential environmental risks from acquisition of land In 2016, electricity accounted for 71% of total energy 2017 to prioritize improvements and supplier collaboration. and existing industries. Thorough reviews of potential consumption of Danfoss. 28% of the electricity came from land acquisitions are conducted, examining the site and renewable sources, such as solar, water, wind and biomass. Environment the environmental history of the surroundings. Regional Electricity from nuclear power plants accounted for 18% of the For many years, we have worked systematically to reduce the hydrogeological and geotechnical conditions are evaluated Group’s consumption, and the rest derived from fossil sources, environmental impact of our operating activities, including as field surveys to discover ground pollution or historical such as coal, oil and gas. production and transportation. One of the Group’s targets deposits. is for all production companies to maintain environmental Compared to the previous year, energy consumption for management systems and become certified according to Water heating fell by 14% in 2016, primarily due to the reduction in the ISO 14001 standard in order to manage performance and In 2016, consumption of water for processes and sanitary our consumption of natural gas. 96% of the energy used for identify potential environmental improvements. purposes increased to 888,570 m3 from 841,000 m3 in the heating in 2016 came from fossil sources. previous year. The difference is mainly due to increased water Consumption of materials, chemicals, energy, and the use in the facilities in China (28,000 m3 ); Nordborg (11,000 m3) Supply chain emissions generation of waste and waste water is monitored in order to and Mexico (10,000 m3). As a global company, we have a global and diverse supply minimize the environmental impacts of our operations. chain. Approximately 4,000 suppliers of direct materials supply their products to Danfoss, driving energy consumption and We strive to support wildlife that wants to settle at our sites. greenhouse gas emissions. Many Danfoss facilities around the world are surrounded by ponds and green areas, providing shelter for wildlife and The global emissions amount to 782,000 tons CO2, which pleasant views for employees and guests. is 3.5 times the emission from Danfoss’ own processes and Sustainability Report 2016 13/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Product Rule. This rule requires that Danfoss reviews whether tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold (3TG) are necessary to the Circular Economy The Circular Economy is the future business model that Compliance & production of its products, and determine whether the minerals originate from conflict regions in and around the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). These minerals are used promotes the sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing, and recycling of existing materials and waste in an almost closed loop. Transparency in electronic and electromechanical components, but also in some alloys that are sourced from Danfoss’ suppliers. The potential for implementing circular economy thinking on application level is huge. For instance, effective utilization We are committed to supporting our customers and strive to in district energy systems of excess heat from production only accept “DRC Conflict-Free” materials in our supply chain, processes or recovered surplus heat from the cooling system i.e. materials that are sourced from smelters and refiners in supermarkets is essential to achieving SDG goal no. 13: verified as DRC conflict-free through the Conflict-Free Smelter “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its Program (CFSP) or similar frameworks. impacts”. Since 2013, Danfoss has reported on conflict minerals. In Leadership on Circular Economy October 2016, we engaged with an external service provider The circular economy concept is high on the political agenda to collect smelter reports from more than 1,300 suppliers in most countries where we do business. As competition for that have been identified to potentially deliver materials or scarce resources continues to heighten, and as pressure on components with 3TG metals. The suppliers are requested to resources is causing greater environmental degradation, it In 2016, we increased the focus on product compliance as submit their report to the service provider, which follows up makes both economic and environmental sense to use those an enabler for risk mitigation and world-class product quality. on timely and correct responses. Danfoss supervises progress resources efficiently. An ambitious product compliance program was launched to and facilitates customer requests for specific reports. enable Danfoss to take leadership within product compliance Danfoss supports initiatives by the EU and others to – proactively meeting customer expectations and regulatory In 2016, the response rate was 75% for three of our segments strengthen the global focus on the Circular Economy, requirements. To ensure a strong focus and alignment across the and 50% for one segment, which we deem unsatisfactory. The including the efforts to reduce the waste from products at end organization, a Product Compliance Team has been established engagement with the external service provider will strengthen of life. with representatives from all business segments and key Group our conflict minerals due diligence process significantly and functions. The team will align competencies, processes, tools, increase the response rate. For several years, we have included circular thinking in our and best practices across the Group. design of products, focusing on reduction of in-process waste Danfoss Negative List and on the reduction of material use products. We closely follow Key priorities have been defined and work groups have The Danfoss Negative List is the back-bone of our continuous developments within the circular economy and participate been formed to ensure the timely and effective monitoring efforts to avoid the use of harmful chemicals and substances in the development of standards and processes for circular and implementation of existing and upcoming regulatory in products and production processes. The Danfoss Negative economy through various organizations and stakeholder requirements. In 2017, robust processes and tools for all List is implemented in all our business segments and is groups, of which Danfoss is a member. prioritized areas will be built and implemented. regularly updated to include new legislation or changed requirements. All suppliers must subscribe to the Negative List In 2017, we will develop and implement an internal governance Conflict minerals to be updated on any changes or new requirements affecting structure to further drive the development of circular economy As a supplier to US-listed customers, Danfoss must abide by their deliveries. at Danfoss. The work will be included in the well-established section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Group Regulatory governance structure. Consumer Protection Act as mandated by the US Securities In 2016, the Danfoss Negative List was issued in Excel format and Exchange Commission, known as the Conflicts Minerals with extensive search functionalities. Sustainability Report 2016 14/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Our people We aim to empower Danfoss employees to make an impact. Maintaining Danfoss as a great place to work management. This ensures that we have skilled employees, This also includes how we interact with our colleagues and One of our strategic targets is that we want to constantly solid leadership, and a strong talent pipeline. customers, the decisions we make and the behaviors we exhibit. develop Danfoss to be a great place to work. Danfoss aspires to be world-class in Human Resource Management, and we Opportunities for students and graduates Our Behaviors describe the company’s intention with regard strive to foster a collaborative, agile, and flexible organization, Unitech International to doing business at company level. These are overall behavior where employees make a difference and leaders inspire Unitech International is an association of top universities statements which help us fulfill our Aspiration and Promise to people to deliver the best results through real impact, strong in Europe, engaging students in a business program and the market. See Our behaviors on page 17. teamwork, global career opportunities and a continuous focus establishing partnerships with industrial companies around on development to drive a high-performance culture. Europe. A pool of talents are applying to gain access. Danfoss Recruiting the right people signs up for six-month internships with the best of the talent Attracting the right employees for the right positions is vital to Employee and talent development pool. They are highly skilled, committed, and when given the future success of the company. Potential employees not We make an ongoing effort to build and develop employee opportunities, they grab them. only include professionals, but also students looking for an qualifications through on-the-job learning, courses, internship and graduates looking for an entry position or our workshops, feedback, coaching and other activities. Postgraduate Program (PGP) Postgraduate Program. Danfoss’ Postgraduate Program is a two-year program, We believe in lifelong learning and continuous development, offering graduate students the opportunity to be a part of With increasing global competition to get the right talents both personally and professionally. Danfoss employees are a strong learning community within Danfoss. The program for the open positions, it is important for us to continuously both competent and motivated to take responsibility for their consists of four different projects, each of six months’ strengthen Danfoss’ position as a leading employer within our own learning and careers ongoing, and it is vital for us that our duration. At least one of these projects will be completed industries. employees retain their value on the job market and at Danfoss. outside the home country. We recognize employees' expectations and potential The recruitment landscape has significantly changed over the through ongoing dialogues and review the objectives as Internships and student jobs past couple of years. Due to our digital transformation, we well as development needs. In 2016, a survey among the Every year, we collaborate with many students – they either have intensified our search for, e.g., specialists with an IT or employees proved a high level of engagement in achieving join Danfoss as an intern for a period of four to six months, mathematical background as well as talents with market and organizational, team, and personal objectives, and a high rate a number of hours per week, or write their master thesis in customer insight and knowledge of the necessary digital tools of success in achieving them. We have a systematic approach collaboration with a Danfoss department. It is a good way to support our strategic direction. to developing employee competencies and succession for the student to gain knowledge about a professional and Sustainability Report 2016 15/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes international workplace, and a good way for Danfoss to Power Electronics A/S (Danfoss Drives); However, the latter has engage with potential future employees. a female board member elected by the employees. For that Health and safety 2015 2016 reason, diversity targets will be implemented in the relevant We embrace diversity subsidiaries. During the reporting year, employees of more than 90 different Lost time injuries (LTI) 127 121 nationalities worked at Danfoss. See more information related to Safety First! Lost time injury frequency (LTIF) 3.4 3.3 people in the supporting figures on page 29. It is a priority within Danfoss to protect the environment and Days of absence 2,205 2,309 improve the health, working environment and safety of the Lost day rate (LDR) 59 63 We believe that the diversity of our employee base builds a employees. Medical treatment incident rate (MTIR) 3.2 3.0 competitive advantage towards customers through creativity, Minor incident rate (MIR) 20.2 17.7 innovation, and local customer understanding. “Safety First!” is Danfoss’ systematic approach to a safe Near-miss incident rate (NMIR) 78.7 96.9 workplace. Focus is on clear, aligned procedures and Danfoss emphasizes diversity in its recruitment policy. When standards to ensure a safe working environment and avoiding recruiting a new employee, the objective is to identify at least accidents across all Danfoss sites. The global “Safety on the three qualified candidates, who represent diversity in terms of Shop Floor” initiative enhances the focus on safety in all culture, nationality, gender, and age. If two or more candidates factories around the world. Safety shoes and safety glasses are are equally qualified, Danfoss will aim towards diversity in the mandatory for anyone entering the shop floor in any Danfoss workplace in the final selection process. factory worldwide. Hearing protection is also mandatory for employees working at machines with a high noise-level, Danfoss is focusing at hiring and developing more female and safe walkways have been identified and marked for leaders. In order to ensure that the diversity of the Group’s pedestrians in all factories. managers increasingly reflect that of the entire workforce, we incidents and near-misses. The new platform will be rolled-out in set an ambitious overall goal to increase the percentage of In 2016, Danfoss continued to develop and align activities and the entire Danfoss organization from 2017. female managers to 20% by 2017 from 18% in 2014. In 2016, efforts within environment, health, and safety across the global the percentage of female managers remained at 18%. To reach organization. The aim is to ensure that the “One Company – One Work-related incidents the goal of 20%, Danfoss continuously focuses on developing Way” approach, established through the Core & Clear strategy, In 2016, Danfoss continued the dedicated management focus the female leaders currently in the talent pipeline as well as also applies to environment, health and safety. on safety with highly dedicated management, safety staff and attracting female leaders to join at all levels. employees at all Danfoss’ factories around the world. The “One EHS” project builds on the strong foundation Report on gender composition in management created by “Safety on the Shop Floor”. In 2016, a global The total LTIF – Lost Time Injury Frequency – was reduced to Danfoss aims at a diversity in the top governing body EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) intranet section was 3.3 in 2016 from 3.4 the previous year – a reduction of 3%. LTIF which reflects that of the rest of the Group. In 2016, the developed and launched. Furthermore, a new global EHS is the number of incidents that result in absence from work of Board of Directors had two female members, one elected policy was prepared to guide the business segments in one or more days per one million hours worked. In 2017, the by the employees and one elected at the General Meeting. their work to integrate environmental, health and safety focus will be on reducing the LTIF by the targeted 10%. Accordingly, Danfoss meets the target of raising the number management systems into the QMS (Quality Management of women serving on the Board to at least one of seven System), which is run by the segments to live up to the The lost day rate (LDR) in 2016 was 63 (the number of days of members elected at the General Meeting. Section 99b of the requirements in the quality standard TS 16949. absence, due to LTIs per one million hours worked). This is a Danish Financial Statements Act (FSA) requires that corporate slight increase from 59 in 2015. subsidiaries of a certain size and type report on diversity. Another achievement is the establishment of a global Danfoss meets the diversity requirements for its Board of governance structure for EHS accompanied by a Global Incident The injured employees were absent for a total of 2,309 days, Directors of the Group, but not for the Board of Directors of Management System (GIMS), which will be the future platform for corresponding to an average absence of 19 days per Lost Time the subsidiaries Danfoss Power Solutions ApS and Danfoss collecting, analyzing and communicating work-related accidents, Injury. This level has remained the same for several years. Sustainability Report 2016 16/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Our way Earn Customer Loyalty Honor Commitments of working Establish trust & respect Think customer in everything we do Be entrusted to take ownership Deliver as promised We earn customer loyalty when we act to serve the customer We honor commitments when we live up to our promises and in everything we do – no matter what our role is. We can be keep our word. We honor commitments in the way we service counted on to work with the customer always at the forefront customers, the way we keep our promises to each other as of our minds, and we strive to earn respect and trust from all colleagues and in how we deliver our results. our customers. Embrace Diversity Go Beyond the Ordinary Value differences Push boundaries to innovate and continously improve Be inclusive Learn from successes as well as mistakes Our promise: We earn customer loyalty through excellence in We embrace diversity when we value and encourage the We go beyond the ordinary with a mindset where we strive Quality, Reliability, and viewpoint, experience and knowledge of those who are different from ourselves, and when we work with purpose to to learn, grow and improve on a continued basis. We remain curious to explore how to improve and find ways to push Innovation learn and grow as one Danfoss. ourselves to successfully fulfill our Danfoss goals and our own potential. Lead by Example Think Danfoss Our aspiration: Show & encourage engagement Take initiatives to leverage synergies Role model the way Support others in succeeding We are engineering tomorrow. We passionately push boundaries on results and We lead by example when we act as role models every day and encourage others to do the same to build engagement. We We think Danfoss when we think beyond our own team and seek the advantages of working cross-functionally. Thinking reputation. lead by example when we foster a positive atmosphere at work. Danfoss is an expression of our passion to succeed as one. Sustainability Report 2016 17/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Ethical Conduct Pilot project process on human rights due diligence and integration 1 Build competencies to & Human Rights identify, prevent, and mitigate Human Rights impacts A. Webinar Objective: Build competencies B. Establishing the baseline Human rights survey and analysis 4 In order to maintain and develop Danfoss’ position and good 2 Reporting reputation on the global market, it is important that we create Assessment Tracking and results in an ethical manner. The Danfoss name must always communication Regional workshop be associated with respect for human rights, proper working Objective: Verify that human Objective: Integrate human conditions and social and environmental considerations. rights impacts are adressed rights regionally Report on outcomes of the Identification, prioritization, In 2016, Danfoss continued the efforts to ensure high ethical process and action planning standards and good business conduct by updating the Ethics Handbook and training people managers. One of the updates covered slavery and human trafficking in order to accommodate recent regulations. 3 Integration All new managers as well as all white-collar employees in India Addressing the impact and Asia-Pacific receive training via Danfoss’ global e-learning Objective: Implement action Ethics@work as part of their on-boarding. All other managers plans are trained in Ethics@work on a bi-annual basis. During 2016, 1,576 new managers and white-collar employees have been trained in Ethics@work. In order to keep track on how ethics is handled in Danfoss, we monitor the number of dismissals due to unethical behavior. In 2016, a total of 43 employees left Danfoss due to unethical Rights. During 2016, a new process for human rights due during 2017-2019, the project will be rolled out across all behavior, against 31 in 2015 and 30 in 2014. The figures diligence and integration has been developed. regions with few adjustments. include both dismissals and voluntary resignations connected with ethical issues. The handling of human rights is rather complex. For that The above illustration shows the process. reason, we have decided to implement internal actions before Human rights introducing it in the supply chain. Accordingly, in 2016, a pilot Compliance programs We monitor our human rights impact and mitigate where project on human rights due diligence and integration was We support the growing international focus on regulation and relevant. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we are carried out in Poland, Slovakia and Romania. The pilot project legislation in areas such as anti-corruption, competition law, committed to live up to the UN Guiding Principles for Human showed that the implemented processes are working, and export control and good business ethics. Sustainability Report 2016 18/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Danfoss’ compliance programs ensure constant focus on keeping our house in order and maintaining our integrity. Internal compliance programs and control mechanisms have provided answers in 2016 to 90 dilemmas posed by employees Danfoss’ Code of Conduct Competence Center conducts the been established to minimize the risk of rule violations. These and managers. training of all employees who are in contact with suppliers on programs contain clear ownership, policy setting, operational an ongoing basis. This is to ensure that they are familiar with procedures, as well as recurring training and awareness activities. Danfoss also has a whistle-blower function, the Ethics Hotline, Danfoss’ Code of Conduct and the roles and responsibilities which employees can use to anonymously report suspected within the area. The training consists of multiple modules, In 2016, Danfoss worked with Data Privacy and had its internal breaches of internal guidelines and legislation. In 2016, a total primarily as online training. rules approved by the EU data protection authorities to be of 112 reports were managed by the Ethics Hotline. Corrective ready for the EU data privacy regulation becoming effective actions, including disciplinary action, were taken for all In 2016, 248 additional suppliers signed our Code of Conduct, in 2018. The export control compliance program was further substantiated allegations, and none of the reports have had a and 115 audits were conducted to verify supplier compliance strengthened, introducing improved processes for product material impact on Danfoss. with the rules. 101 of the audits were first-time audits, while and sanctioned party screening. 14 were follow-up audits. Follow-up audits are conducted to Responsible supplier management follow up on matters, such as inadequate safety measures, An upgraded process for integrity screening of certain business We work systematically with risk assessment and supplier missing or blocked emergency exits, missing or malfunctioning partners was finalized, lowering the risk of corruption, and more management. Our Code of Conduct for Suppliers defines the fire extinguishers, lack of personal protective equipment, than 9,300 employees were trained in anti-corruptive behavior. Group’s environmental and social requirements. All suppliers incorrect handling or storage of hazardous chemicals and are required to sign the Code, and we perform regular supplier discharge of waste water. Compliance hotlines audits to verify compliance and to ensure that any nonIn addition to the compliance programs, Danfoss operates two compliance is addressed. Previously, Code of Conduct compliance has been measured as hotlines available for our business partners and employees. a percentage of spend in compliance for the Top80 suppliers. Further, a supplier risk assessment model has been In 2016, all suppliers (100% spend) were included and the The Group’s employees can find answers to any questions implemented. It forms the basis for measures taken at the compliance percentage was improved from 68% to 84%, and doubts regarding ethics and compliance through the individual supplier. The risk assessment model includes the indicating the share of suppliers who are in compliance with dilemma driven “AskUs”. The purpose is to minimize uncertainty location of the supplier, which ensures that the highest priority the Code of Conduct. among the Group’s employees and prevent unintended is given to suppliers in the areas which pose the greatest risk of non-compliance. This hotline has been in place since 2012, and non-compliance. Sustainability Report 2016 19/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Community Danfoss supports community activities, and stakeholder projects, and charitable events through our foundations and local management initiatives. engagement Danfoss is an active partner in the local community through In 2016, the Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation distributed The Danfoss Employee Foundation sponsorships, involvement in trade organizations and groups, DKK 7.1m to 281 recipients. Among them were a wide The Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation, and through participation in social work. This is organized range of clubs, associations and institutions in Danfoss’ local which works to provide consultation and financial support by local Danfoss projects around the globe and through our community, including schools and universities, hospitals, to employees in Danfoss A/S, the Bitten and Mads Clausen foundations. sports clubs, scout groups, pensioners’ associations, Foundation, associated companies in Denmark and in their institutions for the disabled, museums, choirs and orchestras. Danish subsidiaries. Engagement with stakeholders such as NGOs, authorities and customers helps Danfoss to be aware of the framework In 2016, several large donations of DKK 100,000 or more were In 2016, the foundation considered about 300 applications. conditions for business operations in countries where Danfoss made.The money went to education projects, equipment for Also in 2016, many employees applied for help in connection operates. sports clubs and various cultural projects. with their children's church confirmation, boarding school stays and dental expenses. The foundation also provided Danfoss foundations support local communities For example, Sønderjyllands Kunstskole (the Art School of financial support for vacations and Christmas to the benefit The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation Southern Jutland) received a large donation for the acquisition of many families with children. The foundation granted total The foundation was established in 1960 by the founder of of equipment in connection with an upcoming relocation to a financial support of approximately DKK 3m in 2016. Danfoss. The purpose of the foundation is to provide new multicultural center which is being built in Sønderborg. The support to the general interest-raising projects at home center is a part of Frank Gehry's master plan for the harbor front The Employee Foundation’s legal aid system, which ensures and abroad. The support is first and foremost provided in and will, in addition to the Art School, also house the city's library. that legal assistance is available to all employees, handled the local communities around the company's business approximately 100 requests. units in Southern Jutland, Denmark, but also includes some Another large donation was given to the Danish Agency of the other Danfoss locations in Denmark and abroad. for Culture and Palaces to the restoration of the former The foundation provides, among other things, support for vegetable garden at the Royal Palace in Gråsten, Denmark. education, health, sports and culture. The new vegetable garden is, together with a new visitor center and café, expected to increase the number of visitors. Sustainability Report 2016 20/31 The Danfoss Group Notes to the Sustainability Report Our specific activities supporting the prioritized SDGs 22 Explanations and elaborations 25 Sustainability related risks 27 Selected initiatives and organizations supported by Danfoss 28 Supporting figures 29 Business model 30 Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Our specific activities supporting the prioritized SDGs 6: Clean water and sanitation 7: Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all Danfoss helps to save energy in water and With the launch of the World Energy Outlook Access to affordable, reliable, and sustainable needed between 2010 and 2030 to meet the wastewater treatment. In 2016, we were 2016 by the International Energy Agency, energy is crucial to achieving many of the Sustainable Energy for All (SEforAll) objective actively engaged in promoting the IEA Danfoss started a series of policy briefings, Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainable of doubling the rate of improvement in World Energy Outlook findings on water to explain the business models and existing Development Goal no. 7 is about saving energy efficiency. cycle efficiency. Water and wastewater showcases to turn the water sector energy energy, and it is about giving access to facilities are large energy consumers and neutral. We kick-started the briefings with sustainable energy to the 1.1 billion people If we are to seize the potential of energy account for 25-40% of municipal electricity a forum taking place at the European who are looking forward to being able efficiency, collaboration is absolutely consumption. The high consumption is Parliament, addressing how electric motors to cook without having to spend hours essential. This is what we are committed to related to the energy intensive processes and and water systems help to achieve EU policy collecting firewood, study at night, or keep do. One example is SEforAll, where Danfoss the continuous operation cycle, 24/7 and 365 goals. life-saving medicine cool. as partner in the new UNEP District Energy days annually. in Cities Initiative will set up a team of In 2017, we will conduct two more briefings, A natural starting point for action is using our deployable district energy experts to support In the Danish city of Aarhus, they operate the in Washington and Beijing, to discuss how resources better and making more out of less, cities in developing, retrofitting, or scaling up world’s most energy-efficient water utility. water and energy are not only connected, and ensuring that these new consumers of district energy systems. The team will assist This wastewater treatment facility produces but together can be a very powerful solution, energy use it as efficiently as possible. And more than 30 cities, which have been chosen 90% more energy than is needed to fuel the helping to mitigate climate change. The using our energy more efficiently is doable as part of an extensive consultation process entire operation. As a result, wastewater in state-of-the-art wastewater plant in Aarhus is today – if we use our energy resources to identify municipalities with high district Aarhus is not just energy-efficient, but a a prime example of this, demonstrating how more efficiently, we can generate 49% of heating or cooling potential. net energy producer as a power producing energy neutrality goes beyond optimizing the necessary reductions in emissions to wastewater plant. Furthermore, excess heat wastewater facilities; energy reduction mitigate climate change, as has been shown is fed into the city’s district heating system, is possible at every step of the water by research from the International Energy thereby reducing the carbon footprint. processing cycle. It is a great business case for Agency. companies, cities, and the climate. Done optimally, this also optimizes the However, currently, the global annual rate Read more about water and wastewater at generation of biogas used for both electricity www.danfoss.com/energy-and-water of energy efficiency improvements is 1.7%. and heat production. This is still way behind the annual 2.6% Sustainability Report 2016 22/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Our specific activities supporting the prioritized SDGs 11: Sustainable cities 12: Responsible consumption and communities and production Imagine a city. In the center, a brand-new demand for energy, the demand for public, With more and more mouths to feed every for seamless control and transparency across supermarket has been equipped with digital private, and commercial buildings will follow. day, there is a constant need for more the entire cold chain. solutions that constantly monitor the cooling Estimates predict that 60% of the area, which and better food. Furthermore, rapid urban systems’ performance to make more out of will be urban by 2030, have yet to be built. development is creating a huge demand for As a market leader with more than 50,000 the energy used. Maybe a new skyscraper is new and better infrastructure and efficient food retail installations worldwide, Danfoss popping up next door to the supermarket. Currently, according to the International food distribution. leads the development of integrated food Here, excavators carve their way through Energy Agency, buildings account for 40% of retail refrigeration control solutions. Our tons of dirt, while central operators get global emissions. But that does not have to However, today, according to the United solutions have been developed based on real-time data from the machines to optimize be the case in the future. We can create smart Nations Food and Agriculture Organization more than 30 years of close cooperation with performance. On the ground floor, installers and connected buildings which produce (FAO), one third of the food produced for the global community of food retailers, and are fitting an apartment with electronic energy rather than consume energy by taking human consumption is lost or wasted more than 80 years in the HVAC industry. thermostats that allow you to control your advantage of cross-sector collaboration and globally, which amounts to about 1.3 billion heating system directly on your smartphone. existing technology. tons per year. Together with forward-thinking retailers around the world, we have taken sustainable Digital innovations that make smarter use of To accelerate building efficiency, Danfoss Along the way from farm to fork, food safety, food retail solutions to the next level through our energy are right in front of us – and at the works with Sustainable Energy for All and its freshness and hygiene must be secured with the constant development of sustainable same time cut emissions. In many ways, making building energy efficiency accelerator. The reliable as well as costand energy-efficient technologies and service concepts. Danfoss the world more connected and exploiting World Resources Institute is leading together cold chain systems. From dairy and fishery solutions not only ensure the perfect the potential of IoT (the Internet of Things) are with UNEP, an action-oriented partnership. This products to farm produce, such as vegetables conditions for food in temperature-controlled exactly what we need to meet some of the partnership supports governments and cities and fruits, or processed foods, such as bakery environments, they also help achieve nearchallenges which we face right now. to unlock the potential of buildings – enabling items, cold chains and cold storage are zero downtime on store applications in order public and private partners to work together essential for efficient food distribution and to improve food safety and reduce food loss. With our population growing at its current to help cities and communities become more minimized food loss. rate and with increased standards of living, energy-efficient and sustainable. we will see global energy demand expand Global sourcing, quality-minded consumers, Read more about responsible consumption up to 37% by 2040. Along with a growing Read more about urban efficiency at www.danfoss.com and ever more complex supply chains call at www.danfoss.com Sustainability Report 2016 23/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Our specific activities supporting the prioritized SDGs 13: Climate action Partnerships for the goals Danfoss contributes significantly to the cost-efficient and low-carbon solution for Danfoss engages closely with multiple Our aim is to build partnerships and mitigation of the global climate challenges heating and cooling of buildings in urban areas. stakeholders, such as NGOs, global proactively shape the future of the energy through our products and solutions and organizations, authorities and customers to systems, efficient buildings and food chains, through our own activities to reduce the CO2 Together with leading industry players in pursue the best sustainable solutions within thinking energy efficiency. Teaming up footprint of our activities. support of the Montreal Protocol, Danfoss energy, climate, food, and infrastructure. with organizations and institutions within is working on sustainable solutions for energy efficiency in addition to Women We are ambitious in our approach to refrigeration and a phasing down of HFC Lead generation and high-level networking Empower Business , “Global Goals World combating climate change and see carbon gases. HFCs are potent greenhouse gases, with business leaders, decision makers, and Cup”, UNDP – United Nation’s Development pricing as a potential tool to increase the used in refrigerators, air conditioners, and local as well as regional governments enable us Program – and Sustainia Living, illustrates the global focus on de-carbonization. A focus on industrial applications. We work together with to influence decisions and regulation. By doing broad commitment by Danfos reducing carbon emissions will encourage GRMI – The Global Refrigerant Management so, we drive the green transformation towards a businesses to strengthen their management Initiative. The aim is to educate the global low-carbon society with limited dependability For more information about partnerships, see page 28. of energy-efficiency and climate investments. supply chain to improve the management on fossil energy sources and with greenhouse It is the aim of Danfoss to implement carbon of refrigerants to reduce leak and service gas emissions which are low enough to ensure pricing as an internal tool within 2017. emissions. And to promote recycling, that the global warming is limited to 1.5 recovery and reclaiming of refrigerants and degrees above pre-industrial levels. Addressing climate change will be a mixture foam blowing agents. of costs and investments, savings through energy-efficiency, and new business Danfoss also participates in the GFCCC – opportunities. It is, therefore, in our interest Global Food Cold Chain Council – where we as a provider of energy-efficient solutions to facilitate the establishment of sustainable support the global community to focus on cold chains with low-GWP refrigerants. As an carbon emission reductions. industry leader, we see it as the company’s responsibility to build the capacity and We will also focus on awareness-raising awareness about sustainable cold chains and about district energy as a state-of-the-art and to push for progress within the use of natural future-proof system that provides the most refrigerants. Sustainability Report 2016 24/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Explanations and elaborations Organization and management responsible for environmental, health and safety activities Policies and strategies Danfoss has a two-tier management system consisting of at individual sites, which also include appointing people Danfoss has implemented and maintains a number of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. The with responsibility for day-to-day environmental, health internal policies and company standards that govern business Board of Directors lays the general course for the company and safety tasks, and to participate in knowledge and processes and behavior. The below list includes the relevant by approving strategies and targets. The Executive experience sharing across the Group. documents within sustainability. Management develops the strategy and handles the day-to-day management of the company and execution of • All employees are responsible for ensuring that they are • Danfoss’ Business Conduct the strategy. aware of and comply with Danfoss’ rules and guidelines. This policy sets the overall direction and expectations for Furthermore, all employees have a duty to report any Danfoss’ business conduct and applies to all companies The distribution of roles and responsibilities in our breaches of Danfoss’ rules and guidelines that they may and business units in the Danfoss Group. sustainability program is consistent with the general become aware of or have reason to suspect. governance and risk management principles. • Danfoss Sustainability Program • It is the responsibility of Danfoss’ Group Compliance The Sustainability program supports Danfoss’ growth • The Board of Directors and Executive Committee have function to follow up on compliance with guidelines and strategy via a strong group framework for sustainability, overall responsibility and define the framework for the relevant programs. The function is also responsible for the ambitious goals and a clear direction on the focus areas. Company’s sustainability efforts. internal AskUs function and the Danfoss Ethics Hotline. Ethical conduct • The Risk & Compliance Committee has overall responsibility • Danfoss has set up an Ethics Committee to deal with • Danfoss Ethics Handbook for ensuring an effective enterprise risk management violations of Danfoss’ ethical guidelines and, if necessary, to The Ethics Handbook outlines Danfoss’ ethical guidelines program and effective compliance programs. submit them to the Danfoss Board of Directors. and is aimed at all employees and companies in the Danfoss Group, including subsidiaries and joint ventures • The Sustainability & Public Affairs function is responsible • Danfoss’ Internal Audit function performs unannounced where Danfoss has a controlling interest. for defining and implementing Danfoss’ global program, inspections to ensure compliance with the ethical Group targets and activities for sustainability. guidelines and legislation in special areas, such as • Danfoss Anti-Corruption Manual anti-corruption. Defines and outlines correct ethical behavior within anti• All people managers are responsible for ensuring that corruption. The manual describes a number of concepts More information about Danfoss’ management structures and governance their areas are aware of and comply with Danfoss rules mechanisms can be found in the Statutory Report on Corporate and guidelines, which outline how to avoid contributing to and guidelines. In addition, all factory managers are Governance 2016 on www.danfoss.com > About > Financial information. corruption. Sustainability Report 2016 25/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes • Danfoss Competition Compliance Manual in Danfoss’ products and production processes and by Other prioritized areas Defines and outlines correct ethical behavior within fair Danfoss’ suppliers, contractors and tenants. • Danfoss Code of Conduct for suppliers competition and compliance. The manual describes a The Code describes Danfoss’ corporate social number of concepts and guidelines which outline how to • Danfoss’ conflict minerals policy responsibility requirements for suppliers covering child avoid unfair trade. Defines Danfoss’ approach to the handling of conflict labor, discrimination, forced labor, working environment, minerals inquiries from customers and how to collect and working hours and salary, the right to organize and • Danfoss Export Control Compliance Manual validate the information that Danfoss’ requires from its collective bargaining, the right to privacy, environment Defines and outlines correct ethical behavior within export suppliers to support the reporting of conflict minerals. and corruption. control. The manual describes a number of concepts and guidelines, which outline how to avoid breaking export Energy and resource efficiency • Danfoss Supplier Quality Manual control legislation. • Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030 The Supplier Quality Manual sets the rules, standards, and The focus of Danfoss Climate Strategy 2030 is Danfoss' own requirements for Danfoss’ suppliers regarding product • Danfoss corporate standard – Reporting unethical behavior business processes, production and buildings, and the aim quality. The same rules, standards and requirements apply Defines guidelines of how to report unethical behavior, is two-fold: to halve the energy intensity and to halve the when Danfoss evaluates a potential supplier’s fitness for i.e. behavior which is in conflict with the Ethics Handbook, CO2 emissions from the energy used. becoming a Danfoss Supplier. legislation, or other applicable rules. Environment, health and safety • Danfoss corporate standard – Risk Management • Danfoss corporate standard – Roles and responsibilities • Danfoss corporate standard The standard defines the roles and responsibilities with respect to ethical cases – Environment, health & safety in Danfoss regarding Risk Management, and gives directions on how Defines roles and responsibility in ethical cases. Defines how Danfoss will plan and perform all activities Risk Management should be approached. with regard to environmental, health & safety issues, Product compliance and transparency and how the company will continuously improve its • Danfoss corporate standard – Global Recruitment • Environmental Design Guide performance. Defines Danfoss Global Recruitment, stipulating the Guidelines for life cycle considerations during the fundamental principles for the global recruitment as well development of products to ensure that all phases in the • Danfoss corporate standard – Safety at the Shop Floor as the principles that surround the Global Recruitment life of the product from the extraction of raw materials to Establishes the minimum requirements for safety on Process ensuring “the right candidate to the right job final disposal of the product are considered and assessed. the shop floor, including requirements for Personal and the right job to the right candidate at the right time”. Protective Equipment (PPE), Pedestrian Safety, Visitor The standard also considers ethical conduct during the • Danfoss’ Negative List of chemicals and substances Safety, Health & Safety KPI’s and handling of deviations recruitment process and diversity. Bans or restricts the use of substances and materials and exemptions. Sustainability Report 2016 26/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Sustainability-related risks Maintaining efficient risk management is a cornerstone at Risk Description Risk Mitigation Measures Danfoss as well as a prerequisite for running a business and responding rapidly and flexibly, when conditions change. Ethical Conduct Danfoss has implemented ethical guidelines and compliance Climate change is one of the global megatrends recognized in The ethical behavior of companies and their employees is a programs on anti-corruption, competition compliance, export Danfoss’ strategy. Aspects influencing the strategy are the focus of attention, with stricter laws and possible sanctions control, and data privacy. Danfoss has an inquiry function increasing demand for energy, more efficient use of energy, introduced worldwide in areas such as anti-corruption, data (named AskUs), from which employees can seek advice and increase in energy use from renewable sources and privacy and fair competition. Unethical conduct by Danfoss guidance on ethical conduct. Danfoss operates an Ethics urbanization. Consequently, the need for intelligent energy employees could cause considerable damage to Danfoss’ Hotline, which employees can use to anonymously report and heating infrastructure in addition to the need for food are reputation and result in substantial financial sanctions. suspected breaches of legislation or internal guidelines. increasing, leading to increased focus on the cold chain and increasing energy prices. We see opportunities everywhere – from feeding a growing Severe weather or natural disasters A comprehensive insurance program covers for repopulation, to letting everyone enjoy a more comfortable, Changes in weather conditions following global warming establishment of property and for loss of business. Business better quality of life. We aim to rise to ever more complex or natural disasters might disrupt Danfoss’ manufacturing Continuity Planning is implemented to reduce impact of challenges and, through knowledge and hard work, engineer facilities or supply chain. capacity shortage. Proactive risk mitigation as well as best-insolutions that achieve more with less. class building safety standards and a Global Fire Risk Program are established to reduce the risks. Risks and mitigation activities The Executive Committee has defined specific risk areas of the risk management process which, due to their special nature, are currently of particular importance to Danfoss. Product Compliance In 2016, Danfoss established a Product Compliance Team and This risk deals with the potential failure to comply with the defined key priorities, methodology and governance. The Read more about the areas and our approach to risk management in the increasing number of safetyand environmentally-related target is to ensure a similar approach regarding the handling Annual Report 2016 at www.danfoss.com > About > Financial information. product regulations. Non-compliance could have severe of product legislation throughout the Group. Danfoss Group consequences for Danfoss. Compliance with product-related Regulatory monitors legislation and coordinates the Group’s Like its peers, Danfoss is exposed to a number of risks. While legislation is important to uphold Danfoss’ “license to sell”. efforts to align and implement the legislation. there is no single sustainability-related risk threatening the Group’s survival, Danfoss is exposed to the following general risks. Sustainability Report 2016 27/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Selected initiatives and organizations supported by Danfoss EuroACE EuroACE – The European Alliance of Companies for Energy Efficiency in Buildings – works together with the Sustainable European institutions to help Europe move towards an efficient use of energy in buildings. Danfoss held the Sustainia Living Energy for All presidency on EuroACE in 2016. In 2016, Danfoss joined Sustainia Living, a platform developed (SEforALL) to demonstrate, co-create, and communicate the benefits and possibilities of sustainability as the way ahead to “a healthier you in a healthier world”. Danish producers of sustainable In September 2011, the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon launched Sustainable Energy for All (SEforALL) as a global IEA-International lifestyles are to be architects of the new emerging markets initiative in support of making sustainable energy for all a Energy Agency by presenting their best cases and stories – being within city reality by 2030. SEforALL mobilizes action from all sectors of development, housing, food, fashion fitness, etc. – all situations society, including governments, business and civil society The IEA is an autonomous organization, which works to where our daily choices and behavior form the sustainable to deliver on three objectives by 2030: the universal access ensure reliable, affordable and clean energy for its 29 member world of tomorrow. to modern energy services doubling the global rate of countries and beyond. Danfoss’ CEO Niels B. Christiansen is improvement in energy efficiency, and doubling the share a member of IEA’s Energy Efficiency Industry Advisory Board. of renewable energy in the global energy mix. Danfoss supports various IEA activities and publications to strengthen the global focus on energy efficiency. Global Alliance for UN Caring for Energy Productivity Climate Initiative EP100 The mission of the Global Alliance is to drive continued global improvements in energy productivity. The Global “Caring for Climate” (C4C) is an initiative aimed at advancing Danfoss joined EP100 (Energy Productivity 100), for which The Alliance for Energy Productivity builds on the the role of business in addressing climate change. The Climate Group serves as Secretariat, to share best practices Accelerate Energy Productivity 2030 goal of doubling initiative was launched in 2007 by the UN Global Compact, and highlight our leadership on energy productivity. Danfoss energy productivity by 2030 by taking it global, securing the UN Environment Program, and the secretariat of the supports the goal of the Global Alliance for Energy Productivity commitments from government and business deciUN Framework Convention on Climate Change. Caring to double energy productivity by 2030, and the objective of sion-makers around the world to be leaders in energy for Climate is endorsed by nearly 430 companies from 65 Sustainable Energy for All to double the rate of energy efficiency productivity. countries. Danfoss became a signatory to C4C in 2007. improvements. Sustainability Report 2016 28/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Supporting figures Employees 25,292 employees worldwide 30% Females 70% Males 18% Female Managers 82% Male Managers People Age distribution Job category People managers 15-24 years 4% After-Sales Service 1% People manager 13% 25-34 years 28% Corporate & Administration 3% Not people manager 87% 35-44 years 30% Finance & Accounting 3% 45-54 years 24% General Management 0% Gender Female Male 55+ years 14% Human Resources 2% Managers 18% 82% Information Technology 3% All employees 30% 70% Location of employees – per region Internal Services 1% Salaried employees 28% 72% Asia-Pacific 2% Production 50% Hourly-paid employees 32% 68% Central Europe 8% Purchasing & Logistics 6% China 17% Research & Development 10% Gender – per region Female Male Eastern Europe 13% Sales & Marketing 21% Asia-Pacific 27% 73% India 3% Central Europe 20% 80% Latin America 6% Seniority China 32% 68% North America 12% <1 year 9% Eastern Europe 38% 62% North Europe 28% 1<3 years 12% India 12% 88% Russia 5% 3<5 years 11% Latin America 36% 64% South Europe 5% 5<10 years 27% North America 24% 76% Turkey, Middle East and Africa 1% 10<20 years 26% North Europe 31% 69% 20+ years 15% Russia 33% 67% South Europe 23% 77% Hourlyand salaried paid Turkey, Middle East & Africa 21% 79% Hourly 40% Salaried 60% Sustainability Report 2016 29/31 The Danfoss Group Click to navigate CEO Comment Financial results 2016 SDGs Sustainability highlights Sustainability program Energy & Climate Product Compliance & Transparency Our people Ethical Conduct & Human Rights Community and stakeholder engagement Notes Business model The Danfoss business model drives Climate Infrastructure competitive advantage and sustainable, al growth trends long-term value creation. The model Glob creates a foundation for our four business segments to take advantage of global Danfoss Danfoss growth opportunities. Heating Power Solutions 16% of 30% of Group sales Group sales Competitive advantage The business model is based on a strong “One Customers Leading Company” approach. Key elements are our operational positions setup with extensive, global coverage and strong Application regional presence as well as our competitive knowledge Danfoss advantage across the business segments: leading Drives Innovation positions, application knowledge, and innovation. 25% of Group sales Quality and reliability Danfoss Cooling Increased customer value through 29% of top product quality and excellence Suppliers Group sales in on-time delivery – worldwide. Energy Food Leading positions Application knowledge Innovation In the global manufacturing industry, global reach, size, and Across the Group, customer application knowledge and Innovation is in our DNA. We focus our innovation in the core; scale matter. Therefore, it is a key element in our business model deep technical expertise are driving differentiation as well as meaning that we are focused on constantly developing our that the business segments hold leading positions as either a customer value. The operational setup is designed to ensure technologies, products, and processes in the core businesses. number one or two in their industries. To drive scale advantages, local empowerment and close cooperation with customers. It is our unique application knowledge and our ability to increased customer value, and a world-class supply chain, we We invest in initiatives that enable our R&D engineers to understand customer needs combined with access to new have a unique business system with a strong focus on safety, turn their know-how and application understanding into and advanced technologies that drive innovation at Danfoss. quality, delivery, and cost. performance-enhancing advantages for the customers. We invest above industry average to take full advantage of innovation and take the lead within IoT and connectivity. Sustainability Report 2016 30/31 The Danfoss Group Further information available on Danfoss’ website: www.danfoss.com Date of publication: March 2, 2017 Contact address: Danfoss A/S Nordborgvej 81 6430 Nordborg Denmark Tel.: +45 7488 2222 CVR no. 20165715 (registration number with the Danish Business Authority) Email: danfoss@danfoss.com
