GN Store Nord A/S Hear More, Do More, Be More Communication on Progress 2016 Corporate responsibility report according to section 99a in the Danish Financial Statements Act 2 Communication on Progress ⋅ Contents Contents Contents Company profile 3 Statement of support from the Executive Management 4 Human & labor rights 5 People excellence 7 Product safety and development 9 Environmental impact 10 Citizenship 11 Membership of UN Global Compact Member since: January 14, 2010 Number of employees: Around 5,400 Sector: Health care equipment and electronics Reporting date: February 9, 2016 The report covers the period: January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016 This report forms part of the management’s report in the Annual Report 2016 for GN Store Nord A/S. The report is not covered by the audit. Communication on Progress 2016 3 Communication on Progress ⋅ Company profile Contents Company profile The GN Group is in the business of helping people. The Group’s declared purpose is Making Life Sound Better with a vision to become the leader in intelligent audio solutions that transform people’s lives through the power of sound. Building on the Group’s highly specialized sound processing know-how, GN offers an exceptional portfolio of medical, professional and consumer audio solutions Our business The GN Group has a shared purpose, vision and proposition The GN Group operates in 100 countries across the world and has more than 5,000 employees. Purpose To Make Life Sound Better The company was founded in 1869 and is listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen. Vision The leader in intelligent audio solutions transforming lives GN Hearing through the power of sound People with hearing loss are at the heart of everything we do. GN Hearing’s hearing aids help people feel more involved, Brand proposition connected and in control. In an ever-smarter world, we think Intelligent audio solutions that let you Hear More, Do More big and challenge the norm so that we can transform lives and Be More than you ever thought possible through the power of sound. Available exclusively through audiologists and hearing care professionals. Please visit www.gn.com for more information. GN Audio GN Audio’s integrated headset and communications solutions assist professionals in all types of businesses in being more productive. Our wireless headsets and earbuds are designed to fit any lifestyle from sports enthusiasts to commuters and office workers. Communication on Progress 2016 4 Communication on Progress ⋅ Statement of support from the Executive Management Contents Statement of support from the Executive Management GN’s purpose is to Make Life Sound Better. We believe in the We recognize that our manufacturing, logistics and products power of sound to transform people’s lives and through our do not only affect the users of our products, but also our intelligent audio solutions we enable people to Hear More, Do employees, our suppliers and partners, and the communities More and Be More than they ever thought possible. Our in which we operate. All GN’s stakeholders should always be products improve people’s mobility and quality of life – and able to trust that our products are produced in a safe manner enables them to control their own soundscape in an and that we conduct our business based on high ethical increasingly busy and noisy world. standards. This is on top of our agenda at all times. Since 1869, GN has utilized technological innovation to With this report, we reconfirm our commitment to the ten facilitate and enhance communication between people. principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Today, our focus is on helping people with hearing loss live life as unimpeded as possible with our innovative hearing aids; to assist professionals in all types of businesses concentrate and be more productive with headset and communications solutions; and to provide wireless speech and music headsets and earbuds designed to support any lifestyle – from sports enthusiasts to commuters and office workers. Executive Management As a company, we are committed to act in a responsible Anders Hedegaard, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing manner throughout our entire value chain and in all business René Svendsen-Tune, CEO, GN Store Nord & GN Audio matters. We consider this essential for reaching our longMarcus Desimoni, CFO, GN Store Nord & GN Hearing term strategic goals. Communication on Progress 2016 5 Communication on Progress ⋅ Human & labor rights Contents Human & labor rights The GN Group sets the bar high when it comes to its business standards and interaction with employees and suppliers. GN is responsible for the people who take part in the production and support of its products and services worldwide. GN believes that these people should neither be deprived of their basic human rights nor suffer physically or mentally from their work in any way Compliance Data privacy Business ethics The GN Group pursues online activities targeted at users and GN’s commitment to business ethics and compliance with through these activities collect personal data. The GN Group international regulation and internal policies is anchored in treats this information with absolute respect and our ethics guide, our code of conduct and other internal confidentiality. guidelines. These outline the fundamental requirements for how GN operates and describe the responsibilities and ethical Many countries already have legislation in place requiring standards expected of all employees and relevant business companies to handle private data securely. However, in May partners. 2018, new EU regulations on data privacy regulation becomes effective. The GN Group has started preparing for To ensure and document employees’ familiarity with the code these new regulations and is undertaking efforts to ensure we of ethics and key policies at all times, relevant employees comply with all aspects of these regulations. These efforts, electronically sign off on their compliance within specific among others, include a general data protection regulation areas and take GN’s e-learning courses within anti-corruption compliance review. and competition compliance on a regular basis. This is supplemented with face-to-face compliance training for Supply chain selected groups of employees. Responsible sourcing Whistleblower system GN requires all its suppliers to comply with GN’s code of GN’s whistleblower hotline, Alertline, is available in 26 conduct, which also emphasizes human and labor rights. It is countries and 19 languages and is independently managed by essential for GN to ensure that no violations of such rights a third party. The hotline can be used by employees as well as occur. However, GN acknowledges that in a long term external parties to report a concern or perceived misconduct commercial relationship there is a risk that the supplier may via the internet (at www.gnstorenord.alertline.eu) or via one shift its focus from human and labor rights as well as safety of the local Alertline phone numbers. The system is an issues towards cost optimization. In order to mitigate this risk important tool to ensure that allegations of illegal or GN is in close dialog with its suppliers as the best results are unethical conduct are reported and immediately addressed. created through clear expectation setting and cooperation. In All complaints are treated with confidentiality, and GN will addition, GN continually assesses its suppliers and monitors not discharge, demote, suspend, threaten, harass or in any their compliance through supplier self-assessments, other way discriminate against an employee due to any lawful performance monitoring, audits and site visits. action(s) taken by the employee with respect to good faith reporting of complaints or participation in a related Regular meetings are set up with all key suppliers to ensure investigation. follow-up on standards, procedures, quality etc. In 2016, GN received six reports within the scope of issues If GN experiences any issues or breaches in relation to its code which may be reported through the hotline. The allegations of conduct from suppliers, it raises a non-conformity case, were primarily leak of confidential information, conflict of and suppliers will be required to provide an action plan to interest and corrupt practices. All relevant cases have been amend findings within agreed time. However, if GN discovers investigated, and appropriate remediating as well as critical issues at its suppliers it will not hesitate to take more disciplinary actions were taken where relevant. severe actions. In 2016, we have conducted a compliance risk assessment in Both GN Hearing and GN Audio have responsibility related order to better understand our corruption risk exposures, requirements included in their supplier audits. Audit topics which helps us define and prioritize the relevant controls and among other things include issues on child labor, working activities required to prevent bribery and corruption. hours and health and safety. In 2016, GN Hearing and GN Communication on Progress 2016 6 Communication on Progress ⋅ Human & labor rights Contents Audio performed 50 audits at suppliers. Most audit findings related concerns. Repetitive work is being mitigated through were related to working hours as well as health and safety task rotation to vary positions as well as pro-longed break issues in the production. GN Hearing and GN Audio are in times for particularly exposed employees. positive dialog with suppliers where a non-conformity case has been raised to implement required actions. All sites have managers with direct HSE responsibility to ensure operator safety. Qualification of new suppliers When we engage with a new supplier we follow a strict Occupational health & safety qualification process to ensure that the new supplier can live up to our standards and requirements. Providing a safe and secure working environment is important to GN, and GN’s operations are relatively low-risk compared 1. Initial screening: When introducing a new supplier our to other industries in general. We acknowledge that suppliers procurement team visits the supplier to understand the may implement occupational health and safety standards in a business with which we consider engaging less stringent manner than at GN’s own sites. Therefore we 2. Technical screening: We send a team with technical, have a high focus on ensuring compliance with our material and quality knowledge to evaluate and audit the occupational health and safety requirements, both when potential partners capabilities and processes onboarding new suppliers and partners as well as through 3. Evaluation: The conclusion from above parameters gets regular supplier audits. documented and a decision is made in alignment with our sourcing strategy Workplace injuries 4. Qualification: The qualification is finalized when the The HSE and HR teams track all workplace injuries. Most work procurement team signs a supply agreement that related injuries in our manufacturing facilities are occasional regulates the future cooperation cuts and muscle strains. There has been no increase in work 5. Performance monitoring: Performance of all suppliers are related injuries in 2016. GN has never experienced a fatal monitored and audits are conducted frequently to ensure workplace injury. a consistent high performance. Repetitive work GN Hearing has its own manufacturing facilities. The main hearing aid manufacturing and distribution sites are located in Visit www.gn.com/About/Corporate-responsibility to read our China, Malaysia and USA and key components are responsibility guidelines and policies. manufactured in Denmark. All jobs in these facilities are reviewed and rated for potential health and safety (HSE) Communication on Progress 2016 7 Communication on Progress ⋅ People excellence Contents People excellence The GN Group’s employees are essential in building a winning team. Offering all employees irrespective of gender, age and nationality the same opportunities for development and an engaging working environment is our responsibility Leading talent for key positions and individual development plans. During the year HR, individual business units and senior management Leadership principles conduct quarterly follow-up meetings to ensure progress on The GN Group’s goal is to build the best team and create the actions. best working environment to support its purpose of Making Life Sound Better. The GN Group has developed a set of Mentoring programs principles upon which GN’s leaders must lead: ENGAGE Developing talent of today into tomorrow’s leaders is people, ACCELERATE performance, INSPIRE innovation. important to continue the GN Group’s growth. Our mentoring programs are strategic development activities, which aim at These principles have been introduced to guide people developing high performers and grow a leadership pipeline. managers across GN in how to lead in accordance with GN’s values and strategic direction. This will help managers shape The GN Group has initiated two global mentorship programs and build strong diverse teams and drive a shared culture of in 2016. One program focuses on our young talents who are customer and user centricity as well as high performance. part of our graduate program and another on growing midlevel managers into more senior management positions. In Leadership development programs addition, two focused mentorship programs within Global The GN Group offers leadership development programs on Marketing (GN Audio) and Global Operations (GN Hearing) different levels to support leaders and specialists with the has been introduced. right tools to lead in congruity with GN’s leadership principles, values and strategic direction. The programs are designed to The mentoring programs represent mentees from all regions meet the development needs of managers across businesses of the company. 45% of mentees are women supporting our with different leadership experience and complexity in their aim to increase the number of women in management. leadership role. On-boarding Performance based career development On-boarding of new employees is crucial to infuse the right Performance is the driver for qualifying for senior positions in company culture based on the GN Group’s common values, the GN Group. The GN Group wants career development to as well as the right business and customer understanding. be connected to performance irrespective of gender, age and This is why a new, structured global on-boarding program is in nationality as we firmly believe that diverse teams and the pipeline. leadership teams have a substantial positive impact on business results and organizational performance. Highly committed and motivated employees To ensure performance-based career development all whiteAn engaged workforce is key to achieve the GN Group’s collar employees conduct a performance review and a ambitions as a company. To measure the engagement, GN development planning dialog with their manager annually conducts a bi-annual global Engagement Survey for the which is followed up upon in regular one-to-one meetings. group – the next survey will be conducted in 2017. Results This gives the manager and the employee an opportunity to from the most recent survey for the group – carried out in reflect on past and future performance and development. 2015 – showed that employees are highly motivated and committed. We achieved a response rate of 95%. Strong The individual performance review and development planning emphasis is put on following up on the survey results, and dialog is supplemented by a talent review and succession managers and teams at all levels work to identify and execute planning process where all managers assess their employees on action plans to constantly improve GN as a workplace. performance potential. These assessments are further reviewed in the individual management teams to align evaluations. This provides input for GN’s succession planning Communication on Progress 2016 8 Communication on Progress ⋅ People excellence Contents Gender diversity in senior management and Women in senior management positions the Board of Directors 2014 2015 2016 Target Senior management Percentage of 25% by Currently, women fill over 16% of the company’s senior women in sen14% 15% 16% the end management positions. GN had aimed for 25% in 2017. It is ior manageof 2017 still the management’s firm goal to reach this target during ment positions the implementation of the 2017 2019 strategy, and GN will continue to strengthen efforts to build a pipeline of future Board of Directors female candidates. The Board of Directors believes that diversity strengthens any governing body and acknowledges the importance of To achieve this goal we ensure that diversity is an integral diversity in general, including diversity of gender, nationality part of GN’s yearly talent review and succession planning and competencies. process, of talent development practices, of recruitment procedures, of leadership development programs, and of In 2016, the Board of Directors reached its goal to see two mentor programs. Also, recently the wording and visual women elected for the board by the end of 2017. As identity in recruitment activities on social media and other communicated in last year’s Annual Report, the Board of channels has been changed to better attract female Directors aims to have three female board members by the candidates. end of 2020. Communication on Progress 2016 9 Communication on Progress ⋅ Product safety and development Contents Product safety and development The GN Group is committed to delivering superior quality and the best value to customers through its unique combination of consumers, professional and medical competencies across our business areas Product development the devices are sold. This implies that all materials and components of hearing aids that are in contact with human The GN Group possesses a unique combination of skin are obligated to fulfil the biocompatibility requirements. competencies across our business areas. GN is the only The evaluation includes testing for Cytotoxicity, skin company with intelligent audio expertise across consumer, sensitization and irritation of the relevant professional and medical solutions gathered under one roof. material/components and does to some extent include animal testing. • We have the consumer and professional focused competencies and understanding in our headset business GN Hearing’s policy is to always try to minimize the amount • And we have the deep medical and audiological knowledge of testing required by setting up tests and test schemes in the in our hearing aid business most efficient way. All animal tests used by GN Hearing are performed by contract laboratories. We use these unique in-house competencies to develop intelligent audio solutions that let our users Hear More, Do Policies More and Be More than they ever thought possible and to fulfil our purpose to Make Life Sound Better for our users. Quality policies The GN Group is committed to delivering superior quality and The GN Group continually refines the way our products are the best value to our customers and has made its quality produced to make the most of the raw materials and to policies available online. design more sustainable products with the highest possible safety. Conflict minerals policy Conflict minerals (gold, tantalum, tungsten and tin) Product safety originating from mines controlled by military groups in the Democratic Republic of Congo and nine adjoining countries, Materials and substances has been widely reported to be the major driver of violence in The GN Group is conscious about materials and substances in Central Africa. The GN Group is concerned for the well-being its products. To avoid harmful materials and substances in of people and communities and consequently does not want products, materials and components are selected during the to take part in this conflict. We have implemented a group development phase and accompanied by thorough testing. wide policy to avoid conflict minerals from these mines in GN GN complies with the ROHS 2 directive as well as other local products. According to its policy, the GN Group is taking the and international legislation. In addition, GN Audio has following actions: implemented REACH regulation and GN Hearing is in the process of implementing this. Changes to standards and 1. GN requires its suppliers to exclude conflict minerals from legislation are monitored closely. GN products 2. GN requires suppliers to read and comply with our code of Due to the diversified nature of the companies, different conduct quality controls and procedures apply. Regulations for GN 3. GN has put an audit program in place where proof of Hearing are, by nature, greater as the products are classified compliance will be required, that conflict minerals are as medical devices. GN Hearing’s products are developed procured only from smelters end refiners that have been under a highly regulated quality system complying with ISO found to be compliant with the Conflict-Free Smelter 13485 and FDA 21CFR 820 CGMP as well as other country (CFS) Program of the CFSI standards, which GN Hearing uses to control a number of By the end of 2016, GN Hearing has achieved 80% data product standards and processes. coverage and GN Audio has achieved 85% data coverage on validating the smelters identified and used in our supply chain Animal testing as conflict-free. The work will continue in 2017. Hearing aids are classified as medical devices. Medical devices have to comply with European and US regulations as well as Please visit www.gn.com to read the full policies. other regulatory standards related to the country in which Communication on Progress 2016 10 Communication on Progress ⋅ Environmental impact Contents Environmental impact The GN Group is committed to minimizing its impact through planning and execution of activities Product development Waste in production For all our production lines we have set a threshold for waste GN’s products are by nature small. A typical hearing aid accepted. If waste exceeds this threshold it will trigger a weighs between 2 6 grams while headsets including base production stop. Corrective and preventive actions will then station and power supplies weigh between 10 and 550 grams. be implemented to decrease waste before production is restarted. The GN Group strives to find unique ways to improve quality of life with superior technology. GN continually observes the Waste management way it creates its products to make the most of the raw Most of our waste is very small in quantity, but all our materials and to design more sustainable products with the manufacturing facilities use licensed disposal contractors that highest possible quality. remove any waste and properly dispose of any such material. Waste may include plastic, expired chemicals, paint, scrap Due to the nature and character of our business we do not parts etc. assess to have any noteworthy climate risks. Some waste is re-used (e.g. boxes and plastic) via a re-cycling Supply chain operations managed by external companies. Other waste such as electronics is processed to allow other companies to Optimizing returns and service flow reclaim and re-use materials. In 2016, GN Hearing has optimized its returns and service flow to service consumers better and utilize returned goods Certifications more responsibly. ISO 14001 This effort has resulted in better reuse of returned products. GN Audio’s repair center in China is certified under the ISO Today, 80% of returned products are reused directly and we 14001 environmental management system and its suppliers continue to work to increase this percentage. are requested to be certified under this standard as well. The results have been achieved by centralizing our returns Sustainable IT-certification and service flow. A number of GN Audio’s headsets for professional work environments are TCO Certified. TCO certification is an Packaging international third party sustainability certification for IT During 2016, GN Hearing’s subsidiary in Spain has been products and it combines requirements for corporate running a pilot project to investigate how returned packaging responsibility at the manufacturing facilities, user safety and can be reused in our value chain. Results have been ergonomic design as well as minimal environmental impact encouraging. In 2017, we will investigate opportunities to for both the product and its production during its entire life make this a global practice. cycle. Communication on Progress 2016 11 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents Citizenship Being a global citizen is essential for how the GN Group does business. GN believes that the long-term success of the company is dependent on the affluence of the communities in which GN operates The GN Store Nord foundation This is a new field of research, and GN Hearing expects CAMM The GN Store Nord Foundation provides grants for scientific, to provide a solid platform for potential product development technical, national, non-profit and humane purposes in that will benefit the hearing impaired through findings and accordance with its mission and is very pleased to be able to the professional knowledge of its future candidates. support purposes deemed to be of social importance to the society. In 2016, four semester courses and a 3-week course were given. Three Ph.D. projects and a postdoc project were Access to healthcare: Hearing aid project in South Africa ongoing, two of which GN Hearing supported through GN’s hearing aid project in South Africa progressed positively reference groups. during 2016. In this program South Africans with limited financial resources and difficult living conditions are eligible to GN Hearing is also co-sponsoring The Centre for Applied receive hearing aids. In 2016, approximately 1,000 completely Hearing Research (CAHR), which was established in 2003 at new hearing aids were fitted on eligible patients. All recipients the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) to conduct have their new hearing aids professionally fitted by an fundamental and applied research with focus on human audiologist educated by GN’s partner in South Africa at their speech communication, auditory processing and perception, local hospital or at a local charity organization, securing a hearing impairment and hearing instruments. high level of user satisfaction. CAHR is part of DTU Hearing systems. The purpose of the The South African hearing aid project was initiated in 2011 center is to promote research and education within the field when GN entered into collaboration with the public sector in of acoustic communication with emphasis on areas such as South Africa. The program initially covered two provinces but consequences of hearing impairment and speech perception. has spread to cover all nine provinces today. Besides the The center has developed to become one of the world’s donation of hearing aids, GN has committed to train public leading research institutes within their field with a total staff hospital audiologists in audiology and IT to make them able of 45 academics, including 22 Ph.D. students. to perform professional fittings of GN Hearing’s hearing aids. Supporting clinical research in Denmark Supporting research GN Hearing co-sponsors a new research activity on Better hEAring Rehabilitation (BEAR). This 5 year research program Supporting research at the Technical University of is carried out by a consortium of hospital clinics, universities Denmark and hearing aid manufacturers. This large scale effort will GN Hearing co-sponsors the research activity Centre for document the effect of the current clinical practices, develop Acoustic-Mechanical Micro Systems (CAMM) at the Technical new diagnostic methods for creating more customized University of Denmark (DTU). The focus of the research solutions for the patients and establish new guidelines for center is to study how sound and vibration interact in closely improved clinical practices benefitting consumers. The BEAR coupled acoustic-mechanic microsystems such as hearing project will employ 11 Ph.D. students and 5 postdoc’s. aids. Communication on Progress 2016 12 Communication on Progress ⋅ Citizenship Contents GN Store Nord A/S Lautrupbjerg 7 2750 Ballerup Denmark Co.reg. no 24257843 +45 45 75 00 00 info@gn.com gn.com Communication on Progress 2016
