SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Contents Sustainability 1 Sustainability at Posti 1 Managing responsibility 4 Supply chain 6 Highlights 8 Society 10 Tax footprint 14 Stakeholders 20 Personnel 21 Responsible employer 28 Occupational safety and well-being 30 Environment 34 Green logistics and Posti Green 36 Indicators 39 GRI reporting 43 GRI content index 44 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti Sustainability in Posti’s day-to-day operations As Posti sheds its skin time after time in response to changing customer needs, it always remains a reliable partner. Posti’s journey of nearly 400 years has seen great changes. Posti’s most significant task in society is to ensure smooth daily life for Finnish consumers and businesses. Each weekday, Posti visits the front door of some 2,8 million Finns, and serves approximately 200,000 business customers per year. The past year was a challenging one for Posti. Posti’s basic business is undergoing a transformation as digitization erodes letter and publication delivery volumes at an annual rate of approximately 10 percent. The effects of the reform of the Postal Act will become apparent in the near future. Posti is a state-owned company that operates on market terms, whose financial responsibility is based on transparency and profitability. Posti wants to grow profitably, as only a financially sound company can implement its sustainability practices. In its tax footprint reporting, Posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of which the state is the majority shareholder, issued by the Ownership Steering Department on October 1, 2014. At Posti, sustainability and responsibility are part of day-to-day work, management and risk management. Management is based on Posti’s corporate values. Good management supports the achievement of targets and fosters a positive work atmosphere. Posti’s corporate values are also the foundation of the Posti Corporate Responsibility Principles. Updated in fall 2016, they also take into account the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. As a work community, Posti is equal, international and diverse. The constantly changing business environment and the pursuit of new growth give rise to new competence requirements. Posti develops the competence of its personnel in new services and their ability to address the opportunities of digitalizing business. Posti received 7,000 summer job applications during the year. Posti provided summer jobs to approximately 2,500 people across Finland. Posti again participated in the national Responsible Summer Job campaign. Posti’s goal is to provide healthy and safe work and a healthy and safe working environment for its employees. In promoting safety at work, Posti’s focus is on proactive measures. Accident prevention is a shared responsibility. While safety at work comes down to more than just shoes, using appropriate footwear is a significant factor in safety. Posti’s early-morning delivery personnel received new slip-resistant cold-weather shoes for the winter. Posti’s environmental program aims to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020, in relation to net sales (compared to 2007). Posti was among the first to join the new energy efficiency agreement period 2017–2025. The agreement is a voluntary commitment to improve energy efficiency. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 1 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti Posti uses only green electricity and, in the future, part of it will be produced by Posti itself. Last winter, Posti mounted 1,920 solar panels on the roof of its Vantaa logistics center. Since 2011, Posti has provided its customers with carbon neutral mail delivery in Finland at no extra cost. Posti Green services are part of Posti’s environmental program. The product-specific Posti Green calculation process and customer reporting was verified by a third party in summer 2016. For more inspiring stories, please refer to the Highlights of the year section. Areas of corporate responsibility Posti’s sustainability is divided into social responsibility, personnel responsibility, environmental responsibility and financial responsibility. Based on Posti’s materiality analysis, the key areas of sustainability were defined as being a responsible service provider, sustainable business, creating value for stakeholders and engaged multi-skilled employees. Rather than being separate, these areas overlap in many ways. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 2 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti Indicators and targets of sustainability Managing responsibility This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 3 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Managing responsibility Managing responsibility At Posti, sustainability and responsibility are part of our daily work and management. Management is based on Posti’s corporate values: succeeding with the customer, driving for improvement and innovation, taking responsibility, and winning together. Good management supports the achievement of these targets and fosters a positive work atmosphere. Posti’s corporate values are also the foundation of the Posti Corporate Responsibility Principles. The principles were updated in 2016. Posti’s responsibility policies take into account the UN Global Compact principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Global Compact principles comprise selfregulation pertaining to human rights, the environment and corruption. The UN Guiding Principles specify a company’s responsibility with regard to human rights and call on companies to respect human rights. The UN Sustainable Development Goals contain guidelines aimed at ensuring sustainable development. Posti is committed to operating in a responsible and ethical manner. Posti’s Code of Conduct, which is aimed at the company’s personnel, covers legal and regulatory compliance, good business practices, principles concerning equality and non-discrimination, the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of unethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility. The Code of Conduct also documents the principles concerning the consequences of misconduct. The Code of Conduct also specifies the anonymous whistleblowing channels established by the Group for employees to confidentially report suspected cases of misconduct or other problems. The Group’s partners are required to adhere to the corporate responsibility principles outlined by Posti. Posti’s Supplier Code of Conduct covers legal and regulatory compliance, good business practices, principles concerning equality and non-discrimination, the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of unethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility. Sustainability is the responsibility of Posti’s Vice President, Stakeholder Relations. The Vice President, Stakeholder Relations is a member of the Group Management Board. Matters related to sustainability are discussed at least once per year by the Board’s Audit Committee and the Management Board. Management of sustainability risks The objective of Enterprise Risk Management is to safeguard the achievement of Posti’s strategic and key targets from unexpected risks and to enhance Posti’s business opportunities and corporate image. For this reason, the process is designed to support the strategy and annual planning process. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 4 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Managing responsibility The risk management unit prepares information security guidelines and supports the management in implementing them. In all Group companies, the management is responsible for the management of business risks. Risks related to sustainability are updated at least twice per year as part of Posti’s Enterprise Risk Management process. They are reported as a separate item in the Group’s risk report. Sustainability risks are discussed by the corporate responsibility steering group, the Executive Board, the Board of Directors of Posti Group and the Board’s Audit Committee. Taking sustainability risks into consideration Sustainability risks include, for example: risks related to potential personnel arrangements and, in particular, outsourcing measures, that may have a negative effect on our reputation and, consequently, cause us to lose customers; potential information leaks and information security deviations, particularly those related to personal information; potential accidents that cause substantial damage to people or the environment; potential human rights infringements; potential risks related to supplier management, involving corruption and the failure of internal control. These are particularly important in Russia, Poland and the Baltic countries. Posti processes all information in strict confidence, taking information security requirements into account. Privacy is crucial to Posti’s business. Posti’s corporate security policies determine the minimum level for all of its countries of operation. They take into account the information security requirements of Posti customers, the business environment and risk management. In terms of protection, Posti considers as particularly important customer and personnel information as well as Posti’s and its partners’ confidential information and the related systems and business processes. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) sets out new provisions concerning the processing of personal data. Posti has prepared for the changes brought about by the new Regulation by setting up a preparatory project. Improving and promoting occupational safety are important development areas for Posti. The focus is on proactive measures. Posti’s goal is to be a healthy and accident-free workplace. The Corporate Responsibility Principles were updated in 2016. The principles take into account, among other things, the UN Guiding Principles that specify a company’s responsibility with regard to human rights and call on companies to respect human rights. As a work community, Posti is equal, international and diverse. Posti has a Group-wide uniform sourcing policy that defines how the sourcing function and supplier cooperation are managed. As part of responsible sourcing, Posti has defined its Supplier Code of Conduct. Posti has around 8,000 suppliers, of which approximately one fifth are considered key suppliers. All key suppliers are covered by a self-assessment system. Responsible supply chain This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 5 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Supply chain Responsible supply chain Uniform sourcing policy Posti is committed to sustainable business and bearing its responsibility with respect to society, the environment and all of its stakeholders. Posti has a Group-wide uniform sourcing policy that defines how the sourcing function and supplier cooperation are managed. The sourcing policy supports Posti’s strategy, environmental program and the Corporate Responsibility Principles. It outlines decision-making responsibilities and responsibility boundaries, and it specifies the minimum requirements for the sourcing organization. As part of responsible sourcing, Posti has defined its Supplier Code of Conduct. It covers legal and regulatory compliance, good business practices, principles concerning equality and non-discrimination, the avoidance of conflicts of interest, the prohibition of unethical commercial practices and environmental responsibility. The Group’s partners are required to adhere to the Corporate Responsibility Principles. They take into account the UN Global Compact principles, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Compliance project in sourcing, which began in spring 2015, continued in 2016. The aim of the project is to ensure that everyone in the Group complies with the common practices. Sourcing practices have been improved in 2016; for example, the amount of maverick buying has been significantly reduced. A partner that enables growth Through category management, Posti has identified key suppliers with which the company develops partnerships that enable mutual growth. In total, Posti has nearly 8,000 suppliers, of which roughly one in five are considered key suppliers. Posti prioritizes local suppliers in sourcing. Of the suppliers approved in 2016, 81 percent were within the scope of self-assessment in Finland, representing a combined purchasing volume of EUR 430 million. All key suppliers carry out a self-assessment that involves an acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct. Some key suppliers are strategic suppliers that are audited in accordance with a uniform process and model. Responsible sourcing networks: Sedex and EcoVadis Posti is part of two responsible sourcing networks: Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) and EcoVadis. Sedex is the world’s largest cooperation platform for sharing information on ethical supply chains. Sedex has over 38,000 members representing more than 30 industries in over 150 countries. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 6 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Supply chain EcoVadis helps businesses monitor their suppliers’ and partners’ operating practices related to ethical, social and environmental issues in more than 110 countries. EcoVadis assesses suppliers annually based on their overall sustainability performance. Posti received a Gold rating for the performance in 2015. With a score of 65/100. Posti was ranked among the top five percent of companies in EcoVadis’ evaluation of corporate sustainability in all industries. Highlights This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 7 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Highlights Highlights Posti’s sustainability performance is deserving of a gold medal. Posti was awarded January–March gold-level recognition by the international EcoVadis network for its sustainability performance in 2015. EcoVadis is a responsible sourcing network for buyers and suppliers. It includes 25,000 suppliers representing 150 different industries and 110 countries. The system assesses and scores the overall sustainability performance of suppliers annually in the areas of environmental responsibility, social responsibility, business ethics and sustainable sourcing. Posti launched regular Q&A with the CEO events in March. Aimed at all personnel, the events feature members of the Executive Board answering questions from personnel on any topic related to Posti. Feedback, ideas, suggested solutions and discussions are also welcome in addition to questions. Improving safety at work – Posti’s early-morning delivery personnel received new slip-resistant cold-weather shoes for the winter. While safety at work comes down to more than just shoes, using appropriate footwear is a significant factor in safety. The most typical accident suffered by early-morning delivery personnel is slipping and tripping in staircases. The Society's Commitment to Sustainable Development is a long-term vision for the April–June future of Finland – “The Finland we want in 2050”. Participants in the initiative make actionable commitments to support the achievement of the shared goals stated in the Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development. Posti's goal is to reduce absolute carbon-dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020 (compared to 2007). The commitment also supports the UN sustainable development goal of taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts (SDG 13). Posti organized the Busting the Myths of Foreign Talent seminar in May in cooperation with the FIBS Diversity Network. The rapidly changing postal and logistics industry will see a growing need for diverse and international talents. Posti’s employees in Finland already represent more than 80 different nationalities. The Association for Finnish Work granted Posti Ltd membership in the association and the right to use the Key Flag symbol. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 8 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Sustainability at Posti / Highlights All of Posti’s services in Finland are carbon neutral Posti Green services that July– generate no emissions for customers. The product-specific Posti Green calculation September process and customer reporting was verified by a third party in summer 2016. Posti provided summer jobs to approximately 2,500 people across Finland. The majority of the summer workers were employed in mail and publication delivery operations. As in previous years, Posti again participated in the national Responsible Summer Job campaign. When new stamps are issued, the first day of issue is celebrated at the Vapriikki Museum Center in Tampere. Collectors come to the event to pick up the first day’s postmark for their items bearing the new stamps and to buy other philatelic products. On September 9, WWF Finland joined Posti to celebrate the first day of issue of the new Endangered animals stamps, which were produced in cooperation between Posti and WWF with the aim of increasing awareness of endangered animals and their protection. Posti’s representatives Arimo Siren and Juhani Vuola won gold at the IPC Drivers’ October– Challenge organized by the International Post Corporation in Belgium. Posti also December won the competition in the previous year. The Drivers’ Challenge is part of the sustainable development program launched by IPC in 2009. Home Services won gold in the New Business Diversification of the Year category in a competition organized by Postal Technology International. The competition had seven categories in total, with the category won by Posti’s Home Services receiving a particularly large number of proposals. Posti launched a Specialist Qualification in Management focused on occupational safety management in 2016. The first batch completed the program in November 2016 and the second batch will start in spring 2017. The advantages of the program include the opportunity for participants to obtain a vocational qualification as well as results that are reflected throughout the work community. Society This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 9 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society Society One stamped letter per month Postal services are facing a major transformation in Europe as digitization reduces mail delivery volumes substantially. Lower volumes, strict regulations and the general rise in costs are significantly increasing the unit costs of the delivered products. Today’s mail delivery volumes are 30 percent lower than five years ago. Posti is the only operator in Finland to provide five-day delivery services that cover the entire country. The universal service obligation covers the entire country, with the exception of the Åland Islands. The Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority supervises compliance with the obligation. Following the amendments to the Finnish Postal Act in June 2016, the entire postal market is now open to free competition. This means that Posti’s competitors are allowed to deliver mail anywhere and at any time without a specific delivery day obligation. Posti, however, is still subject to the five-day delivery obligation throughout the country, which puts Posti on unequal footing with regard to competition with the other players in the market. Posti’s universal service obligation currently covers a very small share of all postal items, namely letters and postcards paid by stamps. In 2016, Posti delivered some 2.1 billion items in total. Of this amount, approximately 109 million items (less than 6 percent) were covered by the universal service obligation. Christmas cards accounted for 28 million of these. Christmas cards are sent over a period of just a few weeks. Finns currently receive an average of approximately 11 stamped letters per year, or about one letter per month. The lower the volume of mail delivered, the higher the costs for each item. Things must be done differently to keep costs under control. Otherwise, maintaining the universal service in the future will be under threat financially. The second phase of the reform of the Postal Act is underway, with new amendments expected to enter into force in June 1, 2017. During the year, Posti delivered items that fall within the scope of the universal service obligation on five weekdays to all households in accordance with the Postal Act. In areas that are difficult to reach, Posti deviated from the five-weekday obligation in the case of approximately 91 households, with the maximum allowed number being 300. Posti processed 1,910 inquiries related to normal letters during the year. Of these inquiries, 652 were unresolved, 456 items were declared as having been lost, while 802 lost items were found. Inquiries related to letter items represented 0,00024 percent of the total volume. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 10 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society A jubilee year for the Postal Museum The Postal Museum is an active 90-year-old. Established in 1926, the Postal Museum studies, records and exhibits historical and present-day phenomena related to postal operations, mail communications and data and goods traffic. Maintained by the Postal Museum Foundation, the museum is located in Museum Centre Vapriikki in Tampere. Its collection includes artifacts and images from Posti’s archives as well as all of the stamps ever published in Finland. The Postal Museum also comprises a special library focused on the industry. The Finnish postage stamp remarkably celebrated its 160th anniversary in 2016. The mock-up sheet of Finland’s first stamps and the die used to produce the stamps are exhibited at the Postal Museum. The Postal Museum is responsible for the archival, presentation and information services related to Posti’s nearly 400-year corporate history. The museum also manages Posti’s art collection. The relocation of the Postal Museum from Helsinki to Tampere in 2013–2014 has proved to be an excellent decision: the number of visitors has tripled and feedback from the public has been positive. The year 2016 was a record year: the total number of visitors was 168,784. A high level of event activity and educational work with institutions ranging from day-care centers to universities are also part of the museum’s day-to-day operations. The Postal Museum engages in research collaboration with various universities and publishes the results of research both digitally and in traditional book format. One of the focus areas of the museum’s research activities has been communications in times of crisis and wartime correspondence. The exhibition activities in 2016 covered themes ranging from covert correspondence between jaegers to all the stamps of Christmas, the story of the Finnish humor magazine Pahkasika and the illustration of Posti’s long history and present-day challenges in the Messengers exhibition. The Postal Museum also highlighted the change in the equipment used in mail transport and fixed up the first electricity-powered delivery vehicle, a 1992 Elcat. The vehicle was included in the exhibition From Minivans to Pick-ups – The History of Delivery Vehicles and Transportation held at the national automobile and road museum Mobilia. The Postal Museum cooperates on a networked basis with various parties and is a member of international networks. The Postal Museum will hold special events to celebrate the centenary of Finland’s independence! This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 11 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society Transparency and profitability are at the core of financial responsibility Posti’s financial responsibility is based on transparency and profitability. Posti wants to grow profitably, as only a financially sound company can implement its sustainability practices. Posti complies with responsible business practices in all of its operations. Posti plans its finances from a long-term perspective, anticipating changes in the market, customer demands and risk scenarios in Finland and abroad. Posti develops innovative and efficient solutions in both physical and digital services. Posti is a state-owned company that operates on market terms. Posti’s operations are entirely based on the revenue received from the customers. Posti bears its financial responsibility through the renewal of its business and by improving its profitability in line with its strategy. Posti’s financial targets are: the operating profit is more than 5 percent, the return on capital is at least 10 percent, gearing does not exceed 35 percent and more than 10 percent of the Group’s net sales will come from new business areas in 2018. The financial impact of Posti’s operations is comparable to those of the banking and telecommunications sectors, as the services are used by hundreds of thousands of private and public sector operators every day, in addition to consumers. Financial impact in accordance with the income statement This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 12 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society Posti supports development and well-being throughout the country. The Group’s operations span the entire country, and Posti is an important employer in Finland. At the end of 2016, Posti had 20,497 employees in Finland. In addition to providing employment, Posti’s operations generate well-being in and tax revenue for Finland. The geographical distribution of Posti’s employees in Finland on December 31, 2016 Tax footprint This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 13 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Tax footprint Tax footprint In its tax footprint reporting, Posti adheres to the country-specific tax reporting guidelines for companies of which the state is the majority shareholder, provided by the Ownership Steering Department on October 1, 2014. Tax strategy All companies in the Group have committed to operating responsibly and to meeting all obligations and requirements defined by the valid legislation of each country. Posti Group companies pay their taxes in the countries in which their actual business operations take place. All taxes are to be paid on time without delay. The Group’s long-term target is to ensure that the Group’s effective tax rate is at the same level as the corporate income tax rate valid in Finland at each particular time. According to the Group’s tax strategy, taxation is always a consequence of business operations, which means that tax solutions must also be based on business needs. Posti does not practice tax planning that would aim at artificially decreasing the Group’s taxable income. In tax-related issues, the Group operates within the framework of legislation and legal practice in planning the taxable profit of Group companies. This can include the utilization of tax losses accrued in a subsidiary or the granting of group contributions, for example. In transfer pricing between subsidiaries, Posti aims to always ensure that the prices are market-based. To clarify taxation practices, some situations may involve contacting the tax authorities for either verbal guidance or a written decision on the taxation treatment of the planned action. Management of tax-related issues The management of tax-related issues is centralized to the Group Finance unit, which is responsible for managing and monitoring tax-related issues at the Group level. Decisions related to taxation are made at the Group level. Significant matters of principle are presented to the parent company’s Board of Directors for decision-making. The Group’s CFO reports regularly on taxation-related issues to the Group’s Audit Committee. The key task of the management of tax-related issues is to ensure that all Group companies comply with the regulations of tax legislation in all countries of operation. Tax risk management is part of the Group’s risk management process. Principles observed in tax reporting Posti reports its tax footprint openly and transparently. The Group highlights potential decisions by the tax authorities and appeals concerning decisions by the tax authorities where such decisions and appeals have a material impact on the Group’s tax position. The information presented in this report is based on information collected from the Group’s accounting systems. Taxes refer to taxes or tax-like fees paid to public sector entities, whether they are paid or remitted by the company. The nature and amount of taxes vary significantly from country to country. Taxes payable refer to taxes paid by the Group companies which are, as a rule, expensed in the company’s Financial Statements. Taxes remitted refer to taxes or fees collected by the companies which are remitted to tax collectors, often on behalf of parties other than the company itself. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 14 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Tax footprint The company has restricted its tax reporting to only cover substantial operating countries. Based on this decision, country-specific tax information is only presented for Finland and Russia. Nearly 85% of the Group’s net sales comes from these countries. According to the Group’s strategy, these countries are its main markets. Other operating countries are grouped under Scandinavia and Other countries. Posti also uses the same geographical categorization in its Consolidated Financial Statements. For countries other than Finland and Russia, information is presented on a country group-specific basis as the information reported is not of material importance and the presentation of country-specific information might jeopardize the non-disclosure of confidential information, such as customer or pricing details. From the Group’s perspective, the amount of information reported is not of material importance when the taxes payable for an individual country do not exceed EUR 5 million. The Group operates in ten countries. In addition, Posti has companies in countries where the Group no longer has business operations. When assessing the materiality threshold, net sales of EUR 1 million for each individual subsidiary is considered the threshold for non-materiality. Non-material companies are excluded from the reporting, as the amount of taxes paid by the companies is minor in proportion to the figures disclosed by the Group. These companies are in the categories Scandinavia and Other countries. Posti does not have any operations in countries classified as tax havens, where the corporate income tax rate is significantly lower than the Finnish corporate tax rate. The information presented below is based on the financial statements of separate companies and the information has not been consolidated except net sales. The Group's tax footprint 2016, MEUR Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Net sales 1,261.9 104.6 133.2 107.7 Result before taxes -191.3 -3.2 7.2 0.5 Number of personnel 14,141 2,468 375 1,539 Paid taxes 46.3 6.8 5.0 3.4 Remitted taxes 261.7 8.0 16.7 6.8 Received public support 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 15 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Tax footprint 2015, MEUR Finland Russia Scandinavia Other countries Net sales 1,265.3 118.5 140.4 126.1 Result before taxes 133.9 -14.6 -9.7 0.6 Number of personnel 16,874 2,809 417 1,498 Paid taxes 43.7 7.5 5.6 5.0 Remitted taxes 274.8 10.4 13.5 6.8 Received public support 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 Remitted taxes by category and by geographical area Remitted taxes 2016, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Value added taxes 165,150 148,659 4,862 10,083 1,546 Salary taxes 127,560 112,920 2,878 6,627 5,135 Other taxes 548 165 300 0 83 Remitted taxes 2015, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Value added taxes 172,389 155,400 6,505 8,918 1,566 Salary taxes 132,154 119,262 3,206 4,463 5,223 Other taxes 830 79 646 88 17 The Group’s tax position in 2016 In 2016, the Group’s effective tax rate was 21.5 percent (2015: 17.1 percent). The effective tax rate is calculated based on accrual-based income taxes and changes in deferred taxes. The increase in the tax rate was primarily attributable to changes in deferred taxes associated with the utilization in Finland of tax losses recognized by foreign subsidiaries. The Group’s accrual-based income taxes for the financial year, excluding the effect of changes in deferred taxes, amounted to EUR 4.4 million. The Group received tax refund for previous financial years amounting to EUR 3.8 million. Posti Group Corporation has lodged an appeal with the Board of Adjustment in Large Taxpayer’s Office regarding a decision made by the Large Taxpayer’s Office in 2015 to reject the utilization of tax losses by a foreign subsidiary that was merged with the company. The appeal concerns capital amounting to EUR 39.0 million. The matter is still pending in the Board of Adjustment. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 16 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Tax footprint In a decision made in October 2016, the Large Taxpayer’s Office partly rejected Posti Group Corporation’s claim to deduct in taxation the tax losses of a foreign subsidiary that was merged with Posti Group Corporation in 2015 as well as the deductibility of losses on the disposal of a foreign property company. The total value of these items is approximately EUR 20 million. The company considers the tax authorities’ decision erroneous and has lodged an appeal with the Board of Adjustment in Large Taxpayer’s Office. At the same time, however, the Large Taxpyer’s Office approved approximately EUR 36 million of the merged foreign subsidiary’s tax losses as deductible. Posti Ltd was informed in January 2017 of the tax authorities’ decision, according to which the adjustment to the recognition of revenue from pre-paid services is a deductible expense in the company’s income taxation for 2016. This adjustment reduced the company’s income taxes payable by EUR 5.3 million. Taxes by category and by geographical area Paid taxes 2016, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Income taxes 18,254 17,878* 319 16 41 Real estate taxes 2,868 1,931 937 0 0 Employer taxes 24,956 11,035 5,585 4,976 3,360 Environmental taxes 13,516 13,482 0 0 34 Other taxes 1,970 1,970 0 0 0 *) includes income tax in the amount of EUR 10,188 thousand paid during 2016, but allocated to 2015. Paid taxes 2015, Other thousand EUR Total Finland Russia Scandinavia countries Income taxes 18,092 16,061 345 490 1,196 Real estate taxes 3,675 2,588 1,087 0 0 Employer taxes 26,278 11,240 6,082 5,115 3,841 Environmental taxes 13,184 13,184 0 0 0 Other taxes 567 567 0 0 0 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 17 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Tax footprint This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 18 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Tax footprint Cooperation with stakeholders This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 19 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Society / Stakeholders Cooperation with stakeholders It is important for Posti to actively engage its stakeholders. Posti keeps in contact with its stakeholders through open communication and dialog. Stakeholder relations are managed with confidentiality, integrity and fairness. Posti’s key stakeholders are customers, personnel, personnel organizations, the state as the owner, political decision-makers, the authorities, associations, and the media as well as Posti's partners in subcontracting, research and the industry. Posti conducted an extensive stakeholder survey at the turn of 2015–2016. The survey assessed stakeholders’ views regarding the regulation of the postal industry, the future of the industry, as well as their perceptions related to sustainability. The amendments that made up the first phase of the reform of the Finnish Postal Act entered into force in June 2016. The second phase of amendments is expected to take effect in spring 2017. Posti has actively engaged in discussions with its stakeholders throughout the different phases of the Postal Act reform process. The next extensive stakeholder survey will be conducted after the amendments have entered into force. The reform of the Postal Act has initiated a lot of discussion, some of which has been quite emotional. Posti engages in active dialog with its partners and networks regarding the focus areas of the industry and sustainable development. These partners and networks include the international postal industry associations PostEurop, UPU (Universal Postal Union) and IPC (International Post Corporation), Service Sector Employers Palta, the Finnish Federation for Communications and Teleinformatics (FiCom), FIBS CR Network and the Global Compact network. Posti is a member of the aforementioned associations and networks. Developing the measurement of the customer experience The customer experience is very important for Posti. Posti requests feedback from its customers on a continuous basis to support the development of its operations. In 2016, Posti developed its indicators of customer satisfaction. Some of the indicators were implemented in fall 2016, some in early 2017. Due to the extensive changes in this area, comprehensive data is not available for the year 2016. The goal is to quickly obtain concrete feedback on specific transactions. Ongoing automated questionnaires produce more accurate data than traditional interviews conducted less frequently. When feedback can be linked to specific transactions, corrective actions are easier and faster to take. Posti currently has approximately 15 measurement points linked to specific transactions. The plan is to increase the number of measurement points going forward. This represents a significant investment in the continuous collection and utilization of data on the customer experience. Project-specific customer satisfaction surveys are also used. The content of the customer satisfaction survey aimed at business customers was developed in 2016. The focus is on the customer–supplier relationship or, in other words, what Posti is like as a partner. Personnel This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 20 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel Personnel Developing professional competence Posti is the largest corporate employer in Finland. Posti wants to be the best employer in its industry, one that adheres to shared values in all aspects of its operations. As a work community, Posti is equal, international and diverse. The constantly changing business environment and the pursuit of new growth give rise to new competence requirements. Posti develops the competence of the personnel in new services and their ability to address the opportunities of digitalizing business. Needs are assessed in personal target and development discussions. Skilled and motivated personnel are an essential starting point for Posti’s success and good results. Professional development is supported by providing employees with opportunities for on-the-job learning, support for self-motivated study and access to a range of training courses. The digital transformation of the business environment calls for new know-how, the capacity to learn new things and the ability to quickly adapt to changing circumstances. At the supervisor and expert level, special focus is placed on supporting change management. In production, the line management training program for supervisors will continue with a focus on regionality and ensuring that the themes of the training are current. Good management is reflected not only in higher productivity, but also the commitment, well-being and competence development of Posti’s personnel. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 21 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel Using the tools of service design The development of competencies related to the customer experience and service design supports the strategic goals of Posti’s business and organization. Posti markets products and processes developed in cooperation with customers, which means that there is a clear and validated customer and business need for them. Existing products are developed according to the same principle. A better customer experience helps Posti differentiate itself from its competitors. In service design development programs, a multi-talented team is formed for each project right from the start. This means that the service being developed will be examined from a variety of perspectives. Broad participation also creates more commitment among different functions towards the service being developed. Customer interviews in various stages of the development process are a key element of the projects. Approximately 100 Posti employees participated in service design training in 2016. In addition, more than 10,000 consumer and business customers participated in interviews concerning the services being developed. The service design development programs have led to initiatives such as the Befriending Service, the Helposti code and the Posti.fi mailer’s instructions website, and the programs have also contributed to the development of the online grocery shopping concept. Now ideas are being developed, also in a business-led manner. People responsibility indicators At the end of the year, Posti employed a total of 20,497 people. The average number of personnel was 20,632. A total of 16,160 people on average were employed in Finland. Of the total personnel, 81 percent are covered by collective labor agreements. In Finland, 99 percent of Posti’s personnel are covered by collective labor agreements. The Baltic countries, Poland and Russia do not have binding collective labor agreements. The employees represented by the labor protection committee make up 78 percent of Posti’s total personnel. In Finland, the ratio between the basic salaries of women and men was 97 percent. Number of operating locations 2016 2015 Finland 563 596 Russia 15 21 Other countries 25 30 Total 603 647 Personnel per country on December 31, 2016 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 22 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel Personnel per country on December 31, 2016 2016 2015 Finland 16,052 16,874 Russia 2,553 2,809 Poland 620 568 Sweden 229 260 Estonia 378 419 Norway 144 157 Denmark 0 0 Latvia 94 164 Lithuania 278 259 Germany 146 88 Other (USA) 3 0 Total 20,497 21,598 This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 23 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 24 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel Women made up 38 percent and men 62 percent of the Group's employees. Posti’s Supervisory Board has 12 members and the Board of Directors has eight members. The Executive Board is composed of nine members, and the Management Board is composed of 15 members. The Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors have had an equal number of men and women as members, while men have constituted the majority of the Executive Board and Management Board. The share of the personnel within the scope of regular personal development discussions and performance reviews is approximately 2,000 people. The discussions are held at least twice a year. With the people working in production in Finland, the accomplishments of the previous year as well as the objectives and targets for the coming year are discussed with the working group once a year. In addition, a personal discussion is held in relation to personal development and well-being at work. Posti received a total of 30,100 job applications during the year. In Finland, Posti signed 289 new permanent employment relationships (acquisitions not included). There is substantial seasonal variation in Posti. The number of seasonal employees is highest in the summer and around Christmas. Posti provided summer jobs to 2,500 people. During the Christmas peak period, Posti employed 3,200 seasonal assistants across Finland. Most of the seasonal assistants worked in mail delivery, sorting and transportation. The following tables and charts illustrate the employee leaving rate in Finland, the breakdown of employment contracts, the length of employees’ careers and the age distribution of personnel. Employee leaving rate in Finland Leaving rate, Finland Leaving rate Females 19.2% under 25 years 29.8% 25–34 years 18.1% 35–44 years 13.8% 45–54 years 10.1% 55 years or older 32.3% Males 12.7% under 25 years 27.8% 25–34 years 15.7% 35–44 years 10.7% 45–54 years 4.4% 55 years or older 19.1% Total 14.9% Total leaving rate 14.9% without seasonal employees This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 25 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 26 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel Responsible employer This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 27 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel / Responsible employer Responsible employer Posti’s Voice employee survey is aimed at all employees. The questionnaire was conducted in September in Finland, Russia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. A total of 11,380 Posti employees completed the questionnaire, which represents 70 percent of all personnel (2015: 62 percent). The questionnaire’s key indicators are the dedication index (38 percent, 2015: 47 percent) and the performance facilitation index (52 percent, 2015: 58 percent). The results reflect the fact that Posti is in a period of transformation. The future is seen as uncertain. However, the results indicate differences between units. Posti is a large organization that is undergoing rapid changes. The results of the questionnaire have been discussed by the Executive Board. A number of common themes were included in the action plan for 2017: prioritizing activities, highlighting the positives, management having an active presence in day-to-day operations and increasing dialogue within the organization. OpusCapita’s employee survey emphasized the practical implementation of culture management. The questionnaire was conducted in fall 2016. A total of 1,633 employees completed the questionnaire, which represents 84 percent of all personnel (2015: 81 percent). The questionnaire emphasized the realization of credibility, respect, fairness, pride and camaradarie in the company. The respondents rated the statements in the questionnaire on a scale of 1–5. The results indicate the percentage of respondents who somewhat agree or fully agree with the statements (responses 4 and 5 on the scale). The result for 2016 was 65 percent, which represents an improvement from the previous year (2015: 61 percent). This is a significant improvement considering the size of the company. OpusCapita benchmarks its performance mainly against the largest multinational corporations in Europe. The target is to elevate the result to a level above 70 percent. A fresh start with the help of the Uusi polku program The delivery volumes of letters and publications are decreasing rapidly as a result of digital communications. Posti’s business is undergoing a major transformation. Posti has had to conduct a number of cooperation negotiations based on production and financial reasons with personnel representatives. As a responsible employer, Posti invests in helping its personnel cope with the changes brought about by the circumstances. It is important for Posti to seek solutions related to personnel impacts in cooperation with personnel organizations. Uusi polku (New path) is a support program for Posti’s personnel launched in January 2014. By the end of 2016, a total of 2,523 employees had applied for the program, and 1,782 had been accepted. The program was established to provide financial and personal support to Posti employees interested in building a new career path through a new job, studying or entrepreneurship. Posti is actively monitoring the effectiveness of the program for its participants. A total of 92 program participants have found a new occupation. In 2016, personnel reductions amounted to 1,383 person-years. Out of this total, 417 person-years were related to production and finance, 39 person-years were reduced through voluntary resignation and pension plans, 857 person-years were reduced via the Uusi polku program, and 70 person-years were reduced in relation to acquisitions. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 28 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel / Responsible employer Responsible Summer Job campaign Posti received a total of 7,000 summer job applications and provided summer jobs to approximately 2,500 people across Finland. While the majority of the summer workers were employed in mail and publication delivery operations, some also worked in sorting, transport, warehouses, customer service and administration. As in previous years, Posti again participated in the national Responsible Summer Job campaign. The campaign has seen Posti make a commitment to the principles of a good summer employer. A summer job gives young people the opportunity to learn more about working life. Posti wants to offer young people unique experiences and diverse duties. A large proportion of Posti’s summer workers are students, many of whom come back to work summers at Posti time after time. Occupational safety and well-being This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 29 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel / Occupational safety and well-being Occupational safety and well-being On the path toward an accident-free workplace Posti invests in the well-being of its employees. Posti aims to promote well-being for its personnel and their ability to cope with work to ensure that employees are motivated and healthy. Putting well-being at work into practice is part of the daily work of supervisors. Every Posti employee is also responsible for their own wellbeing and for promoting psychological well-being in the working community. Posti’s goal is to provide healthy and safe work and a healthy and safe working environment for its employees. In promoting safety at work, Posti’s focus is on proactive measures. Accident prevention is a shared responsibility. Mail is delivered five days a week, regardless of the weather. The frequency of occupational accidents remains regrettably high. A total of 1,845 accidents were recorded in 2016 (2015: 2,072). These figures include occupational accidents at workplace and commuting accidents which led to an absence. Improving and promoting occupational safety are important development areas for Posti. This work is done consistently in three areas: 1. A systematic approach to the management of occupational safety 2. Increasing competence and awareness 3. Procedures, working methods and tools Posti’s goal is to be a healthy and accident-free workplace. The management of occupational safety is a precondition for achieving safety objectives. Increasing competence and awareness helps enforce best practices and develop the company culture. Appropriate tools also ensure a smooth workflow. Posti has committed to the following five safety principles: 1. Safety comes first 2. Responsibility for safety management belongs to Posti’s leadership and managers 3. Safety starts with me 4. Posti is committed to working together throughout the organization to develop our safety 5. Workplace safety improvement in Posti is consistent and systematic Developing procedures and competencies Managing safety risks lays the foundation for a safe operating environment. Workplace surveys and risk assessments are ongoing activities at Posti. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 30 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel / Occupational safety and well-being Posti has implemented company-level minimum requirements for adopting systematic approaches and harmonizing working methods. Compliance with these requirements is evaluated by internal assessment processes. In 2015, Posti partnered with the Institute of Marketing to launch a Specialist Qualification in Management focused on occupational safety management. The first batch completed the program in fall 2016 and the second batch will start in spring 2017. The training program is aimed at managers and supervisors in production operations. The advantages of the program include the opportunity for participants to obtain a vocational qualification as well as results that are reflected throughout the work community. The results of the program can be seen in the work community as a whole. By promoting and strengthening occupational safety procedures, the participants in the program help build a culture of safety at work. Occupational safety training tailored to Posti’s requirements was also introduced in 2016, with more than 200 Posti employees participating. The two-year project of the Finnish Meteorological Institute focused on reducing commuting accidents through the development road condition warnings and supported by the Finnish Work Environment Fund concluded in 2016. The project made use of, among other things, Posti’s accident records and the observations of Helsinkibased postal workers, who are on the move every day, regardless of the weather. The project’s participants were the Finnish Meteorological Institute, the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, Vaisala and Posti. Its results will be published in the Finnish Meteorological Institute’s publications for 2017 (FMI publications). Posti has also participated in the Stay Upright campaign since 2012. Accidents Posti monitors the frequency of workplace accidents that lead to absences (LTA1; occupational accidents per million working hours). In 2016, the LTA1 figure was 41. This figure includes occupational accidents that occurred during working hours and led to an absence of at least one day (excluding OpusCapita). Taking commuting accidents into account, the total number of occupational accidents in 2016 was 1,845, which is 11 percent lower than in 2015. Large part (55 percent) of the accidents lead to a short-term absence from work. In 2016, the number of accidents that led to more than a month-long absence from work was 107 (2015: 131). This means that 6 percent of the accidents that occurred in 2016 led to a long-term absence from work. Accidents and sickness related absences* This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 31 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel / Occupational safety and well-being Accidents and sickness related absences* 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Sickness related absences (%) 6.6 6.2 6.2 5.7 5.9 Lost time accidents (number) 963 1,046 1,089 1,306 1,329 Accident frequency** 41.3 43.3 41 46.7 48.7 *) Group level, Finland **) Excluding OpusCapita Maintaining health and work ability Posti introduced the OmaTyöterveys telephone service in the fall to harmonize practices and help employees maintain their health and work ability. A corresponding service was previously piloted for one year. Following positive feedback from both employees and supervisors, a corresponding common practice was implemented for all of the personnel. The telephone service involves health care professionals assessing the employee’s situation, providing health-related counseling, granting short-term sick leave and, if necessary, referring the employee to occupational health care. The new service means that employees do not need to travel while sick to visit occupational health care. In order to harmonize procedures, the EsimiesKompassi (Supervisor Compass) system was made available to all Posti's supervisors in fall 2016 to support the management of absences and work ability. A corresponding system was previously piloted for one year. The feedback was positive and the work ability management system has provided concrete support in the day-to-day management of work ability. In addition to occupational health care services, Posti provides a diverse range of well-being services to employees. They include various sports and fitness services, support for independent physical exercise as well as support for workplace meals. Since 2006, Posti has also had its own Foundation for Well-being at Work that is tasked with promoting the psychological and physical health of employees. The Foundation’s operations are divided into measures improving well-being at work and research activities. The Foundation organizes various sporting events, fitness overhaul campaigns and active family vacations. Posti is currently implementing changes to managerial work, taking work ergonomics into consideration. For Posti, the best way to influence the strain of mail delivery work is to develop mail delivery tools and to instruct employees to use appropriate and varied working methods. Posti continued to produce ergonomics guidelines and videos in 2016. Posti has also commissioned studies to evaluate work ergonomics and measure the strain arising from work. Disability pensions and retirement* This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 32 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Personnel / Occupational safety and well-being Disability pensions and retirement* 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Disability pensions 77 68 78 76 84 Part-time disability pensions 80 80 62 74 103 Total disability pensions 157 148 140 150 187 Average age for retiring on disability pension 56.2 56 56.3 56.7 56.5 Average retirement age 61.4 62.5 62.5 60.9 60.7 Retired 281 320 301 342 315 *) Group level, Finland For example, the various ways of using the Ergo bag and their effects on the physical strain of work were studied in cooperation with the TTS Work Efficiency Institute. The study applied methods including heart rate measurements, analyses of the position and movements of the head and upper limbs, assessing the exertion associated with work by means of the Borg RPE scale, time measurements and electromyography (EMG). The results will be used directly by employees and they will also be utilized in cooperation with Posti’s occupational health care professionals. Environment This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 33 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment Environment Posti’s environmental management is based on environmental management standards, particularly ISO 14001, as well as legal and official requirements and the UN’s Global Compact principles and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Posti’s quality and environmental policy covers all countries of operation. Environmental issues are discussed both in the Management Board and the Audit Committee at least once a year as part of more extensive corporate responsibility reporting. The targets for environmental work are determined by the corporate responsibility steering group. The business groups determine more detailed operating programs as part of their management model. Employees’ awareness of environmental issues is promoted through training and employee orientation as part of the ISO 14001 management system. Environmental issues are also regularly discussed in the channels of internal communication. At the end of 2016, certified environmental management systems covered 83 percent (2015: 88 percent) of the Group’s personnel. The warehouses in Russia also follow an environmental management system pursuant to ISO 14001. Posti’s environmental program aims to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020, in proportion to net sales (compared to 2007). Improving energy efficiency Posti was among the first to join the new energy efficiency agreement period 2017-2025. The agreement is a voluntary commitment to improve energy efficiency. Posti signed the agreement for the second time now. Posti aims to reduce the energy consumption of its facilities by 10.5 percent during the review period 2014– 2025. The relevant measures concern the properties with the highest rates of energy consumption. In many locations, lighting technology about to become obsolete was replaced with LED lights during 2016. The work will continue in 2017. Changes to lighting control have also been carried out at many locations. Lighting is responsible for nearly 60 percent of the energy consumption in Posti’s facilities. 1,920 solar panels on the roof of the logistics center in Vantaa Posti uses only green electricity and, in the future, part of it will be produced by Posti itself. Last winter, Posti mounted 1,920 solar panels on the roof of its Vantaa logistics center. The nominal power of the plant is 500 kW. Its calculated annual output is 450,000 kW. This is equal to the annual consumption of approximately 25 detached houses. Posti uses all of the energy itself, because the logistics center operates around the clock. To ensure sustainable development, Posti has undertaken to: comply with all applicable environmental laws and standards, including ISO 14001; reduce the fuel consumption of its vehicles; reduce the energy consumption of its facilities; improve recycling and reduce landfill waste; consider environmental aspects in sourcing, subcontracting and investment decisions; This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 34 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment engage in open discussion with its stakeholders to minimize its environmental impact; ensure sufficient resources for maintaining and continually improving its environmental operations; and report its environmental impact annually and provide employees with information and the opportunity to operate in an environmentally efficient manner. Recycling of work clothing In the spring of 2016, Posti began to recycle valuable and usable work clothing. Extra, usable work clothing is sent to the warehouse of the work clothing supplier, where the clothing is washed, repaired and labelled and recycled. In the warehouse, recycled work clothing is placed on top of the piles. When ordering new work clothing, recycled clothing is always received first. For now, work clothing that is unfit for recycling ends up being utilized in energy production or as mixed waste. Up to 99 percent of waste already recovered Posti has centralized its waste management services to a single operator in Finland. This ensures energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The aim of waste management is to increase the amount of recoverable waste and minimize landfill waste. Posti aims to improve the recovery rate by one percent every year. In 2016, the recovery rate was already at 99 percent (2015: 98 percent) and the recycling rate was 66 percent. Each of Posti’s ISO 14001 certified operating locations has a documented waste management plan. It includes a list of what waste fractions the property collects, related operating models, and illustrations of the placement of waste containers at the property. The volumes of waste per fraction are presented in more detail under Indicators. Green logistics and Posti Green This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 35 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Green logistics and Posti Green Green logistics and Posti Green The vast majority, approximately 85 percent, of Posti’s carbon-dioxide emissions in Finland arise from transports and vehicle emissions. As the largest transport and delivery company in Finland, Posti plays a major role in the development of eco-friendly and energy efficient transportation systems. The environmental efficiency of transport operations is improved primarily by planning routes efficiently, ensuring a high utilization rate, combining deliveries, and driving in an environmentally responsible manner. Posti’s fleet of nearly 3,900 commercial vehicles in Finland recorded a total of 114 million kilometers in 2016 (2015: 108 million km). Posti’s subcontractors logged in roughly 80 million kilometers (2015: 85 million km). Posti is a pioneer, and participates actively in the trials of alternative fuels. Posti’s fleet includes some 40 biogas vehicles that run on the 100-percent renewable Finnish Gasum biogas. Its use does not generate fine particulate matters harmful to health, and the greenhouse gas emissions during the fuel’s life cycle are minor. Mail is also delivered on bicycles and on foot. Every day, around 1,800 delivery routes – approximately 36 percent of all routes – are gone through with delivery bikes and delivery carts, on foot. The majority of these are e-assist bikes and carts. Increasing the number of electric cars in delivery is challenging. Electric cars that are compatible with the winter conditions in Finland and meet the criteria set by every aspect of delivery have so far not been available on the market. The car must be able to transport enough load and to operate at least reasonable routes without recharging in between, also in winter conditions. The lack of extensive network is a challenge itself. Significant cost benefits through the improvement of utilization rates Significant changes in the operating model and the use of vehicles took place in 2015. The same strategy continued to be implemented in 2016. The same vehicles are used to carry mail, parcels and freight. The fleet is renewed continuously to respond to changing needs. The utilization rates of vehicles have improved considerably due to route optimization and the combining of transports. Posti engages in active development work to increase the fleet’s utilization rate. The improved utilization rate has brought cost benefits through lower vehicle costs and the vehicles’ reduced fuel and servicing costs. In delivery vehicles, the average consumption of fuel has increased despite good driving habits and more advanced engine technology. The vehicles’ loading rates and the weights of the transported loads have increased. These have a direct impact on fuel consumption. Economic and safe driving habits make a difference Since 2015, every vehicle in Posti’s own use has been equipped with a system that monitors driving habits. The system is a daily tool in production activities, including supervisory work, planning, and operations management. In the spring of 2016, driving habit monitoring devices were fitted into more than 400 trailers. These collect data on the kilometers driven, as well as telematics and GPS data, which are used in periodic servicing and dispatching. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 36 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Green logistics and Posti Green Since the roll-out of the system, Posti has successfully reduced fuel and servicing costs. It has also been successful in improving occupational safety. The number of traffic accidents has declined, particularly the number of accidents involving personal injuries. The trend in insurance statistics has been positive; the number of traffic accidents has reduced and the damage repair costs have fallen. The scope of the monitoring now covers approximately 8,000 people. Every driver receives a regular report, or a link through which to print a report, on their own driving habits. The report allows drivers to monitor the development of their driving habits. A personal driving habit index helps drivers to develop a more economic way of driving (ecodriving) and promote safe driving habits. If necessary, driving habits are intervened in according to the process. The data collected with the driving habit monitoring devices and the usage targets are developed actively. Development targets include the safety of production, efficiency, quality, customer experiences and new services. Posti Green Since 2011, Posti has provided its customers with carbon neutral mail delivery at no extra cost. In 2015, Posti expanded the Posti Green product portfolio to cover the parcel and logistics business in addition to postal services. Posti Green services are part of Posti’s environmental program. Climate change is a global issue. Posti’s industry is very large, and the company wants to contribute to mitigating climate change while serving as an example of sustainability to others. Using Posti Green products allows customers to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of their supply chain processes and communicate the environmental responsibility of their operations to their customers. Arranging zero-carbon transport services is practically impossible. Emissions are necessarily created in spite of Posti’s continuous efforts to reduce CO2 emissions from transport; for example, by optimizing routes, combining transports and ensuring economical driving. Certified climate projects Transporting a letter generates around 28 grams of carbon dioxide and transporting a parcel generates approximately 700 grams. Posti offsets its emissions balance by participating in certified climate projects. The projects ensure that a corresponding amount is cut from carbon dioxide emissions somewhere else. The projects Posti is involved in include wind power projects in India and Turkey. The renewable energy generated by the farms reduces emissions by replacing fossil fuels. The projects also have a regional job creation effect. Posti Green service model All of Posti’s services in Finland are carbon neutral Posti Green services that generate no emissions for customers. The product-specific Posti Green calculation process and customer reporting was verified by a third party in summer 2016. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 37 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Green logistics and Posti Green Indicators This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 38 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Indicators Indicators EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Terajoules (TJ) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Renewable Biogas 2 1 4 2 1 Non-renewable – facilities and own vehicles Natural gas 157 158 267 165 188 Fuel oil 0 0 1 1 5 Traffic fuel 766 730 778 879 672 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION Renewable Electricity, Finland 306 313 337 265 271 Non-renewable Electricity, other countries 187 204 207 303 280 District heating 271 278 324 352 346 Traffic fuel – outsourced, Finland 804 547 612 664 572 The electrical power used by Posti in Finland has been produced with 100 percent renewable energy. The use of renewable energy sources is ensured with guarantees of origin. The measurement of the emissions of the purchased electricity employs a market-based method pursuant to the GHG Protocol standard. EN15–EN17 The Group's CO emissions This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 39 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Indicators EN15–EN17 The Group's CO2 emissions Tons 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Fuel use in transport – Posti's vehicles, Scope 1 52,532 50,014 53,396 60,406 46,169 Fuel use in buildings – energy generation, Scope 1 8,818 8,900 15,020 9,268 10,724 Electricity and heat use in buildings, Scope 2 39,068 40,266 44,199 38,272 46,496 Subcontracted transport by vehicles* and air, Scope 62,524 65,298 70,801 73,490 59,287 3 Business travel flights, Scope 3 1,358 1,512 2,139 2,190 2,260 Total 164,300 165,991 185,555 183,625 164,936 *) Includes subcontracted transport in Finland EN21 Emissions to air – own vehicles 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Tons/year Finland Finland Finland Finland Finland CO 50 54 59 60 56 HC 10 16 16 16 14 NOx 144 137 130 166 97 Particles 4.4 5.4 5.8 5.9 4.7 SO2 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.5 Source of information: VTT/LIPASTO emissions of traffic. Source of data: kilometers driven by own vehicles. EN23 Waste management in Finland This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 40 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Indicators EN23 Waste management in Finland 2016 2015 Properties included in waste management agreement, tons* Finland Finland Recycle and reuse 8,308 8,463 Other recover 3,779 3,747 Inceneration 489 367 Final disposal 82 173 Hazardous waste** 537 471 Recycle and reuse 462 444 Final disposal 74 27 Total 13,194 13,221 Recovery rate, % 99% 98% *) Excluding properties where waste management is included in the rent. Reporting of the fractions of waste has been refined since 2015. **) of which 443 (418) tons is refrigeration devices and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 41 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / Environment / Indicators GRI reporting This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 42 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting GRI reporting This corporate responsibility report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (GRI G4). In addition, Posti complies with the reporting requirements of its owner, the Finnish State. In accordance with the GRI guidelines, Posti focuses on factors that are key to its operations and essential to its stakeholders. Posti’s corporate responsibility report covers the key areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility. The report has not been subject to third-party assurance. According to Posti’s estimate, the corporate responsibility report corresponds to the G4 Core application level of the GRI guidelines. A summary of the comparison between the report contents and the reporting guidelines is presented in the GRI index. Reporting boundary Posti’s sustainability aspects, environmental indicators and HR indicators are reported annually for the same period as the financial figures (January 1–December 31). Key indicators for the different areas of sustainability are reported to the Audit Committee of Posti Group’s Board of Directors at least once per year. Unless otherwise mentioned in context, the reporting covers all operations of the parent company and subsidiaries. Reporting covers all Group functions in all countries of operation. The reporting does not, as a rule, include the operations of subcontractors or affiliated companies. The coverage of the indicators is reported in connection with the indicators. For figures related to personnel, the key indicators have been calculated in accordance with the Accounting Standards Board’s general guidelines on annual reports. In GRI reporting, the information concerning personnel is primarily based on the Group’s personnel in Finland. The indicators for environmental responsibility cover the Group’s operations with the greatest environmental impact in all of its countries of operation. In Finland, the environmental impacts of transport subcontracting are also taken into account. The environmental accounting applies the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) protocol and the GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector protocol, which includes more detailed instructions for the postal industry. The data and key indicators pertaining to financial responsibility are taken from the consolidated financial statements. Posti reports on its finances in accordance with the IFRS accounting standards, the Finnish Securities Market Act and the rules and regulations of Nasdaq Helsinki. Posti’s financial communications are described in more detail in Disclosure Policy. Contact information Appu Haapio, Head of Sustainability, appu.haapio (at) posti.com Hannele Parkkinen, Corporate Responsibility Manager, hannele.parkkinen (at) posti.com GRI content index This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 43 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index GRI content index Code GRI Standard Disclosures Reference page Remarks Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO's statement President and CEO's review G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategy Board of Directors' Report Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Posti Group Corporation G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services This is Posti Logistics, mail and financial management services G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Postintaival 7. Helsinki G4-6 Number of countries and names of countries This is Posti with major operations or that are relevant to sustainability issues G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Share capital and shareholding G4-8 Markets served This is Posti G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Key figures G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, Personnel employment contract, region and gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Personnel collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Supply chain G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting New business period regarding the organization's size, through structure, ownership, or its supply chain acquisitions G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary The precautionary approach approach or principle is addressed by the and principle has been taken organization into account in accordance with statutory requirements. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 44 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-15 Externally developed economic, Managing environmental and social charters, responsibility principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as Stakeholders industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the This is Posti organization Group companies G4-18 Process for defining report content and Sustainability at Aspect Boundaries Posti GRI reporting G4-19 Material Aspects Sustainability at Posti Stakeholders G4-20 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect GRI reporting within the organization G4-21 Aspect boundary for each material aspect GRI reporting outside the organization G4-22 Restatements of information provided in Correction of an See G4-LA6. No other previous reports error significant changes during the reporting period. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting New business periods in the scope and aspect boundaries through acquisitions GRI reporting Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholders organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholders stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholders including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been Stakeholders raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 45 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period GRI reporting G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 16, 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the GRI reporting report or its contents G4-32 GRI content index Self-assessment has been made, no external assurance. G4-33 The organization's policy and current GRI reporting practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Governance and committees G4-35 Delegating authority Governance G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility Sustainability at for economic, environmental and social Posti topics G4-37 Consultation with stakeholders Stakeholders G4-42 Board of Directors’ role in setting purpose, Corporate values and strategy Governance Statement G4-45 Board of Directors’ role in the identification Corporate and management of risks Governance Statement G4-46 Reviewing the effectiveness of risk Corporate management Governance Statement G4-47 Frequency of risk reviews Corporate Governance Statement G4-48 Formal approval of the organisation's GRI reporting sustainability report G4-49 Communicating critical concerns GRI reporting G4-51 Remuneration policies for the Board and Remuneration senior executives Statement G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards Managing and codes responsibility Supply chain This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 46 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Sustainability at advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and Posti matters related to organizational integrity G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for Sustainability at reporting concerns about unethical or Posti unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity Code Indicators Reference page Remarks Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Category: Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and Society distributed Tax footprint G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from Other operating government income G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supply chain significant locations of operation Category: Environmental G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Indicators G4-EN5 Energy intensity Indicators G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environment G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Indicators (scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Indicators emissions (scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Indicators emissions (scope 3) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Indicators G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Environment emissions Green logistics and Posti Green G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Indicators G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Indicators method This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 47 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills In November, an articulated vehicle transporting substances classified as hazardous, had a traffic accident. An estimated 250 liters of sodium hydroxide solution leaked in the environment. Clearance work was carried out in collaboration with the Fire Brigade. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Environment impacts of products and services G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total No significant fines or number of non-monetary sanctions for nonsanctions during the reporting compliance with environmental laws and period. regulations G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Environment transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain screened using environmental criteria Category: People G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires Personnel Covers mainly only operations and employee turnover by age group, gender, in Finland. More information is and region available on Indicators for people responsibility. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding Responsible operational changes, including whether it is employer specified in collective agreements Personnel G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, Occupational In Sustainablity Report 2015, occupational diseases, lost days, and safe and well1,739 accidents were repoted. absenteeism, and total number of workbeing In 2015, 2,072 accidents were related fatalities, by region and by gender recorded. The reporting error is due to a system error, which was discovered during 2016. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Personnel performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Personnel women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 48 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain screened using labor practices criteria G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices There were five grievances filed, addressed, and resolved through formal about labor practices filed, grievance mechanisms addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. After addressing the matters, corrective actions were taken in two cases. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination No reported discrimination and corrective actions taken incidents. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain screened using human rights criteria G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights No reported grievances about impacts filed, addressed, and resolved human rights impacts. through formal grievance mechanisms Category: Society G4-SO4 Communication and training on antiTraining of the Employee corruption policies and procedures Code of Conduct is compulsory for all employees of the Group. In 2016, the completion rate for the training was 79% (31.12.2016). Posti Group Corporation has published and implemented Gifts and Hospitality Policy in October, 2016. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions One confirmed incident of taken corruption during the period under review. The authorities are investigating the case. The personnel of the unit has been changed. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by Posti Group does not support country and recipient/beneficiary any political parties or institutions. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 49 POSTI ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Sustainability / GRI reporting / GRI content index G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiOne investigation request has competitive behavior, anti-trust, and been done against the monopoly practices and their outcomes company concerning the abuse of the dominating position on the market. No other legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour or significant fines or other sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total Legal The Finnish Communications number of non-monetary sanctions for nonproceedings Regulatory Authority has set a compliance with laws and regulations penalty payment of EUR 100,000 for the company regarding the quality standard of universal service of letters. G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply chain screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance None during the period under with regulations and voluntary codes review. concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer Stakeholders satisfaction G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance None during the period under with regulations and voluntary codes review. concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Managing regarding breaches of customer privacy and responsibility losses of customer data Society G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonLegal The Finnish Communications compliance with laws and regulations proceedings Regulatory Authority has set a concerning the provision and use of products penalty payment of EUR and services 100,000 for the company regarding the quality standard of universal service of letters. This pdf is composed of selected elements and may deviate from other generated documents. The entire report can be read at www.posti.com/annualreport2016 50 posti.com
