2016 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report vestergaard.com HUMANITARIAN IMPACT More than 1.5 billion people have benefited from our bed nets, water filters and food security products. FROM OUR CEO In 2016, we conducted a strategic review of our through our Follow the Liters campaign. We took a more businesses to ensure that our goals are closely aligned with active role in helping to eradicate two insidious neglected the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We tropical diseases – Guinea worm and sleeping sickness. 37 million LifeStraw® Guinea Worm filters And we launched an independently run Safe Water Fund to developed a strategic plan leading up to 2020 around our are helping eradicate Guinea worm disease which afflicted core competencies in global health, safe water and food bring drinking water to victims following natural disasters, 3.5 million people in 1986; 25 people in 2016. security, and found that we could contribute to more than including people displaced by the earthquake in Ecuador half of the 17 UN Global Goals. and the flood in Haiti. 750 million PermaNet® long-lasting insecticidal bed nets have contributed to the 60% Vestergaard has been fortunate to carve out a meaningful We also invested resources to make sure that the way reduction in malaria deaths from 2000 to 2015. we achieve our goals – how we operate – is as highly niche in this world, one in which we thrive as a company regarded as what we want to achieve. We strengthened when the most marginalized people on our planet are 250,000 ZeroFly® Screens, Targets & Traps thriving. We recognize the responsibility this privilege policies and augmented operations. Then we conducted are keeping tsetse flies from infecting humans and animals intensive training to ensure that employees and colleagues carries. Moving forward, an invigorated, focused company – with sleeping sickness disease. throughout the supply chain are respected, corruption is Vestergaard 2.0 if you will – will embrace this responsibility not tolerated, our workplace is a healthy and safe haven, with a vengeance. We’ll be bold, visionary, driven and 5.5 million LifeStraw® water filters are undaunted by tough challenges as we continue to positively and our environmental impact is minimized. preventing waterborne diseases for some of the 2.1 billion impact the people we exist to serve. people without access to safe, readily available water at home. Throughout the year, we also engaged in several programs that improve the lives of vulnerable populations. We 250,000 ZeroFly® Storage Bags support food Mikkel Vestergaard, CEO brought safe water to more than half a million kids in Kenya security by protecting post-harvest grains and seeds from Vestergaard losses due to pest infestation. 2 3 COMMITMENT TO THE HIGHEST ETHICAL STANDARDS Official Vestergaard documents direct internal compliance. Business Code Anti-Bribery Policy Vestergaard has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact for 11 years. of Conduct Guides responsible approach + Reinforces zero-tolerance policy regarding corruption, to doing business; mirrors extortion and bribery. UNGC principles. Vestergaard fully abides by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) which encourages companies to act as ENFORCED BY socially responsible members of the international community by committing to ten principles regarding human rights, labor Internal Compliance Council Employee Training Reporting Systems standards, environment and anti-corruption. Oversees implementation and All employees take part in Compliance Employees are encouraged to adherence to Code of Conduct and training and/or participate in report infringements through secure UNGC principles. general business meetings related to mechanisms internally (e.g., quarterly Compliance, organized by location compliance certification) or externally Reports to Board of Directors. and/or region. (e.g., anonymous whistle-blowers hotline). All reports are followed up. A responsible supply chain In 2016 Vestergaard secured SA8000® Vestergaard’s Responsible Supply Chain management team certification which is expected in ensures that suppliers and other third-party business associates 2017. This leading global social adhere to strict ethical business standards detailed in the certification ensures the highest company’s Supplier Code of Conduct. quality of social compliance and fair First tier suppliers must communicate these principles to their treatment of workers. supply chains and ensure compliance. Supplier employee training is conducted regularly. Formal auditing tracks compliance. 4 5 Diverse Engaged Vestergaard provides equal employment opportunities in recruitment, selection, compensation, promotion, job 49% of all employees have been with the transfer and assignments. Our staff is as diverse as the end company for 5+ years; 17% over 10 years users of the products we provide. In 2016 Vestergaard launched an online human resources tool and performance management system. Under this online system, performance reviews become ongoing collaborations and employees are empowered to manage their performance and plan for future growth. 47% FEMALE 53% MALE 16 NATIONALITIES In 2016, as in previous years, staff members from several Valued offices supported our “Follow the Liters” campaign, helping Comprehensive policies ensure employee safety, satisfaction install LifeStraw® water purifiers in hundreds of schools and fair working conditions. without access to a safe water source in rural Kenya. Employees witnessed the company’s mission in action and • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the enormous impact our products have on people who • Equal Employment Opportunities Policy desperately need them. And they formed bonds with diverse • Child Labor Policy co-workers they likely would never have met. • Flexible Working Hours Policy • Anti-Harassment Policy • Maternity, Paternity, Adoption & Parental Leave • Recruitment Policy Additionally, programs are designed by the local offices to promote employee health and well-being. Since many of our employees travel to remote locations, we offer International SOS. This service helps prepare employees for travel to unfamiliar locations, then supports them while on the trip. EMPLOYEES: Vestergaard enjoyed excellent scores against International Labour Standards criteria in 2016 OUR GREATEST ASSET u 100% of full-time employees enjoyed ≥15 vacation days/year Vestergaard demonstrates the high regard it has for its employees by fostering u 100% of women had access to a collaborative culture that encourages employee growth and satisfaction. maternity programs u 100% of subcontracted sites ruled out child labour as defined by ILO Convention 138 6 7 Physical environment Vestergaard conducted a formal risk assessment of environmental health and safety operations at our main supplier leading to preventive and improvement actions. Upgraded the automatic mixing system for the insecticide formulation process to improve prevention of direct exposure to chemicals. Upgraded the electrical system at the power plant station including installation of a new OCCUPATIONAL power transformer to enable power safety enhancements at HEALTH AND SAFETY the factory. Improved the ventilation system at the ISO/IEC 17025 Vestergaard made many enhancements in 2016 to ensure that laboratories to the product lifecycle is handled in an efficient, environmentally improve air quality. responsible and safe manner. Added a buffer room for the premix of chemical powders and upgraded the dust collection system to improve working conditions during compounding. Systems and standards Supplier training Safety and hygiene practices and standards were In 2016, Vestergaard initiated extensive training programs strengthened at all production locations. This included totaling 9,632 hours of training for 1,500 employees (average implementation of the internationally recognized 5S of 6.42 hours per production employee). Topics covered method for workplace organization which leads to improved included: efficiency, service and safety. • 5S management • emergency response • chemical safety • first aid • hygiene • fire safety • SA8000® 8 9 1 Reduced the solid waste % of produced output from 2.3% to 0.3% at compounding, and from 8.8% to 7.8% at extrusion by optimizing production line operations. ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Vestergaard continuously seeks to reduce the environmental impact of its operations. Highlights in 2016 include these activities. 2 Reduced the waste of PBO at extrusion by 6%, from 14% to 8% , by optimizing the process conditions and process control plan. 3 Improved treated waste water quality by 30% through enhanced monitoring achieved by setting up a waste water laboratory at the manufacturing location enabling quick adjustments of the needed physico-chemical process parameters. 10 Supporting mosquito control plans capacity building and collaboration and is used by NMIMR’s IR Mapper is an online database and interactive mapping tool department of parasitology for testing. Vestergaard has also created by Vestergaard in 2012. It supports evidence-based supported training of the field staff and visiting students from decisions regarding malaria control programs by offering Africa and outside the continent customized reports of insecticide resistance in Anopheles mosquitoes, the species that transmits malaria. In 2016, Helping victims of natural disasters IR Mapper was expanded to include reports of insecticide resistance in Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus. These are the mosquitoes that transmit diseases including Zika, Yellow Fever, Dengue and Chikungunya. The Anopheles mosquito resistance mapping includes 17,066 field records from 2,415 localities in 60 countries. New Aedes mosquito resistance mapping includes over 5,000 field records from 831 localities in 59 countries and territories. The LifeStraw® Safe Water Fund, launched in 2016, provides a means for socially-minded individuals and organizations to engage in high-impact safe water programs around the world. Contributors to the Fund can select programs they wish to engage with, such as safe water for schools or to help victims of natural disasters. In 2016, the Fund brought safe water to victims of the earthquake that struck Ecuador and the hurricane that hit Haiti. In both instances, Vestergaard worked with local partners who provide a continuing presence on the ground. SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE Engaging in high-impact partnership Furthering scientific knowledge The Vestergaard-NMIMR Vector Labs in Ghana is a Vestergaard contributes as members INITIATIVES partnership with the Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical of many industry organizations, including: Research where it resides. The state-of-the-art insectary and laboratories strengthen research and development of APMEN (Asia Pacific Malaria Elimination Network) Vestergaard’s PermaNet® bed nets and our other public health Camber, Outdoor Women’s Association tools. It provides an opportunity for knowledge sharing, Cambodia National Malaria Program Engage for Good European Outdoor Association Our core business and socially responsible initiatives Ghana lab by the numbers: GAFTA (Grain and Feed Trade Association) contribute to more than half of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. Here are some activities. IRAC (Insecticide Resistance Action Committee) Results after 3 annual distributions 450,000 mosquitoes produced Innovation to Impact Bringing safe water to schools kids National Institute of Malaria Research, New Delhi, India 245,000 female mosquitoes used We connect consumer sales of LifeStraw® water filters to for testing National Institute of Malariology, Parasitology and impacting people in developing countries without access to Entomology, Hanoi, Vietnam 643,977 1,088 7,110 +4,600 safe water through the ongoing LifeStraw® Follow the Liters STUDENTS GIVEN SCHOOLS FILTERS FOLLOW UP 14,000 samples of net and other Private Sector Delegation of the Global Fund to program. For every LifeStraw® product purchased, we provide CLEAN WATER REACHED DELIVERED VISITS treated materials collected/tested Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria safe drinking water to a school child in a developing country Private Sector Malaria Coalition for an entire year. LifeStraw® makes a five-year commitment 12,000 reactions analyzing 3000 Roll Back Malaria Vector Control Working Group in every school including ongoing training, education and mosquito samples maintenance. Thirst.org 12 13 HELPING ERADICATE NEGLECTED TROPICAL DISEASES For more than two decades, Vestergaard has dedicated its Guinea worm disease innovative platform to product development and partner Guinea worm is a devastating disease caused by a parasite engagements aimed at reducing the burden of neglected found in unsafe drinking water. It is mostly found among tropical diseases. Two of these diseases are on the road to people in developing countries. It’s excruciatingly painful and eradication. DONATIONS incapacitates people for long periods of time, making them unable to care for themselves or others. Sleeping sickness In 1997, Vestergaard began working with The Carter Center, Vestergaard has been a long-term partner in the fight against which established the Guinea Worm Eradication Programme. Vestergaard routinely contributes funds and products to worthy causes around the world. Human African Trypanosomiasis or HAT (also known as We created the LifeStraw® Guinea Worm filter, a plastic pipe Here are a few activities in 2016. sleeping sickness). HAT is a parasitic disease spread by the with a stainless steel mesh that filters out Guinea worm larvae tsetse fly; it affects people in resource-limited settings in Africa, from contaminated water. Vestergaard has supplied more Donated 250+ ZeroFly® Storage Bags and actively participated in engagement activities to support the USAID with more than 56 million people living at risk. The disease is than 37 million LifeStraw® Guinea Worm filters to The Carter Feed the Future Innovation Lab for the Reduction of Post-Harvest Loss. almost always fatal if left untreated. Center. We partially donated the filters over the years and, Provided funds to support operations at the Emusanda Health Centre in Lurambi, Kakamega, Kenya. For the past 20 years, Vestergaard has supplied long-lasting since 2014, have increased the amount donated to 100%. Partnered with the Gates-funded Trypta-No! Consortium working to eliminate Human African vector control tools for the fight against sleeping sickness. Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) by 2020 by supplying ZeroFly® Targets and Traps for vector control and Our ZeroFly® Screens, Targets and Traps are impregnated with taking on leadership of the Consortium’s Industry Liaison Group. insecticide, and function by attracting disease-carrying tsetse flies to the screens, which trap or kill them. Donated 15,000 PermaNet® 3.0 bed nets for refugee camps in South Sudan and worked with the Mentor Initiative to set up a pilot study to test their effectiveness. Recently, we took on a more active role ― to lead the Industry Liaison Group of the Trypta-No! Partnership. This consortium Donated 500+ ZeroFly® Traps to support a state of national emergency in Costa Rica by controlling the of experts, funded by the Gates Foundation, is working to infestation of blood-feeding stable flies breeding in crop residues, destroying livelihoods of smallholder farmers eliminate HAT in certain countries by 2020. Vestergaard’s Incidences of Guinea worm disease have been reduced from and killing animals. highly effective and inexpensive ZeroFly® Tiny Targets will be an estimated 3.5 million in 1986 to 25 in 2016. If the downward Donated LifeStaw® Guinea Worm Filters to contribute to the eradication of Guinea worm disease. used by the project to control the tsetse flies. trend holds steady, as expected, Guinea worm disease will soon be the second human disease ever eradicated and it will be the first one eliminated without the use of a vaccine. 14 15 vestergaard.com
