GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 1 2017 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CONTENTS KERRY ADLER, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SKYPOWER LETTER FROM SKYPOWER’S PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER For many of us, November 4, 2016 is more than a mark on the calendar. It’s a symbolic moment pointing to a more hopeful and sustainable future. Letter from SkyPower’s President & Chief Executive Officer 3 It was on that day that the international community came together to sign The Paris Climate Change Agreement--a About This Report 5 turning point in human history, ushering in a new and innovative era of decisive action on climate change. About SkyPower 7 At SkyPower, we believe we have an essential role to play in helping to drive the Paris Agreement’s agenda to reduce our global carbon emissions by looking to renewable energy sources. Our Actions as a Global Citizen I’m proud to present this report. In addition to showcasing our achievements, it meets our reporting requirements as Advancing the Un’s Sustainable Development Goals 14 a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and as a Strategic Champion of the United Nations Caring for Climate initiative. Community Development 16 Climate Action Leadership 25 As you read this report, you will note that SkyPower is also proud to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and have integrated these goals into our work to bring new power to the people around Environmental Stewardship 33 the world who need it the most. Energy is linked to many goals, and I’m proud to say that SkyPower’s work supports Ethics and Anit-Corruption 42 13 of the 17 SDGs. You can read more about this on page 13. Safe and Healthy Workplace 53 I hope you enjoy reading our report and learning more about what inspires us in our work every day, and especially Taking Our Actions Forward 56 about how SkyPower is generating a brighter future. Yours truly, Kerry Adler President and Chief Executive Officer SkyPower 2 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 3 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION ABOUT THIS REPORT SkyPower is pleased to present our third annual Global Citizenship Report. This report provides important information on the actions we took over the year to meet our corporate social responsibility goals and commitments. In this report, you’ll find information about our Sustainability is an elemental part of SkyPower’s DNA. corporate social responsibility priorities, initiatives, and As a truly global company with a business mandate achievements covering the reporting period of August to develop renewable solar energy around the world, 15, 2016 to August 14, 2017. leading as a global citizen is core to our identity. In the pages that follow, you can explore our commitments to: This report was produced in part to meet our reporting commitments as a participant of the United Nations • The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Global Compact and as a Strategic Champion for the (SDG) United Nations Caring for Climate initiative. It was also • Community Development prepared to showcase to our stakeholders the work we • Climate Action Leadership have done over the past year—doing well by doing good, • Environmental Stewardship and bringing power to the people who need it most. • Ethics and Anti-Corruption • Safe and Healthy Workplace In addition to sharing our achievements with our partners and stakeholders, this document follows on Change takes time, as well as a shared commitment our previous reports that can be viewed by visiting from all stakeholders. SkyPower is always interested to SkyPower’s company page on the UN Global Compact’s hear innovative ideas as we work together to usher in a website here: new era of sustainability and we invite your feedback at executiveteam@skypower.com. www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/41501SkyPower-Global 4 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 5 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION ABOUT US “The outlook for solar is brighter than ever. Leaders around the world IS THE LARGEST AND ONE OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL are recognizing that solar energy is a powerful way of bringing DEVELOPERS AND OWNERS OF UTILITY-SCALE SOLAR ENERGY energy to people. With the cost of solar technology declining PROJECTS IN THE WORLD. dramatically, and the pressures of climate change increasing, the world With roots dating back more than 14 years, SkyPower’s developers. As well, SkyPower has consulted for and global team possesses an impressive track record of over advised utilities, international leaders and Heads of State is entering a new era. An era fueled by solar energy.” 1000 years of combined experience in power and large infrastructure projects. in its unprecedented approach to working in unison with these environmentally conscious leaders to ensure a brighter future for generations to come. The experienced and accomplished SkyPower team has – Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, SkyPower built, assembled and acquired an extensive pipeline of Through its dedicated team members, composed of over 25 GW worldwide – some of which were recently employees, consultants and advisors working out of 34 announced in bilateral agreements, and other contract international locations, SkyPower develops, finances, awards, to be built in the Middle East, Africa and South owns and operates solar energy projects from the initial Asia over the next five years. stages through commercial operation in nearly every region of the world. SkyPower’s over 30 utility-scale solar Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) and Contracts in aggregate represent SkyPower prides itself on its established relationships well in excess of approximately US $80 billion worth of with world-leading banks and financial institutions, long-term renewable energy sales to leading utilities and as well as with its global and local suppliers, and the governments around the world. indigenous peoples and communities who work hand in hand with SkyPower with the shared objective of The SkyPower team over the past decade has proudly producing hundreds of millions of kWh of clean electricity established long-term strategic hybrid partnerships each and every year. with local communities, governments and in-country 6 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 7 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION PROUD TO BE GLOBAL OUR KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AS A GLOBAL CITIZEN August SkyPower has 34 international offices SkyPower expands its successful 2016 SkyPower cares initiative to Kenya, gifting located in nearly every region of the world. Home solar kits to 100 families and schoolchildren in Kenya, generating 75,000 additional hours of light. September 2016 SkyPower sponsors the United Nations Private Sector Forum and moderates a roundtable on protecting our planet. January SkyPower spreads the message for 2017 AMSTERDAM TORONTO LONDON climate action at the World Future Energy SkyPower delivers its visionary OMAHA PARIS LUXEMBOURG Summit in Abu Dhabi, UAE. message for climate action to future NEW YORK BARCELONA leaders of Canada, in commemoration LOS ANGELES WASHINGTON HERZLIYA of Canada150. CASABLANCA CAIRO RIYADH NEW DELHI KARACHI March GRAND CAYMAN DHAKA MEXICO CITY DUBAI ABU DHABI MUMBAI BANGKOK 2017 PANAMA CITY BANGALORE BOGOTA NAIROBI SINGAPORE SkyPower made substantial investments in India, working with Sterling and Wilson JAKAR LIMA JOHANNESBURG to build 350 MW of solar power while creating 1000 local jobs. CAPE TOWN SYDNEY BUENOS AIRES May SkyPower participates in African Utility 2017 Week in Cape Town, South Africa, as part of the Canada Pavilion. SkyPower publishes its Carbon Pricing Leadership Story of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition’s website. June 2017 SkyPower partners with Huayang, a Chinese state-owned company, to bring solar energy to tens of millions of people around the world, including strategic markets closely aligned with China’s Belt and Road initiative. 8 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 9 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION “Powering countries through solar energy isn’t just a OUR VALUES POWER pipedream. It isn’t just a lofty goal. Powering countries through OUR BUSINESS solar energy is an opportunity. It’s a real solution. And, better yet, it’s happening.” – Charles Cohen, Chief Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy & Development SkyPower Lead with Expertise We achieve a culture of excellence by hiring accomplished, experienced, and ambitious people, and taking the time to foster and enrich their careers. This give us a competitive advantage to deliver the highest result and uphold our respected position as an industry leader. Generate Sustainability Deliver Integrity At SkyPower, we are driven by our passion Every day we work to ensure our greatest to develop clean, green, renewable energy. assets – our name, our brand, and our track In fact, sustainability is part of our DNA. We record – are upheld by communicating with full believe in the power of solar energy to create transparency, respecting stakeholders, aligning better, healthier, and greener communities – with important international standards, and today and for generations to come. demonstrating a deep commitment to integrity. Give Back Where We Work Invest in Communities We firmly believe that no one should have Investing in local communities comes naturally to live without access to electricity. This is to us. Our solar projects are uniquely designed why we give back through SkyPower Cares, to create local jobs, fuel domestic industries, our corporate gifting program that delivers stimulate economic growth, and deliver portable home solar solutions to families programs that provide education and training who do not have access to electricity in the opportunities. Investing in communities means communities in which we work. creating shared value. 10 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 11 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION OUR STAKEHOLDERS SKYPOWER IS GENERATING REAL BUSINESS RESULTS OUR STAKEHOLDERS INCLUDE: SkyPower is proud to lead as a global citizen, helping to create a more sustainable future by ensuring access to affordable, reliable and modern energy for all. As the largest developer of utility-scale solar energy projects, SkyPower has proudly established long-term strategic hybrid partnerships with local communities, governments Communities, civil society, governments, utilities and and in-country developers. offtakers, regulators, financing institutions, shareholders, Firmly committed to addressing poverty through renewable energy development, we work with the objective of employees, supply chain providers, and partners such as producing hundreds of millions of kilowatt (kWh) of clean eletricity each year so that people, communities, and engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contactors countries have the power to grow. and operations and management (O&M) contractors. To achieve this outcome, SkyPower has established a superior financial track record and industry-leading financial and investment strengths and capabilities. We have also developed an extensive network of global relationships with leading tier-one financial institutions and strategic investors. These are some of the ways we are helping to bring energy to the 1.8 billion people around the world with little or no acess to power while advancing the UN’s SDGs. SKYPOWER’S EXPERTISE: • A global presence with a community focus • An experienced management team with a proven track record • Profitable operations driven by strong corporate values • Extensive relationships with governments, utilities, landowners and communities • Strong partnerships with world class manufacturers and local suppliers; engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) providers; and operation and maintenance (O&M) providers • Leading-edge energy storage for onand off-grid projects • Global leader in sustainable development 12 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 13 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 1 ADVANCING THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ADVANCING THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SkyPower is proud to support the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) supporting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development aimed at ending poverty, protecting the planet and improving the lives of people everywhere. Through our priorities, we enable progress to be made directly and indirectly against 13 of the UN’s 17 SDGs. We believe these 13 goals are achieved in our work across these broadly defined categories: • Community Development • Climate Action Leadership • Environmental Stewardship • Ethics and Anti-Corruption • Safe and Healthy Workplace What follows in the upcoming pages are highlights of our achievements in these areas against these goals over the past 12 months. “We are determined to take the bold and transformative steps which are urgently needed to shift the world onto a sustainable and resilient path. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals… are integrated and indivisible and balance the three dimensions of sustainable development: the economic, social and environmental.” – Excerpts from the preamble to the UN’s Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development 14 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 15 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 2 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT In our community development work, we are advancing 11 of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals shown here. “Economic and social development growth is changing the world as we know it and with this growth comes a need for new sources of energy – of clean energy. We shouldn’t be afraid of this amazing transformation, but rather embrace it and leave for future generations a world powered by clean, reliable, and sustainable solar energy.” – Alejandro Umaña, Vice President, Development and Global Head of EPC, SkyPower 16 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 17 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT “Being a leader in clean energy is a fundamental part of HOW WE HELP SkyPower’s DNA. With the inaugural lighting of Manyattas COMMUNITIES in rural Kenya today, we’re proud to extend home solar energy systems to the people in Kenya who have a very remote opportunity to be able to access any form of electricity in the near future.” – Charles Cohen, Chief Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy & Development, SkyPower At SkyPower, investing in the long-term prosperity of This year we took a number of actions to support communities is second nature. In fact, our projects are community development. Most notably, we launched a designed to create local jobs, spur social and economic pilot project to gift SkyPower Home solar kits to families growth, and deliver programs that provide education in Kenya that lack access to electricity. You can read and skills-training opportunities. When developing more about this in the pages that follow. utility-scale solar projects, our approach is to build relationships with local community members, leaders OUR COMMITMENTS: and outreach organizations, and facilitate public consultations to ensure the needs of each community • Giving back to communities through SkyPower are fully understood and addressed. Cares • Supporting localization and local economic growth “We also give back to the communities in which we • Enabling local innovation and access to education work. Why? Because we believe that everyone should have access to safe, reliable and renewable electricity. It makes good business sense and – more importantly – it is the right thing to do.” Benoit Fortin, Vice President Development, Africa and India. 18 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 19 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT GIVING BACK THROUGH SKYPOWER CARES WHAT IS SKYPOWER CARES? OUR COMMITMENT TO AFRICA OUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS At SkyPower, we believe deeply that as a profitable In 2014, SkyPower made a commitment at the UN that This year was a big year for SkyPower Cares. Most This pilot program is part of a larger initiative to gift business, we have an obligation to give back to the aims to bring power to people across Africa: importantly, in August 2016, we launched a pilot program two million home solar systems as part of the landmark communities in which we work. SkyPower Cares is our to gift SkyPower Home solar systems to 100 families in agreement between the Kenyan Ministry of Energy and way of doing this. 1. “By 2020, SkyPower is targeting to develop and build Kenya who currently lack access to electricity. Petroleum and SkyPower to develop, build, own and a minimum of 5,000 MW of utility-scale solar power operate 2 GW of world-class, utility-scale solar projects Currently, 1.2 billion people around the world currently live projects throughout Africa.” These portable solar systems provide an additional across Kenya, which will be built over the next five years. with little or no access to electricity. For these families, 75,000 additional hours of reliable, safe, clean energy to it often means relying on dangerous, polluting and 2. “SkyPower’s goal is to expand its successful families so that their children can study in the evening, THIS INITIATIVE IS SKYPOWER’S WAY OF HELPING TO: expensive kerosene lanterns and candles as a source of SkyPower Cares Solar Light initiative with the target of their cell phones stay charged, and they have light light. It also means increased health risks, and more air distributing 100,000 portable solar-powered lights by after the sun goes down. The systems also offer a safe • Improve the quality of life for Kenyan families who alternative to kerosene lanterns and candles, helping need it most. pollution, and it makes charging a cell phone a continual 2020 to students in African communities with limited or families save money on energy-related expenses. • Reduce or eliminate the need for dangerous, polluting challenge. no access to electricity.” and expensive kerosene lamps. The first SkyPower Home solar systems were gifted to • Increase the number of hours available for students Through SkyPower Cares, we gift portable home solar Maasai families who live in Manyattas (a term used to to do homework, teachers to prepare for class, systems and lights to families around the world. We do describe Maasai homesteads) in a rural area south of entrepreneurs to develop their businesses and this because we think no one should have to live without Nairobi, Kenya. families to spend time together. access to energy. • Improve safety for children and women by providing Each SkyPower Home solar system is made from the light at night. highest-quality materials, is backed by a comprehensive • Contribute to achieving the United Nations warranty, and contains one solar panel, two LED bulbs, Sustainable Development Goals, particularly a torch, USB charging capabilities for cell phones and • Goal 7: Access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and other devices, a solar-powered radio, and an operations modern energy for all. manual. 20 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 21 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT “One of the greatest things about working at SkyPower is SUPPORTING that when we help bring new energy to a country, LOCALIZATION we also help that country power its economy. If a country doesn’t have enough power, it misses out on critical opportunities to undertake valuable ﬁrst and second transformations of its natural resources.” – Benoit Fortin, Vice President, Business Development SkyPower SkyPower works to build strong local connections to the At SkyPower, supporting local economic development regions, and communities where our projects are located. means: We conduct business in compliance with all local applicable laws, while also taking into consideration and • Investing in the long-term prosperity of communities working within local governance structures. SkyPower hires and collaborates with local businesses and organizations whenever possible SkyPower hires and collaborates with local people from initial project development through to and organizations, whenever possible, from initial commercial operation and maintenance. project development through to commercial operation and maintenance. Co-developed projects promote • Co-developing projects that promote economic entrepreneurship at a local level, provide thousands opportunities at the local level – Our projects are of direct and indirect jobs, and build strong business designed to provide thousands of direct and indirect relationships based on mutual respect. Building jobs and build strong business relationships based partnerships with local community members, leaders on mutual respect. and outreach organizations enables SkyPower to ensure the needs of communities are fully understood and • Strengthening sustainable economic activity – We addressed. do this through our unique solar education and innovation programs, which provide skills training and foster the development of a local solar industry. 22 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 23 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 3 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP ENABLING LOCAL INNOVATION AND ACCESS TO EDUCATION WE ARE PROUD TO FOLLOW THE GUIDELINES OF THE SKYPOWER SUPPORTS ACCESS TO WORLD-CLASS ISO 26000 ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. EDUCATION. Adhering to this guideline means we operate in a manner We believe in the power of youth to change the world. “Clean energy is not only the solution for climate change, it is also that is socially responsible, ethical, and transparent, and contributes to the health and welfare of society. We That is why we have designed unique solar education and innovation programs, including funding for certification the greatest market opportunity the world has ever known.” began documenting our work to meet this ISO standard programs, local research and development initiatives, in 2015 and continued to refer to the guidelines this year. and environmental literacy activities for schools. Through these world-class programs, we are committed Honourable Catherine McKenna, Minister of Environment and Climate Change at the Toronto Region Board of Trade to working with local communities to invest in future generations and we intend to start these initiatives over the next 12 months. 24 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 25 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP CLIMATE ACTION HOW WE SHOW LEADERSHIP LEADERSHIP As climate change continues to rapidly transform our OUR GLOBAL LEADERSHIP ON CLIMATE ACTION environment and economy, the need for climate action INCLUDES: is critical. For over a decade, SkyPower has been driving dialogue on climate action by attracting awareness to • Showing leadership at high-level climate action the benefits of renewable energy, impact on society and forums emerging markets. • Collaborating with other leaders to spread the message of climate action This year, we travelled from continent to continent, • Sparking dialogue that promotes climate action by participating in forums, symposiums, summits and government and businesses alike dozens of other events to openly communicate and In our climate action leadership work, we are inform government partners about economically viable advancing four of the United Nations’ Sustainable solutions to advance climate action. We also published Development Goals shown here. two important thought leadership pieces. 26 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 27 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP “We must turn the greatest collective challenge facing humankind SHOWING LEADERSHIP today, climate change, into the greatest opportunity for AT CLIMATE ACTION common progress towards a sustainable future.” FORUMS – Ban Ki-moon, Former Secretary-General of the United Nations This year, SkyPower participated in dozens of impactful by many prominent leaders, including Canada’s Prime international events. Minister Justin Trudeau, H.E. Ban Ki-moon, Former Secretary-General of the United Nations, and H.E. Peter One event that we were particularly pleased to attend Thompson, President of the 71st session of the United was the United Nations Private Sector Forum, held Nations’ General Assembly. in New York City on September 19, 2016. This forum occurred in parallel to the 71st session of the United At this event, our President and Chief Executive Nations’ General Assembly. Officer, Kerry Adler, was the moderator of a roundtable discussion called Protecting the Planet. Led by Mr. Adler, For the third consecutive year, SkyPower was a proud this table discussed ways of fighting climate change to sponsor of this event. This year, the forum focused on the reduce and prevent global shocks and to create resilient, role of business in advancing sustainable development stable communities. to prevent global instability. The event was attended 28 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 29 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP COLLABORATING WITH SPARKING DIALOGUE OTHERS TO SPREAD THAT PROMOTES THE MESSAGE CLIMATE ACTION SkyPower is a proud member of over 19international energy associations and boards. These affiliations THOUGHT LEADERSHIP enable SkyPower to actively work with other private companies, non-profit organizations, and industry experts to meet the shared objective of generating renewable energy today and for generations to This year, SkyPower contributed several articles to Another major piece of thought leadership implores come. the deepen the discussion on climate action. Not only upcoming Canadian leaders to envision a clean energy are we proud to be recognized as experts in our field future. but also we are honoured to contribute to this global dialogue. “As we come together to commemorate Canada’s 150th anniversary, we have a tremendous opportunity to reflect Kerry Adler, SkyPower’s President and Chief Executive on our past and ignite a vision of our future. At SkyPower, Officer, is passionate about climate action and wrote when we imagine the future, we see one that is sustainable about a range of topics in 2016. These articles included and powered by clean, green, affordable, renewable energy. a piece about how SkyPower’s global actions help foster We see a strong economy built on green jobs and green a low-carbon economy using carbon pricing as a tool to investments. We see the end of energy poverty and a place incentivize change. where people around the world have access to electricity.” “Carbon pricing is a critical mechanism that both – Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, incentivizes and mandates a shift to a cleaner economy. SkyPower Whether operationalized using a direct price on carbon, a capand-trade system, or another form of economic incentive, Read more of Kerry Adler’s letter to Canada’s future carbon pricing is an essential component for global climate leaders on the United Nations Global Compact Network action. Not only does it work, it generates economic, social Canada’s website here. and environmental beneﬁts along the way.” GLOBAL SOLAR COUNCIL – Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, SkyPower Sources: You can explore the article titled SkyPower’s Carbon www.globalcompact.ca/letter-kerry-adler-president-chief-executive-officer-skypower/ Pricing Leadership Story here. https://www.carbonpricingleadership.org/posts-op-eds/2017/4/14/skypowers-carbon-pricingleadership-story 30 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 31 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 4 CLIMATE ACTION LEADERSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP SOCIAL MEDIA SkyPower is proud to be social, sharing our story as we bring #PowerToWorld! In fact, this year we continued to expand our social reach across social media platforms, including impressive growth on Twitter and LinkedIn. Join the conversation: Follow us! “Over 1 billion people around the world live without access to basic electricity, meaning twilight marks the end of their day and their time in darkness begins. Today we’re taking a step forward to change that. By bringing high-quality, clean solar energy to people in Kenya who need it the most, we’re proving that we can do well and do good.” @SkyPowerGlobal – Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, SkyPower SkyPower Global 32 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 33 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL HOW WE’RE STEWARDSHIP LEADING GLOBALLY In our environmental stewardship work, we are advancing four of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals shown here. Solar energy is one of the most environmentally-friendly SKYPOWER’S PRIORITIES: renewable resources on the planet. As a global developer of solar energy, we are leaders in the worldwide shift • Generating clean and renewable solar energy to to a low carbon and climate resilient economy. In fact, support a healthier environment caring for our planet is what drives our work and fuels • Advancing our commitments to empower our passion. commnities • Reducing our impact on the environment through SkyPower is an innovative and leading-edge solar energy the choices we make developer that is in the business of generaing a brighter • Sourcing from environmentally-responsible – and greener – future for generations to come. suppliers 34 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 35 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP “At SkyPower, we are strongly rooted in local GENERATING CLEAN AND communities. We work hand-in-hand with local governments, RENEWABLE SOLAR leaders and partners to develop solutions that empower ENERGY communities through clean energy.” – Charmaine Klawiter, Senior Vice President, Global Implementation As a solar energy developer, SkyPower’s operating When designing and constructing projects, SkyPower projects have powered thousands of homes with clean, takes great care to preserve the features of the natural carbon-neutral, reliable electricity generated from the landscape, while minimizing environmental impacts, sun’s abundant energy. strictly adhering to all local laws, and undertaking rigorous environmental assessment processes. The clean energy produced by utility-scale solar projects offsets thousands of tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2), mono-nitrogen oxides (NOX), and methane (CH4) emissions from the atmosphere, which is the equivalent of growing hundreds of thousands of new trees over 10 years. 36 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 37 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ADVANCING OUR REDUCING OUR IMPACT COMMITMENTS ON THE ENVIRONMENT The solar energy projects that SkyPower has constructed in India this year totals 350 MW of utility-scale solar A GREENER WAY OF WORKING REDUCING OUR CONSUMPTION energy and has created over 1000 local jobs. We’ve chosen to operate our headquarters in a LEED Each day, we take important steps to reduce our waste certified building located in First Canadian Place in and limit our patterns of consumption in our offices: downtown Toronto, Canada. First Canadian Place is certified Gold in the Leadership in Energy and • We promote recycling and green-waste disposal to Environmental Design for Existing Buildings: Operations divert garbage from landfills and Maintenance (LEED® EB:OM) rating system. • We collect used batteries in our office and dispose of them responsibly This year, First Canadian Place reported in its 2017 • We send electronic holiday greeting cards instead Environmental Scorecard that it: of paper cards • We provide fair trade coffee and Rainforest Alliance • Accomplished a waste diversion rate of 78% Certified products to our team members • Achieved 31% greenhouse gas savings in 2016 • We use ENERGY STAR energy efficient appliances versus 2012 • Our main printers use solid ink technology to • Provides an “Ecozone” in its parking garage with EV reduce printer cartridge waste MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA charging stations • We use recycled paper or paper certified by the MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA • Offers bike parking facilities Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) where possible DESHAGON 1 DESHAGON 2 • Participates in the Annual Earth Hour For more information, please visit this site A NEW OFFICE DESIGNED FOR SUSTAINABILITY In 2017, SkyPower relocated our Toronto office to a higher floor within First Canadian Place. We did this Source:www.mybrookfield.ca/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/ScoreCard2017-FCP.pdf so we could design a workspace that better fits our growing business. Our new office boasts several key features to support our sustainability efforts, such as motion-activated light switches and flooring fabricated from recycled materials. We also reused and repurposed TELANGANA, INDIA TELANGANA, INDIA most of our existing furniture to reduce consumption KAMAREDDY MINPUR and control our environmental footprint. TELANGANA,INDIA TELANGANA, INDIA K.M. PALLY SIDDIPET 38 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 39 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP “Economic and social development is sweeping the SOURCING FROM globe, as the middle class expands and industries develop. It is RESPONSIBLE an incredibly optimistic time. With this growth comes a need for SUPPLIERS new energy and solar energy is the answer. Solar energy is clean and reliable. It’s the most abundant form of energy, and it’s the most environmentally-friendly renewable resource on the planet.” – Alejandro Umaña, Vice President, Development and Procurement SkyPower’s competitive edge is strengthened by its partnerships with Tier-1 manufacturers, local suppliers, worldclass engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractors, and industry-leading operation and maintenance SkyPower (O&M) contractors. Nearly all of our suppliers hold certifications related to the environment and have made commitments to corporate sustainability and responsibility. In particular, many of our suppliers hold certifications under the following standards: • ISO 14001 Environmental Management • ISO 50001 Energy Management • ISO 14064 Greenhouses Gas Accounting and Verification • ISO 26000 Social Responsibility • LEED Gold Certification • United Nations Global Compact Participant 40 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 41 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 5 ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION In our ethics and anti-corruption leadership work, we are advancing three of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals shown here. “We ﬁrmly believe that we can be a proﬁtable business while acting responsibly. More simply put, we can do well and do good. It’s simply the right thing to do.” – Kerry Adler, Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower 42 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 43 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ETHICS & ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS & ANTI-CORRUPTION OUR FIRM COMMITMENT OUR HUMAN RIGHTS TO ETHICAL CONDUCT COMMITMENTS This year, we are proud to reaffirm that SkyPower takes If any employee, officer, director or consultant suspects At SkyPower, we conduct all activities with the highest SKYPOWER’S COMMITMENTS: pride in maintaining international standards of ethical a violation of a law, rule, regulation or the Code of standards of integrity, abiding by all applicable local practices and good corporate governance. This includes Business Conduct and Ethics, they are required to report and internationally proclaimed human rights laws • Respecting and upholding internationally respecting and protecting all internationally proclaimed it immediately to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior and requirements, and upholding an unwavering proclaimed human-rights commitments human rights and all applicable laws at the local, regional Director of Compliance. To encourage timely reporting, commitment to ethical business practices. • Working with partners and suppliers that and national levels globally. SkyPower protects employees who file complaints in respect internationally proclaimed human rights good faith. We believe this is fundamental to foster a Our firm commitment to ethical business conduct is commitments Respect for human rights is embedded within the work workplace where every employee may speak openly further entrenched by our membership as a Corporate • Maintaining a zero-tolerance approach to we do and, since our founding in 2003, has been written without fear of reprisal. Supporter to Transparency International Canada and corruption into our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. SkyPower through the mandatory anti-corruption training we continues to regularly review our code and policies This year we also reaffirmed our commitment to adhere provide to all of our employees. relating to human rights to ensure compliance with all to ISO 26000:2010 -Social Responsibility, guidelines applicable state/provincial, national and international for how businesses and organizations can operate in a standards. The Code is disseminated to all SkyPower socially responsible, ethical and transparent way that employees, directors, officers and consultants. contributes to the health and welfare of society. 44 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 45 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT ETHICS & ANTI-CORRUPTION ETHICS & ANTI-CORRUPTION “When it comes to anti-corruption, our stance is unwavering. We WORKING WITH ETHICAL take unethical or unlawful behavior very seriously. It’s simply PARTNERS not the SkyPower way.” – Stu Miller, Senior Vice President, Financial Operations, Compliance and Legal SkyPower THIS YEAR, WE ARE PROUD TO SAY THAT: DOING OUR DUE DILIGENCE • 87% of our suppliers hold certifications (such as As part of our comprehensive due diligence process, ISO certifications). This is up from 83% last year. SkyPower carefully examines local markets and their • 92% of our suppliers have made a commitment to dynamics. This process includes researching human corporate sustainability and responsibility. This is rights records and considering corruption risks. up from 68% last year. SkyPower also takes actions to verify that the land we procure has a clean title. This is often done with advice SkyPower refuses to do business with any third parties if from local legal experts to ensure compliance with all the company has any knowledge of, or if circumstances applicable regulations. indicate, that they violate any applicable laws or do not respect internationally proclaimed human rights guidelines. Additionally, wherever possible, we work with third parties who hold certifications or have made commitments to corporate social responsibility (CSR). 46 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 47 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 6 ETHICS & ANTI-CORRUPTION SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE SKYPOWER MAINTAINS A ZERO-TOLERANCE APPROACH TO CORRUPTION Conducting business ethically continues to be at the This year, SkyPower continued to require that all team core of our identity and is vital to our success. SkyPower members complete an anti-corruption training course is committed to the highest standard of responsible provided independent experts as a mandatory portion of business conduct around the world – ensuring that SkyPower’s onboarding process. This training instructs all business transactions are conducted in a proper, participants on their obligations and responsibilities to fair, impartial and ethical manner, avoiding even the prevent corruption. appearance of impropriety. SkyPower also continues to mandate that third-party Our comprehensive Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy representatives understand and comply with our Anticodifies SkyPower’s commitment to anti-corruption. Corruption Policy and applicable laws. Prior to engaging The policy, which is updated regularly and distributed any third-party representative who is likely to interact throughout the company, prohibits our employees with public officials on behalf of the company, SkyPower and representatives from giving, offering, soliciting or is required to conduct extensive background checks and accepting bribes to or from any person or entity, or bribing due diligence. domestic or foreign government or public officials, including elected officials and government employees at SkyPower is proud of its commitment to compliance the local, regional, national or international level. with all local applicable laws in the jurisdictions we operate, including compliance with Canada’s Corruption The policy requires that staff must notify the Chief of Foreign Public Officials Act (CFPOA), the United States Executive Officer and our Corporate Governance and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the United Kingdom Compliance team of any illegal, dishonest or unethical Bribery Act (UKBA), and other laws prohibiting the offer, act, including a possible violation of the Code of Business payment, solicitation or acceptance of bribes, kickbacks, Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy facilitation payments or improper gratuities of any kind. or any other company policy or legal requirement. To facilitate reporting, SkyPower provides an environment that fosters open communication without fear of reprisal and forbids retaliation or penalization of any kind against employees for filing complaints in good faith. “Treat the earth well: it was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children. We do not inherit the Earth from our Ancestors, we borrow it from our children.” – Ancient Proverb 48 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 49 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SAFE & HEALTHY WORKPLACE SAFE AND HEALTHY CHAMPIONING HEALTH WORKPLACE AND WELLBEING Our global team is our greatest asset. With some of the SKYPOWER’S COMMITMENTS: best and brightest leaders and innovators in the industry, our team is a powerhouse – committed to lighting the • Fostering diversity way to a more sustainable future. • Upholding employee rights and ensuring a safe and In our safe and healthy workplace, we are advancing four of the United Nations’ healthy workplace Sustainable Development Goals shown here. We ensure our team members around the world work • Championing the health and well-being of our in safe and healthy workplaces, and we embrace our employees diversity as a strength. We have clear policies in place to help our team members grow their careers at SkyPower, and ensure they maintain a healthy work-life balance. 50 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 51 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SAFE & HEALTHY WORKPLACE SAFE & HEALTHY WORKPLACE “Operating out of dozens of locations around the world, FOSTERING SAFE & HEALTHY WORKPLACE our diverse team is what gives SkyPower its leading edge. DIVERSITY Together, we are working to empower communities by developing clean solar energy.” – Ava Wojcik, Senior Director, Administration and Compliance SkyPower SkyPower is an equal opportunity employer that respects CELEBRATING OUR LINGUISTIC DIVERSITY diversity, inclusion and the fair and equitable treatment of all employees and team members. There are 34 languages spoken by members of the global SkyPower team, including: With offices located across the globe, the diversity of SkyPower’s team is one of its greatest strengths. SkyPower • ARABIC • GUJARATI • RUSSIAN is dedicated to creating and fostering a workplace that • AFRIKAANS • HINDI • SEPEDI values and embraces the contributions of people with • AMHARIC • ITALIAN • SINDHI different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives. We • AZERBAIJANI • JAPANESE • SPANISH see inclusion and diversity as fundamental to our culture • BENGALI • KISWAHILI • TAMIL and an integral part of fostering innovation, collaboration • CANTONESE • MALAYALAM • TELUGU and a high-energy work environment. A respect for equity, • CREOLE • MANDARIN • TSHIVENDA dignity and integrity, and compliance with all legal and • ENGLISH • MARATHI • TURKISH regulatory requirements is written into our policies. • FARSI • POLISH • UKRAINIAN • FILIPINO • PORTUGUESE • URDU For SkyPower, diversity refers to all of the characteristics • FRENCH • PUNJABI • ZULU that make individuals different from each other. We take • GERMAN the widest possible view of inclusion and diversity, going beyond factors such as national origin, race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, or having a disability, to create an environment that welcomes all forms of difference. Our respect for diversity and inclusion provides us with a competitive edge in the global marketplace and makes us stand apart from our competitors. 52 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 53 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT SAFE & HEALTHY WORKPLACE SAFE & HEALTHY WORKPLACE CODE OF BUSINESS HEALTHY WORK-LIFE CONDUCT AND ETHICS BALANCE UPHOLDING EMPLOYEE RIGHTS ADDRESSING EMPLOYEE GRIEVANCES SkyPower maintains a comprehensive Code of Business In the event of an employee grievance, SkyPower has Conduct and Ethics, which is made available to all a comprehensive process in place to ensure a fair and team members. This Code lays out a set of policies timely resolution, while ensuring compliance with relating to employee rights and diversity and is enforced established best practices and applicable laws in the in accordance with our guidelines. It also contains relevant jurisdiction. SkyPower’s zero tolerance policy and our commitment SkyPower’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to providing a workplace environment free from also contains a strict policy that forbids penalizing or discrimination and harassment on the basis of race, retaliating against any employee for filing a complaint or gender, sexual orientation, national or ethnic origin, a grievance of any kind that is made in good faith. religion, marital status, family status, citizenship status, veteran status, age, medical status, physical or mental ACCESSIBILITY disability or any other Our facilities are fully accessible, or accommodations are ENSURING A SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACE made as required. Additionally, SkyPower’s website and content complies with the World Wide Web Consortium SkyPower has zero tolerance for any acts of violence, – Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0 Level harassment or any other actions that compromise the A of the W3C Website Accessibility Initiative. health and safety of fellow employees, directors, officers, consultants and other stakeholders. SkyPower’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines clear policies that address our commitment to a safe and healthy workplace. Furthermore, the company is dedicated to complying strictly with all relevant occupational health and safety legislation in CHAMPIONING EMPLOYEE HEALTH SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING the countries it operates, following work procedures referenced in health and safety laws. SkyPower is proud to offer competitive benefits to its Since its inception, SkyPower has provided employees employees to foster personal health and well-being. This with a mandatory two-week holiday shutdown in includes a premium health and dental plan. December to encourage team members to rest and spend time with their families and loved ones. SkyPower also provides a daily nutritious lunch and access to high-quality fitness facilities, where available We take a healthy work-life balance seriously and promote and as practical. healthy habits amongst our team members. 54 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 55 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT TAKING OUR SOLAR ENERGY ACTIONS FORWARD INITIATIVES 2017 THIS HAS BEEN A TREMENDOUS YEAR FOR THE GLOBAL SOLAR ENERGY INDUSTRY, AND FOR SKYPOWER. Together, we witnessed the signing of the United Nations Amidst this new era of solar energy, SkyPower has Paris Agreement on Climate Change, with huge global continued to succeed – all the while remaining firmly support and momentum. We watched the prices of solarcommitted to its status as a global corporate citizen. energy technology decline dramatically, making solar energy more affordable than coal for the first time ever. As we chart a new course for a clean-energy future We saw governments around the world set visionary together, we are proud of the benefits our solar energy carbon emission targets and reaffirm their commitments projects will bring for generations of citizens to come. for a greener future. Finally, we witnessed a massive mobilization of funds through green bonds and other Together, we can bring clean power to people across the instruments to help support a global shift to a low-carbon world. Together, we can generate a brighter future. economy. 56 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 57 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE PRESS RELEASE Zul Kapadia, Director, Global Intelligence & Integration, SkyPower; Amit De, Senior Vice President, Finance & Strategy, SkyPower; Maria Vorobieva, Senior Director, International Public Affairs, SkyPower; Kerry Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer, SkyPower; Wendy Wei, CEO, Huayang International Capital Holdings; Kelly Yin, Vice President, Asia Strategy, SkyPower; Roger Zhu, Managing Director, Huayang International Capital Holdings; Mr. Zhang Tao, director of International Trade, Huayang Group China Huayang Group Selects SkyPower as Its Global Partner to SkyPower Brings Solar Light to Manyattas in Kenya Develop Solar Energy Projects Around the World NAIROBI, KENYA – SkyPower is proud to announce the “Being a leader in clean energy is a fundamental part TORONTO, CANADA, June 7, 2017 – SkyPower, the world’s the globe, was for Chinese companies to seek world leading launch of the pilot program to gifthome solar systems to of SkyPower’s DNA. With the inaugural lighting of largest global developer of utility-scale solar energy projects, organizations and build global partnerships and platforms Kenyan families in rural households without access to manyattas in rural Kenya today, we’re proud to extend and China Huayang Economic and Trade Group Co., a Chinese to advance important initiatives like climate change. After electricity. The first home solar systems were distributed home solar energy systems to the people in Kenya who state-owned company under the China Council for the Huayang’s extensive research over the past six months of solar today in the region of Kajiado West, a rural area south have a very remote opportunity to be able to access any Promotion of International Trade, announced today that it has developers around the world, Huayang has chosen SkyPower, of Nairobi that is home to many Maasai families. These form of electricity in the near future,” commented Charles entered into a world class partnership together. the world leading global developer of utility-scale solar energy solar systems were gifted to families living in manyattas Cohen, Chief Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy & projects, as its global partner to jointly develop and build (a term used to describe Maasai homesteads), identified Development at SkyPower. Huayang has selected SkyPower to be its global partner to renewable energy projects along the Belt and Road regions by community elders for the pilot program. develop, build, and operate large utility-scale solar projects in as well in other key selected countries. I believe this unique key strategic markets. The partnership combines Huayang’s partnership, which is with a company like SkyPower of the The gifting of 2 million home solar systems was extensive financial capabilities with SkyPower’s proven solar greatest integrity and the highest calibre and professionalism In accordance with SkyPower’s gifting methodology, announced by SkyPower as part of the landmark expertise to bring new, clean energy and hundreds of thousands in concert with Huayang, will represent and result in numerous the intent of the pilot program is to test and refine the agreement between the Kenyan Ministry of Energy and of jobs to dozens of countries worldwide. The partnership’s successful renewable energy projects under the Belt and Road process, systems and logistics using real-time feedback Petroleum and SkyPower to develop, build, own and mandate and objective is to advance Chinese President Xi Initiative. Huayang intends to use this partnership to help and local input, and to ensure the program meets its operate 2 GW of world-class, utility-scale solar projects Jinping’s vision of eliminating barriers in countries under the promote trade and requisite financing, which will undoubtedly objectives. This pilot program comes in advance of the across Kenya, which will be built over the next five years. Belt and Road Initiative. bring great benefits to the people and communities of these planned roll-out of the multi-phased SkyPower Home The announcement came at the 6th annual Global countries. Huayang intends to set up a multi-billion $US special solar system gifting program to distribute 2 million solar Entrepreneurship Summit in Nairobi. In speaking about SkyPower’s selection by Huayang and purpose fund to achieve this important strategic initiative for systems the people of Kenya who are at the bottom of the signing of this monumental agreement today in Toronto, the projects of this partnership with SkyPower.” SkyPower’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Kerry Adler, the energy ladder. said: “SkyPower is so very proud to be part of President Xi’s “Huayang brings exceptionally strong financial capabilities visionary policy of opening up economic and trade routes to this partnership and a clear focus, vision, and strategy, “Over 1 billion people around the world live without across the Belt and Road regions, stimulating substantial especially under the Belt and Road Initiative. This, coupled with access to basic electricity, meaning twilight marks the employment and ensuring economic growth and security along SkyPower’s track record and development know-how in the end of their day and their time in darkness begins. Today the Road. This partnership clearly demonstrates how Canadian utility-scale solar energy industry, creates a unique opportunity we’re taking a step forward to change that,” said Kerry and Chinese companies can work hand in hand, in partnership to help deliver lower costs of electricity to tens of millions of Adler, President and Chief Executive Officer of SkyPower. and unison to leverage each country’s respective skills and people around the world,” added SkyPower’s Kelly Yin, Vice “By bringing high-quality, clean solar energy to people in capabilities to help address and tackle climate change and the President of Asia Strategy. Kenya who need it the most, we’re proving that we can do other 16 United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SGDs), which are critical to humanity and future generations The agreement was signed on June 7, 2017 at SkyPower’s well and do good.” to come.” global headquarters, located in Toronto, Canada and represents the first partnership of its kind. Weiwen Cheng, Chief Executive Officer of Huayang International Capital Holdings, the international financial arm of the China Huayang Group, commented: “One of the key objectives of the Belt and Road Initiative, which was showcased in Beijing in May 2017 amongst 29 foreign Heads of State, government representatives, and global companies from nations around 58 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 59 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT PRESS RELEASE PRESS RELEASE UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon announced the UN Global Compact's recognition of SkyPower Enters into Agreement with BYD to Submit Joint Bid for SkyPower Founder and Chief Executive Oﬃcer as a Pioneer for 750 MW of Solar Energy Development in ww Climate Action at the UN Leaders Summit VANCOUVER, CANADA, May 13, 2016 –SkyPower is pleased to use of clean technologies to support the transition to a lower carbon announce it has entered into an agreement with BYD to submit a joint economy, and a cleaner environment for us all.” NEW YORK, 22 June 2016 -Today at the UN Global Compact programme will become a vital part of the organization’s priority bid in the upcoming tenders for solar power generation capacity and BYD is headquartered in Guangdong, China’s most populated province, Leaders Summit 2016 in New York, Kerry Adler, founder and to make global goals local business. energy storage of up to 750 MW in India. accounting for more than twenty-five percent of China’s foreign trade. CEO of SkyPower was announced as one of ten 2016 Local SDG “We are thrilled to join forces with like-minded visionary leaders at Pioneers. Mr. Adler was recognized for his efforts that align with “I am honoured to be part of the inaugural class of Local SDG The agreement was signed during the opening ceremony of the ChinaSkyPower,” stated Stella Li, Senior Corporate Vice President of BYD. Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 13 on Climate Action. Pioneers and humbled by the recognition from the UN Global Canada Economic and Trade Cooperation Conference in the presence “BYD is the global leader in reliable, efficient battery storage and solar Compact,” said Mr. Adler. “Sustainable Developments Goals are of Hu Chunhua, Party Secretary of China’s Guangdong Province. The technology, and we are committed to providing affordable, sustainable conference, hosted by British Columbia Premier Christy Clark, was energy solutions that not only help countries recover economically but Launched in 2016 as part of the UN Global Compact’s Making core to SkyPower’s global operations because I fundamentally aimed at strengthening the socio-cultural and economic ties between also help reduce air pollution caused by traditional, dirty fossil fuels.” Global Goals Local Business campaign, the Local SDG Pioneers believe that businesses have a duty to be responsible corporate China and Canada. programme seeks out individuals who are demonstrating how citizens and leave an inhabitable world for future generations.” The Government of Guangdong continues to invest in clean energy the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) can enable business “SkyPower, an industry leader in the development of large-scale solar mass transit solutions to help address the environmental objectives of to unlock economic, social and environmental gains for the The UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2016 is a two-day energy projects, is excited to work with BYD, a global leader in battery China’s 13th Five-Year Plan. world. Over 600 nominations were received from 100 countries gathering of the private sector, UN, Government and civil society technology, to bring together a highly-competitive bid for low-carbon, between February and April 2016. to jump-start action to achieve the UN Sustainable Development clean technology solutions,” said Charles Cohen, SkyPower’s Chief Goals by 2030. Together, over 800 leaders from around the Commercial Officer, Commercial Strategy and Development. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda world are gathered in New York to identify how to unleash the The joint venture will draw upon SkyPower’s vast global experience for Sustainable Development – adopted by world leaders in business activities, thinking and innovation required fro a new and its proprietary development platform to develop clean energy September 2015 at an historic UN Summit – officially came into era of sustainability. solutions in India at truly market-competitive rates, while ensuring the force on 1 January 2016. Over the next fifteen years with these highest quality construction and world-class execution. BYD’s awardnew goals that universally apply to all, countries will mobilize The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate winning environmentally-friendly battery storage technology, in concert efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle sustainability initiative, calling on companies to align strategies with SkyPower’s wealth of experience in developing utility-scale solar climate change, while ensuring that no one is left behind. and operations with universal principles on human rights, projects, will enable a significant solar implementation strategy in India. labour, environment, and anti-corruption, and take actions that “One of the key components of our trade missions and ongoing “Each of the 2016 Local SDG Pioneers exemplifies how business advance societal goals. In Canada, over 80 companies and relationship with our sister province of Guangdong is promoting can be a force for good in addressing the challenges we face as non-business organizations have joined the initiative, and the cooperation between clean technology companies, like SkyPower a global society,” said Lise Kingo, UN Global Compact Executive Global Compact Network Canada has supported their efforts to in Canada and BYD in China,” said Premier Christy Clark. “It creates Director. “Mr. Adler is a passionate advocate for climate change, advance sustainable business practices since 2013. opportunity on both sides of the Pacific, and encourages the innovative particularly clean energy. He is leading developments towards a renewable power sector in Canada and international markets for sustainable energy solutions – making him a Pioneer on climate action.” The Pioneers are made up of entrepreneurs who are championing sustainability through their business models and changemakers who are mobilizing the business community broadly to take action in support of the SDGs. A Pioneers Selection Group, comprised of experts from the UN, academia, civil society and the private sector, ranked the nominees based on a set of criteria, resulting in the ten 2016 Global Compact Local SDG Pioneers. In the years to come, the Global Compact’s Pioneers 60 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT 61 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT For more information: executiveteam@skypower.com @SkyPowerGlobal +1 416 979 4625 www.linkedin.com/company/skypower-global 62www.skypower.com GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT
