E stablished in 1920, Banque Misr was the first bank to be fully Egyptianowned, and is currently the second largest bank in Egypt in terms of total assets. About Banque Misr ................................................................................... 10 Material Topics .......................................................................................... 13 Ownership: Automated Teller Machines State-owned bank (ATMs): 1,715 BM Approach .............................................................................................18 Customers: Point of Sale Terminals (POS): Introduction by the Chairman ....................................................................20 More than 7 million in Egypt 13,503 Our Strategy ...............................................................................................26 Served by: No. of Issued Cards: Domestic and International Presence .........................................................30 14,110 employees 4.9 million Through Six Business Divisions: Paid-up Capital: Board of Directors ......................................................................................38 Corporate Banking EGP 15 billion Board and Executive Committees ...............................................................60 Retail Banking Our Commitment .......................................................................................73 SME Banking Shareholders’ Equity: BM Service Providers and Suppliers ...........................................................80 Capital Markets Group EGP 26.6 billion Environmental Sustainability ......................................................................81 Correspondent Network and Our People ................................................................................................84 Treasury Total Assets: Community Development ..........................................................................90 Islamic Banking EGP 430.2 billion Across Five Countries: Customer Deposits: Egypt EGP 341.3 billion United Arab Emirates (UAE) Technology ..............................................................................................118 Lebanon Net Interest Income: Corporate Banking ...................................................................................120 France EGP 11.3 billion Retail Banking ..........................................................................................122 Germany SME Banking ............................................................................................125 Net fee and commission Capital Markets Group .............................................................................126 Branches: Income: Correspondent Network and Treasury .......................................................129 Over 580 as of March 2017, the EGP 2.165 billion Islamic Banking .......................................................................................131 largest branch network by any bank ‫‏‬ in Egypt and the Middle East Income Tax Paid: EGP 4.7 billion Direct Equity Participation: Message from the Chairman .....................................................................140 160 multi-sector companies Net Profit After Tax: Financial Statements ................................................................................142 EGP 5.5 billion Mutual Funds: 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 1 Some letters from the Egyptian Congress to Talaat Harb Pasha concerning the bank’s establishment proposal during 1912 and 1913. 2 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 3 An article written by Talaat Harb Pasha in Al Gareeda newspaper, suggesting certain An article written by Talaat Harb Pasha in El Lewaa newspaper, issue no.32 on economic and social topics to be the focus of the newspaper. 27/6/1945, explaning his call for economic and legislative reform and independence. 4 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 5 Sultan Fouad Decree on April 3rd, 1920 for the establishment of Banque Misr. A photo in Al Lataif Al Musawara magazine, depicting the bank shareholders with Talaat Harb Pasha. 6 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 7 Abdel Al-Azeem Talaat Harb Pasha Youssef Cattaui Pasha El-Masry Bey Ahmed Medhat Yakan Abbas Basiouny Iskandar Mesiha Pasha El-Khateeb Afandy Afandy The founders who signed the initial contract for Banque Misr inception, and formed the first Board of Directors, together with two other members. Dr. Fouad Sultan Abdel Hameed ElSeyoufy Bey 8 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 9 B anque Misr (BM) was established in 1920 by the pioneering Egyptian economist Mohamed Talaat Harb Pasha. Harb was the first to introduce to Egypt the economic system of investing in the public’s savings, through injecting them into economic and social projects, making Banque Misr the first national bank to be wholly owned by Egyptians. Since its foundation, Banque Misr has been committed to establishing several companies in various domains, including textiles, insurance, transportation, aviation, entertainment, and filmmaking. It has also provided continuous support to its other regular banking and investment activities. The bank currently has shares in 160 companies in the fields of finance, tourism, housing, agriculture, and food, in addition to other companies in the field of communication and information technology. In recognition of the bank’s continuous efforts to offer the best and most up-to-date services to all its esteemed clients, Global Finance, a leading financial magazine, named Banque Misr as The Best Provider of Short-Term Investments/Money Market Funds in the Middle East for the year 2016, marking the eighth consecutive year that the bank has been awarded by the institution. Banque Misr has cemented its position as a regional pioneer, becoming the first bank in Egypt and North Africa to comply with PCI data security standards, obtaining the global Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) certification. Banque Misr is constantly Banque Misr headquarters in 1927 10 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 11 moving toward expanding its customers’ access to banking services through introducing the most cutting-edge technologies and efficiently making use of all its available resources. Today, the bank is proud to offer one of Egypt’s The way we integrate sustainability into our business model, both in terms largest ATM networks, covering the entire country. of seeking commercial opportunities and evaluating risk, is an integral part of Banque Misr’s role in all economic fields is unmistakable in light of its our operations. The BM Annual Sustainability Report 2015/2016 is our second geographic outreach. The bank’s 14,110 employees, in addition to 929 edition, guided by the framework of the internationally recognized Global outsourced employees, serve a client base of around 7 million, with a total Reporting Initiative (GRI). The report will articulate how we view sustainability paid-up capital amounting to EGP 15 billion. at Banque Misr. The bank’s headquarters is located at 151 Mohamed Farid Street, Downtown, At Banque Misr, we identify sustainability topics that are material to the Cairo, Egypt. The bank currently owns and operates over 580 electronically bank and its stakeholders. We define anyone who comes into contact with the connected local and international branches, including five in the United bank as a stakeholder, including employees, existing customers, prospective Arab Emirates and one in France. This is in addition to its regional and global customers, the government, partners, suppliers, and non-governmental presence in Lebanon and Germany, and its worldwide access through a organizations (NGOs). network of correspondents. This acknowledgment focuses on action areas that are considered vital to Banque Misr has instituted significant milestones in its ongoing endeavors to the success and continuity of sustainability in our business and are divided lead the industry as a creditworthy financial institution in the local market. into four main sections: Key to ensuring such success has been Banque Misr’s commitment to its The BM Approach discusses Banque Misr’s efforts toward consolidating compliance with the United Nations’ (UN) Global Compact Principles. The and disseminating the culture of financial inclusion, as highlighted in the bank’s focus on corporate social responsibility and sustainability initiatives introduction by BM’s Chairman Mr. Mohamed Mahmoud El-Etreby, and in the comes in line with the 10 principles outlined by the UN Global Compact in introduction to Banque Misr’s financial sector. The BM Approach also defines the areas of: human rights, labor, preserving the environment, and combating the principles that govern the bank’s internal culture and community. corruption. How BM Operates explains the fundamental principles that govern our The bank has also extensively worked on supporting the communities in business as a whole, including how we keep our employees and facilities which it operates by implementing a number of social initiatives and activities safe, how we reduce any potential harmful impact on the environment, how to enhance the general welfare of the community, with a special focus on we engage with our community, and our collaborations and partnerships. health, human rights, and the environment. BM Activities outlines our key accomplishments, with a focus on our As one of the leading public banks working toward the promotion of the operations in Egypt and the steps taken to support the national economy. state’s public policy, Banque Misr closely cooperates with the state’s Social BM Financial Performance drafts our performance data for the year based Fund for Development on the financing of small projects and supporting on transparent reports on revenue and environmental and social data. economic development. Furthermore, Banque Misr has set a separate unit for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to encourage more people and businesses to seek finances for SMEs, which significantly contribute to the state’s GDP. Banque Misr has been supporting the national economy since its establishment 96 years ago, and pledges to continue its sponsorship and support for national projects, companies, and investments to empower the national economy and investment prospects. Ownership: B anque Misr is a state-owned bank, with 100% of its shares owned by the Egyptian government. 12 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 13 The celebration for laying the foundation stone for Banque Misr’s headquarters in 1925.Talaat Harb Pasha with the architect Atonio Lashak, who was behind the design of the building. The application form for Banque Misr’s shares. The day before the inauguration of Banque Misr’s headquarters. Saad Zaghloul, Medhat Yakan, Fouad Sultan, and Talaat Harb Pasha gather at the headquarters (June 1927). 14 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 15 Talaat Harb Pasha and Medhat Yakan in front of the entrance to Banque Misr, awaiting the guests for the inauguration of the headquarters on June 5th 1927. British respresentative Bursy Louren (middle) with Talaat Harb Pasha and Sultan Fouad (right) and Medhat Yakan (left) in 1932. 16 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 17 S ince its establishment, Banque Misr has adhered to its founding goal of serving the Egyptian public and securing its welfare. We continue to adhere to this objective through capitalizing on the interests and demands of the Egyptian masses, who have always been at the center of our operations and decisions. Our role does not solely comprise of profit generation but also principally includes serving as a national financial catalyst, to be relied on to implement and support national and strategic development in various social and economic fields. To meet such objectives, Banque Misr has exerted major efforts to meet the Egyptian community’s financial needs. Striving to own the largest network of branches in Egypt and the Middle East, the bank currently owns and operates more than 580 branches, serving the entire Egyptian population of over 90 million, across the various Egyptian governorates nationwide. This section outlines our success story, which has flourished over long years, and which was achieved through the fundamental principles of sustainability, governance, and distinction that underpin all our operations. The section also describes our current role and future goals to keep pace with the globe’s speedy and continuous political, economic, and environmental changes. Our ambition is to further embed sustainable banking, making it central to the way we do business every day. 18 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 19 O n behalf of Banque Misr’s Board of Directors, I am delighted to introduce its second Sustainability Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the globally recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) , As we mark our second year of joining the UN Global Compact, we have been firmly committed to supporting its 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and combating corruption, and we have continued to ensure that the principles of corporate governance remain uncompromised. We at Banque Misr (BM) are pleased to introduce the results that we have achieved so far. The bank’s net profits grew to EGP 5.5 billion, marking an EGP 1.3 billion increase from the previous fiscal year, i.e. a 31.7% growth, and registering the highest profit margin ever recorded in BM’s history. This reflects the bank’s success in diversifying its income sources and assets, as well as developing strategic fully-integrated financial solutions to meet stakeholders’ aspirations and customers’ banking needs, and maintaining acceptable risk levels. The bank’s total assets registered a 30% increase, to reach EGP 430 billion on June 30th, 2016, compared to EGP 331 billion on June 30th, 2015, whereby Banque Misr was able to acquire over 15% of the total assets in the Egyptian banking sector. Meanwhile, we have maintained focus on our strategy, which places a high emphasis on the importance of creating value for society. We at Banque Misr believe that for any financial entity to sustain long-term prosperity and create added value for its shareholders, it must first create added value for society. 20 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 21 The global and regional economies have faced several challenges on and private sectors, in addition to various levels during fiscal year 2015/2016. 51,000 accounts. The Egyptian government has addressed a number of key reforms during Banque Misr was also ranked first fiscal year 2015/2016, as part of a programme in which energy subsidies in the government payment services, will be cut and new taxes will be introduced to reduce the country’s CSL and customs’ duties. Moreover, ballooning budget deficit. It announced plans to adopt a full-fledged value BM came in first place in terms of the added tax (VAT) and already issued a decree to raise customs tariffs on collection of merchants’ operations, a large number of imports, in efforts to reduce the country’s import bill, with 13,503 POS terminals spread all lessen pressure on foreign currency demand, and promote local industry. over Egypt and a trading value of EGP 6.06 billion in fiscal year 2015/2016. As such, we at Banque Misr are committed to maintaining our support for the national economy by EGP BM participated in the Central participating in local mega-projects, as well as financing Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) initiative small and medium-sized businesses, based on the 430.204 offering long-term loans to low and Central Bank of Egypt’s directives to apportion 20% of middle-income housing projects. all Egyptian banks’ total loan portfolios to SMEs within billion Such projects are considered very three years. Throughout fiscal year 2015/2016, the bank TOTAL ASSETS promising for the banking sector was able to arrange, fund, and participate in a number as they are highly encouraged and of financing operations totaling EGP 72.5 billion, supported by the government. distributed across a number of sectors, including electricity, cement, real BM has so far contributed with EGP estate investment, and oil. 3 billion to the CBE’s initiative. Financing activities: The bank provided loans worth about EGP 601 million to 7,097 beneficiaries. Since its foundation in 1920, under the leadership of the founder of the Egyptian national industry and pioneering economist Talaat Harb Pasha, Fostering Corporate Social Responsibility: we at Banque Misr have remained committed to effective participation to achieve development in all sectors of the national economy. Moreover, Banque Misr continues to play a prominent role in developing and we are dedicated to facilitating financial services for everyone in the providing assistance to the Egyptian community through engaging in community, underlining our commitment to a sustainable success, several activities to support the development of the community, such as continuous development, and the complete restructuring of the different developing slum areas, villages, hospitals, schools, and sports centers. activities and branches, which remain at the heart of Banque Misr’s principles Stemming from the bank’s deep faith in the importance of supporting and objectives. We have moreover expanded our ATM network to serve corporate social responsibility, directly or indirectly our customers and all other financial institution through 1,715 advanced through the Banque Misr Foundation for Community ATM machines nationwide. In addition to the basic cash withdrawal and Development (BMFCD), which was established as deposit services, the bank has added several new services to its ATMs. These services included monetary transfers between individuals, bill payment, donations, and various subscription fees. BM also improved its tax and a separate entity (non-profit organization) managed by a board of trustees to address deep-rooted social, 41,603 developmental, and health challenges. The foundation customs e-payment service through 296 branches distributed across Egypt, collecting over EGP 5.6 billion through this service. has initiated, as well as executed, a number of activities in line with this objective, contributing to the enhancement SMEs Aiming to turn Egypt into a cashless society, Banque Misr pioneered to of dozens of villages most in need of development. The occupy a total market share of 48% in automating governmental workers’ amount spent on supporting corporate social responsibility was about EGP salaries through its ATM network. BM has maintained first place in this 122.6 million in 2015/2016, including more than EGP 25 million for the field for the last 11 consecutive years. health sector, and about EGP 95 million for education and community development. The total value of automated salaries recorded EGP 40.35 billion during fiscal year 2015/2016, dispensed to 2.8 million card users from the public The Banque Misr Foundation undertook the comprehensive reformation 22 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 23 of many villages, a process that included building schools, youth centers, in the 290 local units and homes for the neediest families, in addition to equipping computer nationwide. Within the labs, establishing kindergarten classrooms, establishing small and microframework of the initiative, sized projects, and refurbishing medical units. Banque Misr recorded an 88% penetration rate in 254 Our Employees: units. The bank provided loans worth EGP 637 million Stemming from our profound belief in the importance of the human to 20,162 MSMEs by June element in achieving the bank’s strategy, Banque Misr has focused on 30th, 2016. enhancing employees’ satisfaction levels, improving the work environment, and attracting skillful calibers, in addition to developing the employees’ In drawing my remarks to management and leadership skills to create future leaders. a conclusion, I would like to thank the Central Bank In this context, the bank offered promotion opportunities for several of Egypt, the Ministry of employees at different levels in the bank. BM offered 16,608 training Finance, and designated opportunities with a total of 403,263 training hours to boost the technical, authorities in Egypt for their administrative, and leadership skills of its employees to qualify them to continuous support in seeing assume leading positions in their future careers. that fiscal year 2015/2016 The bank also organized several economic seminars to keep the staff uphas been another fruitful to-date on the recent economic changes and their impacts on the financial year for Banque Misr. Our environment in general, and the banking business in particular. divisions are in good shape and performance has Geographical Expansion: been sound, thanks to my colleagues and their support As part of the bank’s strategy focusing on the needs of our customers, for Banque Misr’s journey Banque Misr has expanded its network to more than 580 electronically toward comprehensive connected local and international branches, with a 16% increase in growth sustainability. rate. As we aim to attract new segments of customers, the bank plans to I would also like to open new 275 branches over the next three years, including 255 minithank you, our esteemed branches, in line with the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) initiative to foster customers, for your trust greater financial inclusion. Our ultimate target is to facilitate access to the and loyalty that push us at bank in all parts of the country, in order to reach all the different social Banque Misr to strive for segments. more reforms to always meet your expectations. Banque Misr Services: Sincerely, Underlining our commitment to sustainable success, continuous development, and the complete restructuring of the different products and Mohamed Mahmoud El-Etreby services remain at the heart of Banque Misr’s principles and objectives. Chairman The bank is further committed to meeting the requirements of all segments of society, which contributes to promoting development through combatting unemployment and aiding social development. In this context, Banque Misr also participated with the Ministry of Local Development in the national initiative for community development entitled “Mashrouak” (Your Project), aiming to provide funding for micro and small-sized enterprises through the one-window investment system 24 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 25 A t the heart of Banque Misr’s strategy is a mission to build on our business, and promote effective financial inclusion through close connection to the economic, environmental, and social landscape in Customer Services Our customers are at the center of what we do which we operate. We: Throughout its 96 years in business, Banque Misr has adopted sustainable approaches to ensure long-term businesses by maintaining a balance of Sustain customer satisfaction and trust as our main objective social, environmental, and economic considerations in all of its decisions. Help our clients fulfil their financial goals Our Vision: Our distinctive performance secures us the leadership we Strive to surpass our customers’ expectations deserve. Our Mission: Excellence in fulfilling all of our customers’ banking needs, maximizing shareholders’ value, inspiring employees’ loyalties, and playing a leading role in the prosperity and development of Egypt. Integrity Our Values: The bank maintains very high standards of integrity, customer We are fair, ethical, and honest in everything we say and do service, excellence, teamwork, accountability, and innovation, all of which are embedded in every decision we take and in our interactions with both We: our customers and employees. We at Banque Misr know that we succeed Communicate openly only when our customers and communities succeed. We do business in an Acknowledge, accept, and learn open, direct, and sustainable way. Take risk seriously and manage it prudently Hold to what we view to be right and ethical Sense of Belonging Accountability We are dedicated to the aspirations of our community and clients We think beyond the moment and strive for quality We: We: Have a sense of ownership in the bank’s activities and intensively partake in its successes and take lessons from its failures Are accountable to our shareholders, customers, coworkers, and community Have a strong sense of responsibility in terms of performance and risks in relation to both the bank and its clients Contribute to the economic, social, and environmental development of Egypt Assume our responsibility toward the economy and society 26 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 27 Teamwork We respect and value our team members We: Banque Misr has been among the leading banks in terms of providing funds to projects in various sectors. In light of its efforts in the previous period, the bank came at the forefront of Believe the best outcome is achieved when people work together Bloomberg’s syndicated loans league table in Africa for the first half of 2016. This comes in continuation of Banque Misr’s dominance of this ranking since Believe great teams are built on mutual trust, shared ownership, and the beginning of 2015, after it had been dominated by European banks over accountability the previous four years. Place the team’s success ahead of individual success According to the Bloomberg’s league tables on Global Syndicated Loans for the first half of 2016, Banque Misr succeeded in: Build diverse teams, capable of generating creative ideas and taking Ranking first as the best Bookrunner for Syndicated Loans and Project balanced decisions Finance Transactions across Africa for the second quarter of 2016. Value every person and respect individual differences in mentality, Ranking first as the best Mandated Lead Arranger across Africa. style, culture, ethnicity, and experiences Banque Misr was ranked among the top 20 financial institutions for Syndicated Loans Bookrunners across the Middle East and North Africa, according to Bloomberg’s ranking report of June 2016. In a further statement from Bloomberg on the classification results, Banque Excellence Misr topped the list of the best banks within Africa with regards to performance level and marketing financing transactions, with a major margin of difference Sustainable performance and results are our objectives from the holder of the second position, the Bank of China. BM was the first We: Egyptian bank to lead such ranking in the past three years, during which the first position was dominated by European banks. Add value to shareholders by prioritizing long-term success over short BM has also been granted two awards by EMEA Finance Magazine, as the term gains Best Syndicated Loan House and Best Project Finance House in Africa for the year 2015. Ensure that discipline and perseverance govern all our actions to achieve outstanding results for our customers Culminating its efforts in the field of investment and investment funds, Banque Misr was named by Global Finance magazines as the Best Provider of ShortWork with our clients to reach their current goals, moreover anticipating term Investments/Money Market Funds in the Middle East for 2016, marking and planning for their future objectives the eighth time that the bank was awarded by the magazine. Global Finance is considered one of the most recognized financial magazines internationally. It relies on a range of international banking standards in awarding its prizes, in addition to the counsel of a distinguished group of international analysts and bankers. Innovation Banque Misr also won the Strongest Arab Bank award from the World Union We generate innovative ideas that are also practical and achievable of Arab Bankers, in recognition of its rapid growth and extensive network of branches. We: Banque Misr was listed in The Banker Magazine’s annual top 1,000 world Produce new ideas and improve our processes and platforms by banks, issued in July 2016. The bank was ranked 406th in the 1,000 list, the embracing updated and improved methods second among all the Egyptian banks, and 37th between 80 other Arab banks that also appeared in the top 1,000 list. Leverage technological innovation The bank’s Islamic Sector was granted the IJGlobal Award for MENA Metals Provide our clients with suitable solutions to their problems and Mining: Ain Sokhna Steel Plant Deal of the Year 2015 on March 21st, 2016. Believe that the application of intelligence, reason, and science has a BM has been granted the Best Arab Banking Institution Active in the Field positive impact on people and their businesses of Social Responsibility Award for 2016 by the Arab Organization for Social Responsibility, in recognition of its accomplishments in the field of social responsibility. 28 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 29 BM’s Presence in the UAE B anque Misr has a network of five branches in: Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Al Ain, Sharjah, and Ras Al Khaimah. The bank has tailored a number of banking services to best fit and satisfy the UAE community, especially the Egyptian expatriates living in this country. It offers them a wide range of corporate, retail, and treasury banking products, in addition to several state-initiated funds and certificates, such as the Bayt Al Watan (Home of the Nation) and Long Live Egypt Funds. The UAE branches also allow them to purchase the following high-yield certificates: Belady Certificates in euros and US dollars The Maestro Certificate in local currency in exchange for foreign currencies The bank has doubled the paid-in capital of its UAE branches, and granted them a subordinated loan to support their capital base. In addition, the bank also restructured these branches, improving the efficiency of the network and developing the IT infrastructure and communication systems. Furthermore, 26 new and upgraded ATMs have been introduced in various locations in the UAE. The restructuring process enabled the bank to offer comprehensive packages of its various products and services, enabling it to become a regional center T he bank’s Board of Directors adopts a market-driven expansion strategy. for activities in the GCC states. All branches are electronically connected to facilitate clients’ financial During fiscal year 2015/2016, Banque Misr inaugurated both its Dubai and interactions in any branch across Egypt or through the bank’s nationwide ATM Al Ain branches and the Regional Office of Banque Misr in new distinguished network. locations, in a step toward maximizing the bank’s regional presence in the UAE The bank has also upgraded its operating procedures, branches’ layout, and and enhancing its geographic expansion. In addition, the bank is planning to ATM machines. In addition, all its branches are supplied with the most up-totransfer its Sharjah branch to a new location and renovate the Abu Dhabi and date technologies and modern equipment to provide clients with an efficient Ras Al Khaimah premises, in efforts to cater to the needs of its growing client timesaving experience. The bank also provides easy access to all its products base in the UAE. and services. BM’s Presence in Lebanon Banque Misr is widely acknowledged as one of the most widespread banks in the Middle East and Africa. BM has ensured geographic privilege, as it owns and operates the largest I n support of Banque Misr’s regional and global expansion policy, Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML) was established in Lebanon in 1929. The bank, which is located in the heart of Beirut’s commercial center, offers a variety of banking network in Egypt, with more than 580 branches and 1,715 ATM distinctive corporate and retail banking services. machines, in addition to its international presence through five branches in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), one in Paris, a subsidiary in Germany, BML’s network grew rapidly due to its strategic locations in different Lebanese and 18 branches of our subsidiary in Lebanon. In 2017, BM plans to launch cities, featuring an extensive ATM network and online banking services. Its representative offices in Russia and China. customer base continues to expand and diversify to encompass a wide range of the retail banking and SMEs fields. As part of the bank’s development strategy, aiming to continue providing the latest financial services to its diverse client base, Banque Misr’s senior Over the past five years, BML’s total assets grew by 70.13%, while deposits management team has exerted all possible efforts to develop and enhance the increased by 78.31%, and the loans and advances to customers surged by 74.95%. performance of the bank’s international branches. This success came as a result of several internal reform measures that included 30 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 31 restructuring the senior executive management in 2007 and implementing a international banking organizations, including the Germany-based Association comprehensive and integrated plan to expand and develop the bank’s services of Foreign Banks, the Arab-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the and operations to match the latest offered in the global banking industry. These Private Banking Industry’s Employers Association, and the German Near and major developments were also made possible by increasing BML’s paid-in Middle East Association (NUMOV), along with the Union of Arab Banks in capital, which recorded 120 billion Lebanese liras. Beirut and the German-Arab Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Cairo. BML has also been committed to enhancing its loans portfolio, as well as The bank also achieved significant progress since 2007, including a new supporting its provisions and reserves. The bank’s network has reached 18 organizational restructuring and an update of the bank’s computer and risk branches in 2015. In addition, the bank remains committed to applying the management systems. Misr Bank-Europe GmbH applies a risk bearing capacity latest technologies to increase productivity and improve the quality of its concept and a profit-oriented management. services. A comprehensive and forward-looking management of risk is also an Furthermore, the bank is dedicated to developing a comprehensive set of important factor in Misr Bank Europe GmbH’s success. The bank’s limited banking products and services to meet the needs of the banking market in allocation of risk capital in the framework of the yearly update to the risk the fields of retail and corporate banking, treasury, investments and private strategy played an important role in ensuring the presence of a strong risk banking, alongside other financial services. In this regard, BML established management system. Misr Liban Insurance Brokers S.A.L. in December 2010. Misr Bank Europe GmbH further offers insurance-covered financing of The bank’s significant increase in deposits in 2013 enabled it to move from export receivables to Egyptian exporters, as well as correspondent banking the Gamma group to the Beta group (i.e. moving from small banks to mediumservices to banks in Egypt and the Middle East, along with financing and sized banks). World Finance awarded Banque Misr Liban the prize for the handling a range of exports from Egypt. best commercial bank in 2012, in recognition of its outstanding performance. The bank’s continuous marketing activities have positively contributed to The bank also won The Best Visual award in the same year for its distinctive the increase in the letter of credit activities between Egypt and Germany, in and unique website. addition to the adoption of several initiatives targeting Germany-based SMEs, The growth of BML’s business comes in light of the application of the highest which work in coordination with companies operating in Egypt. standards of corporate governance, careful adherence to all regulatory The bank’s ongoing efforts have strongly contributed to high growth rates in requirements and standards, strict risk management guidelines, and a strong the secondary market and the establishment of a financial asset portfolio. In financial position. turn, this generates revenue that guarantees the continuation of a steady flow Under the leadership of its board of directors, and building on the strength of income and an increase in business volume, reflecting positively on the of its qualified senior management team, as well as the support of the parent bank’s overall financial performance. bank, BML looks forward to a promising period of steady growth and continued development for all its activities and services, to uphold its objective of serving BM’S Presence in France its customers in the best possible ways. BM’S Presence in Germany B anque Misr’s Paris branch was inaugurated in 1922 in Rue Danielle Casanova, formerly known as Rue Des Petits Champs, and it was reinaugurated in 1984 in Rue Auber in Paris. The branch includes Egyptian B anque Misr’s top management decided to replicate its successful experience in international markets by opening a subsidiary in Germany that was established in 1992 in Frankfurt under the name of Misr Bank Europe and French financial experts, selected according to the finest standards, to represent Banque Misr and fulfill its goal of developing its international trading and investments between Egypt and France. GmbH. The parent bank Banque Misr currently owns 69.75% of the bank. The branch provides importing/exporting clients with the highest quality Misr Bank Europe GmbH is considered the first Egyptian bank in Germany of services and solutions, relying on its extensive experience, reactivity, and and has a paid-in capital of €30 million. It also has a full banking license and personalized services. is a member of the Association of German Banks. All customers’ deposits are covered by the association’s deposit insurance. The Paris branch recorded an increase in net profit of 90% in the period from July 1st, 2015 to June 30th, 2016, against the comparable period ending on The bank earned prominent memberships in a number of local, Arab, and June 30th, 2015. 32 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 33 One of the books written by Talaat Harb Pasha reflecting his interests in economic, literary, One of the books written by Talaat Harb Pasha reflecting his interests in economic, literary, historical, and political issues. historical, and political issues. 34 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 35 One of the books written by Talaat Harb Pasha reflecting his interests in economic, literary, historical, and political issues. 36 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 37 38 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 39 Mohamed El-Etreby Ahmed Abu El Ezz Chairman Vice Chairman Mr. Ahmed Abu El Ezz has over 30 years of Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby is a prominent banker with more than 35 years of experience in the diverse experience in Banque Misr, during which banking field. Prior to joining Banque Misr, he was he held several senior positions, including the the CEO and Managing Director of Egyptian Gulf prestigious position of the General Manager Bank from January 2013 to December 2014. of Banque Misr’s main branch. He has held his current position as Executive Vice Chairman since Mr. Mohamed El-Etreby began his banking career January 2014. in 1977 with the Arab African International Bank (AAIB), followed by Crédit International D’Egypte Mr. Abu El Ezz has represented Banque Misr as bank. In 1983, he joined Misr International Bank a Board Member in three boards: Banque Misr (MIBank, currently Qatar National Bank), where Exterior, the Egyptian Global Fund for Investment, he spent more than 22 years, and during which he and Belton. He also acted on behalf of the bank held several senior banking positions and acquired in a number of important banking conferences a wide range of experience in different key areas of and financial gatherings in Kuwait, Bahrain, the banking business. UAE, and Egypt. He is also a board member at In September 2005, he joined the Egyptian Arab Banque Misr Liban, Misr Capital Investments, Land Bank as Vice Chairman and Board Member. In and the Banque Misr Foundation for Community 2009, he was appointed as the Managing Director Development. He further participated in a number of the Arab Investment Bank. In 2011, Mr. Elof banking programs, such as the Arab Trade Financing Program in Abu Dhabi, Etreby returned to the Egyptian Arab Land Bank as Chairman. In recognition of his and represented the bank in various high-profile conferences, notably the Basel great achievements, Mr. El-Etreby was appointed as the Chairman of Banque Misr II Forum in Dubai, the Euromoney Conference in Cairo, and the International in January 2015. He also serves as the Chairman of Banque Misr Liban (BML), in Banking Conference in Sharm El-Sheikh. addition to being a board member in Cairo Amman Bank and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development. Mr. Abu El Ezz has completed a number of intensive training programs, including the Senior Executive Program for the Middle East offered by Harvard Business He graduated with a bachelor’s degree in Commerce from Ain Shams University in 1976. School. Mr. Abu El Ezz is a certified Board Member at the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority (EFSA) and the National Association of Corporate Directors Other Current Positions: (NACD) USA. He also holds the Future Leaders Certificate from the Egyptian Board Member, Federation of Egyptian Banks (FEB) Banking Institute (EBI). Board Member, Egyptian General Company for Tourism & Hotels (EGOTH) Other Current Positions: Board Member, Misr Insurance Holding Company Board Member, General Authority for Investment and Free Zones (GAFI) Board Member, Kafr El Zayat Pesticides and Chemicals Co. (S.A.E) Board Member, Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI), Central Bank of Egypt Board Member, Misr Alexandria Fund For Financial Investments Board Member, Ain Shams University (ASU) Committees: Board Member, Faculty of Economics and Political Science, Cairo University (I, E, ALCO, CRC, a2, b2, b7, FLEXCUBE, b5, a5) Board Member, National Council for Childhood & Motherhood Board Member, Tahya Masr Holding Company for Investment and Development Committees: (E, ALCO, CRC) 40 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 41 Akef El Maghraby Mr. El-Nahas had been given additional responsibilities as Director in the United Arab Emirates. In this position, he had overseen the operation of the Fujairah Hilton, Dubai Vice Chairman Hilton, Abu Dhabi Hilton, Al Ain Hilton, Kuwait Hilton, and Bahrain Hilton. Mr. Akef El Maghraby joined Banque Misr in August In July 1979, he returned to Egypt as General Manager of Nile Hilton Hotel. He 2016 as its Vice Chairman. Prior to that, he spent 16 then prepared for the opening of Ramses Hilton Hotel, which he headed as General years with Citibank. Manager. In July 1980, he was given additional responsibilities, whereby he became Mr. El Maghraby has held a variety of different Director for all Hilton International Hotels in Egypt, namely, Nile Hilton, Isis and positions throughout his banking career, including Osiris Floating Hotels, Fayrouz Village in Sharm EI-Sheikh, Luxor Hilton Hotel, as Credit Analysis, Corporate Finance, Ratings Advisory, well as Ramses Hilton Hotel. and Corporate and Investment Banking. He has In March 1990, he was promoted to Vice President, Egypt, Gulf, and Sudan. In worked in and covered several jurisdictions, including 1994 he was promoted to Senior Vice President Middle East and Africa, and in Egypt, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and October 1997 he became the Area President overlooking 32 Hilton Hotels, 21 of the Netherlands, where he led and executed many which he himself signed the management agreement for. In 1998, he was once again landmark M&A, Debt and Equity Capital Markets, promoted to become President, Middle East and Africa, and Board Member of Hilton Loan Markets, and Derivatives transactions. He is International. After 36 years of service with Hilton, Mr. El-Nahas decided to retire, also a Board Member at Misr Bank Europe GmbH, and so as not to break the ties with Hilton, he has agreed to become a Consultant Frankfurt. for five years, helping in different aspects of the business, and in particular with Mr. El Maghraby holds a bachelor’s degree in development opportunities in the Middle East and Africa. Accounting and an MBA, both from the American In 1999, he was given the title of President of the Egyptian Hotel Association and University in Cairo. in 2002 he was elected as Vice President of the Egyptian Tourism Federation (ETF). Then in 2005, he was elected as the Chairman of the Egyptian Tourism Federation (ETF). Mr. El-Nahas was also elected again as Chairman of the ETF for its 14th term in 2008 – 2011. Other Current Positions: Other Current Positions: Board Member, Misr Capital Investments Chairman, Arab International Company for Hotels and Tourism Board Member, BM Leasing Committees: (G, B) Committees: (E, C, V, ALCO, CRC) Mohamed Sherif Sharaf Ahmed ElNahas Board Member Mr. Sharaf enjoys a banking career of over 40 Board Member years, through which he has occupied several top Mr. Ahmed El-Nahas attended Victoria College executive positions, including: Chief Executive in Cairo and furthered his studies in Lausanne, Officer and Managing Director of ABC Bank-Egypt graduating from Ecole Hôtelière De La SSH in from 2008 to 2010, Board Member and Chairman 1961. Prior to returning to his native Egypt, he of the Audit Committee at Suez Canal Bank from was trained in several Swiss hotels, rounding out 2006 to 2008, Senior Financial Advisor at Egypt the theory learned at school until 1963. Back in Kuwait Holding Company from 2006 to 2008, and Cairo, he joined the Nile Hilton as Captain and was the Executive Chairman of Export Development promoted to positions of increased responsibility Bank from 2003 to 2006. in the Food and Beverage Department until 1966, when he became Banquet Manager of the hotel. A Mr. Sharaf graduated with a bachelor’s degree year later, he was sent to the Cavalieri Hilton Hotel from the Faculty of Commerce at Cairo University in Rome to undergo a training program, which in 1968. He completed several post-graduate prepared him for his next assignment as Food and studies in Economics and Computer Science at Beverage Manager of the new Kuwait Hilton Hotel. Stockholm University in 1971. He also studied Business Administration at the American University By 1969, his long experience, familiarity with in Cairo in 1979. Hilton International methods, and his fluency in Arabic, English, French, and Italian, enabled him to Other Current Positions: become the first Manager of the newly opened Al Ain Managing Director, Misr Capital Investments Hilton in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi. The great success Committees: of this hotel led to the construction of the Abu Dhabi Hilton. In June 1972, Mr. El-Nahas was named General Manager of both operations. (R, G, B, A, I) 42 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 43 Mohamed El-Hamamsy Dr. Ali El-Saiedi Board Member Board Member In a career spanning over 35 years, Mr. ElDr. El-Saiedi has over 50 years of experience Hamamsy gained a breadth of experience in in the energy, electricity, and industry fields. corporate and project management, strategic He is the Vice President of the Board of Trustees planning, marketing, finance, human of the Banque Misr Foundation for Community resources, training, and information systems. Development. He is a board member in the Banque Misr Dr. El Saiedi previously served as the Egyptian Foundation for Community Development. Minister of Industry and Technological During the course of his impressive career, Development (20012004) and the Minister Mr. El-Hamamsy held various managerial of Electricity and Energy (1999 – 2001). Later, positions at IBM Egypt from 1977 to 1997, he became a member of the Standing Advisory when he became the company’s Managing Group on Nuclear Energy (SAGNE) and the Director. He later moved to MegaCom International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) SAE, where he held the position of Senior (2005-2012). Additionally, he was a board Consulting Partner for two years before he member at Banque Du Caire (2005-2008). moved to become the CEO of Vodafone Egypt. He joined the Banque Misr Board of Directors Mr. El-Hamamsy received a bachelor’s in 2005. From 2008 to 2011, he was a board degree in Telecommunication Engineering member at the Higher Council of Science from Cairo University, and two master’s degrees in Management and Arabic and Technology, as well as the Egyptian Water and Wastewater Regulatory Studies from the American University in Cairo. Agency. Other Current Positions: Dr. El Saiedi held several prominent positions prior to his ministerial Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Company career. He was the Director of Technical Cooperation at the IAEA in Vienna from 1993 to 1999. During the same time, he was also the Chairman of the Member, Board of Trustees, Vodafone Egypt Foundation Board for the Power Generation Engineering and Services Company Egypt Member, Board of Trustees, Magdi Yacoub Heart Foundation (PGESCo). Board Member, Misr Capital Investments Dr. El Saiedi’s career in the field of energy began in 1957, when he was Board Member, Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation appointed at the Egyptian Atomic Energy Authority. In 1968, he became Committees: an Assistant Professor at the Nuclear Engineering Department of Kansas State University, USA, where he taught until 1970. In addition, he assumed (A, V, R, G, I, B) several leading positions within the energy sector, from 1982-1993, including: Secretary of the Supreme Council for Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy, Board Member of the Atomic Energy Authority, Board Member of Nuclear Materials Authority, Board Member of the Electrical Power Systems Engineering Company, and Head of the Nuclear Energy Branch of the Electricity and Energy Council at the Egyptian Academy of Scientific Research and Technology. In addition, he was the Executive Chairman of the Nuclear Power Plants Authority (1985-1993). Among some of the responsibilities he held within Egypt, he chaired the National Committee for Localisation of Components of Electric Power Stations and Equipment for Transmission and Distribution of Electricity 44 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 45 (1988-1993). Within that capacity, he oversaw the establishment of PGESCo, Maha Heba EnayetAlla the first company of its kind in Egypt and the Middle East, specialized in the Board Member design and execution of major electric power projects. Mrs. Maha EnayetAlla has 34 years of diversified Dr. El Saiedi was also part of the Egyptian team in charge of making Middle experience in the banking sector. She was East a Nuclear Weapons Free Zone. He was also a member at numerous appointed as Board Member in January 2014 international expert groups, including the IAEA, which set systems and and was re-elected in September 2014. After guides to help developing countries to use nuclear energy safely, including graduating from the American University in for electricity generation, financing nuclear power projects, and overseas Cairo in 1982, she joined Chase National Bank transportation of nuclear wastes. (Currently CIB), where she spent almost 26 years. Dr. El Saiedi earned a bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from She worked in several departments, mainly the Faculty of Engineering at Cairo University in 1957. He also obtained Corporate Banking, Branch Management, a master’s degree in Reactor Physics Technology from the University of and SME Banking. She joined Banque Misr in Birmingham in 1961, followed by a PhD in Nuclear Engineering from September 2010, and is currently an Executive University of Illinois in 1968. He became a Fellow of the National Defense Board Member, overlooking the following College at Nasser Higher Military Academy (NHMA) in 1979. departments: Strategy and Change Management Other Current Positions: Business Development Board Member, Arab Organization for Industrialization Compliance & Corporate Governance Board Member, Capital investment Co Performance Quality Assurance Project Management & Business Continuity Executive Advisor to the Board, Power Generation Engineering and Services Mrs. Maha is also a Board Member at Banque Misr Liban BML. Co. (PGESCo) Her professional experience was complemented by intensive training programs Chairman of the Board, Islamic Charity Foundation and study tours with renowned international institutions. Board Member, Egyptian Council for Foreign Affairs Other Current Positions: Committees: Board Member, Misr Capital Investments (A, G, R, I) Board Member, Holding Company for Tourism and Hotels Committees: (E, I, V, CRC, ALCO, b7, FLEXCUBE, b5) 46 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 47 48 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 49 Ahmed Ibrahim Head of Remedial, and Private Investment Sector AbdElRaouf Hussein Mr. Ahmed Ibrahim was appointed General Head of Central Operations Manager of the Remedial and Private Investment Mr. AbdElRaouf Hussein was appointed as Sector. Prior to joining Banque Misr, Mr. Ibrahim was Head of the Recovery Division Risk Group at General Manager of Retail Banking Operations in NSGB Egypt. June 2009. He was recently appointed as General Manager of Central Operations. He has extensive experience, spanning more than 31 years in the banking industry, covering Mr. Hussein has extensive experience spanning different areas, including Retail Banking, Branches over 32 years in the banking and payments and Marketing, Corporate Credit, Credit Risk businesses, operations, and technology. Prior to Assessment, and Remedial Loans. joining Banque Misr, he held key positions in a He obtained his bachelor’s degree from the number of leading regional and international banks Faculty of Commerce at Cairo University in 1984. and institutions, such as the National Commercial Other Current Positions: Bank (NCB), Citibank Egypt, and MasterCard International. Board Member, International Co. for Leasing (Incolease) Other Current Positions: Committees: Board Member, Egyptian Life Takaful – GIG (E, a9, c6) Committees: Amer Mohamed AlAbbady Chief Audit Executive (FLEXCUBE, a1, c4, b7) Mr. AlAbbady joined Banque Misr in 2009 as Chief Audit Executive (CAE) . Adel Mohamed Fawzy His prior banking experience included 20 years overseas (1989-2009) with Banque Saudi Fransi Head of Regions and Branches Sector (BSF) headquartered in Riyadh heading the bank’s Mr. Adel Mohamed Fawzy has extensive Remedial Loans Department, and subsequently experience in the banking industry in Egypt heading its Credit Risk Control Department. and the Gulf, spanning more than 37 years in In 1988 he headed the Credit Department in the total. He currently serves as Head of the Regions Alexandria branch of Societe Arabe Internationale and Branches Sector and CEO of Banque Misr de Banque (SAIB). Employees’ Insurance and Pension Fund. Mr. AlAbbady commenced his banking career in Other Current Positions: 1979 with Bank Of America NT&SA in Alexandria until early 1988, when he left the bank at the Board Member, Egyptian Takaful Insurance position of Senior Lending Officer . Company During the period from 1998 to 2001, he gained Committees: significent academic experience through being exposed to diverse training programs in Business (ALCO, FATCA, E, b1, b6, a4, c4, c5, b5, b8) Administration at the Management Centre Europe (MCE) in Brussels. Committees: (ICAAP) 50 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 51 Effat Ishak Fatma El-Goully Head of Treasury and Correspondent Banking Sector Chief Corporate Communication Officer Dr. Fatma El-Goully was appointed Chief Corporate Mr. Effat Ishak was appointed Head of Treasury Communication Officer at Banque Misr in 2006. and Correspondent Banking Sector in 2004. Dr. El-Goully has over 20 years of experience in marketing, public relations, corporate communication, and management. Mr. Ishak has been working for Banque Misr for Prior to joining Banque Misr, Dr. El-Goully held several more than 35 years. managerial positions in different industries, such as pharmaceutical, banking, and communications. She He is also Board Member of Misr Bank Europe was the former Director of Marketing and Corporate GmbH and Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML). Communication for National Societe Generale and Misr International Bank (MIBank), and Head of Marketing Communication at Novaritis Swiss Company. Other Current Positions: She has experience in leading firms such as Bristol, Board Member, the Export Development Bank of Myers Squibb, and Raya. Egypt She has been exposed to diverse training and personal Board Member, the National Navigation Company development programs, in addition to earning an MBA in Business and Marketing Management in 2005, a Master Committees: of Philosophy in Corporate Communication in 2009, (a1, a8, E, CRC, ALCO, b5) and a Doctorate of Business Administration in Business Management from Maastricht School of Management, Netherlands in 2013. Other Current Positions: Farid Zaalouk Board Member, the Egyptian Media Production City (EMPC) ‎Chief Information Officer Board Member, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development Mr. Farid Zaalouk was appointed Chief Information Officer in January 2016. Committees: Prior to this appointment, Mr. Zaalouk was IT and (b5, a3, c4) Communications Consultant, responsible for the bank’s technology modernization program. Mohamed Hamed Chief Risk Officer He successfully led Banque Misr’s unified information system transfer scheme in 2003, Mr. Mohamed Hamed was appointed as Chief Risk Officer in January 2015. introduced IP Telephone technology to the bank’s nationwide branches and units, applied the core Prior to this, Mr. Hamed held positions as the General banking technology application, FLEXCUBE, all Manager of Group Head of Islamic Bank, Head of Central Corporate Department, and Head of Central Corporate over the bank branches, and oversaw the upgrading Department during the period from 2007 and 2015. of the bank’s two computer centers. Before joining Banque Misr, he spent 21 years, from In 2010, Mr. Zaalouk was certified as a 1986 until 2007, in Misr International Bank (MIBank) Professional Board Member by the Egyptian Institute NSGB in a variety of roles, including Senior Manager of of Directors (EIoD). He received the Best Innovated the Central Remedial and Asset Management Department, Project Award in 2000 for building Banque Misr’s Senior Manager of the Corporate Credit Department, Manager of the Multinational Credit and Investment digital infrastructure, the best participant in the Department, in addition to various Banking Operational management fundamentals training course from the Departments (e.g. Letter of Guarantee, Letter of Credit, Central Bank of Egypt in 1999, and the Innovation Cambio, etc). Moreover, he was a Board Member in El Awards for the years 1989 and 1993 for contributing Nasr Casting Company and Air Cairo Company. to the development of the bank’s business plans. Mr. Hamed is also Board Member of Misr Bank– Europe GmbH. He has an MBA in financial Management from Mr. Zaalouk has a bachelor’s degree in Engineering from Ain Shams University, City University, Seattle, Washington, USA. class of 1981. He has also received a Certificate in Consulting Engineering in the field of Information Systems in 2003. Other Current Positions: Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Other Current Positions: Board Member, Suez Company for Fertilizer Production Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Committees: Committees: (E, A, C, R, V, G, I, ALCO, ICAAP, FATCA, FLEXCUBE, a8, b2, b5, c1, c6) (I, ALCO, a1) 52 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 53 Mohamed Yehia as BM was classified the best Bookrunner & Mandated Lead Arranger for Syndicated Loans and Project Finance Transactions across Africa as of June 2016. Head of Human Resources and Training During that period, some international institutions announced three of the bank’s Mr. Mohamed Yehia was appointed Head of transactions as Deal of the Year for 2010, 2012, and 2015. Human Resources and Training, with a wide experience in talent acquisition, succession, BM has also been granted two awards by EMEA Finance Magazine, as the Best performance management, employee relations, Syndicated Loan House and Best Project Finance House in Africa for the year 2015. employee learning and development, as well as Mr. Younis is currently Board Member of Banque Misr Liban S.A.L. (BML) and compensation and benefits. Mr. Yehia is responsible Head of Risk Committee. for the successful restructuring of Banque Misr’s Human Resources Department goals and Other Current Positions: objectives to align with the bank’s business goals Board Member, El Ezz Flat Steel Company and objectives. Committees: His extensive experience in managing Human Resources extends over more than 38 years, (E, C, ALCO, c6) including 20 years in leadership roles. His distinction in leading Human Resources enabled Mona Mohamed Khafagi him to become a strategic business partner. Head of Strategy and Change Management Committees: Mrs. Mona Mohamed Khafagi was appointed (CRC, a2, b3, b4, b5, c5) as Head of Strategy and Change Management in April 2012. Prior to this appointment, she held the position of General Manager and Head of Branch Mohamed Younis Network from November 2008 to March 2012. Previously, Khafagi was General Manager of the Head of Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans Credit Control and Administration Department, as Mr. Mohamed Younis enjoys over 23 years of well as Risk Management, from 2007 until October extensive in-depth experience in the banking 2008. She also served as Deputy General Manager, sector, He was one of the main founders of Misr in charge of the East Cairo Branches Region, from International Bank (MIBank) credit restructure April 2005 until August 2007. before its merger with National Societe General Bank. She was also Manager of Banque Mir’s Tawfikia He has wide-ranging experience and a proven Branch from 2004 until 2005 and Sherif Branch track record in corporate banking, with successful from 2001 until 2004, and Assistant Manager of the execution and management of landmark Gezira Branch from 1999 until 2001. Mrs. Khafagi transactions (including project finance and first joined Banque Misr in 1993 as Officer of the structured finance transactions) in most of the Gezira Branch. Egyptian market sectors, including Oil and Gas, Fertilizers, Building Materials, Petrochemicals, Mrs. Khafagi obtained a bachelor’s degree in Accounting from the Faculty of Aviation, and Telecommunications. Commerce at Helwan University in 1974. Younis has headed the Corporate Banking and Other Current Positions: Syndicated Loans since 2010. Member, Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development Throughout this period, he has built a strong portfolio in almost every industry which had a great Board Member, Talaat Harb Club impact on the bank’s performance, as he is in charge of managing Banque Misr’s large corporate performance portfolio, which has almost tripled since December Board Member, National Company for Maize Products 2010. Committees: This distinguished performance has been recognized by Bloomberg League Tables (ALCO, a2, I , G, a5, b7, c3) 54 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 55 Sherif Samy Aguib Suzan F. Hamdy Chief Financial Officer Head of Capital Markets Group Mr. Sherif Samy Aguib was appointed as Chief Dr. Suzan Hamdy is currently Head of the Capital Financial Officer in 2009. Prior to joining Banque Markets Group. Misr in 2009, Mr. Aguib held senior positions in Dr. Hamdy has a career spanning more than 30 the fields of Finance, Administration, Inspection, years in the banking industry. She commenced her Information Technology, Human Resources, and career at the Credit and Syndications department Central Operations. He has more than 39 years of at the Arab African International Bank, where she extensive experience in the banking industry. worked in a variety of banking divisions, including In 1977, he commenced his career at the Egyptian Project Finance, Remedial Management, Investment American Bank (now Credit Agricole Egypt), where Banking, Retail Banking, Marketing, and Business he worked for 18 years in a variety of roles, including Development. his role as Deputy General Manager. Mr. Aguib She was formerly the Chairman of the Nile Fund spent more than eight years in Qatar as Assistant Company for Development and Investment in the General Manager at Qatar National Bank (QNB). Nile Basin countries. She was also Board Member Later, Mr. Aguib served as General Manager and at the Export Development Bank. Head of the Financial Sector at Misr International In 2015, Dr. Hamdy was chosen among the top Bank (MIBank) (now Qatar National Bank QNB) 10 Bankers in Egypt, and as one of the 50 most for more than two years. He spent three years as influential women in the Egyptian economy in 2016. She was also selected as a an Advisor to the Minister of Finance in the Treasury Single Account. He has been member of the International Who’s Who of Professionals for the year 2009. exposed to diverse training programs in Europe, the USA, the Gulf, and Egypt. Moreover, Dr. Hamdy is a member of different business associations, as she Mr. Aguib has a bachelor’s degree in Commercial and Administrative Sciences. represented Egyptian banks in VISA International Risk Advisors for the CEMEA region. She holds bachelor’s and master’s degrees in Economics from the American Other Current Positions: University in Cairo. Graduating at the age of 17, Hamdy obtained her PhD degree Board Member, Egyptian Financial & Industrial Co in Monetary Policy from the University of Hungarian Sciences at the age of 22, to Board Member, Suez Company for Fertilizer Production become the youngest university graduate and PhD holder in Egypt and the Middle East. Board Member, El Mostakbal for Urban Development Other Current Positions: Committees: Board Member, International Company for Touristic Development (E, I, ALCO, V, b2, FLEXCUBE, b5, a5, a8, b4, ICAAP) Board Member, Misr Capital Committees: (E, ALCO, a5, a8, b2, V) 56 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 57 Tarek Ali Yehia El Agami ‎Head of Administrative and Engineering Affairs Sector Head of Retail Banking Mr. Yehia El Agami was appointed as General Mr. Tarek Ali was appointed as Head of Administrative Manager and Head of Retail Banking 10 years ago. and Engineering Affairs Sector. He joined Banque In 2011, Mr. El Agami was chosen as an honorary Misr in 2009. member of the International Retail Banking He has about 33 years of proven experience in Academy. He was also the first Certified Retail various fields. Before joining Banque Misr, Mr. Ali was Banker in North Africa and the Middle East in 2011. Head of Supply Chains at Americana Group. He was Mr. El Agami has extensive experience spanning formerly Head of the Operations Sector at QuickTel more than 35 years in the banking industry. He Communications. recently held the role of General Manager of Retail Prior to that, he was Head of the Purchases and Banking. Materials Department at Magrabi Hospitals. Mr. Ali Prior to joining Banque Misr, he served as President has spent 15 years in senior roles at Xerox Egypt, of the Small Enterprise Development Organization including his final role as Head of the Material and (SEDO) under the umbrella of the Social Fund Export Department. for Development (SFD). During his presidency He has a bachelor’s degree in Power from the Faculty at SEDO, Mr. El Agami was delegated to become of Engineering at Ain Shams University. Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the B.E.S.T Foundation, a joint program between SFD and the United Nations Development Program, He also served as Vice Chairman of the Egyptian Franchise Association, and Board Member Other Current Positions: of both the Egyptian Association of Incubators and the Egyptian Credit Bureau. He also held several senior managerial positions in a number of leading banks, Board Member, Misr Investment Company including Head of Retail Banking at the Egyptian American Bank, and Head of Investment Marketing and Retail Banking at Al Watani Bank of Egypt. Prior to this, Committees: Mr. El Agami was Manager of the Deposits and Investment Products Department in (a4, b1) the Saudi Cairo Bank in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Mr. El Agami holds a bachelor’s degree in Statistics, from the Faculty of Economics and Political Science at Cairo University. Other Current Positions: Board Member, Alexandria Mineral Oils Co (AMOC) Committees: (ALCO, FLEXCUBE, a3) 58 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 59 BM BOARD The Board of Directors is the principal decision making authority at the bank, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the bank manages risks effectively. The board is accountable to stakeholders for financial and operational performance. Audit Committee (A) Executive Committee (E) Responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process, including Controls all funding operations, contributions made in the corporate the risks and controls in that process. The committee should capital, and the bank’s credit facilities. supplement figures received from the executive management with further information and assurance from both the internal and external auditors. Corporate Governance Committee (G) Committee of Informatics (I) Ensures strict adherence to the principles of corporate governance, Monitors the offered services, ensuring their needs oversees the strict compliance to all relevant laws and regulations are being catered to, up to the highest standards, to imposed by the Central Bank of Egypt and all other regulatory bodies. maximize the bank’s return on investments in the field of informatics. Supreme Investment Committee (V) Senior Credit Committee (C) Evaluates and allocates the investment budget on the bank’s macro Considers the present credit cases, according to the credit level. endorsement policy. Compensations and Benefits Committee (B) Higher Risk Committee (R) Risk taking is an integral part of banking business. The BM strategy should Oversees all relevant staff compensation and benefit policies, incorporate policies and actions regarding the risks it is willing to take as well as training and career development requirements, and and the means by which it will manage and mitigate those risks. The ensures the availability of effective staff recruitment and retention Higher Risk Committee ensures all relevant business risks are identified, schemes within approved budgets. that their impact has been properly assessed, and that there are enough policies and regulations in place to manage all risks effectively. 60 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 61 1-Audit Committee: 2-Executive Committee: The committee handles a number of responsibilities that include: The Executive Committee reviews the overall bank strategy, prior to submission to the Board of Directors for approval. AFinancial statements The committee reviews and approves: Studying annual financial statements before presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval A-Newly delivered retail asset and liability products and/or financial schemes Ensuring that the bank’s Executive Committee periodically reviews the value B-Credit facilities within the authority granted to the committee and in of collateral put up against loans and credit facilities accordance with the bank’s credit policy Studying the Central Bank of Egypt’s observations on the bank and its financial C-The investment strategies and decisions in accordance with the committee’s statements following inspections and reporting them to the Board of Directors set authorities with recommendations D-Settlements and/or the rescheduling of remedial loans in accordance with the bank’s set policies BInternal audit system E-Allocated provisions and reserves in accordance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) regulations and internal policies Reviewing the reports compiled by the Inspection Department, including reports on the sufficiency of the internal audit system at the bank The committee ensures the adherence to and enforcement of all CBE regulations and legislations. It follows up on the financial results and performance Coordinating between the tasks of internal and external auditing and ensuring indicators of the bank on a monthly basis and addresses areas of concern. that there are no obstacles preventing communication between the head of the Inspection Department and auditors The committee approves capital expenditures related to the purchase of new branches, IT systems, and procurement, after being studied and approved by Reviewing the procedures adopted by the bank’s management to ensure the relevant committees. compliance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s auditing standards and regulations The committee approves modifications of HR policies, incentive schemes, and appraisal systems. CCompliance, money laundering and risk management It evaluates the bank’s performance, competitiveness and brand positioning with regards to the local market and in all countries where Banque Misr has Reviewing reports compiled by the head of compliance at the bank branches and/or subsidiaries. The committee has administrative and financial authorities in accordance with DAuditors the bank’s regulations, approved by the Board of Directors. It also has lending authorities in accordance with the approved credit policy. Providing recommendations to hire auditors, setting their tasks, and reviewing issues related to their resignation or dismissal, in accordance with The Board of Directors may delegate additional authorities to the Executive legal provisions and the Central Auditing Organization law Committee when deemed necessary, to facilitate the bank’s operations. Providing counsel on permission to assign auditors to provide services to the bank, rather than reviewing financial statements 3-Corporate Governance Committee: The committee handles a number of responsibilities that include: EInspection Department Reviewing and adopting the annual inspection plan ADefining clear boundaries of responsibility and accountability in the bank and ensuring the clarity of the rules relating to the existence of: A policy to deal with related parties 62 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 63 Effective internal control and risk management systems, and compliance 5Supreme Investment Committee: with laws and regulations Assisting the Board of Directors in overseeing the investment activities from a A workable policy to replace the different functions strategic perspective. A clear social responsibility policy toward both the employees and the The committee focuses on the following areas: customers AMacro-economic and market conditions as they pertain to the bank BThe bank’s investment strategy, taking into account the implications of BEnsuring the availability of applicable policies, systems and the means to accounting standards, taxation laws, regulatory requirements, and bank verify the following: policies The senior management and board of directors’ commitment to the principles COverseeing investment exposures across multi-asset classes of governance DReviewing investment risk levels for each asset class and overall The application of good practices in the bank, in accordance with the Basel II accord ESetting criteria for regular investment reporting Staff commitment to the implementation of the industry code of conduct FEnsuring that investment guidelines are adhered to and that procedures are in place to ensure that portfolios are managed in compliance with investment The bank’s assessment of the efficiency of governance to its potential policies for each asset class customers as part of the process to approve the granting of credit to such customers GMonitoring performance in line with the bank’s strategy and objectives The relevant departments indicating the bank’s adherence to the application of corporate governance rules, founded by or added to the bank 6-Senior Credit Committee: The application of corporate governance rules in emergency situations and crisis management Reviews and approves credit cases in accordance with the bank’s credit policy. The Senior Credit Committee approves new credit cases extended to corporate borrowers, and joins in syndicated loans. 4-Committee of Informatics: In addition, the committee conducts periodical reviews, in addition to Providing domain expertise, leadership, and guidance to the bank to help it restructuring and boosting existing credit facilities. achieve its objectives through the following actions: The committee takes decisions with regards to upgrading or downgrading AConstant reviewing of the bank’s strategies and activities. The committee borrowers based on their obligor risk rating, and channels critical cases to the also monitors the offered services, ensuring their needs are being catered to, remedial banking group. up to the highest standards, to maximize the return on the bank’s investments in the field of informatics The committee ensures that the bank is safe-guarded, risks are properly mitigated, and collaterals are legally binding, valid, and enforceable. Pricing BFollowing up on the development of the bank’s services, the flow of its and fees applied are also given major attention by the committee to ensure a operations, and the archiving of data, by bridging between the bank’s reporting risk-based return. requirements and data architecture to ensure that all data models are aligned with the bank’s main strategy CManaging the development and distribution of data and reports provided 7-Higher Risk Committee: to the bank’s internal and external customers, along with eliminating risky Monitoring the Board of Directors and the executive management to make sure operations and protecting data from potential threats they are complementarily responsible for the management of risk in the bank. The committee also follows up on the functions of risk management through: ACompiling reports and following up on the compliance to capital strategies, 64 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 65 liquidity management, credit and market risks, operational risk, and any other motivate employees to achieve the bank’s goals and maintain growth risks the bank may become exposed to BMonitoring and evaluating the overall structure of the employees’ income BControlling and supervising the development and evaluation of the general and benefits through: risk management framework in the bank in terms of: credit, investment, Studying and proposing fundamental aspects or changes related to the market, and liquidity risk, as well as operational risk, with all required policies, philosophy and strategy of the bank’s income and benefits procedures, systems, and tools used by the executive management in the risk control and identification of acceptable risk (risk appetite) for each of the Making sure the incentive policies granted to managers do not lead to the major risks in light of the surrounding environment, as well as current and acceptance of excessive risk prospective economic and financial conditions Periodically reviewing the public policy programs of income and benefits CEnsuring the application of and following up on the related concepts and and presenting them to the Board of Directors for approval policies in line with the regulatory instructions and governance principles Reviewing the long-term policy programs, such as the benefits related to the DAuditing reports that contain the key risks faced by the bank, which covers end of service or health care after retirement, ahead of submitting them to the all credit, investment, market, liquidity, and operational risk and boundaries Board of Directors for approval used for follow-up allocations (risk exposures), in addition to the standards of the risk management system in terms of acceptable risk percentages and rates EReviewing the procedures and policies followed for setting the maximum limits on risk and risk concentrations (risk/concentration limits) as well as ensuring that reports illustrate the trends in terms of investments and concentrations, versus unauthorized limits FReviewing the size of the bank’s liquidity and making recommendations to the board on the comprehensive framework for liquidity risk, including the results of the different assumptions of stress tests (liquidity stress) GEmphasizing the independence of the General Manager of Risk Management through his/her jurisdiction in directly reporting to the Board of Directors or the Higher Risk Committee without any obstacles. Additionally, he/she may not perform any financial or administrative responsibilities that contradict with his/her job as General Manager of the risk management system HEnsuring all risk management reports are rated according to: The probability of occurrence of those particular risks The completion of the internal control systems of the bank to manage those risks 8Compensations and Benefits Committee: Managing the employees’ compensations and all benefits offered to the bank’s staff under their supervision. The committee is also in charge of: AReviewing the structure and competitiveness of the income and benefits’ programs offered to the bank’s employees to make sure they comply with the bank’s strategy to attract and maintain outstanding human resources and to 66 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 67 Governance bodies: The committees, as governance bodies, are responsible for the strategic Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Committee (ICAAP): guidance of the organization and ensuring competence and diligence, the Responsible for the bank’s Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). The ICAAP was formed as a result of Pillar 2 of the Basel II accords, effective monitoring of operations, and a sound accountability of management which targets a better quality of regulatory capital, along with better risk to the broader organization and its stakeholders. management and supervision. The committee is responsible for coordinating and implementing a Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO): comprehensive vision for all the bank’s departments, to implement the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. Responsible for the formulation of the management strategy for assets and liabilities, as well as specifying the key performance and risk indicators, while taking all the necessary executive decisions to achieve the goals set by these indicators. Real Estate Divestment Committee (a5): Facilitates a systematic and suitable disposal of unserviceable properties that have been acquired by the bank in stages, to be sold in steps. Technology Committee (a1): Evaluates all technological issues within the bank’s computer and informatics system. Committee for Receiving Assets Owned by Holding Companies’ Affiliates (a6): Higher Human Resources Committee (a2): Based on the Framework Debt Swap Agreement signed on September Evaluating the bank’s human resources strategies and policies, including 14th, 2009 between Banque Misr, the National Bank of Egypt, and holding companies, regarding the assets owned by subsidiaries of the holding wages, incentives, appointments, promotions, holidays, training, performance companies, the committee is responsible for coordinating a collective appraisal reports, and employee by-laws and systems. settlement through exchanging the debts of lagging public companies for land plots. FATCA Committee (FATCA): Ensures the bank’s compliance with FATCA regulations and the provision Committee for Setting Returns on Islamic Transactions (a7): of required systems and mechanisms, as well as examining any obstacles Studies all matters pertaining to the services provided by Banque Misr’s to applying those regulations. The committee does not have any financial Islamic branches, and sets the applicable return rates. authorities, and all recommendations from the committee must be presented to the Executive Committee. Product Development Committee (a3): Foreign Branches Follow-up Committee (a8): Follows up the performance of Banque Misr’s branches, subsidiaries, and Evaluates and develops ideas for new or existing products in various sectors. representative offices abroad, as part of the bank’s development strategy, to enhance the performance of its international offices. Branches and Outlets Committee (a4): Specifies the requirements of new or alternate branches nationwide, as well as reviewing requests from regions and branches managements to expand branches. The committee also coordinates with the remedial department Committee for Restructuring (CRC): buildings that have been repossessed by the bank, and studies the best ways Responsible for development and restructuring, and mergers processes. to utilize them. 68 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 69 Settlement Committee (a9): FLEXCUBE Committee (FLEXCUBE): Reviews suggestions for the settlement of client debts or liquidating Facilitates processes to upgrade the core banking technology application, facilities. FLEXCUBE, in order to support all the bank’s technology and business objectives. Administrative Affairs Committee (b1): Reviews the requirements of the bank’s various departments, whether furniture, equipment, office supplies, publications, and other Grievances Committee (b6): requirements, as well as anything related to the bank facilities. Handles and processes the grievance redressal mechanism of the bank, and is responsible for the resolution of employees’ complaints/grievances. Emergency Committee (b2): Responsible for emergency assistance following natural disasters. Committee for Interviewing Candidates for SeniorLevel Positions (b7): Conducts interviews with candidates seeking senior-level positions at Banque Misr i.e. General Manager and Senior Deputy General Manager positions. Medical Services Committee (b3): Assesses all offers from medical specialists, hospitals, and laboratories, to select the most suitable and low-cost services to provide comprehensive medical packages for employees and their families. The committee issues Committee for Interviewing Candidates for Specialized decisions regarding chronic illnesses, and the entailed actions regarding Positions (b8): the type of work. It also follows up on the monthly financial status of the Conducts interviews with candidates seeking positions at specialized bank’s medical service system, and decides on how to ensure a balance departments at Banque Misr. between the system’s expenses and resources. Medical Care Committee (b4): Central and Non-Central Small Enterprises Financing Responsible for providing financial assistance for the treatment of Committees (b9): exceptional medical conditions. Responsible for small-sized business financing schemes and products, both in the conventional and Islamic branches. Crisis Management Committee (b5): In light of the exceptional circumstances and instability in the country over the past years, which have affected its political and economic climate, the Main Credit Committee (c1): committee was formed to address the potential attendant crises. Discusses the authorities granted in the credit policy pertinent to the The committee creates and maintains an efficient and integrated structure bank’s corporate credit clients. for preventing and managing incidents. It aims to ensure preparations for crisis situations and develop action plans. 70 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 71 SME Credit Committees (c2): (Three committees) Responsible for all the credit lines granted to small and medium-sized enterprises. O ur credibility as a leading financial institution rests on our operational integrity and the transparency of the information we provide to our stakeholders. Upholding strong corporate governance, adhering to the highest ethical standards, and effectively managing risk are all vital factors to our continuation as an accountable, transparent, and well-managed financial institution. Committees for the Settlement of Purchased Debts Banque Misr’s adopted policies reflect a strong commitment to achieving (c3): (Two committees) its objectives and guaranteeing its compliance with the fundamentals of Studies the means for setting the debts of clients with transferred court cases, who have assets amounting to no more than EGP 5 million. sustainability. At BM, we strive to maintain the high standards of service by The first committee is responsible for studying cases relating to Banque seeking new opportunities to develop our social and working environments. Misr’s debts and the second committee is reponsible for debts transferred The bank continues to seek social and sustainable development from Banque Du Caire. opportunities that have a positive impact on the economy and society. OUR VISION OF SUSTAINABILITY INCORPORATES Appointments Committee (c4): THREE MAIN ASPECTS: Conducts interviews with potential new recruits to the bank. Highly emphasizes the ethical Requires the bank’s full respect conduct of our employees inside for the cultural norms, social the bank and includes: corporate values, and differences between governance, fighting corruption, employees,in addition to engaging protection of clients’ rights, and in projects of high social and/or respecting stakeholders’ interests. developmental impacts. Re-interview Committee (c5): This comes in addition to abidance to the rule of law in any decisionConducts second interviews with applicants who scored less than 70% making process, and developing in their first interviews, and who are compliant with the bank’s terms of a robust governance operating ion service, in light of the deficit in various entities. The second interview is model. ns conducted six months from announcing the results of the first assessment. me Di Th e ic om So cia Credit Control Committee (c6): on Ec lD Refers defaulting clients to the department of legal affairs to undertake Th im legal action, and authorizes the declaration of non-performing debt e en status. sio n The Environmental Dimension Annual Performance Appraisal Committee (c7): Responsible for discussing and endorsing the defects in the annual performance appraisal reports. Closely monitoring for any potential harmful impacts on the environment as a direct or indirect result of any of the bank’s operations, products, services, or resources. 72 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 73 Sustainability aspects are reflected in the bank’s overall BM’s Five Pillars of Good Governance: operations through a number of policies: The bank works to ensure the implementation of the relevant governance policies through: 1-Governance and Standards -Clients: Ensuring mutual benefits and returns for the bank and its 2-Code of Conduct clients, excellent customer service, commitment to information, the 3-Whistleblowing confidentiality of accounts, and transparency. 4-Data Protection -Employees: Guaranteeing fair treatment, suitable and safe working conditions, commitment to the highest level of professionalism and work 5-Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing ethics, and encouraging employees to participate in the bank’s different 6-Remuneration System social and charity activities. 7-Risk Management -Goals: Encouraging funding projects that contribute to the sustainable development and/or environmentally friendly projects that serve a wider Governance and Standards: societal segment, including micro projects with high rates of employment, encouraging suppliers to abide by ethical standards and support the B anque Misr’s Board of Directors is committed to establishing and maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance in all its operations. Good corporate governance is crucial to BM’s long-term rationalization of water/energy/paper consumption, recycling, and the protection of the environment. success and sustainability. We believe that a robust and transparent -Community: Adopting influential tools to assist the community’s corporate governance framework is vital to the sustainable success of sustainability and avoid unacceptable social practices. Banque Misr. -Reports and follow-ups: The bank’s governance chief submits periodical BM is run by a dedicated management team that operates within a reports every six months to the bank’s Corporate Governance Committee clear governance framework, aiming to optimize stakeholder value and for follow-up to ensure the implementation of the bank’s sustainability preserve maximum book value as businesses and assets are divested. With programs and goals, in line with the international governance principles. the objective of continuously improving compliance measures as a key These reports are also included in the Board of Directors’ annual statement. element in the bank’s control system framework, several channels for staff issues or codes of conduct and petitions have been introduced and Banque Misr Code of Conduct: announced to the employees. Effective corporate governance, in accordance with the highest international standards, is at the core of our identity and operations. We B M’s reputation for integrity is one of its most valuable assets and is guided by the conduct of its directors and employees. BM’s Code of Conduct obliges directors and employees to avoid conflict areas involving work to ensure the responsibility, value-driven management, and control of a material risk of damage to existing or potential clients’ interests. They Banque Misr through our system of corporate governance, which includes are bound by professional discretion and prohibited from engaging in three key elements: good relationships with stakeholders, performanceoutside employment. based compensations for managers and employees, and transparent reporting of problems. Employees can only share confidential information if essential for performing a job function. There were no conflicts of interest from board The bank’s board is also committed to the highest standards of integrity members during fiscal year 2015/2016. and ethics. Matters relating to the internal control and risk management governance, as well as policies and practices concerned with compliance Whistleblowing: with legal and regulatory requirements, are treated as a high priority in O the Board of Directors’ meetings. ur staff acts as our army, placed on the front lines to ensure honest and ethical operations are conducted at all times. They take full 74 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 75 responsibility in maintaining our corporate reputation. Banque Misr Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism provides regular employee trainings on banking regulations and codes of Financing: practice regarding illegal activities, such as bribery, corruption, money O laundering and insider trading, equal opportunities, and privacy of data. ur anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing program Banque Misr operates an inclusive compliance disclosure line, through provides strong support for the international efforts to combat mail, email, and physical interviews, which is available to allow employees money laundering, the financing of terrorism, and other criminal acts. We to make disclosures when the normal channels for airing grievances or scrutinize clients and current transactions using meticulous procedures concerns are unavailable or inappropriate. The compliance disclosure and an automated monitoring system. line is available as an outlet for employees’ concerns on a number of Banque Misr’s anti-money laundering procedures are applied worldwide matters, including breaches of law or regulations, allegations of bribery to all our business units, irrespective of their location. All our employees and/or corruption, failure to comply with policies, suspicions of money and senior managers are required to comply with them to prevent the laundering, breaches of internal controls and/or fraud, or deliberate error misuse of our name or our products and/or services for money laundering in the financial records. purposes. To ensure the application of the best possible compliance The Regulatory Compliance department is responsible for the operation practices, BM periodically reviews its strategies and policies on antiof the compliance disclosure line and the handling of all disclosure money laundering. cases on the regional and international levels. All compliance cases are Within the scope of Banque Misr’s compliance program, all our employees reviewed and referred for appropriate investigations. Whistleblowing are committed to fully complying with the local and international anticases may also be raised directly with senior executives, line managers, corruption and anti-bribery laws. All our senior managers and employees and with the human resources, security, and fraud departments. The bank are strictly banned from receiving, accepting, offering, paying, or does not tolerate any risk to its long-standing esteemed reputation and is authorizing any bribe, or engaging in any other form of corruption. prepared to pursue a range of actions and alter outcomes of its business Banque Misr highly values the importance of transparency and integrity plans to preserve its name, status, identity, and integrity. in all of its business dealings, to avoid any improper action or even the emergence of questionable conduct, either from our employees or from Data Protection: any other third party with whom we conduct business. Banque Misr has moreover completed all the procedures for the purchasing of the W e apply comprehensive systems to ensure the appropriate use and protection of all data, particularly that related to customers’ information. We also implement special procedures to minimize any technological applications needed to implement the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) regulations for its branches in Egypt, the UAE, and France. The process was executed through concentrated efforts potential exposure to individuals or organizations engaged in illegal involving the bank’s most experienced staff and top management. activities, such as money laundering, terrorism, irresponsible environmental practices, and/or in operations that may involve forced or child labor or Developing a Transparent Remuneration System: violate indigenous or global human rights. We apply comprehensive data protection policies, rules, standards, and processes to our day-to-day operations to ensure compliance with all relevant statutory regulations, which may vary considerably from one country to another. Preventative T he average monthly income of the bank’s top 20 employees in Egypt is EGP 83,838. The executive directors’ salaries are benchmarked against comparable roles in peer banks. All staff salaries are set according measures and thorough control help prevent loss of data and/or violation of to their professional experiences and are up to the market’s standards. data protection regulations. We always investigate complaints thoroughly. The bank’s average monthly net income for entry-level employees stands We also provide regular training to raise awareness on data protection at EGP 3,901. The average annual cost of employees in terms of wages among our staff members, to ensure their compliance with regulations. and benefits rose to EGP 188,569 in 2016, up 86.9% from EGP 100,889 Our data protection (Group Data Protection) office coordinates, assesses, in 2011. and monitors practices in this field. It works closely with a network of data protection experts in the bank. BM remains committed to abiding by the CBE’s regulations on payrolls, which stipulate that all bank employees and any third party contractor or service provider must get paid and on time. 76 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 77 Amounts in EGP Thousand Jun-11 Jun-12 Jun-13 Jun-14 Jun-15 Jun-16 I Total salaries and benefits n recent years, the global and local markets have been exposed to high 1,178,792 1,661,180 2,075,023 2,074,522 2,211,240 2,556,180 for local branches levels of financial risk. Thus, Banque Misr has been working to support Total salaries and benefits 54,683 62,332 63,331 76,667 86,712 104,534 for foreign branches all enterprises, irrespective of size or type of business, providing them Total salaries and benefits 1,233,475 1,723,512 2,138,354 2,151,189 2,297,952 2,660,714 with the most credible information and recommendations to enable the for all branches enterprises to establish a strong framework, in accordance with compliance requirements, in order to manage their financial risk, and improve their Amounts in EGP Thousand performance and decision-making process. BM’s audit committee provides an independent assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the overall risk management framework and Total salaries and benefits risk governance structures in the bank. The committee reports directly to for Local branches BM’s Board of Directors. Jun-16 Jun-15 Jun-14 The existence of a successful risk management system is essential to 1,178,792 1,661,180 2,075,023 2,074,522 2,211,240 2,556,180 Jun-13 enhancing the bank’s operations and maximizing the value delivered to Jun-12 Jun-11 our stakeholders. As such, we have ensured that risk management is at the core of our business strategies. Amounts in EGP Thousand The bank regularly monitors its operations to ensure that all risks affecting these operations are properly managed and mitigated. Banque Misr aims to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return, while avoiding, or at least minimizing, any potential adverse effects on the environment, Total salaries and benefits for foreign branches society, and the bank’s financial performance. Jun-16 Jun-15 Banque Misr’s risk management policies are committed to employing Jun-14 highly credible information while identifying, measuring, monitoring, and 104,534 Jun-13 54,683 62,332 63,331 76,667 86,712 Jun-12 Jun-11 reporting the risks faced by the bank, as well as for setting the adequate boundaries for acceptable risk levels, and designing processes to mitigate and monitor those risks. Amounts in EGP Thousand The risk management department reviews and updates the risk management policies, procedures, and systems, to ensure that they complies with the markets’ changes and address the risks associated with new products, in Total salaries and benefits for all branches cooperation with other relevant departments in the bank. Jun-16 Jun-15 Jun-14 1,233,475 1,723,512 2,138,354 2,151,189 2,297,952 2,660,714 Jun-13 Jun-12 Jun-11 78 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 79 B uilding strong relations with a network of suppliers is essential to our services and operations. We select our suppliers according to the highest standards. We seek in them the qualities we stand for; long-term commitments, B anque Misr remains committed to achieving strong and sustainable financial returns, putting into consideration respect for the environment and the community within which the bank operates. To meet such targets, loyalty, ethics, and transparency. BM established a plan to reduce the carbon footprint within its premises through adopting various initiatives, including: Consequently, Banque Misr reserves the right to verify the suppliers’ compliance with the Supplier Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct. Both the suppliers and their subcontractors are urged to maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the laws and principles specified Lowering in the code of conduct. Suppliers are also asked to ensure that their employees Energy and all their direct or indirect subcontractors and agents acknowledge and Consumption adhere to the principles of the code of conduct. BM has reached its target to reduce energy If any violation to the Supplier Professional and Ethical Code of Conduct consumption according to an ambitious strategic occurs, the bank has the right to take any action it deems appropriate to plan that aims to replace all the existing traditional address the situation. lighting and air conditioning systems with energyefficient LED and VRV technologies. BM also requires that all its suppliers and their subcontractors and employees The bank has installed LED lighting, reducing involved in the supplying of goods or services to the bank comply with the energy consumption by around 9% in each branch laws of the country and the market. throughout fiscal year 2015/2016. In tandem, the bank has also installed VRV air conditioning Privacy and confidentiality are crucial in all our dealings. Suppliers are not systems, lowering energy consumption by around allowed to disclose any private or confidential information without previous 22% in each branch. authorization from the bank. They are also required to report on actual or Moreover, BM has introduced internal awareness suspected cases of disclosure or loss of any private or confidential information campaigns on the importance of rationalizing related to Banque Misr, its clients, operations, or other suppliers the bank energy consumption by using automatic control deals with. technologies in switching on and off HVAC air conditioning systems, which contribute to reducing Banque Misr further works to ensure that all its operations, employees, and energy consumption by around 10% in each branch. suppliers adhere to the laws and agreements pertaining to environmental and The bank is also planning to adopt an automated social risks, including the following: system that includes occupancy sensors to further No child labor: The bank’s administration and its suppliers are not allowed— lower its consumption of energy and water. under any circumstances—to employ children. In fiscal year 2015/2016, the bank provided around EGP 5 billion to finance the electricity sector in Humane treatment: Suppliers should ensure a workplace free of harsh and/ Egypt as part of the first phase of the emergency or inhumane treatment. plan, as well as the three power stations developed by Siemens leading to an increase in the production No discrimination on the basis of race and religion: Suppliers should ensure of environmentally friendly electricity. a workplace free of harassment and/or inhumane treatment based on race or religion. The reduction of resource consumption and emissions: Suppliers are encouraged to use raw materials and natural resources in a responsible manner. The bank exerts all efforts to reduce the consumption of energy and Safety fuel to lower their associated harmful emissions and encourage the use of Procedures environmentally-friendly operations. BM branches are fully equipped with fire detection Hazardous substances: The bank stresses on the safe handling and disposal systems. of any hazardous substances. The bank also equipped blue-collar workers on its premises with safety boots, protective masks, and Using safe technologies: The bank favors the usage of new, progressive, and other tools to protect them from any potential harm environmentally-friendly technologies. from exposure to dust or any other risks. 80 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 81 Recycling Emissions BM also used 32,000 packing bags for its printing BM collaborates with various recycling facilities materials, made from recycled rice straw, aiming and institutes to secure proper disposal of wastes to combat the side effects of burning leftover rice in an environmentally-friendly manner. straw, which produces smoke emissions that harm The bank recycled around 192 tons of paper the ozone layer and cause severe pollution and during fiscal year 2015/2016. potential complications for respiratory and heart disease patients. The bank also collects all unused papers for paper shredding, recycling, and re-use. The bank has established an action guide to develop its branches to provide them with a healthy and Banque Misr has produced this year’s prints of environmentally-friendly workplace, where smoking more than 57 tons out of 100% locally made is prohibited inside closed buildings. recycled materials, as a step toward supporting Banque Misr has signed a cooperation protocol local industry and promoting environmental to finance leather tanneries recently relocated to sustainability. Al-Robeky Tannery City at very low interest rates, aiming to train Egyptian tannery workers on the latest tanning technologies that are more environmentally friendly. The project aims to relocate the nation’s leather tanneries that have been nestled in the heart of Old Cairo for centuries, in close proximity to the Nile River, which produce a significant amount of pollution in the city of Cairo. Reducing Within the same framework, BM has also funded Paper-Use the establishment of New Damietta Furniture City, the largest industrial zone for the furniture industry BM also adopted a long-term plan to convert from in the Middle East. The bank has financed the a paper-based to a paperless internal business relocation of the workshops to the new city, from old environment, encouraging its staff to conduct small workshops that are usually clustered in village most of their in-office operations online. areas with indoor CO2 concentrations, which lead to localized emissions of harmful solvent-based The bank is further working to promote substances. doublesided printing of internal memos, BM also secured more than EGP 450 million to documents, and reports. finance the installation of alternative fuel units for BM is launching internet banking service soon. more than four cement companies. This new service aims to decrease paper used Banque Misr runs periodical check-ups on all in offline transactions, and reduce the couriered projects to make sure they comply with the Ministry statements, amounting to 80,000 per month, of Environment’s regulations and the Equator to cardholders by around 30% within the next Principles. three years. 82 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 83 Recruitment and Selection: A t Banque Misr, we view human resources as our most valuable asset. Our work is a people-centered business and we heavily rely upon our T he recruitment department in Banque Misr successfully hired 1,987 selected candidates for all the bank’s vacant positions during the last fiscal year. The hiring process included four channels. employees’ commitment and efforts to uphold our prosperity and success. We believe that high employee engagement leads to positive commercial outcomes, The first channel was participating in nine employment fairs within fiscal as it improves the business environment, leading to higher productivity, better year 2015/2016. The second channel was announcing 12 internal adverts to talent retention, reduction of absenteeism, an overall enhancement in our fill 95 different vacant positions. The third channel was announcing 39 external services, and higher customer satisfaction. adverts during the same fiscal year. Finally, the fourth channel was launching two credit courses, the “Corporate Credit Course (CC4)” and “SMEs, Midcap, The bank regards its human resources as a vital tool for achieving sustainability and Islamic Finance Credit Course”. through: Values: Investing in Our People: W e seek excellence in fulfilling all of our customers’ banking needs, as such requiring high standards of conduct from all our employees. We B anque Misr designs and implements a number of training programs directed at enhancing the skills and knowledge of its staff, which has led to a direct positive impact on the bank’s performance. expect our staff to act with full integrity in the execution of their daily duties. In this context, BM had developed a program called “Ma’an” (Together), Our staff’s values and behaviors are the foundation for our respected image, aimed at maintaining a positive team spirit and developing an efficient work which is projected in all our businesses. BM applies strict regulations on the environment among its staff members. staff’s code of performance to ensure their full abidance to the bank’s code of ethics and internal policies. The program also offers seminars on the importance of teamwork and provides entertainment programs in which the bank’s employees from different The bank also highly appreciates special talents and works to provide them branches and departments interact and get to spend quality time together, with care and attention. Talented individuals are granted special opportunities promoting positive energy among them. to learn and increase their competencies, to be able to fill future key positions in the bank. BM signed a contract with Lobue Associates, Inc. to train a number of employees to assess and improve the production and quality of the business Banque Misr also believes in the importance of integrating more youth in environment. the bank. In 2016, the average age of employees in BM went down to 36.22, from 44 in 2005. The PSI training program aims to ameliorate the business environment, improving its efficiency, and raising the quality of the services offered by the employees, fully equipping them to understand and use PSI skills and Diversity: techniques, including: Process Flows, Capacity Analysis, Production MIS, Manpower Tracking, and Implementation Planning. B anque Misr is also committed to respect for the different values and opinions of its employees as part of its commitment to serve a diverse and inclusive society. All of BM’s employees are encouraged to freely discuss their Banque Misr also continues to increase the number of its vocational training sessions. The bank offered 16,608 training opportunities with a total of 403,263 opinions and concerns. Biases and/or discriminations of any kind, including training hours during fiscal year 2015/2016, up from 315,769 training hours those based on gender, age, ethnicity, religion, and disabilities, are met with a in the previous fiscal year. zero tolerance policy at Banque Misr. Additionally, BM provides extensive training opportunities and a supportive Throughout its history, Banque Misr has always believed in equal environment that fosters career self-management in the Islamic Banking Sector. opportunities. Diversity is a fundamental value, a strategic business advantage, The bank has developed a program called “The Economic Awareness and a driving force for BM’s corporate culture. Program”, aimed at enriching the economic knowledge of BM staff. The Capital Markets Group moreover follows the bank’s main principle of 84 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 85 focusing on the development of human resources. It provides regular training on the basis of race, religion, political convictions, or on any other basis are courses for its employees to keep them up-to-date on the recent administrative prohibited by the power of law. and technical skills offered in the local, regional, and global financial markets. Health and safety: A safe working environment is guaranteed at all times. Wages and employment benefits: Salaries and employment benefits that Succession Planing: satisfy all applicable employment laws are paid on time. Future Leaders BM also participated in the Future Leaders Program organized by the Empowering Women: Egyptian Banking Institute (EBI). The program offered a range of knowledge through seminars, class discussions, training, study tours, case studies, and demo branch simulations. The program builds on the participants’ uniqueness, W e at Banque Misr view the high number of female employees as one of the top indicators for our success in implementing our values and commitments toward society. experience, aspirations, and their comprehension of how to apply their knowledge in their bank. In 2016, women constituted 29.1% of the total number of the bank’s employees. We also succeeded in raising the number of women in the Talent Program managerial level by 10.65% in 2016. In 2016, BM completed the first phase of Talent Management Project BM also continues to work to accommodate female staff members’ conditions aimed at preparing the future leaders in the bank by developing the skills of and needs, offering maternity leave to 293 female employees in 2016, along a group of staff members with the potential and motivation to generate ideas with child care vacations for 208 others. for improving processes, quality, and service. The bank provided them with specialized training courses and adopted a rotation plan in many different Our options for flexible working hours also support our commitment to the departments in BM. work-family balance that we strive to provide to our employees in Banque Misr. Additionally, the bank also completed the development plan for the first GM successors, as part of the Succession Plan Project, by giving them extra courses in personal, interpersonal, managerial, and organizational skills. Employees with Special Needs: Employee Turnover: B anque Misr’s sustainability strategy highly emphasizes the importance of integrating all members of society in our bank. We are a by-the-people for-the-people institution and hence we work very hard to integrate all kinds of people, including those with special needs, within our system. B anque Misr is distinguished by a low employee turnover rate compared to other banks, which registered at 3.24% in fiscal year 2015/2016, and was mainly comprised of employees who had reached retirement age, The recruitment process takes into consideration the type of disability and the candidate’s skills and abilities to meet the job’s requirements. reflecting a high rate of employee satisfaction. Easing Employees’ Financial Burdens: Human Rights and Working Welfare: T he bank and its suppliers are committed to complying with all applicable regulations, as well as with any existing industrial standards, agreements, B ecause Banque Misr understands the importance of human resources and views them as one of the bank’s most important assets, the bank launched a new loans package for its employees that includes mortgage loans, personal and/or guidelines on human rights and the welfare and safety of employees loans, and car loans with facilitated conditions, as a gesture of gratitude to and clients by abiding with the following requirements: boost their performance. No child labor: The bank’s administration and its suppliers are not allowed— under any circumstances—to employ children. Competitive Benefits for Employees: Humane treatment: A workplace that is free of harsh and/or inhumane treatment is guaranteed. No discrimination: harassments of all forms and/ or deliberate discrimination I n order to ensure our employees’ continuous satisfaction and to reflect our deep appreciation for them, BM is pleased to provide all its staff members 86 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 87 with the most competitive benefits in terms of wages and salaries, medical Transportation Facilities: care that also covers the employees’ families, transportation facilities, and leisure travel, along with a number of other social and sports benefits. At BM, we provide competitive pay, benefits, and compensations based B M is committed to providing an easy and subsidized means of transportation to its employees to increase their productivity and ensure their general wellbeing. on performance. The bank has recently built a new wages’ structure that is updated annually to keep pace with the changes in wage levels in the banking sector. The year 2016 recorded an increase in the average employee cost to Leisure Travel: EGP 188,569, up from EGP 100,889 in 2011. B M also offered a 70% discount on a number of leisure trips designed for its employees during the summer and the winter seasons, which positively Employees Recognition: reflected on their productivity, improving the rate of compliance and boosting the general disposition of the employees during office hours. The total cost of A s a way of showing gratitude to our important asset of human resources, Banque Misr continues to hold regular award celebrations for its distinguished staff members. Last year, the bank honored employees who held the leisure trips was recorded at EGP 12.2 million in fiscal year 2015/2016. the first positions in competitions organized by the Egyptian Banking Institute Social and Sports Activities: in 2014. Banque Misr also adopted an initiative to reward its best employees for their hard work and efforts. In 2015, the bank rewarded 95 employees based on S temming from the bank’s strong belief in providing employees and their families with the opportunity to perform sports, social, and entertainment activities, the bank invested in the renovations for its Talaat Harb Club. peer nominations. The bank is currently working on building the New Cairo Club with total investments of EGP 100 million. Medical Care for Our Employees and Their Families: BM frequently organizes football tournaments during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, as well as the Christmas and the Easter holidays, encouraging its B M ensures the wellbeing of all its employees through offering comprehensive medical packages for them and their families. To fulfil such a goal, the bank contracted with a number of medical specialists, doctors, employees to take part in them. Other similar tournaments are also organized for volleyball, table tennis, chess, basketball, swimming, squash, and futsal games. hospitals, laboratories and pharmacies to cover the vast number of employees working in the bank’s different branches and offices. The total cost of the sports activities amounted to EGP 4.1 million in fiscal year 2015/2016. The bank operates through an automatically updated medical service system to save time and facilitate the process. The cost of the employees’ medical services, which included offering special treatments to 351 patients suffering Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: from Hepatitis-C, netted EGP 161 million for fiscal year 2015/2016. W e at BM respect our employees’ right to join, form, or refrain from joining a labor union without fear of reprisal, intimidation, or harassment. We Post-Retirement Benefits: are committed to establishing constructive dialogue with their freely chosen representatives. For employees who are represented by a legally recognized T he total cost of the employees’ post-retirement benefits has significantly risen over the past six years, going up from EGP 34 million in 2010 to EGP 38 million in 2011. Further, in accordance with the Egyptian Accounting union, the bank remains committed to bargaining in good faith with all such representatives. Standards, Central Bank of Egypt regulations, and a study conducted based on actuarial expertise, benefits surged to EGP 320 million in 2012, EGP 620 Child Labor: million in 2013, EGP 499 million in 2014, EGP 513 million in 2015, finally reaching EGP 615 million in 2016. B anque Misr adheres to the minimum age provision of the applicable laws and regulations. The bank strictly prohibits the hiring of individuals less than 18 years of age. The bank’s prohibition of child labor is consistent with the regulations of the International Labor Organization. 88 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 89 C orporate social responsibility lies at the core of Banque Misr’s strategy and at the heart of its employees’ business approach. It is an integral part of how we operate, and through which we measure our success in maintaining sustainability. Through responsible businesses, we aim to create value for the society and strive for better economic achievement. We contribute positively and constructively through specific projects that are either carried out directly by the bank, through the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development, or through partnering with NGOs and development-oriented civil society institutions. Supporting National Economy B anque Misr contributed EGP 50 million to the Long Live Egypt Fund, which was established by President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi to financially support the country’s development. Mashrouak Program B anque Misr also participated in the national project for community development, entitled “Mashrouak” (Your Project), by providing loans for micro enterprises that ranged from EGP 1,000 to EGP 100,000, and for small enterprises in the range of EGP 100,000 to EGP 2 million. A total of 20,162 entrepreneurs in different parts in Egypt benefited from the loans, which recorded a funding portfolio of EGP 637 million. Al Asmarat Slum-dweller Project S temming from Banque Misr’s CSR role, and aiming to catalyze efforts to remove and reduce slums through converting them into better housing options, the bank has contributed EGP 25 million to provide furnishings and furniture for housing units in the Al Asmarat district, in cooperation with the Ministry of Local Development and the Long Live Egypt Fund. Banque Misr Foundation activities to improve the living standards in Hawara Village, Fayoum Governorate, in cooperation with FAODA 90 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 91 Mortgages for Low-income Citizens the land for establishing industrial projects, facilitating licensing and allocation procedures, and removing all obstacles facing investors. A s part of the bank’s leading role in pushing Egypt’s economy forward, Banque Misr announced its participation in the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) mortgage finance initiative, with the aim of The IDA will set up industrial parks for constructing industrial MSMEs throughout areas in the industrial zones specified by the IDA, which will boosting the real estate and construction sectors for low, middle, and in turn provide, allocate, and equip these areas for industrial activities. upper-middle income citizens. Thereby, Banque Misr offered long-term Banque Misr’s financing of this project aligns with its firm belief mortgage financing, through simple procedures, with 7,097 loans and a in providing social and economic support that will in turn boost the loan portfolio of EGP 601 million. national economy, increase national production, create job opportunities for young people, raise living standards, and push development forward. Supporting Damietta Schools Supporting the Grand Egyptian Museum Projects T he bank has pledged EGP 500,000 to finance the completion of B building and furnishing a number of schools in Damietta. anque Misr allocated EGP 12 million to establish a special school, one of the major projects of the new Grand Egyptian Museum (GEM) – Phase III. The sum has been paid in instalments over three years, and Funding Industrial Parks for MSMEs the bank has already made the third payment. The new school will offer B anque Misr signed a cooperation protocol with the Egyptian Industrial Development Authority (IDA) to establish industrial complexes for micro, small, and medium enterprises. The protocol was signed by Mr. education for 1 million students annually from different age groups, in the fields of arts, crafts, sewing, and jewelry design. The new school, which is expected to be named after the bank, aims to help encourage Mohamed Mahmoud Ahmed El-Etreby, Chairman of Banque Misr, and Mr. more youth to work in creative industries. Ahmed Moustafa Abdel Razek, Chairman of the IDA. According to the protocol, Banque Misr will offer financing for allocated Participating in the International Financial Week projects and review them. The bank will share the results of its studies Activities with the IDA in a period not exceeding 15 working days from the date of receiving the eligible request, and specify the interest rate on financing. This comes within the framework of the two initiatives launched by the B anque Misr organized tours and seminars during International Financial Week, aimed at spreading the culture of finance among children and young people. Central Bank of Egypt to finance micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and finance the investors to pay for the allocated industry units. Financing is provided at 75% of the total value of each unit, over a period Supporting Youth Sports Activities of up to 10 years, with an appropriate grace period of at least one year, starting from the date of unit delivery. The protocol aims to support the country’s plan for economic B anque Misr continues to provide the best care for the youth, stemming from its belief in their importance for the development and success of any society. The bank was pleased to continue to sponsor the Egyptian Youth development and its policies targeting the encouragement of investment Futsal Championship, which includes 176 teams all over Egypt, for the fifth in the industrial sectors, boosting the quality of local products, backing consecutive year. MSMEs, creating new job opportunities for young people, providing 92 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 93 Employee Engagement Supporting Orphans Banque Misr and the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development also continued to play a significant role in social solidarity activities, such as joining the community in the celebration of Orphans’ Day, which takes place on the first Friday of the month of April. BM holds yearly celebrations for orphans on this day in the governorates of Cairo, Alexandria, Minya, Beni Seuf, Luxor, and Qena. The bank’s employees are encouraged to join the celebrations as volunteers to organize and support the events of the celebration. Supporting Talaat Harb Retired Employees Association T he bank also donated to the Talaat Harb Retired Employees Association, as part of its commitment to continue an active and ongoing relationship with retired employees by organizing a number of tours for them. Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development S temming from Banque Misr’s deep faith in the importance of supporting corporate social responsibility, the bank actively participated in several activities to support the development of the community, including establishing a nonprofit organization in 2007 specialized in this field, named the Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development. The foundation is officially registered under the Ministry of Social Solidarity. The Banque Misr Foundation aims to contribute to the overall development of the various sectors of society, including education, culture, employment, economy, public health, and environment. It also supports other social solidarity projects through working to strengthen civil society’s contribution to the foundation’s projects to widen their scope. BM supports Orphans’ Day 94 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 95 The foundation further works to offer support to various scientific Tafnees, Asfoun, and Al-Gharyera villages in the touristic city of Luxor research centers, schools, universities, and public hospitals. It has also Mit Kenana, Tersa, Karkashanda, Moshtohor, Namoul, and Manzala in financed a number of social projects either directly or indirectly through Toukh City in Qalyubia, on the outskirts of Cairo non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Four villages in Menouf City in the Nile Delta governorate of Menoufia The foundation accepts donations from inside and outside of Egypt and from all individuals who wish to engage in charity and development Al-Adwa Village, Aswan governorate opportunities. Contributions to the foundation are delivered to special Hawara Village, Fayoum governorate accounts offered by Banque Misr in all its branches across the country. The foundation also worked on improving the quality of life for the They can also be mailed directly to the bank’s headquarters at 153 residents of the previously mentioned villages through developing Mohamed Farid Street, Banque Misr Tower, Floor 22, Downtown, Cairo, educational and health services there. The Banque Misr Foundation Egypt. implemented 2,470 new economic projects for young people and femaleStemming from Banque Misr’s firm belief in the vital role of the headed households in different villages. The projects covered various foundation, the bank has set aside an annual amount of its net profit to sectors, such as breeding cattle and sheep, rabbit farming, sewing, fund the activities of the foundation. technical and craftsman training for carpentry, plastering, plumbing, During the period from 2008 to 2016, the Banque Misr Foundation mobile phone maintenance and electricity, all of which were aimed at actively partook in several developmental activities in coordination with enhancing the standard of living for many families. a number of NGOs and universities, to implement different programs in It also sponsored medical convoys to serve approximately 6,000 the fields of social development, health, education, and the development residents in a number of Egyptian villages, and organized a number of of the economy. seminars to raise the public’s awareness on health, as well as social and economic issues. Developing Egyptian Villages Developing Slums B anque Misr Foundation for Community Development joined a group T of NGOs and Egyptian universities from 2010 to 2016 in projects he Banque Misr Foundation has taken part in improving the living to upgrade 60 villages and hamlets and informal settlements in different conditions in informal settlements in several areas; Kom Ghorab parts of Egypt. The foundation’s partners included the Masr El Mahrousa in Old Cairo, El Basateen, Arab al-Maadi, and El-Deweika in Manshiyat Balady Association (MMBA), the Association of Upper Egypt for Education Naser. It has contributed to launching remedial classes for students, and Development (AUEED), the Association for the Development and literacy classes for women, and vocational training courses, carrying out Enhancement of Women (ADEW), the Omar Bin Abd El Aziz Association, small projects for youth and female breadwinners, as well as sponsoring the Fayoum Agro Organic Development Association (FAODA), and Benha medical convoys and human resources programs. University. The developed villages included Al Hammas, Al Horayzat Al Gharbia villages, Al Zouk and Juhyna city in southern Sohag 96 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 97 Education Technology to finance educational scholarships for 30 undergraduate students in different specializations, along with five graduate students, at Renovating Schools a total cost of EGP 7.5 million. The Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development made sizable contributions to the development and renovation of a number of school classrooms in a number of Egyptian cities. Furnishing Seven Computer Labs in Damietta The foundation worked on the enhancement of the infrastructure of 45 Banque Misr Foundation has provided the needed furnishings for the schools in Luxor, Sohag, Aswan, and Menoufia. computer labs in seven schools in the Damietta governorate. Opening New Classrooms Sponsoring Cairo University Technology Transfer Competition The Banque Misr Foundation contributed to improving the educational The competition is considered a comprehensive theoretical and scientific level of 2,000 students through sponsoring reading classes in Luxor, Sohag educational program for Cairo University students. It aims to encourage and Aswan. The foundation also helped to establish 80 new kindergarten teaching students the missing step in the educational system, which is classrooms in Luxor, Sohag, Aswan, and Menoufia. how to transfer, employ, market, and practically apply the knowledge they have gained at university. This is achieved through changing the educational culture toward entrepreneurship and business management, Renovating Sports’ Centers and bridging the gap between the university and the industry. The foundation renovated and furnished four sports centers for youth in The competition also includes creating an incubator for the university’s the towns of Esna in Luxor and Horayzat in Sohag. It had also provided work, which would have its own program that aims to sponsor selected these centres with educational equipment. projects in order to allow them to reach the execution and marketing stage. It is not simply limited to handing out prizes to the three winning Training 500 Young People teams at a celebration at the university. The foundation provided numerous training workshops for youth in the The foundation sponsored the second and third phases of the competition, fields of sales, accounting, customer services, working with people with to allow the three winning teams’ project to materialize into existing special needs, secretarial work, graphics, maintenance of appliances, businesses. running small projects, and other fields. It also helped some trainees to find suitable job opportunities. The foundation also provided technical training for approximately 500 young people in Luxor, Sohag, Menoufia, Supporting Healthcare Projects: and Fayoum, in addition to offering them with job opportunities and supporting for their small projects. Developing Hospitals and Medical Units The foundation provides financial support to a number of hospitals, along with other medical centers. The support was directed toward the Providing Scholarship Opportunities purchase of new equipment and enhancing their medical services. Acting upon its belief in the importance of science and supporting The foundation also contributed to the development of 35 medical units the new generation of scientists, the Banque Misr Foundation signed through the provision of appliances and medical needs for the universities a cooperation agreement with Egypt’s Nile University for Science and and public hospitals. 98 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 99 Supporting Universities and Public Health Facilities with Health Devices and Equipment: The Banque Misr Foundation for Community Development provided financial support totalling about EGP 28 million to equip several university and governmental medical units in various governorates during fiscal year 2015/2016. During fiscal year 2015/2016, the foundation worked to complete the furnishing of several other medical units. It provided EGP 9 million for the completion of the Surgery Department at Amreya Hospital. The foundation also contributed EGP 5 million to complete the fourth floor in the New Children’s Hospital at Ain Sham University. It also arranged EGP 3 million for the intensive care unit at the Minya University Cardiothoracic Hospital. Banque Misr Foundation activities in the Entelaka project for developing Adwa Village, Aswan governorate, in cooperation with MMBA In addition, the foundation allocated EGP 2.5 million for the Neurosurgery Unit at Zagazig University Hospitals and EGP 1.5 million for the operation rooms and intensive care unit at El Hawamdeya Hospital. The Banque Misr Foundation secured EGP 1.5 million to equip the Interventional Pain Management Unit at Assiut University’s South Egypt Cancer Institute. It supported the Bone Marrow Transplant Unit, which falls under the Clinical Diseases and Tumours Unit at Ain Shams University’s Internal Medicine Hospital, with EGP 1.5 million. It also provided Nasr Al-Nouba General Hospital with kidney dialysis machines worth EGP 250,000. The foundation also provided Naga Hamadi General Hospital with kidney dialysis machines worth EGP 250,000. In addition, it helped equip the main operation rooms in Qalawun Conjunctivitis Hospital for EPG 200,000. Moreover, the foundation also provides appropriate nursing staff to enable those medical units to offer high quality patient care. Banque Misr activities to revive traditional craftsmanship in Giza and Qena in cooperation with Banat El Ghad Development Foundation 100 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 101 Social Solidarity Orphans are considered among the neediest segments of society, requiring both educational, psychological, and social care to help them integrate into society and overcome the conditions of orphanhood and the loss of their families. The activities undertaken in the realm of social solidarity, carried out through the bank’s zakat account, vary, including: -Orphan’s Day celebrations -Providing orphans’ requirements for holidays and the academic year -Supporting orphaned children and breadwinning women -Warmth in Winter Campaign, which is carried out in the Upper Egyptian governorates Banque Misr provides financial support to Qalawun Conjunctivitis Hospital Banque Misr provides financial support to Zagazig University Hospitals 102 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 103 Talaat Harb Pasha with Prince Mohamed Ali at Misr Press. Talaat Harb Pasha with the Belgian Prime Minister at Misr Cotton Ginning Company. Talaat Harb Pasha with VIPs at Misr Spinning and Weaving Company. Talaat Harb Pasha with Medhat Yakan and Fouad Sultan visiting El Nile Ship before it made its first trip to Europe. 104 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 105 Talaat Harb Pasha during his visit to El Nile Ship. Talaat Harb Pasha with Sheikh Mohamed Amin El Husseny, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem (on his right), and others. Iraqi Prime Minister Yasin El Hashemy and some other VIPs receive Talaat Harb Pasha upon his In Damascus on October 31st,1930, Talaat Harb Pasha attending the celebration of opening a arrival at Baghdad Airport. new branch of Banque Misr Syria-Lebanon. 106 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 107 Talaat Harb Pasha in front of his tent at Arafaat in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Talaat Harb Pasha with Mostafa Al Nahaas Pasha and Safeya Zaghloul on board Kawthar Ship. Talaat Harb Pasha with Hoda Sharawy and the first Egyptian pilot Latifa El Nady during the Talaat Harb Pasha with Egyptian singer Umm Kulthum at Studio Misr inauguration celebration. awarding of aviation prizes. 108 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 109 Talaat Harb Pasha with musician Mohamed Abdel Wahab in Studio Misr. Misr Press Company color printing press. Princess Fawzeya in a visit to the Banque Misr Companies exhibition at the headquarters. Outside view of Misr Cotton Ginning Company. 110 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 111 Photos of the Mahala factories belonging to the Misr Company For Spinning and Weaving in Al King Fouad’s decree for the establishment of Egypt Air on May 7th,1932. Lataif Al Musawara magazine. 112 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 113 Cotton weaving department Misr Company for Spinning and Weaving. Final Iinen cleaning Misr Company For Linen. Egypt Air plane flying over the Saladin Citadel in Cairo. 114 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 115 Egypt Air plane flies over the Great Pyramids plateau in Giza. The cabin of an Egypt Air airplane. 116 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 117 B anque Misr continues to invest in advanced technologies that are leading toward excellence and leadership while maximizing the value of service provided to customers. To serve this vision, the bank’s BM is about to introduce internet banking services, saving our valued customers’ time and money by handling their banking transactions online at their convenience, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. With internet information technology sector provides technological solutions and banking, customers can pay their bills, transfer money, and check their services that focus on improving customer experience while maintaining account balance. At the same time, the service fulfills a high degree of an optimum return on investment. A range of technological solutions and security. services was recently added to the bank’s branches. BM’s core banking system (FLEXCUBE) is being upgraded in three phases. Phases one and two have been successfully completed. The newlyupgraded core banking system provides a unified processing environment Information Technology Infrastructure: for corporate, retail, and investment banking operations. It offers easy adaptability to market needs and enables the bank to improve overall B M has continuously developed and upgraded its information technology infrastructure to meet the growing needs of its banking operations. The bank recorded a significant achievement through signing a operational efficiency. The core banking system also offers effective control and risk management, thus delivering improved performance and reliable customer service. major agreement (ULA) with Oracle Company to maintain a cost reduction policy from licensing and support perspectives. BM has been working on an ambitious Electronic Content Management project to automate the workflow of a number of business processes by In preparation for the creation of BM’s private cloud and server virtualization, automatically routing documents through defined approval pipelines. The new technologies were introduced at the main data center and disaster first phase of the project is being finalized, covering business processes recovery sites. This technology consolidates multiple virtual servers on a such as clearing incoming checks, requests for external transfers, and nonsingle physical machine, leading to a considerable reduction in a number of cash investment funds. Implementation of the project will lead to reduced servers and bringing with it the benefits of reduced floor space and power business processing times, increased productivity, and an efficient process consumption costs, improved server availability, business continuity, and for distributing and sharing information. Finally, workflow automation will load balancing capabilities that reflect a better customer experience. deliver measurable improvements in customer service and operational Middleware software was also introduced, providing a link between efficiency. separate banking applications, enabling applications to access functionality and data from each other’s systems. Connecting systems in such a manner significantly contributed to improving operational efficiency, reducing costs, and capturing new business opportunities. The initial utilization of Business Continuity the middleware platform enabled seamless integration between the bank’s core banking system and the internet banking services. T o ensure better business continuity of all banking services, all disaster recovery site services were finalized and a disaster recovery plan was introduced. Full interruption tests with the least restore times were introduced to ensure such continuity. Information Systems B anque Misr also continued the development and upgrading of information systems that contribute to providing various banking services to a wide range of customer segments. 118 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 119 had underwritten a total amount of EGP 18.4 billion, retaining EGP 16.8 billion. Financing Environmentally-Friendly Projects: O ur firm belief in the corporate social responsibility (CSR) concept of supporting manpower to achieve sustainability has inspired us at Banque Misr to ensure that our financing schemes integrate both social and B anque Misr believes that supporting environmentally-friendly infrastructure projects is fundamental to maintaining its key strategic environmental sustainability standards into the assessment phases. sustainability objectives. In fiscal year 2015/2016, the bank earmarked EGP In lending large-scale projects, Banque Misr focuses more attention on 5 billion for financing the electricity sector in Egypt, considered the pillar projects of high economic and/or social impact, along with environmentallyof the economy. The financing was provided under the first phase of the friendly ones. emergency plan to meet the high demand for the summer of 2015. This deal was announced the Best Energy Infrastructure Deal in Africa for year 2015 by EMEA Finance Magazine. BM has also financed three power plants with Financing National Projects: combined cycle configuration constructed by Siemens, El-Sewedy Electric, B anque Misr plays a leading role in funding large-scale national projects that significantly contribute to Egypt’s economic development, particularly in the petroleum, energy, electricity, gas, telecommunication, aviation, tourism, and Orascom Construction. Banque Misr also runs intensive check-ups on all projects to ensure they comply with the Ministry of Environment’s regulations. and construction sectors. Its public and private corporate loans have also surged to EGP 67 billion, while the total loans portfolio rose to EGP 132.7 billion. Delivering Excellence in Corporate Banking: Through a highly-skilled team, BM’s corporate banking arm is dedicated to providing creative financial packages, aiming to exceed our clients’ expectations. O ur excellent services recently landed us multiple awards from major global financial institutions. According to the Bloomberg’s league tables on Global Syndicated Loans for the first half of 2016, Banque Misr succeeded in: Banque Misr has the honor of continuously holding a high position among Ranking first as the best Bookrunner for Syndicated Loans and Project banks in Egypt and the Middle East, sustained by its longstanding expertise in Finance Transactions across Africa for the second quarter of 2016. leading landmark financing transactions among different sectors within very tight time frames. It has also proven capable of guaranteeing and covering Ranking first as the best Mandated Lead Arranger across Africa. such transactions. BM also led, arranged, and underwrote the majority of the According to Bloomberg’s Ranking Report for June 2016, Banque Misr ranked largest transactions carried out in the market over the past 10 years. amongst the top 20 financial institutions for Syndicated Loans Bookrunners across the Middle East and North Africa. Banque Misr has succeeded in achieving a remarkable surge during fiscal year 2015/2016, with a growth in the loans portfolio exceeding 90%, In a further statement from Bloomberg on the classification results, Banque considered a significant growth compared to the prevailing market rates, due Misr topped the list of the best banks within Africa in terms of performance to the diversification strategy pursued by the bank. level and marketing financing transactions, with a major margin of difference from the holder of the second position, the Bank of China. BM was the first In addition, the total recognized commissions in the department’s scope of Egyptian bank to lead this ranking in the past three years, during which the work during fiscal year 2015/2016 surged to EGP 1 billion, recording a 19% first position was dominated by European banks. growth. BM has also been granted two awards by EMEA Finance Magazine, as the Moreover, the Corporate Banking and Syndicated Loans Department Best Syndicated Loan House and Best Project Finance House in Africa for the succeeded in maintaining an adequate portfolio credit rating, despite the year 2015. prevailing political and economic conditions in the region. Concentration As we view human resources as our most valuable asset, three training levels of the granted facilities within the portfolio’s sectors by June 30th, 2016 courses were held with remarkable success during the years 2009, 2011, and complied with the concentration percentages, according to the approved 2014. More than 107 analysts successfully graduated from the courses (first credit policies from the bank’s Board of Directors. This was in addition to batch: 43, second batch: 31, third batch: 33), which were held in cooperation other efforts to expand facilities across promising sectors to further reduce with the largest accounting and credit institutions, giving them the opportunity concentration percentages within the portfolio. to join the corporate credit, risk, and investment departments. In light of Banque Misr’s vast experience and key performance in successfully Stemming from our belief in the importance of integrating more highlyleading landmark transactions in diversified sectors within very tight deadlines, qualified youth in the bank, we organized the fourth credit course during 22 new syndicated loans were concluded throughout the year 2016, with a fiscal year 2015/2016, in which 32 candidates have passed all the required total finance volume of EGP 72.5 billion, marking the largest transaction in the perquisites and final tests, out of the total of 1,600 candidate who passed the preliminary tests. market in the period from July 1st, 2015 to June 30th, 2016, out of which BM 120 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 121 The bank was also ranked second in terms of the volume of issued outstanding e-payment cards, which reached 4.9 million. As part of the bank’s strategy in promoting e-commerce and tourism, we introduced the DCC system, which I n its ongoing efforts to meet and exceed clients’ aspirations, BM continues to provide the highest safety and quality measures through a wide range of creative products and services. allows purchases from Banque Misr’s merchants. The system is a financial service in which credit card-holders, when making a payment in a foreign country, get the cost of transactions converted to their home currency at the point of sale. Continuous Geographical Expansion: Financial Inclusion: A s we aim to help our customers access their accounts in the most convenient ways, the bank plans to open 275 branches over the next three years, including 255 mini branches. The expansion plan comes in line with the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) initiative to foster greater financial A iming to turn Egypt to a cashless society, Banque Misr pioneered to acquire a total market share of 48% in the automation of governmental workers’ salaries through its ATM network. BM has maintained first place for inclusion and to increase the number of banks’ customers. Accordingly, our the last 11 consecutive years in this field. ultimate target is to provide accessibility in all parts of the country, to reach all the different social segments. The total value of automated salaries amounted to EGP 40.35 billion during fiscal year 2015/2016, dispensed to 2.8 million card users from the public and Banque Misr also added several new services to its ATMs, in addition to private sectors, in addition to 51,000 accounts. its traditional cash withdrawal and deposit services. These services include money transfers between parties without payment cards, bill payments, Further, based on Banque Misr’s firm belief in the importance of financial donations, I-score inquiry, and various subscription fees. These new services planning for the prosperity of the people and the development of the economy, were launched in collaboration with Fawry, an e-payment solutions company. the bank works to ingrain the concept of saving and investing. The value of bill payments through the lifetime of the service totalled EGP 124 The bank participated in the Central Bank of Egypt’s initiative entitled “Ashan million. Bokra” (For Tomorrow), which aims to spread financial awareness among the youth through educational bulletins and bank tours. Enhancing Service Level: In this respect, the bank has held several symposiums for the youth, in B anque Misr recently launched a new line of personal loans, named the “Fast Cash” loans, which provide loans to both Egyptian and foreign clients who have savings in the bank in the form of certificates, deposits, or addition to organizing school trips to BM’s different branches and to the museum of Mohamed Talaat Harb, the bank’s founder. saving accounts. Banque Misr has also, throughout such tours, offered educational scholarships to 1.3 million students, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the Through the Fast Cash service, loans are provided using the clients’ savings Egyptian Banking Institute. as collateral. The value of loans recorded EGP 1.392 billion as of June 2016, and were provided through the quickest and most facilitated administrative Supporting Home Ownership: procedures, accompanied with the lowest fees and highest lending margin, at up to 90% of the saving fund’s redemption value. Banque Misr also offers a diverse range of specialized loans catering to all our clients’ different needs, with many competitive advantages. These include personal loans, car loans, B M firmly believes that the inclusion of new segments of society best supports the bank’s financial system, widening and enhancing its services and outlook. It also has a positive impact on the overall economic activity of real estate financing, loans for durable goods, and memberships in sports clubs. the country, as it increases the amount of people’s savings and investments, thus ensuring the mobilization of financial resources through official channels. BM also improved its tax and customs e-payment service through 296 This in turn positively reflects on the economy, increasing its growth rates and branches distributed across Egypt, collecting over EGP 5.6 billion through this decreasing poverty and unemployment rates. service during fiscal year 2015/2016. This is in addition to applying the CPS corporate services, which enabled customers to pay taxes, tariffs, and other The bank participated in the Central Bank of Egypt’s (CBE) initiative offering government dues from their offices without visiting the bank. Banque Misr long-term loans to low and middle-income housing projects. Such projects was ranked first in government payment services, CSL, and customs’ duties. are considered very promising for the banking sector as they are highly encouraged and supported by the government, which views them as an Moreover, BM came in first place in terms of the collection of merchants’ effective method to attract new local and foreign investments through publicoperations, with 13,503 POS terminals spread all over Egypt with a trading private partnership housing projects. value of EGP 6.06 billion during fiscal year 2015/2016. 122 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 123 The CBE announced in February 2014 that it allocated EGP 10 billion to finance lowand middle-income citizens to buy houses at a low yearly interest rate of 7% to 8%. BM has so far contributed EGP 3 billion to the CBE’s initiative. It is Banque Misr’s unwavering belief that the small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) industry is the gateway to economic prosperity, and as such we continue to offer them sustained support in the form of distinguished Supporting Local Community Projects: opportunities to grow their businesses. Having the largest number of B M joined a national campaign to replace the old taxis in Egypt to improve the transportation sector and minimize the pollution caused by the old taxi vehicles, which had a negative impact on tourism and the community in branches, BM has an edge over other banks in being accessible to all kinds of entrepreneurs: micro, small, and mid cap. As the bank continues its leading role in pushing economic and social general. In collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, BM offered EGP 300 development, Banque Misr continues to work to actively offer SMEs appropriate million for the purchase of 4,600 new taxis. financing services. Supporting Customers and Data Protection: Offering Funds and Boosting Investment Opportunities: P roviding a wide range of products and services allows the bank to create and sustain profit and fulfill its primary goal of keeping clients secure and satisfied. BM applies the latest modern technologies to protect its clients from V iewing it as a social responsibility rather than a business opportunity, BM does whatever is necessary to help SMEs succeed. We increased the SME funding portfolio to EGP 8.5 billion by the end of June 2016. any e-piracy risks. Consequently, the bank was the first Egyptian bank to meet the requirements of PCI DSS compliant systems. Furthermore, Banque Misr BM has invested a great portion of time and resources to increasing the maintained its number one ranking for the 11th year in a row in the field of number of branches that serve SMEs to 257 branches, covering 25 of Egypt’s 27 automating government workers’ salaries. The bank also maintained its rank governorates. Through its micro-financing services, Banque Misr has provided in first place with regard to the total number of operations conducted through funding of EGP 776 million to 41,603 clients. During 2016, Banque Misr the Debit Card Scheme and Shared Cash Network, “123”. approved EGP 300 million to fund 948 small enterprise clients, in its latest efforts to encourage private employment, reduce poverty, and achieve overall Adapting to the latest technologies in internet banking, BM will launch its sustainable social development and economic growth. secure and convenient internet banking services within 2017. The new service will decrease paper used in offline transactions. It will also reduce couriered The bank works in collaboration with the government to ensure that statements, amounting to 80,000 statements per month, to cardholders by creditworthy SMEs have access to finance, working capital, and investment. approximately 30% within the next three years. We provided new funds to 20,162 MSMEs worth EGP 637 million through the “Mashrouak” initiative, a joint project with the Ministry of Local Development, Gaining Strong Foothold: the National Bank of Egypt (NBE), the Agricultural Bank of Egypt, Housing and Development Bank, and Banque Du Caire (BDC). The initiative was launched B anque Misr took the lead in electronic delivery channels through operating the largest network of branches, ATMs and point of Sales (POS) terminals in April 2015 to fund micro and small projects. across Egypt. In continuation of the bank’s strategy to develop, it has opened Training and Development Opportunities for Clients: new branches throughout the country, increasing its network of branches to more than 580. Additionally, the bank has expanded its sophisticated network of ATMs, reaching a total of 1,715 machines. W e encourage SMEs to adopt sustainable business practices to gain confidence. We consistently provide our SME clients with business advice and support through training workshops in collaboration with the The value of the retail-banking portfolio at Banque Misr recorded EGP 14.25 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and the Frankfurt billion in June 2016, surging from EGP 8 billion in the same period of 2015, School of Finance and Management. We view the workshops as a prerequisite marking a EGP 6.25 billion increase and a growth of 78%. for effective financial inclusion, as they enable enterprises to make informed BM acquires 48% of the market for automated governmental employees’ decisions, deal with financial complexities on a day-to-day basis, and take salary transfers. It also serves 1,468 public and private companies on effective action to improve their financial situations, welfare, and avoid employees’ salary transfers. The total value of transferred salaries is EGP 40.35 financial distress. billion annually. The bank continues to reach out for more and diverse business classes through conducting extensive research and market studies with the help of specialized professionals to know what new tools or services are needed for the various business communities to prosper. 124 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 125 Provider of Money Market Funds in the Middle East for the years 2008, 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015, and Best Provider of Short-Term Investments/ B anque Misr’s Capital Markets Group aims at maintaining the bank’s Money Market Funds in the Middle East for 2016. leading position in Egypt to continue to be the most obvious choice Portfolio Management for retail and corporate banking in the field of financial management and The Capital Markets Group actively manages and monitors Banque specialized investment services, while creating favorable value for the bank’s Misr’s proprietary trading equity and fixed income, local and international various stakeholders. Total income generated from the group’s activities portfolios, as well as managing the bank’s investments in the mutual funds amounted to EGP 3.5 billion during fiscal year 2015/2016, marking a yearof other banks. on-year increase of EGP 1.1 billion, which accounts for a 46% growth. Accordingly, the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) generated from Equity Participation and Direct Investments the income group’s activities over the past five years stood at 25%. The fair Banque Misr supports all efforts exerted to develop the Egyptian economy, value reserve for assets managed by the group reached EGP 3.9 billion on acting as one of the largest and most active private equity investors in June 30th, 2016, compared to EGP 3.1 billion the previous year, marking Egypt through direct shareholding in companies across a number of vital a 26% growth. economic sectors. The bank’s Capital Markets Group holds a diversified direct equity portfolio throughout different sectors, including tourism and services, Pool of Expertise: construction and housing, agriculture and food, IT and communications, T he Capital Markets Group relies on a diversified group of in-house among others. experts who are able to lead and offer a wide spectrum of integrated The bank holds equity stakes in 160 companies, with a total capitalization financial services, including managing the proprietary, listed equities of EGP 178 billion as of June 30th, 2016. and bonds portfolio of the bank. They also offer corporate advisory and The bank has endeavored to strengthen the capital structure of six transaction banking businesses (trustees and securities services), sales and companies within its direct equity portfolio by injecting EGP 18 million security trading, and distribution of diversified mutual funds. into their capital. Meanwhile, capital gains realized from the divestment of equity stakes in some companies amounted to EGP 92 million in 2015/2016. The Capital Markets Services: Investment Banking Services Mutual Funds The Capital Markets Group also provides companies, institutions, and the B anque Misr’s Mutual Funds business is one of the largest and oldest in government with a wide range of comprehensive and innovative financial the Middle East. Established in 1994, Banque Misr currently manages services to enable them to achieve their financial goals and implement eight mutual funds. The bank has a diversified range of mutual fund types their short and long-term plans. that include Money Market Funds, Balanced Funds, Equity Funds, Capital Stemming from Banque Misr’s leading role in supporting the Egyptian Guaranteed Funds and Islamic Funds. The bank’s funds aim to cater to economy, the bank plays a vital role in supporting the debt instruments in different client needs, on both the individual and corporate levels. the market, and also acts as a main pillar to fund the state’s investments In recognition of the bank’s continuous efforts to offer the best and most and activate its efforts to offer a one-stop-shop for investors. advanced services to all its esteemed clients, the leading financial advisory, The Capital Markets Group’s services in that area also included: mergers Global Finance, named Banque Misr as Best Provider of Money Market and acquisitions, transitions, bonds (both corporate and securitized), Funds in Africa and the Middle East for the years 2009 and 2010, Best privatization deals, initial public offerings (IPOs), and divestitures, as well 126 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 127 as acting as a financial advisor for corporate restructuring. Our team in the Capital Markets Group works alongside the different industries to help develop and deliver strategic and fully integrated financial Correspondent Network: solutions to our clients’ most challenging issues. The group is also active on both the Equity Capital Markets (ECM) and the Debt Capital Markets (DCM), fulfilling Banque Misr’s role in transactions B anque Misr has an extensive network of around 300 correspondent banks covering 59 countries to ensure a smooth flow of business between clients and their counterparts around the globe. Our worldwide and focusing on originating, structuring, pricing, executing, underwriting, presence through foreign branches, subsidiaries, and correspondent banks and fund raising basic fixed income securities. This comes in addition to has enabled us to provide the most efficient services to our customers, to offering securitized products for our corporate and institutional clients meet both their current and future needs. through relying primarily on our large underwriting capabilities and widely In cooperation with our correspondent banks, we provided funding distributed network. sources for foreign currency through short-term loans and business The bank has promoted and guaranteed three securitized bond issuances operations funding schemes exceeding $800 million for fiscal year during the year, totalling EGP 1.8 billion, of which the bank’s share of 2015/2016. underwriting was EGP 1 billion. Further, we played a vital role in supporting the government and the Real Estate Services private institutions in importing strategic goods, such as petroleum and The Capital Markets Group team is also responsible for managing the food goods. Banque Misr further raised a global syndicated and bilateral bank’s real estate assets portfolio, which involves the purchasing and selling term loan of $455 million in its favor. of different kinds of real estate properties on behalf of our customers. It also works on conducting real estate marketing auctions, as well as promoting industrial and touristic projects. Treasury: The bank has divested a number of its non-earning assets during fiscal year 2015/2016, generating capital gains of EGP 1.2 billion from the sale of such assets, compared to EGP 400 million a year earlier. T he treasury department plays a very important role within our banking system. Its significance as a provider of sufficient liquidity is crucial to the performance of any bank or financial institution. The Custody and Trustees Services constant availability of cash allows the bank to cater to its clients’ and corporate customers’ immediate financing needs. Our treasury Banque Misr’s Capital Markets Group custodian offers a range of services department also works on effectively investing any liquidity surplus in to meet all customers’ needs and objectives. This includes the purchasing the best and safest available methods to achieve high returns with low and selling of securities, subscribing in public offered shares and bonds risk. Moreover, it provides practical solutions through different financial on behalf of customers, as well as issuing account statements, collecting engineering tools. It also helps finance public debt by playing an active securities coupons, and offering all corporate actions for individual and role with the primary dealers, as well as in the secondary market. institutional clients alongside sub-custodian services. Banque Misr played a vital role in helping the economy overcome several financial and political crises, including the 2008 global financial crisis and Egypt’s 2011 popular uprising that ousted the state’s former president and which was followed by a long period of economic recession and a sharp drop in the country’s strategic foreign reserves and currency value. Our bank was one of the best banks in providing adequate liquidity, which had a positive impact on the national economy, boosting its performance 128 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 129 during difficult circumstances. In the context of the bank’s commitment to facilitating the mobilization of imported goods and essential services, Banque Misr allocated foreigncurrency letters of credit and documents against payment for importing B anque Misr’s Islamic banking unit adopts a sustainable framework, which incorporates the Islamic fundamental principles of accountability, morality, Islamic banking business, capacities, and a resultgoods of around $11 billion during fiscal year 2015/2016, in addition to a currency exchange service that recorded $3.6 billion. based approach to hedge against any contagion risks. A Focus on Customer Experience: Offering Creative Solutions: O ur team of professionals in the treasury department offers valuecreating ideas, innovative application of cutting-edge technology, B M was the first public bank to establish branches devoted entirely to Islamic transactions, providing banking, financial, and trading activities in line with the rules of the Islamic Shariah, to cater to the diverse and deep industry experience to our clients, helping them stay well ahead needs of our customers. The funds of such branches were separated from of the curve. Our bank is one of the first banks to invest in innovative others at Banque Misr. The branches that handle the Islamic transactions structural products that fall under the Credit Derivatives division through were also further supervised by the Shariah Committee, which encompasses international transactions room, credit linked note (CLN) and first to uniquely qualified professors of Al Azhar and Dar Al-Ifta. default (FTD), which contributed to the bank’s profits. By combining its unique heritage and tradition with the adoption of We were also the first to join the “Dollar Interbank” mechanism, modern banking techniques, underscored by technology and innovation, established in 2004. The dollar loans between banks on the local market BM has maintained its status as a leading Shariah-compliant bank in Egypt. are considered an important component in any successful free exchange In terms of Islamic retail banking activity, Banque Misr’s Islamic Banking rate system. The interbank in dollars also ensures a better functioning of Unit, “Kenana”, offers a diverse range of products, including Islamic credit the foreign exchange market in Egypt, already battling tough political cards, auto Murabaha, and durable Murabaha. and economic conditions. Acknowledged as a pioneer in the development of the Islamic financial The bank has also directly funded the state’s treasury through the purchase industry in Egypt, BM offers Islamic banking services through a network of of treasury bills and government securities with an average balance of 36 branches and offices across Egypt. All our special branches for Islamic treasury bills and bonds of EGP 201 billion in June 2016, marking a 16% finance utilize advanced computer systems to provide innovative banking increase compared to the closing figures of June 2015, and achieving a services to keep up with other banks in Egypt and abroad. With respect profit of EGP 23.1 billion. to the Islamic banking sector, the credit portfolio directed to this sector Banque Misr’s Money Market Desk also introduced new investment rose to EGP 4 billion in June 2016, up from EGP 3.1 billion in June of the tools for the dollar and euro treasury bills. The new mechanisms provided previous year. high liquidity and high returns. It is worth noting that the BM’s treasury bills portfolio reached $3.351 billion and €200 million respectively by the end of June 2016. Living Up to Customers’ Expectations: B ecause BM provides the highest standards of service to all its sectors, we expanded the Islamic banking portfolio to include new competitive products and services (Bancassurance). Banks can earn additional revenue by launching Bancassurance services to their clients at the same time. To accommodate customers’ needs, the bank has launched the Bancassurance 130 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 131 service through a partnership with one of the biggest Egyptian insurance shipments for a total value of $130 million. Banque Misr’s contribution companies, Egyptian Life Takaful Company, to provide a variety of insurance was $50 million. and investment products throughout BM’s Islamic branches. Also during fiscal year 2015/2016, the Islamic Banking Sector was the Life insurance products are fully integrated in the bank’s range of savings mandated lead arranger that participated in granting the National Port and investment products. Said Steel Company with EGP 1.84 billion to finance the construction of a greenfield steel plant in Ain Sokhna. Banque Misr’s contribution was EGP In 2015, the bank launched a new retail Islamic package that used the 300 million. Islamic Murabaha concept to finance some clients’ pilgrimage and tourism visits. Moreover, in 2015/2016 the bank launched alternative products, The Islamic Sector was granted numerous awards during the past few such as Education Murabaha. The bank also issued the Sharia-compliant years, including: Kenana Islamic credit card based on Murabaha through the Islamic Wekala IFN Dubai Awards for Al Sharqiya Sugar Manufacturing Infrastructure concept. The bank is working on launching an emergency cash withdrawal and Project Finance Deal of the Year 2014 option for the Kenana Islamic credit card. The IJGlobal Award for MENA Metals and Mining: Ain Sokhna Steel Furthermore, with the aim of meeting the needs of various customers, Plant Deal of the Year 2015 on March 21st, 2016 we developed a new type of investment products called “Islamic Treasury Products”, in collaboration with the Islamic banking sector and under the provisions of the Islamic Shariah. We succeeded in achieving a bank portfolio for the supply of the government treasury bills worth EGP 9.5 billion by the end of June 2016, compared to EGP 5.5 billion by the end of June 2015. The bank is set to soon undertake the first Islamic financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, according to the Central Bank of Egypt’s definition as enterprises with annual sales revenues worth up to EGP 100 million, along with other micro-financing products, according to its new initiatives to finance the SMEs sector. We launched five products: small-sized enterprise financing Murabaha, factory equipment financing Murabaha, medical and hospitals equipment financing Murabaha, means of private transportations financing Murabaha, schools, institutes and private universities financing Murabaha, along with other micro enterprises’ financing products. This come as part of the country’s strategic objective and Banque Misr’s national role in boosting the Egyptian economy. Supporting the National Economy: O ut of Banque Misr’s deep devotion to supporting the national economy, the Islamic Banking Sector led, during fiscal year 2015/2016, a consortium of Egyptian banks to partially finance the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) to purchase liquefied natural gas 132 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 133 King Fouad in a visit to Misr Spinning and Weaving Company in Mahala El Kobra. King Farouk at Banque Misr with Hafez Afify. King Fouad in a visit to Misr Spinning and Weaving Company in 1931, with Talaat Harb Pasha King Farouk at main entrance of Banque Misr with Hafez Afify. delivering a speech. 134 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 135 President Mohamed Naguib at Studio Misr, accompanied by Banque Misr Chairman Mohamed President Gamal Abdel Nasser in his visit to the Banque Misr Companies booth at the Industrial Roshdy and others. and Agricultural Production Fair. President Gamal Abdel Nasser in his visit to the Misr Cotton Ginning Company section at the President Anwar Sadat with Banque Misr Chairman Mr.Ahmed Fouad. Banque Misr Companies Fair. 136 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 137 President Sadat laying the foundation stone for the Banque Misr new tower. President Hosni Mubarak in a visit to one of Banque Misr’s companies. 138 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 139 Pursuant to CBE regulations, the NPLs coverage ratio and capital adequacy ratio recorded 100.1% and 11.58%, respectively. It is a great honor to present to The bank’s diversified funds aimed at meeting different corporate you our distinguished performance needs, on both the public and private levels. Our Corporate Banking and for fiscal year 2015/2016. In this Syndicated Loans portfolio has reached EGP 53 billion, registering a 27% respect, I would like to begin by growth in June 30, 2016. thanking the board members and the bank’s team, who exerted Additionally, the financial results revealed that Banque Misr has managed all efforts to enable the bank to to achieve a huge leap. Our net interest income has registered close to achieve such outstanding results EGP 11.3 billion, reflecting a year-on-year increase of EGP 2.8 billion. The and overcome any hardship. Fiscal net profit also increased to EGP 5.5 billion, after deducting the bank’s paid year 2015/2016 was marked by income tax of EGP 4.7 billion. Shareholders equity increased to record a number of positive changes approximately EGP 26.6 billion. on the political, economic and The bank also provided different financing systems that cover various financial levels; both locally and economic needs. The value of the retail banking portfolio, including the internationally. Islamic retail portfolio at Banque Misr, rose to EGP 14.5 billion in June Such challenges were mirrored 2016, recording a 52% growth rate. in our national economy, which Banque Misr also updated its Islamic banking unit to be fully compliant registered a 4.3% growth during with the principles of Islamic Shariah, to widen the investment activities the fiscal year 2015/2016, down of the bank’s Islamic branches, which reached a volume of EGP 4 billion from 4.4% in the previous fiscal in 2016. year. The country witnessed The bank’s portfolio of treasury bills in dollars rose to $3.3 billion, marking a modest performance of the tourism sector and volume of foreign a growth of 175% compared to last year. Similarly, the bank’s treasury bills investments, along with a shortage in foreign reserves needed to finance in euros have amounted to €200 million. the government’s development schemes, driven by similar economic uncertainty in Gulf region. In addition, BM also provides investment services through expanding in central depository and trading services, along with custodial, and trustee In this period of market uncertainty, Banque Misr remains the steadfast. services. The bank’s Capital Markets Group manages eight mutual funds Customers’ deposits registered a growth of approximately EGP 51.2 aimed at supporting the Egyptian capital market and catering to different billion, amounting to over EGP 341.3 billion, compared to EGP 290.1 client needs. It also offers, merger and acquisitions operations, both billion at the end of fiscal year 2014/2015, marking a 17.6% growth. corporate and securitized bonds, privatization deals, initial public offering Banque Misr currently acquires 16.1% of the total customer deposits of (IPOs), divestitures, as well as acting as a financial advisory for corporate the Egyptian banking sector. restructuring. Banque Misr’s net credit portfolio has risen to about EGP 128 billion, The Capital Markets Group has generated revenues more than EGP 3.5 marking a year-on-year rise of EGP 67 billion, representing 13.6% of the billion during fiscal year 2015/2016, in comparison with EGP 2.4 billion total credit facilities in the Egyptian-banking sector, compared to 8.9% at in the previous year, marking an increase of 46%. the end of fiscal year 2014/2015. 140 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 141 Wahid Abd ElGhaffar Sameh Saad Mohamed Abd El-megeed Baker Tilly Wahid Abdel Ghaffar & CO. Accountability State Authority (ASA) FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 2016 Public Accountants and consultants AUDITORS’ REPORT Contents ON THE SUMMERIZED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF BANQUE MISR FOR THE YEAR ENDED JUNE 30th, 2016 1 Auditors’ Report 143 2 Balance sheet 144 To: The Shareholders’ of Banque Misr (S.A.E.) We have audited the financial statements of Banque Misr (S.A.E) as of and 3 Income statement 145 for the year ending June 30th, 2016, from which the accompanying separate summarized financial statements were derived in accordance with Egyptian 4 Statement of changes in shareholders` equity 146 Standards on Auditing and in light of the provisions of applicable Egyptian laws and regulations. In our report dated January 10th, 2017 we expressed an 5 Summarized statement of cash flows 148 unqualified opinion on the bank’s financial statements as of June 30th, 2016, from which the accompanying summarized financial statements were derived. 6 Statement of profit appropriation 149 In our opinion, the accompanying summarized financial statements are 7 Summarized notes to the financial statements 150 consistent, in all material respects, with the financial statements from which they were derived as of and for the year ending June 30th, 2016. To better understand the bank’s financial position as of June 30th, 2016 and the results of its operations for the year then ended, and the scope of our audit, the summarized financial statements should be read in conjunction with the financial statements from which the summarized financial statements were derived, and our audit report thereon. 142 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 143 Summary of Banque Misr separate financial statements extracted from Bank Misr financial statements for the year ended June 30th, 2016 Banque Misr Separate Balance sheet as at June 30th, 2016 Separate Income Statement Amounts in EGP Thousand For The financial year ended June 30th, 2016 Amounts in EGP Thousand Note no June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Assets Note no June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Cash and balances with central banks 23,097,741 21,554,367 Interest on loans and similar income 32,583,821 24,777,418 Due from banks 52,532,597 25,827,274 Interest on deposits and similar expense )21,260,161( )16,240,405( Treasury bills 72,047,855 89,813,835 Net interest income 11,323,660 8,537,013 Financial assets held for trading (5) 2,212,211 315,709 Loans and advances to banks (6) 434,897 236,809 Fee and commission income 2,231,641 1,866,154 Loans and advances to customers (7) 127,946,188 63,807,209 Fee and commission expense )66,410( )15,185( Available for sale investments (8) 130,801,137 109,334,663 Net fee and commission income 2,165,231 1,850,969 Investments held to maturity (8) 496,186 363,914 Dividend income 465,341 398,680 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 4,224,966 3,881,528 Net trading income 106,992 367,944 Other assets 15,437,862 15,334,195 Gains from financial investments 279,452 357,857 Property, Plant, and Equipment (net) 971,917 702,048 Total Assets 430,203,557 331,171,551 Impairment charge for credit losses )331,592( )131,057( Administrative expenses )4,381,362( )3,623,101( Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity Liabilities Other operating income (expenses) 562,318 39,389 Due to banks 41,775,462 4,109,626 Profit before income tax 10,190,040 7,797,694 Customers’ deposits (9) 341,306,939 290,146,318 Income tax (expense) )4,683,184( )3,615,777( Other loans (10) 8,997,510 3,321,867 Net Profit for the year 5,506,856 4,181,917 Other liabilities 7,976,603 6,987,650 Other provisions (11) 927,655 1,384,470 Earnings per share (EGP/Share) )15( 1.69 1.60 Deferred tax liabilities 415,704 249,114 Post retirement benefits liabilities (12) 2,217,231 1,706,439 Total Liabilities 403,617,104 307,905,484 Shareholders’ Equity Paid in capital (13) 15,000,000 15,000,000 Reserves (14) 6,079,597 4,084,150 Retained earnings 5,506,856 4,181,917 Total shareholders’ equity 26,586,453 23,266,067 Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 430,203,557 331,171,551 Contingent Liabilities and Commitments Liabilities for letters of guarantee, letters 25,760,044 22,910,555 of credit and other commitments The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements 144 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 145 Banque Misr Statement of Changes in Shareholder’s Equity For The financial year ended June 30th, 2016 Amounts in EGP Thousand Fixed Assets F.C Banking Note Paid in Legal General Capital Fair Value Special Supportive Prices Translation Retained Risks Reserve Total no Capital Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Reserve Increased Differences Earnings Reserve Reserve Reserve Balance as at July 1st, 2014 11,400,000 465,753 449,892 252,004 3,447,943 6,927 545,599 774,798 40,796 179,593 2,515,015 20,078,320 Dividends paid )767,500( )767,500( Transferred to reserves 248,655 219,310 28,462 44,803 1,206,285 )1,747,515( Net change in fair value of available )169,900( )169,900( for sale investments (net of tax) Foreign currency translation )56,770( )56,770( differences Capital increase 3,600,000 )671,331( )669,202( )280,466( )1,938,205( )40,796( Net profit for the year 4,181,917 4,181,917 Balance as at June 30th, 2015 13,14 15,000,000 43,077 3,278,043 6,927 590,402 42,878 122,823 4,181,917 23,266,067 Balance as at July 1st, 2015 15,000,000 43,077 3,278,043 6,927 590,402 42,878 122,823 4,181,917 23,266,067 Dividends paid )1,075,000( )1,075,000( Transferred to reserves 394.452 237,396 277,448 1,870,359 )3,106,917( Net change in fair value of available 327,262 )1,365,426( )1,365,426( for sale investments (net of tax) Foreign currency translation differ253,956 253,956 ences Net profit 5,506,856 5,506,856 Balance as at June 30th, 2016 13,14 15,000,000 437,529 327,262 237,396 1,912,617 6,927 867,850 1,913,237 376,779 5,506,856 26,586,453 146 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 147 Banque Misr Banque Misr Summarized Separate Statement of Cash Flows Summarized Statement of Separate Profit Appropriation for the financial year ended June 30th, 2016 For the financial year ended June 30th, 2016 Amounts in EGP Thousand According to the General Assembly Decision on February 27th, 2017 Amounts in EGP Thousand June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Net cash flows provided from operating activities 44,093,608 26,343,133 June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Net cash (used in) investing activities (21,136,195) (29,398,233) Net Profit for the year 5,506,856 4,181,917 Net cash flows provided from financing activities 4,318,561 8,731 Deduct Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash Gain on sale of property, plant, and equipment equivalents during the year 27,275,974 (3,046,369) 730,726 237,397 transferred to capital reserve Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 29,735,208 32,781,577 Gross distributable profit 4,776,130 3,944,520 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 57,011,182 29,735,208 Deduct Cash and cash equivalents are represented in : Legal reserve 477,613 394,452 Cash and balances with central banks 23,097,741 21,554,367 General banking risk reserve 815,070 277,448 Due from banks 52,532,597 25,827,274 General Reserve 348,345 327,262 Treasury bills 72,047,855 89,813,835 Net distributable profit 3,135,102 2,945,358 Balances with central banks (within the mandatory Distributed as follows reserve percentage ) (18,624,689) (16,590,338) Supportive Reserve 1,797,602 1,870,358 Due from banks (more than three months maturity) (173,120) (1,075,301) Employees share in profit 437,500 225,000 Treasury bills and other government securities State share in profit 900,000 850,000 (more than three months maturity) (71,869,202) (89,794,629) 3,135,102 2,945,358 Cash and cash equivalents 57,011,182 29,735,208 148 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 149 and transactions in other currencies are recorded during the financial year using the prevailing exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Monetary Summarized notes to the separate financial statements for the year ended assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated on June 30th, 2016 the balance sheet date at the prevailing exchange rates. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from settlement and translation of such transactions 1General Information and balances are recognized in the income statement and reported under the Banque Misr (S.A.E.) was established on April 3rd, 1920 as a commercial following items: bank. The head office is located at 151, Mohamed Farid Street, Cairo. Net Trading Income. (Case of held-for-trading financial assets). The bank carries out corporate, retail, and investment banking, in addition Other operating revenues (expenses) for the remaining items. to Islamic banking, through 511 branches in the Arab Republic of Egypt, five branches in the U.A.E., and one branch in Paris, France. The number of Changes in the fair value of investments in debt instruments, which represent employees at the balance sheet date is 14,110 employees. monetary financial instruments, denominated in foreign currencies and classified as available-for-sale assets, are analyzed into valuation differences These financial statements were approved during the general assembly resulting from changes in the amortized cost of the instrument, differences meeting on February 27th, 2017. resulting from changes in the applicable exchange rates, and differences 2Summary of Accounting Policies resulting from changes in the fair value of the instrument. The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Valuation differences resulting from changes in the amortized cost are financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently recognized and reported in the income statement in ‘interest income’, applied in all years presented, unless stated otherwise. whereas differences resulting from changes in foreign exchange rates are recognized and reported in ‘other operating revenues (expenses)’. The ABasis of Preparation remaining differences resulting from changes in fair value are deferred in The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the equity and accumulated in the ‘revaluation reserve of available-for-sale Egyptian financial accounting standards issued in 2006 and its amendments investments’. in accordance with the Central Bank of Egypt’s regulations approved by the Valuation differences arising from the measurement of non-monetary items at Board of Directors on December 16th, 2008, consistent with the standards fair value include gains or losses resulting from changes in foreign currency referred to and on the basis of historical cost convention, as modified by exchange rates used to translate those items. Total fair value changes arising the revaluation of financial assets held for trading and available for sale from the measurement of equity instruments classified as at fair value through investments. According to the bank's statute, the financial year begins on the profit or loss are recognized in the income statement, whereas total fair first of July and ends on June 30th, and the financial statements are presented value changes arising from the measurement of equity instruments classified close to the nearest thousands of pounds. as available-for-sale financial assets are recognized directly in equity in the B-Foreign Currency Translation ‘revaluation reserve of available-for-sale investments’. B/1 Functional and Presentation Currency B/3 Foreign Branches The separate financial statements are presented in Egyptian pounds. Items For the purpose of translation into Egyptian pounds, assets and liabilities of included in the financial statements of each of the bank’s foreign branches foreign branches are translated using the closing rate at the balance sheet date, are measured using their functional currency, being the basic currency of the while items of income and expense are translated into Egyptian pounds at the economic environment in which the foreign branch operates. rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions, or average rates of exchange, B/2 Transaction and Balances in Foreign Currencies where these are approximate to actual rates. Resulting valuation differences are recognized as foreign currency valuation differences under the equity caption. Each branch maintains its accounting records in its functional currency 150 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 151 CRevenue Recognition DTreasury Bills C/1 Interest Income and Expense Treasury bills are recorded at par value, while discount (un-earned interest) is included in Credit Balances and Other Liabilities. Treasury bills are presented Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, except for those on the balance sheet net of unearned interest. classified as held-for-trading or designated at fair value, are recognized in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement, using the EPurchase and Resale Agreements, and Sale and Repurchase Agreements effective interest method. Securities that may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between parties (repos) are reclassified in the financial statements and deducted from to the contract, that represents an integral part of the effective interest rate, the treasury bills balance. Securities borrowed or purchased subject to a transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts. commitment to resell them (reverse repos) are reclassified in the financial statements and added to the treasury bills balance. The difference between C/2 Fee and Commission Income purchase and resale price is treated as interest and accrued over the life of the Fees charged for servicing a loan or facility that is measured at amortized agreements using the effective interest method. cost are recognized as revenue as the service is provided. FLoans and Advances to Banks and Customers Fees and commissions on non-performing or impaired loans or receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or cease to be recognized as income and are rather recorded off the balance determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. sheet. These are recognized as revenue, on a cash basis, only when interest income on those loans is recognized in profit and loss at that time. Fees and GImpairment of Financial Assets commissions that represent an integral part of the effective interest rate of a G/1 Financial Assets Carried at Amortized Cost financial asset are treated as an adjustment to the effective interest rate of that financial asset. The bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. A Fees are recognized on the debt instruments that are measured at fair value financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses through profit and loss on initial recognition. Syndicated loan fees received are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of by the bank are recognized when the syndication has been completed and one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a the bank does not hold any portion of it or holds a part at the same effective ‘loss event’) and that loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated interest rate used for the other participants’ portions. future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be Fees and commissions resulting from negotiating, or participating in the reliably estimated. negotiation of, a transaction for a third party – such as the arrangement of the If the bank determines that no objective evidence of impairment exists for acquisition of shares or other securities or the purchase or sale of businesses – an individually assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, it includes are recognized upon completion of the underlying transaction in the income the asset in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics statement. and collectively assesses them for impairment according to historical default Administrative and other services fees are recognized as income on a time ratios. proportionate basis over the lifetime of the service. If the bank determines that objective evidence of financial asset impairment Fees charged for custodian services provided over long periods are recognized exists that are individually assessed for impairment and for which an impairment as income over the period during which the service is rendered. loss is or continues to be recognized are not included in a collective assessment of impairment. C/3 Dividends Income If the bank determines that there is not an impairment loss based on the Dividends are recognized in the income statement when the right to collect previous study, the asset is added to the group. them is declared. 152 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 153 The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s JHeld-to-Maturity Investments carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows Investments held-to-maturity are non-derivative financial assets with fixed (excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the or determinable payments and fixed maturities that the bank management has financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognized in the income statement. Debt investments held-to-maturity are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, which represents the nominal value of bonds, plus G/2 Available-for-sale Investments the premium or minus the discount. The premium is amortized by deduction The bank assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective on the income statement or the discount is amortized by addition to the evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets classify under income statement on the interest on loans and similar income item by using available-for-sale is impaired. In the case of equity investments classified as the effective interest rate method. Thus, the nominal value and the nominal available-for-sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the recoverable value become the same on the maturity date. security below its cost is considered in determining whether the assets are The same method of valuation is used if the bonds have been purchased from impaired. The decrease is considered significant when it becomes 10% of the the stock market with a value higher or lower than the nominal value (taking cost of book value of the financial instrument, and the decrease is considered into consideration deducting the implicit interest that may be a part of the to be extended if it continues for a period of more than nine months. If the acquisition cost which belongs to the period prior to the acquisition date mentioned evidence becomes available, then the accumulated loss is to be and was not received by the seller). transferred from the equity and disclosed at the income statement. Impairment losses recognized in the income statement on equity instruments are not In the case of bonds purchased in foreign currency, these bonds are valued reversed through the income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair using the prevailing exchange rates and the inclusion of valuation differences value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the in the income statement in other operating revenues (expenses) prior to increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment adjustments relating to premium, discount, or determining impairment losses. loss was recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the income statement. Banque Misr mutual funds certificates, which the bank is required by law HFinancial Assets Held-for-Trading to hold until fund liquidation, are included as held-to-maturity investments according to the Central Bank of Egypt regulations, and are measured at cost. A financial asset is classified as held-for-trading if it is acquired principally Any decrease in redemption value below cost is recognized as impairment for the purpose of selling in the near future or if it is a part of a portfolio of in the income statement. Impairment loss previously recognized is reversed identified financial instruments that are managed together for short-term profit in case of subsequent increase. The reversal cannot result in a carrying value taking. Financial assets held-for-trading are measured at fair value. Unrealized greater than original cost. holding gains and losses are recognized in the income statement. KInvestments in Subsidiaries and Associates IAvailable-for-Sale Investments Subsidiaries are entities (including special purpose entities) in which Banque Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are Misr exercises direct or indirect control over their financial and operating either designated as available-for-sale or do not fit into any other category policies, and usually has an ownership share of more than half of its voting of financial assets. Available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value. rights. The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently Unrealized holding gains and losses are included in a separate component of exercisable or convertible are considered in assessing whether the bank has equity until the financial asset is sold or impaired. At this time, the cumulative the ability to control the entity. Associates are entities over which Banque Misr gain or loss previously recognized in equity is recognized in the income exercises significant influence directly or indirectly, but without exercising statement. control. Generally the bank owns between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. 154 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 155 The purchase method is used to account for the acquisitions of subsidiaries by banks, and treasury bills maturing within three months of the acquisition date. the bank. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, OPost-retirement Benefits Liabilities and/or assets given and/or equity instruments issued and loans assumed at the date of exchange, plus the cost directly attributable to the acquisition. Net Banque Misr provides its employees with various post-retirement benefits assets, including contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination, are that are charged to their salaries throughout their period of employment. measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the Moreover, these benefits are recognized as part of the bank’s commitment to minority interest. The excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of bank`s employees, in accordance with the Egyptian Accounting Standards of 2006, share in the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the acquisition cost and the Central Bank of Egypt regulations issued in December 2008. Costs is less than the fair value of the net assets, the difference is recognized directly arising from the benefits program earned by employees at the end of the fiscal in the income statement under the item “Other operating income (expenses)”. year are calculated according to the current value of expected future financial inflows. An actuarial expert calculates this using the estimated unit of credit, Accounting for subsidiaries and associates in these separate financial which takes into account hypotheticals such as population science, employee statements is recorded by using cost method. According to this method, turnover rates, interest rates, and inflation. Banque Misr also provides the investments are recorded at cost of acquisition, including goodwill if any employees in its foreign branches, in the UAE and France, with end-of-service exists, and impairment losses are deducted. Dividends are recorded in the benefits, in accordance with the laws of those countries. separate income statement when they are declared and the bank`s right to collect them has been established. POther Provisions LDerivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting Other provisions are recognized when the bank has present legal or Derivatives are recognized initially, and subsequently, at fair value. Fair constructive obligations as a result of past events; where it is more likely values of exchange traded derivatives are obtained from the quoted market than not that a transfer of economic benefit will be necessary to settle the price. Fair value of over–the–counter derivatives are obtained using valuation obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. techniques, including discounted cash flow models and option pricing models. Derivatives are classified as assets when their fair value is positive In case of similar obligations, the related cash outflow should be determined and as liabilities when their fair value is negative. in order to settle these obligations as a group. The provision is recognized even in case of a minor probability that cash outflow will occur for an item of MFixed Assets & Depreciation these obligations. Fixed assets are recorded at historical cost, minus depreciation and When a provision is wholly or partially no longer required, it is reversed impairment losses. Depreciation of fixed assets is calculated using the straightthrough profit or loss under other operating income (expenses). line method to allocate their residual values over estimated useful lives, as follows: Provisions are measured at the present value of the expected required expenditures to settle obligations after one year from the financial statement Buildings & 5% Vehicles From 20% up to 25% construction date using the appropriate rate, in accordance with the terms of settlement, Equipment 12.5% Furniture 100% while ignoring the tax effect which reflects the time value of money. If the IT equipment From 25% up to 100% Fixtures From 12.5% up to 33.5% settlement term is less than one year, the estimated value of obligation is calculated. NCash and Cash Equivalents QIncome Tax For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash and balances due from the Central Bank of Egypt, current accounts with Income tax on the profit or loss for the year and deferred tax are recognized in the income statement, excluding the income tax relating to items of equity 156 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 157 that are recognized directly in equity. by the bank’s management through employing techniques based on the guidelines developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The Income tax is recognized based on net taxable profit using the tax rates required data is submitted to the Central Bank of Egypt on a quarterly basis. applicable at the date of the balance sheet, in addition to tax adjustments for previous years. The Central Bank of Egypt requires the following: Deferred taxes arising from temporary time differences between the book Maintaining EGP 500 million as a minimum requirement for the issued value of assets and liabilities are recognized in accordance with the principles and paid-in capital. of accounting and value, according to the foundations of the tax. This is Maintaining a minimum capital adequacy ratio of 10%, calculated as the calculated through determining the value of deferred taxes on the expected ratio between total value of the capital elements, and the risk-weighted manner to realize or settle the values of assets and liabilities, using tax rates average of the bank’s assets and contingent liabilities. applicable at the date of the balance sheet. Deferred tax assets are recognized when there is possibility to achieve future taxable profits through the usage of Overseas branches are subject to the supervision rules regulating banking that asset, and is reducing the value of deferred tax assets with part of that will business in the countries in which they operate. come from tax benefit expected during the following years, that in the case of The bank has complied with all local capital requirements and these in the expected high benefit tax, deferred tax assets will increase within the limits of countries in which its overseas branches operate during the last two years. The the above reduced. Central Bank of Egypt board meeting held on December 18th, 2012 decreed 3Financial Risk Management the approval of the instructions of minimum capital adequacy in the context of applying Basel II. The following table summarizes the components of tier one The bank’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks and those capital, subordinated capital, and capital adequacy ratio as of the end of the activities involve the analysis, evaluation, acceptance and management of fiscal year that ended on June 30th, 2016, and compared to the previous year, some degree of risk or combination of risks. Taking risk is key to the financial in accordance with CBE regulations issued on Basel II applications: business, and the operational risks are an inevitable consequence of being in business. The bank’s aim is therefore to achieve an appropriate balance between risk and return and minimize potential adverse effects on the bank’s June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 financial performance. The most important types of financial risks are credit Capital risk, market risk, liquidity risk, and other operating risks. Market risk includes Tier 1 Capital 19,093,623 16,039,233 exchange rate risk, rate of return risk, and other prices risks. Tier 2 Capital 3,400,225 3,616,901 The bank’s risk management policies are designed to identify and analyze Total Capital 22,493,848 19,656,134 these risks, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks Total risk weighted assets and contingent liabilities 194,258,609 156,072,840 and adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-to-date information Capital adequacy ratio 11.58% 12.59% systems. The bank regularly reviews its risk management policies and systems to reflect changes in markets, products, and emerging best practices. 4Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments Risk management is carried out by a risk department under policies approved The bank makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts by the Board of Directors. The risk department identifies, evaluates and of assets and liabilities within the next financial year. Estimates and judgments hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the bank’s operating units. In are continually evaluated and based on historical experience and other factors, addition, the risk department is responsible for the independent review of risk including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable management and the control environment. under the circumstances and available information. Capital Management AImpairment of Loans and Advances Capital adequacy and the use of regulatory capital are monitored periodically The bank reviews its loans and advances portfolio, on a quarterly basis, 158 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 159 at least, to assess impairment. The bank uses its discretionary judgment in 5Financial assets held for trading determining whether it is necessary to recognize impairment loss in the Amounts in EGP Thousand income statement. This requires it to identify any reliable evidence indicating June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 measurable decline in the expected future cash flows from the loan portfolio Debt instruments before identifying any decline for each individual loan. Other debt securities 2,126,616 220,704 This evidence includes data indicating negative change in the ability of a Total Debt instruments 2,126,616 220,704 Equity instruments portfolio of borrowers to repay the bank, or local and economic circumstances Local shares 79,761 88,451 related to default. Mutual fund certificates 5,834 6,554 On scheduling future cash flows, the management uses estimates based on Total equity instruments 85,595 95,005 previous experience related to impairment of assets having similar credit risks. Total financial assets held for trading 2,212,211 315,709 Such experience refers to impairment similar to that of the portfolio in question. 6Loans and Advances to Banks The methods and assumptions used in estimating both the amount and timing Amounts in EGP Thousand of the future cash flows are reviewed on a regular basis to minimize any discrepancy between the estimated loss and actual loss based on expertise. June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Term loans 446,707 247,873 B. Impairment of Available-for-sale Equity Investments Less: provision for loan losses )11,810( )11,064( The bank determines that available-for-sale equity investments are impaired Total 434,897 236,809 when there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value below its 7Loans and Advances to Customers cost. This determination of what is significant or prolonged requires judgment. Amounts in EGP Thousand In making this judgment, the bank evaluates, among other factors, the normal volatility in share price. In addition, impairment may be appropriate when June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 there is evidence of a deterioration in the financial health of the investee, (1) Retail operational and financing cash flows, industry and sector performance, and Overdraft 1,528,415 1,589,764 changes in technology. Credit card loans 223,609 180,883 Personal loans 13,522,069 8,390,053 Mortgages loans 806,935 226,885 Total retail 16,081,028 10,387,585 (2) Corporate Loans (including loans to small businesses) Overdraft 27,485,571 20,021,742 Direct loans 68,790,992 20,620,887 Syndicated loans 18,488,837 17,620,294 other loans 1,882,278 308,238 Total Corporate 116,647,678 58,571,161 Total loans and advances to customers (1+2) 132,728,706 68,958,746 Deduct: provision for loan losses )4,646,795( )5,009,130( Deduct: unearned discount and interest in suspense )135,723( )142,407( Net loans and advances to customers 127,946,188 63,807,209 Gross loans distributed to: Current 91,674,330 28,931,753 41,054,376 40,026,993 Non-Current 132,728,706 68,958,746 160 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 161 Impairment from Loans Provision for Customers 8Financial Investments Amounts in EGP Thousand Movement analysis of the impairment provision of loans and advances for customers June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Amounts in EGP Thousand (A) Available-for-sale investments Debt instruments Listed 109,699,162 88,635,968 June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 NonPerforming Total NonPerforming Total Equity instruments Listed 7,963,292 9,027,177 Performing Loans Performing Loans Debt instruments Unlisted 8,780,000 8,234,014 Loans Loans Equity instruments Unlisted 4,358,683 3,437,504 Total available-for-sale investments (1) 130,801,137 109,334,663 Balance at the 4,032,813 976,317 5,009,130 7,765,340 826,491 8,591,831 B) Held-to-maturity Investment beginning of the year Debt instruments Listed 137,007 29,250 Transfers 0 0 0 3,846 8,428 12,274 Debt instruments Unlisted 71,384 71,384 Impairment during Equity instruments Unlisted 287,795 263,280 264,742 69,588 334,330 53,734 167,573 221,307 the year Total held-to-maturity investments (2) 496,186 363,914 Total financial Investments (1+2) 131,297,323 109,698,577 Recoveries of loans 423,498 0 423,498 260,115 0 260,115 Current 38,260,399 17,053,689 previously written off Non-current 93,036,924 92,644,888 Foreign currency revaluation 166,605 91,885 258,490 136,215 )26,175( 110,040 Total financial Investments (1+2) 131,297,323 109,698,577 differences Write-offs )1,378,653( 0 )1,378,653( )4,186,437( 0 )4,186,437( Balance at the end The following table analyzes movements on financial investments during the year: of the year 3,509,005 1,137,790 4,646,795 4,032,813 976,317 5,009,130 Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity investments investments Beginning balance on July 1st , 2015 109,334,663 363,914 Analysis of the impairment provision of loans and advances for individuals Additions 45,954,415 169,509 Item Individuals Deductions )24,312,714( )30,801( Personal Overdrafts Credit Cards Mortgages Total Loans Translation differences resulting from 1,323,374 June 30th, 2016 98,433 959 69,498 8,382 177,272 monetary foreign currency assets June 30th, 2015 152,348 2,666 256,826 8,340 420,180 Gains (losses) from fair value difference )1,198,836( Impairment charges )299,765( )6,436( Balance at end of year June 30th, 2016 130,801,137 496,186 Analysis of the impairment provision of loans and advances for individuals Beginning balance on July 1st, 2014 79,537,575 503,902 Item Corporate Addition 46,725,905 29,250 Syndicated Deduction )16,836,945( )166,691( Overdrafts Direct Loans Other Loans Total Loans June 30th, 2016 2,075,579 1,005,124 1,312,149 76,671 4,469,523 Translation differences resulting from 414,804 348 monetary foreign currency assets June 30th, 2015 2,851,609 718,617 1,002,846 15,878 4,588,950 Gains (losses) from fair value difference )151,310( Impairment charges )355,366( )2,895( Balance at end of year June 30th, 2015 109,334,663 363,914 162 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 163 (9) Customers’ Deposits 10Other Loans Amounts in EGP Thousand Amounts in EGP Thousand June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Matured Items Interest Through Balance as of Balance as of Demand deposits 23,260,368 19,748,364 Rate Current June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Call and time deposits 76,114,819 79,829,748 Year Saving certificates 127,076,600 85,698,151 Danish International Development Nil 4,131 6,196 8,900 Saving deposits 104,867,796 98,736,038 Assistance (DANIDA) Other deposits 9,987,356 6,134,017 Total 341,306,939 290,146,318 Danish International Development Nil 12,519 24,667 32,045 Assistance (DANIDA) Corporate deposits 92,004,225 90,020,833 Social Development Fund (SDF) 7% 0 0 1,199 Retail deposits 249,302,714 200,125,485 Total 341,306,939 290,146,318 Social Development Fund (SDF) 4% 108 108 539 Central Bank of Egypt Subordinated Nil 0 1,569,445 1,397,984 Non-interest bearing balances 22,081,166 18,304,801 Deposit Variable interest rate balances 141,078,651 128,865,414 Central Bank of Egypt Subordinated Nil 0 896,003 785,382 Fixed interest rate balances 178,147,122 142,976,103 Deposit Total 341,306,939 290,146,318 Social Development Fund (SDF) 7% 17,000 17,000 51,000 Social Development Fund (SDF) 8.50% 16,875 42,188 59,063 Current 230,139,149 217,759,369 Non-current 111,167,790 72,386,949 Egyptian Mortgage Refinance Company 10.25% 2,944 16,111 17,444 Total 341,306,939 290,146,318 Social Development Fund (SDF) 8.50% 10,000 30,000 40,000 Social Development Fund (SDF) 8.50% 28,000 89,000 70,000 Social Fund loans – Bedaia 8.50% 7,500 26,250 30,000 with Long-term loans from foreign banks 0 3,994,900 0 interest with Short-term loans from foreign banks 2,285,642 2,285,642 828,311 interest Total Other Loans 8,997,510 3,321,867 Current 2,384,719 920,753 Non-current 6,612,791 2,401,114 Total Other Loans 8,997,510 3,321,867 164 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 165 11Other Provisions 14Reserves Amounts in EGP Thousand According to the bank’s statute, 10% of net profit is to be credited to legal June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 reserve. Crediting legal reserve ceases when its balance reaches 100% Provision for legal claims and taxes 569,078 971,321 of the paid-In capital. Provision for contingent liabilities 348,952 408,487 According to the Central Bank of Egypt’s instructions, it is not permissible Other 9,625 4,662 to use special reserves balances without the central bank’s approval. Total 927,655 1,384,470 Amounts in EGP Thousand 12Post-retirement Benefits Liabilities June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Amounts recognized in the balance sheet Legal reserve 437,529 43,077 June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 General reserve 327,262 0 Capital reserve 237,396 0 Post-retirement medical benefits 1,989,352 1,560,336 End-of-service benefits 227,879 146,103 Supportive reserve 1,913,237 42,878 Total 2,217,231 1,706,439 Fair value reserve 1,912,617 3,278,043 Special reserve 6,927 6,927 Amounts recognized in the income statement General banking risk reserve 867,850 590,402 Liabilities for post-retirement medical benefits 539,820 483,133 Financial statements translation differences reserve 376,779 122,823 Liabilities for end-of-service benefits 67,788 24,284 Total reserves 6,079,597 4,084,150 Balances at the end of the year 607,608 507,417 The main actuarial assumptions used by the bank are outlined below 15) Earnings per share Discount rate 11% 11% June 30th, 2016 June 30th, 2015 Long-term inflation rate 8% 8% Net profit attributable to the shareholder 5,069,356 3,956,917 (thousand EGP) (1) 13Paid in capital and reserves Divided by weighted average number of shares 3,000,000 2,469,370 (thousands of shares) (2) A. Authorized Capital Earnings per share (EGP) (1:2) 1.69 1.60 Based on the extraordinary general assembly meeting on March 22nd, 2015 the authorized capital has been increased from EGP 15 billion to EGP 30 billion. 16Comparative figures Comparative figures were reclassified to be consistent with current year B. Issued and Paid-in Capital presentation. Based on the extraordinary general assembly meeting on March 22nd, 17Subsequent Events 2015, the paid-in capital has been increased by EGP 3.6 billion through capitalization of reserves. Accordingly, the issued and paid-in capital reached On November 3rd, 2016 the Central Bank of Egypt issued a decision relating EGP 15 billion divided into 3 billion shares totally owned by the state with par to the liberalization of the foreign currency exchange rate against the Egyptian value of EGP 5 per share. This increase was registered in the Central Bank of pound, which resulted in a substantial increase in foreign currency exchange Egypt’s (CBE) banks records and was published in the official gazette on April rates. 12th, 2015 and registered in the commercial registry on April 15th, 2015. 166 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 BANQUE MISR ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015/2016 167
