UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 “British Land has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2009. I am pleased to reaffirm our support for its principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue to advance our approach in each of these important areas through our 2020 sustainability strategy. This is integrated into our placemaking strategy, governance and business operations.” Chris Grigg, Chief Executive Officer at British Land The table below outlines where our actions, policies and progress on the UN Global Compact principles can be assessed. Principles Information Principles Information Human rights www.britishland.com/about-us Labour www.britishland.com/about-us 1. Businesses should support • Diversity and inclusion 3. Businesses should uphold • Diversity and inclusion and respect the protection www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy the freedom of association www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy of internationally and the effective • Skills and opportunity; Materiality • Skills and opportunity; Materiality proclaimed human rights; recognition of the right to and www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance collective bargaining; www.britishland.com/careers 2. Make sure that they are • Governance; Suppliers; Modern Slavery Act 4. The elimination of all forms • Life at British Land; Benefits and rewards not complicit in human Disclosure of forced and compulsory www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance rights abuses. www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance labour; • Governance; Suppliers; Modern Slavery Act • Progress on targets: Contracts Supply Chain 5. The effective abolition of Disclosure Charter compliant child labour; and www.britishland.com/policies www.britishland.com/data 6. The elimination of • Sustainability Policy • Fig. 39 Supplier Workforce discrimination in respect of • Supply Chain Charter and Risk Maps www.britishland.com/policies employment and occupation. • Health and Safety Policies and Guidance • Sustainability Policy Our internal Employee Handbook policies include • Supply Chain Charter and Risk Maps Equal Opportunities. • Whistleblowing www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance Our internal Employee Handbook policies include • Performance Overview; Progress on Targets Equal Opportunities. www.britishland.com/data www.britishland.com/annualreport • Figs. 4-7 Health and safety • Pages 24-25 Expert People • Fig. 12 Considerate Constructors • Figs. 35-36 Apprentices • Fig. 39 Supplier workforce • Figs. 41-48 Group employment www.britishland.com/annualreport • Pages 24-25 Expert People British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Principles Information Principles Information Environment www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy Anti-Corruption www.britishland.com/about-us/governance 7. Businesses should support • Wellbeing; Futureproofing; Materiality 10. Businesses should work • Structure and committees a precautionary approach www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance against corruption in all its www.britishland.com/sustainability/governance to environmental forms, including extortion • Governance; Suppliers • Governance; Suppliers challenges; and bribery. www.britishland.com/policies www.britishland.com/data 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater • Sustainability Policy • Fig. 48 Employee training environmental • Supply Chain Charter and Risk Maps www.britishland.com/policies responsibility; and • Sustainability Briefs for Acquisitions • Sustainability Policy 9. Encourage the • Sustainability Brief for Developments • Supply Chain Charter and Risk Maps development and diffusion www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy of environmentally friendly technologies. • Performance Overview; Progress on targets • Whistleblowing www.britishland.com/data www.britishland.com/annualreport • Fig. 3 Biodiversity • Pages 65 and 70 • Fig. 13 Sustainability ratings • Figs. 14-15 Financial • Figs. 16-19 Carbon emissions • Figs. 20-25 Energy use • Figs. 26-28 Water use • Figs. 29-32 Waste and materials • Figs. 33-34 Physical risks www.britishland.com/sustainabilityreport • CDP Report 2016 • Scope 3 Insights 2016 www.britishland.com/annualreport • Page 38 Climate related performance • Pages 172-173 Sustainability performance measures For examples of our 2020 sustainability strategy in action, visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/blogs British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Sustainable Development Goals Our 2020 sustainability strategy focus areas support many of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as outlined below. Sustainable development goals We support this through Other relevant links our focus on Visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/strategy for insights into: SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing Wellbeing • Opportunities and responsibilities that SDGs represent to our business. for all at all ages. • Where our priorities lie with respect to SDGs. SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Community Visit www.britishland.com/sustainability/performance for: education and promote lifelong learning opportunities Skills and opportunity • Goals and indicators set by our company with respect to SDGs. for all. Visit www.britishland.com/stakeholders and www.britishland.com/suppliers for: SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all Diversity and inclusion • How our activities related to the SDGs are undertaken in collaboration with other women and girls. Skills and opportunity stakeholders. SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Futureproofing sustainable and modern energy for all. SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Skills and opportunity For primary reporting on our sustainability progress, see our economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Annual Report and Accounts, where we integrate economic, social and environmental information: www.britishland.com/annualreport SDG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote Placemaking inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster Futureproofing innovation. For detailed data on our 2020 sustainability strategy performance, SDG 10: Reduce inequality within and among Diversity and inclusion see our Sustainability Accounts: www.britishland.com/data countries. Skills and opportunity SDG 11: Make cities and human settlements Wellbeing inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. Futureproofing About British Land SDG 12: Ensure sustainable consumption and Futureproofing production patterns. British Land is a leading UK commercial property company focused on high quality SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate Futureproofing retail and London offices. Our objective is to deliver sustainable long term value for all our stakeholders. We do this by creating Places People Prefer. change and its impacts. SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote sustainable Wellbeing use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Futureproofing forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for Placemaking sustainable development, provide access to justice for Community all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. British Land UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017
