100 th ANNIVERSARY TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Preface The Spirit of TOTO Unchanging for 100 Years Words of Our Founder Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management Company Kindness must always come first. Mottos Bring the concept of service to your work. TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy Your goal should be to provide good products and Charter of TOTO Group satisfy the customer. Corporate Behavior Accomplish that, and profit and Common Group Philosophy compensation will follow. The common group philosophy represents Many in this world chase after the shadow of profit. the inherited values of TOTO that are shared among employees and will be carried forward into the future. But, in the end, they never capture the real thing. Heart A letter written by the TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika Okura, to his successor, Saburo Momoki, contains words that have Body been treasured as the Words of Our Founder. In 1962, we formulated the Company Mottos based on Visions for Business Activities our corporate activities in the future while respecting the Our vision and mission are positioned tradition of TOTO’s founding. as the course of our business activities that change in accordance with the demands of the times. These established ideas from our founding are formulated into philosophy system for TOTO group management so they are Vision appropriate for this time and can be shared by the TOTO Group. Mission Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Contents Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources 1 Preface 9 Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan 25 Corporate Governance 3 Message from the President 11 Global Housing Equipment Business: Japan Housing 27 Board of Directors 5 TOTO Group Value Creation Equipment Business 29 CSR Management 13 Global Housing Equipment Business: China & Asia Housing 30 Stakeholder Engagement Equipment Business and Americas & Europe Housing 31 For Customer Satisfaction Equipment Business 33 All Employees Together 15 New Business Domains: Advanced Ceramics Business / Green Building Materials Business 34 Together with Suppliers 16 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities: Marketing Innovation 35 For the Society 17 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities: Demand Chain 36 Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Innovation/ Management Resource Innovation Investors 18 Strengthen Corporate Governance 37 Recent Evaluations by External Parties 19 TOTO Global Environmental Vision 21 Focus 38 Corporate Data 1 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage. WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/ profile/philosophy/ Company Mottos Company Mottos Company Mottos represent the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations. Take pride in your work, and strive to do your best Quality and Uniformity TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy Service and Trust Our corporate philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our Cooperation and Prosperity stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by people all around the world, and contributing to the The Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior stipulates the basic betterment of society. stance of behavior of all people working for TOTO Group to realize all To achieve our philosophy, TOTO will: stakeholders’ satisfaction. Create an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our For details regarding the Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior, please see the plumbing products. Common Group Philosophy section on our website at: http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/profile/philosophy/group/ Pursue customer satisfaction by exceeding expectations with our products and services. Provide high-quality products and services through ongoing research and development. Protect the global environment by conserving finite natural resources and energy. Create an employee friendly work environment that respects the Vision individuality of each employee. Toward a Dynamic, Vibrant and Excellent TOTO Mission Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan TOTO V-Plan 2017 is our business roadmap through fiscal 2017 TOTO CORPORATE REPORT 2017 Editorial Policy TOTO Group Website This report has been published as an integrated communication tool for all of our stakeholders. This report introduces The TOTO Group website offers a broad array information such as the origins of the TOTO Group and business activity topics in addition to annual financial/ESG of information about our business organiza(Environmental, Social, and Governance) data. In addition, it communicates TOTO’s corporate stance to be committed tion and activities. As such, it provides to linking its past and present performance with initiatives designed to further enhance corporate value for the future. stakeholders of all types with information that complements the content provided in our Period of reporting Corporate Report. FY2016 (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017) * This report includes some information pertaining to before or after the period. Scope of reporting WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/ TOTO LTD. and Group companies Guidelines Financial and Non-financial Data Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Information on key financial indicators and Reference guidelines are available on the TOTO Group website. environmental and social matters can be http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/csr/stakeholder/gri/ found on our website. * WASHLETTM, Karari FloorTM, Mahobin bathtubTM and Air-inTM are trademarks or registered trademarks of TOTO LTD. WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/profile/library/ TOTO Corporate Report 2017 2 Message from the President To Thrives for Another Hundred Years Madoka Kitamura President, Representative Director With the Vision of Our Founder In Pursuit of Innovativeness as a Touchstone and Beauty Advancing into its second century of operation, the The TOTO Group was manufacturing seated flush toilets TOTO Group conducts corporate activities with the aim at a time when public sewage systems were not yet of continuing to be a beneficial presence to society at widespread in Japan, and it has been instrumental in large and to the earth’s environment. Each and every promoting healthy lifestyles. The TOTO Group has employee is imbued with our founder’s vision of opened the door to new lifestyles by creating products providing a healthy and civilized way of life. We aim to such as the WASHLETTM, the prefabricated bathroom contribute to the advancement of society by always module, and other bathroom and kitchen plumbing placing the provision of high-quality products and products. customer satisfaction above all else, and maintaining the The TOTO Group is pursuing the development of spirit of service. The conviction inherited at our founding beautiful products sophisticated in design and is the heart of our manufacturing as well as the core of functionality. Emphasizing design characteristics means corporate management. Providing customers throughrising to the challenges of increasingly complex out the world with the security and reliability of the manufacturing demands by overcoming production TOTO brand, my mission, as president of the TOTO issues one by one. Beauty is the crystallization of Group, is to continue to “Create an enriched and more enthusiasm and ingenuity in the design of individual comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing parts and production technology. products,” as stated in the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy. 3 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Creation of the Remodeling Market world by working to develop products that bring a new in Japan sense of prosperity to the daily lives of customers in countries and regions each with their own unique The Japanese market, which accounts for roughly 70% of environments and cultures. Our ability to save water in the TOTO Group’s net sales, is seeing a decline in new compliance with strict water-per-flush regulations, home construction and moving toward a stock-based technology for maintaining clean surfaces by breaking society, one that focuses on the use of existing assets. down and removing even invisible contaminants, and Nevertheless, there is still rising demand for more design in pursuit of beauty have been lauded even in comfortable lifestyles. markets across the globe. The TOTO Group pioneered development of the Nearly all TOTO customers use our products for 20 remodeling market in Japan and continues to lead its or even 30 years. Our relationships with customers, advancement by actively providing remodeling solutions therefore, really begin once a purchase has been made. that promise new lifestyles beyond customer expectaIt is not enough for us to focus on winning strong tions. To help customers gain a clearer sense of their reviews of our products; we must also provide solid options, we have established throughout Japan showafter-sales service so that customers around the world, rooms that let customers see, feel, and experience like customers in Japan, will remain pleased with our remodeling possibilities. Together with contractors, products for decades to come. which are in direct contact with customers, we strive to show customers how bathroom and kitchen environments can be made more comfortable. Creating Another Century of Success Furthermore, TOTO will be providing plumbing equipment as an Official Partner of the Tokyo 2020 Business activities come to nothing in the absence of Olympic and Paralympic Games. And, in light of the cooperation and co-creation with customers, business Japanese government’s goal of increasing to 60 million partners, shareholders, and the entire broad array of our the annual number of foreign visitors to Japan by 2030, stakeholders. For the TOTO Group, the primary actors are we are actively moving forward with efforts to refurbish individual employees who take it upon themselves to or newly install bathroom and other facilities for hotels, think of how they can best contribute to the benefit of public buildings, and other types of accommodations. customers and society. That is why we will continue to We are taking this action because we believe bathrooms place great emphasis on human resource development throughout the country are also showrooms for the and will continue to “Create an enriched and more advanced development of these facilities in Japan. And comfortable lifestyle and culture built on our plumbing we believe that having foreign visitors to Japan experiproducts.” ence the beauty of bathroom culture here is an imporWe aim to continue to provide products and tant aspect of hospitality in a country intent on making services that will make customers, not only in Japan but itself a prime tourism destination. throughout the world, happy that they have chosen TOTO and want to choose TOTO again in the future. Looking to our next 100 years, each and every one of our Making TOTO Indispensable employees will act in ways that boost the TOTO brand Across the Globe and enhance our corporate value. In pursuing business development on a global scale, we are striving to enhance the comfort, hygiene, safety and security of bathroom and kitchen spaces throughout the TOTO Corporate Report 2017 4 TOTO Group Value Creation Timeline in Providing Clean, Comfortable Living Spaces 1970s 1980s 1990s 1917 1962 1970 1977 1993 Established Formulated Changed Established Remodeling Toyo Toki Company corporate TOTO’s first Declaration Company Company, Limited Mottos name to TOTO KIKI LTD. overseas joint venture History company, in Indonesia Focuses business on Strengthens fundamentals for new housing pursuing the remodeling business Embarks on business development in China and other parts of Asia Embarks on business development in the Americas 1914 1976 1980 1993 Successfully developed Japan’s Launched CS series waterLaunched WASHLETTM (toilet seats Launched the NEOREST EX first seated flush toilet saving, noise-reducing toilet with a warm-water washing feature) Products and 1946 1963 1981 1985 1988 1995 Technology Began faucet Developed construction Launched the modular Launched the Shampoo Started mass Discovered photocatalytic production method for Japan’s first prekitchen design Dresser (bathroom production of super-hydrophilicity fabricated bathroom modules vanity suited for washing electrostatic chucks (TOTO and the University (based on JIS provisions) hair) of Tokyo) 1968 Launched bathroom vanity units Diversity 1993 Business Established SUNAQUA TOTO Ltd. to provide a comfortable work Promotion TOTO GALLERY-MA TOTO Publishing environment for people with disabilities Resources Cultural and Other Activities 1985 1989 ©DAICI ANO Opened GALLERY-MA Founded TOTO Publishing TOTO Museum GALLERY TOTO 5 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources TOTO 100th Anniversary Special Site WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/100th/en/ 2000s 2010s 2002 2003 2004 2007 2009 2010 2014 Entered into New Established the Changed Announced Announced Announced operational Remodeling Philosophy corporate TOTO V-Plan TOTO TOTO Global agreement Declaration System for name to 2017 Environmental Environmental between TOTO Group TOTO LTD. Vision 2017 Vision TOTO, DAIKEN, Management and YKK AP Advancement of V-Plan Embarks on business development in Europe 1999 2002 2009 2011 2012 2017 Developed Cefiontect Launched NEOREST EX Series Launched the NEOREST Launched WASHLETTM Launched Drake II 3.8L Launched NEOREST NX technology with built in Tornado Cleansing SERIES/SE in Europe Apricot with ewater+, water-saving toilet in the US globally technology antibacterial electrolyzed water 2001 2008 2013 2017 Launched Furopia system Launched TOTO Launched Bedside Launched faucet products bathroom with quick-drying Restroom Item 01 Flushable Toilets distinguished by their Karari floorTM. sophisticated designs on the global market 2004 Launched Furopia insulated thermal pot Mahobin bathtubTM series 2010 Launched AIR-INTM-SHOWER showerhead CSR Activities 2004 2011 Established the CSR Committee Became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact 2005 Established the Kirameki Promotion HR Management Globalization Office to further women’s careers Social Contribution 2005 2006 Established the TOTO Water Environment Fund Embarked on the TOTO Acorn Reforestation Project 2015 Established GALLERY TOTO at Narita International Airport Opened TOTO Museum TOTO Corporate Report 2017 6 TOTO Group Value Creation To Become a Company Needed by Customers throughout the World TOTO V-Plan 2017 Company Implementation of the TOTO V-Plan 2017 Long-Term History Management Plan The TOTO Group formulated the TOTO V-Plan 2017 as a long-term management plan in July 2009. Resting on a base of enhanced corporate governance, the V-Plan strategic framework organizes the TOTO Group’s activities into two business segments—the Global Housing Equipment Business with development efforts underway in Japan, China & Asia, and the Americas & Europe; and the New Business Domains, including the Advanced Ceramics Business and the Green Building Materials Business. Innovation activities in three areas—marketing, demand chain, and management resources—are pursued on a companywide, cross-departmental basis. The TOTO Global Environmental Vision will be the driving force behind these business activities and promoted in the entire Group. Global Housing Equipment Business New Business Domains Given the decline of new housing starts in Japan, Global business development will move forward Products we are accelerating implementation of our for advanced ceramics products incorporating and remodeling strategy and reforming our cost TOTO proprietary technology developed in Technology structure to build a high-return business. Furtherceramic sanitary ware, and for HYDROTECT phomore, we are acting to fuel TOTO Group growth tocatalytic technology harnessing the power of by enhancing business fundamentals to address light to clean the environment. changing market and business conditions in the China & Asia and Americas & Europe sectors. TOTO Global Environmental Vision Pursuing the TOTO Global Environmental Vision as an Integral Part of Our Business The TOTO Group established the TOTO Global Environmental Vision in 2014 for the purpose of taking its environmental contribution activities an evolutionary step further while facing up to the environmental problems of each country and region.Based on Business six themes of global environmental activities ( pp.19-20), the entire TOTO Group is Promotion committed to making contributions to the global environment through our Resources business activities. 7 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Providing User-Friendly Plumbing Equipment Results for Fiscal 2016 for Customers Record highs in net sales and throughout the World operating income Through Our Net sales Products and 573.8 Business – Making Contributions That Help ¥ billion Solve Environmental Issues in Countries and Regions across the Globe Operating income 48.5 TOTO Provides ¥ billion Value for the Future Providing the World a New Every Day ROA (Return on Assets) 8.9 % * Based on operating income Pursuing Social Contributions That Help Communities ROE throughout the World (Return on Equity) 11.8 * Based on net income % Placing Great Value on Our Connections with Stakeholders, Moving People Beyond Satisfaction TOTO Corporate Report 2017 8 Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Be a truly global company by 2017 Provide customers over the world with a new “everyday” and continue to be indispensable to society. Realizing environmental contribution through TOTO Global Environmental Vision Global Housing New Business Equipment Business Domains Strengthening of Global Business Promotion Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Americas & Europe Advanced Green Building Ceramics Business Materials Business Equipment Business Equipment Business Housing Equipment Business Marketing innovation / Demand chain innovation / Management resource innovation Strengthen corporate governance TOTO V-Plan 2017 Results to Date and Fiscal 2017 Targets Record Highs in Net Sales and Operating Income Margin Improvement Initiatives Bearing Fruit Business Performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) (Planned*) (Unit: billion yen) Net sales 421.9 433.5 452.6 476.2 553.4 544.5 567.8 573.8 594.0 Operating income 6.5 14.0 18.7 23.3 47.1 37.4 46.1 48.5 51.0 Operating margin 1.6% 3.2% 4.1% 4.9% 8.5% 6.9% 8.1% 8.5% 8.6% ROA (on a basis of operating income) 1.7% 3.7% 5.0% 6.0% 10.7% 7.5% 8.8% 8.9% 9.1% ROE (on a basis of net income) 0.5% 2.8% 5.2% 8.8% 19.4% 10.0% 13.1% 11.8% 11.8% Net sales Operating margin (%) Operating income (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 800 80 8.5 8.5 8.1 8.6 6.9 594.0 600 553.4 567.8 573.8 60 476.2 47.1 544.5 48.5 51.0 433.5 452.6 46.1 421.9 4.1 37.4 400 4.9 40 3.2 23.3 1.6 18.7 200 14.0 20 6.5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 0 (Planned*) * This Medium-term Management Plan based on assumptions, estimates and plans as of April 28, 2017. Actual performance may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, competition and foreign currency exchange rates. 9 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources In accordance with the TOTO V-Plan 2017 long-term Sales Breakdown Ratio (FY2016 Results) management plan, we have advanced business initiatives for our two core businesses—the Global Housing New business domains 4% Japan 74% Equipment Business, consisting of three geographic areas, Japan, China & Asia, and Americas & Europe; and the New China & Asia and Americas & Europe Business Domains, which include the Advanced Ceramics Business and the Green Building Materials Business. 22% ¥ 573.8 billion Within the Global Housing Equipment Business, net sales from remodeling operations in Japan approximated the figure for the previous fiscal year, while net sales related to new construction exceeded the previous Overseas Net Sales by Geographic Area (FY2016 Results) year’s result, and overseas unit sales of WASHLETTM Europe 3% China 49% products exhibited significant year-on-year growth. In New Business Domains, higher sales and earnings resulted from solid results in the Advanced Americas 24% Ceramics Business. ¥128.1billion On a consolidated basis, the TOTO Group posted Asia 24% net sales of ¥573.8 billion (up 1.0% year-on-year), operating income of ¥48.6 billion (up 5.3%), ordinary income of ¥49.4 billion (up 5.6%), and profit attributable to owners of parent of ¥33.8 billion (down 5.3%). Main Product Offerings in Japan Main Product Offerings Overseas Toilets WASHLETTM (toilet seats with a warm-water Toilets WASHLETTM (toilet seats with a warm-water washing feature) washing feature) Prefabricated bathroom modules Modular kitchens Faucets Washbasin Bathroom vanity units Faucets Bathtubs TOTO Corporate Report 2017 10 Global Housing Equipment Business Japan Housing Equipment Business Fiscal 2016 Results Net sales Operating income Growth in remodeling segment ¥ 423.3 billion ¥ 29.1 billion Net sales Compared to FY2003 Compared to FY2009 + 20% Difference vs. FY2009 +¥ 24.4 billion + 27 % Business Performance Net sales Remodeling net sales Operating income (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 500 50 433.9 420.3 423.3 432.5 386.8 400.0 400 354.1 361.0 375.4 36.1 40 293.0 283.5 290.5 258.1 284.4 29.2 300 248.0 248.4 263.7 29.1 30 236.2 28.5 21.6 17.2 19.0 200 20 11.0 100 4.7 10 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 (Planned*) * This Medium-term Management Plan based on assumptions, estimates and plans as of April 28, 2017. Actual performance may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, competition and foreign currency exchange rates. Business Strategy and Results Advancing a Remodeling Strategy that New Housing and Remodeling Sales Comparison for the Housing Does Not Rely on New Housing Demand Equipment Business in Japan After Japan’s economic bubble burst in 1993, TOTO transformed its management model to one that does not rely on new housing demand. For over 20 FY2003 years, a period that began with the Remodeling Declaration, in 1993, and was New Remodeling reaffirmed with the New Remodeling Declaration, in 2003, remodeling work has Housing 54% been our core business. Currently, the remodeling business makes up about 70% of sales in the domestic business, and we have firmly established a management model that does not rely on new housing demand. FY2016 As each remodeling project, in contrast with new construction, entails different on-site conditions and customer needs, it requires multiple abilities in New Remodeling areas such as construction expertise, planning, and customer communication. Housing TOTO has the product appeal and abilities required for performing remodeling 67% work and was a pioneer in building a network of contractors with deep ties to local communities. We established the Remodel Club system in 1994 and have Remodeling expanded the number of Showrooms to present remodeling options, throughRemodeling is a promise to go beyond ordinary out Japan. alterations and extensions, proposing and realizing a new lifestyle for customers which surpass their expectations. 11 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Topics TDY Alliance TDY Collaboration Showrooms TDY Sapporo Showroom To further accelerate the growth of its remodeling business, Open beginning in July 2017 TOTO, together with DAIKEN and YKK AP, leading manufacturers of key housing materials, formed the TDY alliance in 2002. 12 To promote the comfortable bathroom and kitchen spaces possible with the high-quality products made by each of TDY Showrooms the alliance members, and make the most of their sales throughout Japan TY Niigata networks, the alliance members cooperate to open TDY (Opened Dec. 2016) Collaboration Showrooms, organize Green Remodel Fairs, and TDY Kanazawa (Opened Apr. 2016) TDY Tokyo undertake other activities that are producing steady growth. Four new Collaboration Showrooms were opened or TDY Osaka TY Yokohama relocated in fiscal 2016. TDY Hiroshima TY Shizuoka TDY Nagoya TDY Takamatsu (Opened Jul. 2016) TDY Fukuoka TY Kumamoto (Opened May 2016) Prefabricated Bathroom Modules Evolving with the Times In 1964, the Hotel New Otani, Japan’s first high-rise hotel, was completed just in time to welcome international visitors for the opening of the Tokyo Olympic Games. In 1963, Japan’s first prefabricated bathroom module (based on JIS provisions) was developed for installation in the new hotel. Since then, the TOTO Group has constantly worked to please customers by developing various functions based on universal design concepts. Examples include quick-drying Karari floorsTM and highly insulated Mahobin bathtubsTM that allow no more than a 2.5°C decline in water temperature over a span of four hours. More recently, we have developed the Hokkarari Floor, an evolution of the Karari floorTM that features a soft texture customers can comfortably kneel on. In addition, we are moving forward with the incorporation of a platform structure for prefabricated bathroom module floors to create greater development possibilities and enhance production and installation efficiency. Evolution of the Prefabricated Bathroom 1963 2001 2004 2016 Development of a construction approach Karari FloorTM offering the revolutionary Mahobin bathtubTM thermally Sazana bathroom equipped with the using Japan’s first prefabricated bathroom ability to completely dry overnight insulated to keep bathwater easy-to-clean Hokkarari Floor and module (based on JIS provisions) warm for at least four hours other examples of TOTO’s latest technologies TOTO Corporate Report 2017 12 Global Housing Equipment Business China & Asia Housing Equipment Business and Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business Fiscal 2016 Results Net sales Operating income WASHLETTM unit sales outside Japan ¥ 128.1 billion ¥ 23.3 billion Compared to FY2009 Compared to FY2009 + 144% Difference vs. FY2009 +¥ 17.7 billion Approx. 5 times Business Performance Net sales Operating income (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 200 50 160 40 127.3 128.1 134.0 124.8 120 101.1 24.5 30 22.0 21.4 23.3 75.1 80 55.7 62.6 15.4 20 52.4 40 5.6 7.2 7.0 8.1 10 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 (Planned*) * This Medium-term Management Plan based on assumptions, estimates and plans as of April 28, 2017. Actual performance may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, competition and foreign currency exchange rates. Business Strategy and Results Advancing Countryand Region-Specific Marketing Strategies TOTO Group growth is being driven by the development of new markets and simultaneous advancement of business endeavors in China, other parts of Asia, the Americas, and Europe. In addition to building a structure to locally develop, produce and sell the most suitable products respecting the local culture and lifestyles of individual regions, we will strengthen our overall business foundation using a three-stage marketing strategy of brand awareness enhancement, market penetration, and establishment of a luxury brand. U.K. Germany China U.S. France Korea Myanmar Mexico UAE Taiwan India Thailand Philippines Malaysia Vietnam 18 countries, 32 sites Indonesia Manufacturing and sales sites: 6 Singapore Sales sites: 13 Manufacturing sites: 13 Brazil * Excluding Japan 13 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Topics Adding Showrooms and Enhancing Functions Bangkok Relocated to a new office New York City Relocated to central Manhattan district (Opened in March 2017) (Opened in September 2016) The TOTO Group shines a spotlight on its proprietary technology through its own directly managed overseas showrooms. These showrooms feature model spaces where customers can gain a firsthand impression of toilets and other TOTO products. They also offer bathroom and kitchen plumbing ideas adapted to local needs. In fiscal 2016, we opened the TOTO Corporate Gallery in New York, a directly managed overseas showroom in Vietnam, and a technical center in Thailand. Ho Chi Minh City First directly managed overseas showroom in Vietnam (Opened in November 2016) Adding Production Capacity with a View to Extending the Global Supply Chain to Thailand and Vietnam Alongside its traditional approach of emphasizing local production of products for local markets, the TOTO Group is also working to strengthen a production system in which the Asia and Oceania region functions as a global supply base. In constructing elements of this system, we are applying the latest, highly energy-efficient tunnel kilns and other technologies to create environmentally friendly factories, in accordance with the TOTO Global Environmental Vision ( pp.19-20). Construction of two new plants is underway. Work on Vietnam Plant No. 3 commenced in January 2016, with operational startup scheduled for March 2018, and work on Thailand Plant No. 2 began in May 2017. This plant is scheduled to come online in April 2019. Both of these plants will be used for the mass production of ceramic sanitary ware. Rendering of Thailand Plant No. 2 Project Reference Adoption of TOTO Products is Advancing at Prominent Public Facilities Around the World The WASHLETTM is a product that needs to be actually experienced to understand its true value. Being used in hotels, airports, and other prominent public facilities, therefore, is an important first step to increase their adoption. The number of WASHLETSTM adopted for use at renowned five-star hotels throughout the world is increasing year after year. Conrad Xiamen (China) Andaz 5th Avenue (New York) TOTO Corporate Report 2017 14 New Business Domains Advanced Ceramics Business/ Green Building Materials Business Fiscal 2016 Results Net sales Advanced Ceramics Green Building Materials Business net sales Business net sales ¥ 22.0 billion ¥ 13.0 billion ¥ 8.9 billion 47% 135% 6 Compared to Compared to Compared to + + + % FY2009 FY2009 FY2009 Business Performance Net sales Operating income (Unit: billion yen) (Unit: billion yen) 40 40 30 27.2 30 19.4 19.8 22.0 16.5 18.0 20 15.0 14.4 14.1 20 10 10 0.5 1.9 0 −2.7 −2.1 −1.5 −0.3 0.0 0 −2.9 −3.5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 −10 (Planned*) * This Medium-term Management Plan based on assumptions, estimates and plans as of April 28, 2017. Actual performance may differ materially from these forward-looking statements, competition and foreign currency exchange rates. Business Strategy and Results Advanced Ceramics Business Sustaining Overall Profitability in New Business Domains Advanced Ceramics Business With the Advanced Ceramics Business applying TOTO proprietary technology, TOTO provides high-quality advanced ceramics, including air bearings, electrostatic chucks, bonding and the Green Building Materials Business developing construction materials capillaries and receptacles, for the semiconductor, and other products applying HYDROTECT environmental cleaning technolFPD manufacturing and optical communications industries. ogy, we are continuing to advance business activities in new business domains. Advanced Ceramics Business Sales were driven above the prior-year’s level by the strong results for electrostatic chucks used in manufacturing semiconductor memory devices, which are increasingly employing a three-dimensional design, and for advanced ceramics components for OLED manufacturing equipment. A more customer-oriented Electrostatic Chucks business approach and improvements in profitability have resulted in the Green Building Materials Business solidification of profit-generating business fundamentals. Also, the advanceTOTO offers building materials utilizing HYDROTECT, ment of demand chain innovation, a company-wide innovation activity, is an environmental purification technology. TOTO also helping to promote the establishment of an optimal production system. enters into license agreements and technology transfer contracts with companies worldwide handling exterior building materials (including tile, Green Building Materials Business paint, metal panels, glass, and architectural stone). HYDROTECT, a green building material technology making use of a photocatalyst, has already been adopted by a significant number of partner companies. Looking to the future, we will strive to further our environmental contribution and will redouble efforts to promote HYDROTECT technology overseas by engaging in more partnerships with various companies. HYDROCERA WALL 15 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Marketing Innovation With beautiful design that delights customers, and TOTO proprietary functionality, we make products that appeal to customers around the world. Core Technologies Created in Japan Tornado Flush System Cefiontect The Tornado Flush efficiently cleanses even the The concave ceramic surface is smooth at a nano most stubborn grime and effectively uses a small level of one to the one millionth millimeter. This amount of water. unique TOTO technology repels dirt and makes cleaning easy. ewater+ TOTO’s ewater+ contains hypochlorous acid which, with its powerful degermation properties, can clean and remove bacteria and dirt that cannot be removed by normal flushing. Ordinary ceramic toilet Cefiontect Tornado Flush System ewater+ Cefiontect Global Market Development Based on Japan China Asia Core Technologies Products are created by combining core technologies developed in Japan, with functions and design characteristics preferred in individual countries and regions. Americas Europe Gaining International Praise TOTO products, lauded for their sophisticated design and proprietary technologies and functionality, have won numerous international awards. iF Design Award 2017 Red Dot Design Award 2017 GREEN GOOD Gold Award Best of the Best DESIGN AWARDS TOTO Corporate Report 2017 16 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Demand Chain Innovation The TOTO Group operates a demand chain globally integrating everything from product planning to research and development, production technology, purchasing, manufacturing, logistics, and after-sales services. Business Strategy and Results Aiming to Build an Efficient System that Swiftly Responds to Customer Demands We practice demand chain innovation, integrating purchasing, and information. This further minimizes supply chain innovation and manufacturing innovation. delivery divergence, inventories, and supply chain costs. Supply chain innovation establishes procurement Through manufacturing innovation, we are and distribution networks through the restructuring of undertaking innovation activities from four perspectives distribution sites and integrates production and sales —materials, global platforms for greater design departments based on the basic policies for action efficiency, next-generation production methods, and according to unified production, sales, distribution, global production site optimization. Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Management Resource Innovation TOTO views human resources as among its most important management resources and is taking steps to promote diversity and strengthen HR development. Business Strategy and Results Supporting Women’s Careers and Advancing the Employment of People with Disabilities We are supporting the participation of women in over the long term. We also revised our system for various aspects of our business, promoting women into encouraging managers to hone their skills and capabilimanagerial positions, and advancing the employment ties and ultimately take on even greater professional of people with disabilities. We are also striving to challenges. improve work environments to enable employees to To further human resource development, we work with enthusiasm. conducted surveys and research on global human In fiscal 2016, we took steps to gain status as resource management and added enhancements, such regular employees. This was done to enhance motivaas award and human resource exchanges for employees tion and encourage contract employees to stay with us at overseas sites. 17 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Strengthen Corporate Governance The TOTO Group is in compliance with all of the general principles set forth in Japan’s Corporate Governance Code and is working to further strengthen its corporate governance. Results of Initiatives Confirmation of Board of Directors Effectiveness entrusted to an outside institution. In March 2017, a Board of Directors meeting was Based on analysis results, it was confirmed that convened with attendance by all of the directors and TOTO’s Board of Directors is functioning properly and Audit & Supervisory Board members, including outside effectively. members of both groups. At this meeting, the activities of Going forward, we will continue to conduct the the Board of Directors in performing its designated role; self-evaluations/self-analyses discussed above in an effort operation of the internal control system; Board of to obtain even greater effectiveness and functionality on Directors meeting agendas, including discussion of the part of TOTO’s Board of Directors. corporate strategy, and other critical matters impacting the direction of the company were evaluated for Change in the Number of Nominating Advisory effectiveness from the perspective of items addressing Committee Members boards of directors in Japan’s Corporate Governance Code. The Nominating Advisory Committee was established to Prior to this meeting, all Board of Directors and help ensure objectivity and transparency in TOTO’s Audit & Supervisory Board members were asked to management. Toward that end, the committee has been conduct comprehensive self-evaluations/self-analyses structured such that outside members comprise over half regarding matters such as board composition, effectiveof its membership. In June 2017, the number of internal ness, and operation. Anonymous survey instruments were committee members was decreased from four, to two. used for this purpose. To encourage the expression of As a result, the total number of committee members was opinions without reserve and ensure an objective analysis reduced to seven, five of whom are outside members. of survey results, tallying and analysis of survey results was Promoting Stronger Corporate Governance For more detailed information on matters such as implementation of Japan’s Corporate Establishment of the Nominating Advisory Committee Governance Code, please refer to the most recent Corporate Governance Report. 2004 Establishment of the CSR Committee Establishment of the philosophy system for TOTO Group management Establishment of the Compensation Advisory Committee WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/ 2005 profile/governance/pdf/co_gov.pdf Establishment of the Risk Management Committee Appointment of the Outside Director 2006 Establishment of the Internal Audit Office Establishment of the Special Committee 2007 Introduction of the stock options system Establishment of the Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit 2010 & Supervisory Board Members and appointment of Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members Reduction of the maximum number of Directors stipulated in 2011 Articles of Incorporation (from 20 to 14) Participation in the United Nations Global Compact 2012 Enhancement of the Executive Officer system (Creation of a new post of Senior Executive Officer) 2013 Establishment of TOTO Group Business Conduct Guidelines 2014 The half or more of the Nominating Advisory Committee members shall be outside members 2016 Increase of the number of Outside Directors (from 2 to 3) TOTO Corporate Report 2017 18 TOTO Global Environmental Vision The TOTO Group Environmental Vision is promoted together with our business activities. The TOTO Group established the TOTO Global Environmental Vision in 2014 for the purpose of taking its environmental contribution activities an evolutionary step further while facing up to the environmental problems of each country and region. Based on six themes of global environmental activities, the entire TOTO Group is committed to making contributions to the global environment through our business activities. With a view to realizing the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, the TOTO Group established Global Environment Goals to be pursued until the end of fiscal 2017. As a company that is largely involved with water, we are committed to setting clear targets for each of the six themes centered around conserving water. We are aiming to realize the V-Plan 2017 by promoting the Global Environmental Vision. Fiscal 2016 Activities and Results Conserving Water Promoting water-saving products on a global scale, we are striving to reduce water consumption from use of our products. By promoting water-saving products, we Reduction of water succeeded in reducing water used by our products by 740 million m3 in fiscal 2016, consumption during product use as compared to what usage would have been had products available in 2005 continued to be sold and used, without the subsequent development of betterperforming products. At 79% of shipments in Japan and 68% of shipments overseas, water-saving toilets (those that use 4.8L or less per use) are steadily growing as a FY2016 Results 740 million m3 percent of total unit sales. Water-Saving Performance of Toilets (Japan) * Water consumed per full flush C150E 20L 13L Reduced the volume of water per full flush by approx. 70% 3.8L CS Series CS Series NEOREST AH/RH/DH (Floor drainage) 13L NEW CS Series 10L Restica Series 8L NEOREST AH/RH NEOREST A (Floor drainage) NEOREST AH 6L 5.5L NEOREST AH/RH GREEN MAX 3.8L 4.8L 4.8L 1976 1994 1999 2006 2007 2009 2010 2012 (FY) TOTO has been promoting the reduction of amount of water used to flush and transport bacteria, germs, and dirt while comfortably using toilets since the release of water saving toilet CS Series in 1976. Currently, we have released 3.8L flush products, continuing to further advance the water conservation technology. Preventing Global Warming To help prevent global warming, we are working to reduce CO2 emissions from our business activities. Our efforts to improve productivity, save energy, and introduce the use of renewable energy at business sites in Japan and overseas reduced our 19 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources fiscal 2016 CO2 emissions by 24.6 thousand tons, compared to fiscal 2013. FurtherAmount of CO2 emissions more, by promoting waterand energy-saving products, we succeeded in reduction at business sites reducing CO2 emissions from use of our products by 3.06 million tons in fiscal through these measures 24.6 2016, as compared to what emissions would have been had products available in FY2016 2005 continued to be sold and used, without the subsequent development of Results thousand better-performing products. tons Contribution to Local Communities The TOTO Group works with local communities to restore and protect water resources, protect water conservation forests, and advance other environmental Volunteer activity participants contribution activities in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, we encourage employFY2016 Results 49,300 ees to participate in Green Volunteer social contribution activities, such as tree-planting and local cleanups, and other volunteer activities, as well. In fiscal Total 2016, the various activities organized at individual business sites drew participation participants: from a total of 49,300 volunteers throughout the world. Conserving Natural Keeping the Earth Conservation of Resources Clean Biodiversity We are actively working to reduce The TOTO Group not only abides In procuring raw materials, we and recycle waste from the 3R by laws and regulations concerning consider environmental and perspective—reduce, reuse, and waste and pollution; we have also ecosystem impacts on the places recycle. At individual manufacturestablished self-imposed standards, where we engage in manufacturing sites, maintenance or expanwhich we use to reduce our ing activities, and do our best to sion of recycling efforts resulted in environmental impact and prevent balance sustainable resource usage fiscal 2016 recycling ratios of 100% accidents that would pollute the with needs to secure stable in Japan and 93% overseas. environment. In fiscal 2016, we supplies of raw materials. committed no violations of In fiscal 2016, our usage rate environmental laws or regulations for legal and recycled wood in Japan. materials for products in Japan came to 99%. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 20 Focus 1 WASHLETTM Gaining Popularity throughout the World TOTO’s WASHLETTM—Revolutionizing Toilet Culture in Japan Since Its Introduction in 1980 WASHLETTM Steadily Gaining Fans Across the Globe July 2015 Cumulative sales exceed 40 million units January 2011 Cumulative sales exceed 30 million units June 2005 Cumulative sales exceed 20 million units July 1998 Cumulative sales exceed 10 million units November 1987 June 1980 Cumulative sales Sales begin exceed 1 million units 18 years,1 month 6 years,11 months 5 years, 7months 4years, 6months 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 (FY) WASHLETTM Cumulative Shipments Exceed 40 million Units as of July 2015 Having been launched in Japan in 1980, WASHLETTM products were introduced to the U.S. market in 1986. With a focus on having these products adopted by luxury hotels in countries throughout the world, sales activities have been expanded to China, Asia and Oceania, and Europe. As a result, cumulative WASHLETTM shipments exceeded 40 million units globally as of July 2015. Today, sales of WASHLETTM products continue to grow on a global basis. 21 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Focusing on the Global Market 1 Exhibitions Offering New Value to Customers throughout the World To offer the WASHLETTM and other TOTO products to customers throughout the world, we participate in international trade shows spotlighting bathroom and kitchen plumbing fixtures and housing equipment. These events are held in various countries across the globe. Recently, we have participated in the International Sanitary and Heating (ISH) 2017 fair held in March in Germany and the Kitchen & Bath China 2017 show held in May in Shanghai. Exhibit Theme: “Life Anew.” This theme expresses TOTO’s constant desire to update and enrich daily life for people across the globe. Through our exhibit spaces, we introduce products, such as the NEOREST Series and TOTO proprietary technologies, International Sanitary and Heating 2017 fair held in Frankfurt, Germany including ones for saving water and removing the bacteria that hinders the thorough cleaning of toilet surfaces. These efforts help to establish TOTO as a global brand. Focusing on the Global Market 2 Welcome to Japan Experiential Spaces for Promoting Japan’s Toilet Culture and ©DAICI ANO Technology to the World GALLERY TOTO GALLERY TOTO, an experiential space located at Narita International Airport, was opened in April 2015. The purpose of this facility is to give foreign visitors to Japan an opportunity to see, touch, and experience the beauty and comfort of restroom spaces created by TOTO. It is hoped that visitors will return to Open/Close Raise/Lower Flush Flush their countries with a strong desire to have a restroom space like Toilet Lid Toilet Seat (Regular) (Reduced) those modeled at GALLERY TOTO. In an effort to make restroom spaces easily usable by anyone, the Japan Sanitary Equipment Industry Association (JSEIA), an organization working to improve the quality of Rear Cleanse Front Cleanse Dry Stop restroom spaces in Japan, announced in January 2017 standardized pictograms for use on toilet remote control panels. TOTO Standardized Pictograms fully supports this initiative and, together with all of the other JSEIA members, will implement the standardized pictograms to promote Japan’s clean toilet culture to the rest of the world. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 22 Focus 2 Design and Functionality Born of a Century of Manufacturing Technology Adding a sense of prosperity and comfort to daily life, and delivering satisfaction beyond customer expectations— That is the ideal that resulted in a century of manufacturing technology giving rise to toilets that are not only comfortable but also beautiful from any viewing angle. 23 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Rising to the Extreme Manufacturing Challenges Design of Products with Outstanding Design Quality Design that is understated yet perfectly in tune with the user. In developing products, TOTO has been steadfast in its pursuit of beautiful design that harmonizes perfectly with various types of spaces, while also delivering outstanding quality and functionality. Our latest NEOREST NX product embodies our focus on the use of curves to accentuate the beauty of ceramic sanitary ware, and our desire to create a product with an artistic aura. This product represents countless rounds of examination to ensure outstanding functionality, without compromising design, and painstaking efforts to eliminate unnecessary surface elements and spaces. In the end, we created a Applying a wealth of advanced ceramics manufacturing technology and design conceding nothing at an overall or detailed level. know-how to pursue the perfect balance of beauty and functionality The result of this beautiful combination of cutting-edge technology and design is what TOTO, a company that has been making ceramic sanitary ware for over a century, believes is the ultimate in toilet design. Functionality Adding Technology to Augment Beautiful Design Incorporated in the beautiful design of the NEOREST NX are technologies for maintaining the appearance of the product and ensuring that it will provide users with the expected comfort over the long term. TOTO’s revolutionary Tornado Flush System and rimless design, proprietary Cefiontect dirt-repelling technology and ewater+. In combination, these technologies achieve new heights in removing bacteria, preventing the buildup of dirt, and easing cleaning. A century of know-how has enabled TOTO to create a product that epitomizes cutting-edge design and clean functionality. Tornado Flush System ewater+ Cefiontect TOTO Value Creation Offering Premium Spaces to the World The NEOREST NX is a flagship product incorporating design seen nowhere else and the ultimate in clean functionality. Offered in markets throughout the world, the NEOREST NX is destined to add refinement to restrooms across the globe. TOTO is dedicated to combining design and functionality and will apply this passion in its efforts to offer bathroom and kitchen plumbing products that bring a sense of prosperity and comfort to the living spaces of customers the world over. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 24 Corporate Governance are highly independent Outside Directors. These members Basic Stance on Corporate Governance use their respective skills in discussions to make legal and The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by business management decisions and supervise business people all around the world, contributing to the betterment operations. The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of two of society. In addition to being a corporate entity engaged standing members with careers in the TOTO Group and in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, the Group two outside members with a high level of independence, conducts its business in such a way as to continue to benefit and conducts audits from the perspectives of legality and society broadly. In order to realize this target, we believe it is appropriateness. important to build a system for pursuing and supervising fair and equitable management, and clearly define a philosophy Reasons for Adoption of Current Corporate that serves as the basis of such a system. Governance System * For more information on the philosophy system for TOTO Group’s management, please refer to pp.1-2. The TOTO Group considers that an essential aspect of corporate management is ensuring the satisfaction of Composition of the Board of Directors and stakeholders and constantly expanding corporate value by Audit & Supervisory Board in Fiscal 2017 improving objectivity and transparency in management We believe that in order to supervise business operations and by clarifying management responsibilities. To achieve and to make important decisions, TOTO’s Board of Directors this, for matters requiring management decisions, TOTO must be composed of members with diverse perspectives, recognizes the importance of systematizing who makes experience and highly professional skills. Meanwhile, for the decisions about what and where as well as what checks purpose of performing the double-check function of superare implemented in a fair and honest manner. TOTO has vision by the Board of Directors and of audits by Audit & adopted the Audit & Supervisory Board system and is buildSupervisory Board Members, Outside Directors need to ing a structure of decision-making, supervision, and more include not only auditors required by law, but also Directors efficient and effective business execution, with the aim of with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors; and continuously increasing corporate value. both Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Directors must have considerable independence. 1. Clarifying the allocation of management responsibility As of June 28, 2017, we have 13 Directors with voting (introduction of the Executive Officer system and the like) rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors, of whom 10 are 2. Enhancing management transparency and soundness Inside Directors with careers in the TOTO Group and three (establishment of the Compensation Advisory Committee Corporate Governance and Business Operations Compensation Advisory Committee TOTO General Meeting of Shareholders 6 outside members, including 5 independent Directors/ Appointment/Dismissal Three-party audit team Audit & Supervisory Board Members Appointment/Dismissal 1 Director, who is not a Representative Director Audit TOTO Board of Directors Recommendations Nominating Advisory Committee TOTO Audit & Supervisory Board 5 independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Members: 10 Representative Directors and Directors, 3 Outside Directors Members, 2 Representative Directors 2 inside members, 2 outside members Special Committee TOTO Independent Accounting Auditors Report Appointment, delegation, supervision 3 Outside Directors, 1 outside member of the Audit & Supervisory Board Direction Consultation TOTO Internal Audit Office President TOTO Management Committee Executive Officer Internal audit Delegation CSR Committee Direction, supervision Other meetings and committees Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Americas & Europe Equipment Business Equipment Business Housing Equipment Business New Business Domains Company-wide Divisions Cross-organizational tasks 25 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/ profile/governance/ and the Nominating Advisory Committee) ing on his/her duties and responsibilities upon consultation 3. Reinforcing supervisory and auditing functions with Audit & Supervisory Board Members. (nomination of highly independent Outside Directors and Total amount of compensation by type for Directors Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board) and Audit & Supervisory Board Members 4. Strengthening decision-making functions (establishment Number of Base Stock-compensation type Bonus Total officers compensation stock options of the Management Committee and the like) (person) (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) (million yen) Directors 15) 396) 291 71 759) In order to strengthen these functions, TOTO has adopted (Outside Directors included (3) (26) (26) above) the framework of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Board Members 4) 50) 50) Board system as its base while integrating the superior (Outside members of Audit & Supervisory Board included above) (2) (19) (19) functions of a company with Nomination Committee, etc. Total 19) 446) 291 71 810) Compensation for Directors and Audit & (Note) The total amount of compensation approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders is Supervisory Board Members shown below. (Approved at the 145th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 29 2011) The maximum amount of compensation for Directors and Performance-linked compensation Fixed compensation Linked to mediumto Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined respecLinked to short-term performance long-term performance Stock-compensation type tively for Directors, Outside Directors, and Audit & SuperviBase compensation Bonus stock options sory Board Members by resolutions of General Meetings of Up to 500 million yen per Up to 0.8% of the previous Up to 200 million yen or 200 annum (including an amount Shareholders. Director up to 30 million yen in total fiscal year’s consolidated units per annum operating income for Outside Directors) Compensation for Directors of TOTO comprises fixed Audit & compensation in the form of base compensation, and Supervisory Up to 150 million yen per (*) Board Member annum performance-linked compensation, which varies with the (*) Bonuses and stock-compensation type stock options are not paid out to Audit & Supervisory business performance and stock price of the company. Board Members. Performance-linked compensation comprises bonuses Amounts of compensation, etc. of Directors whose total (short-term performance-linked compensation), which are amount of compensation, etc. exceeds 100 milliom yen, tied to business performance and limited to 0.8% of by type of payment consolidated operating income, and stock-compensation Base Bonus compensation (million yen) Stock-compensation type stock options Total (million yen) type stock options (mediumto long-term performance(million yen) (million yen) linked compensation), which are aimed at having Directors Representative Director Kunio Harimoto 63 53 11 128 share the common interests of our shareholders and incenRepresentative Director Madoka Kitamura 63 53 11 127 tivizing contributions towards increasing the corporate value and stock price of the company, and is designed to Outside Directors and Outside Members motivate Directors to not only consider the current busiof the Audit & Supervisory Board ness year, but also take a medium to long term perspective Since all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the in their management of the company. In addition, the Audit & Supervisory Board are invited to join their respecCompensation Advisory Committee was set up to help tive boards as members who can make decisions materially ensure that the compensation for Directors is reasonable independent of the management of TOTO and all other and objective. The Board of Directors decides the compenspecific stakeholders, we designate all Outside Directors sation after confirming through the Compensation Adviand Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board as sory Committee that the compensation system and allocaIndependent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Memtion balance are in line with the Articles of incorporation, bers. We nominate candidates for Outside Directors and the resolutions of the General Meeting of Shareholders, and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board who the Basic Policy for Directors’ Compensation. Note that fully satisfy the Nominating Advisory Committee’s RequireOutside Directors, who are independent from the business ments for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board operations, are entitled to only fixed compensation. Members*, the satisfaction of which is set forth by TOTO as Regarding compensation for Audit & Supervisory a mandatory requirement. Board Members, the base compensation for individual * Please refer to “Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members” in Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined dependthe Corporate Governance section of our website. http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/profile/governance/ TOTO Corporate Report 2017 26 Board of Directors Directors Representative Director, President, Chairman of the Board Representative Director Kunio Harimoto Madoka Kitamura Date of Birth: March 19, 1951 Date of Birth: May 24, 1957 In charge of Global Business Promotion, Management Planning, Design, and the Secretary’s Office Representative Director, Representative Director, Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Noriaki Kiyota Nozomu Morimura Date of Birth: October 8, 1961 Date of Birth: July 10, 1957 In charge of Business Divisions, Faucets & In charge of Sales Groups, Appliances Division, Human Resources, Customer Service, Cultural Promotion, Finance and Accounting, and V-Plan the Internal Audit Office, and V-Plan Management Resource Innovation Marketing Innovation Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Soichi Abe Yuichi Narukiyo Date of Birth: August 22, 1961 Date of Birth: March 18, 1962 In charge of China & Asia Housing Equipment In charge of Logistics, Purchasing, Business and V-Plan China & Asia Housing Legal Affairs, Information System Equipment Business Planning, General Affairs, and Engineering Works Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Ryosuke Hayashi Kazuo Sako Date of Birth: September 4, 1963 Date of Birth: August 25, 1959 In charge of New-Domain Business Group, In charge of Americas & Europe Housing Bathroom, Kitchen & Lavatory Vanity Business; Equipment Business, General Manager V-Plan New Business Domains and V-Plan of the Americas Housing Equipment Demand Chain Innovation Business Division, and V-Plan Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Taiichi Aso Satoshi Shirakawa Date of Birth: March 5, 1960 Date of Birth: August 12, 1962 In charge of Restroom Business Group and In charge of Sales Promotion Group Production Technology Business Group and V-Plan Japan Housing Equipment Business 27 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Directors (Outside) Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Hiroki Ogawa Kazuhiko Masuda Masatsugu Shimono Date of Birth: September 21, 1941 Date of Birth: April 24, 1942 Date of Birth: December 11, 1953 Hiroki Ogawa has been involved in the manageKazuhiko Masuda has been involved in the manMasatsugu Shimono has been involved in the ment of Saibu Gas Co., Ltd. for many years and is agement of Sumitomo Light Metal Industries, Ltd. management of IBM Japan, Ltd. for many years. In familiar with housing-related industries. In meet(currently, UACJ Corporation) for many years. In meetings of TOTO’s Board of Directors, he contribings of TOTO’s Board of Directors, he contributes meetings of TOTO’s Board of Directors, he contributes valuable opinions based on his expertise in valuable opinions based on his expertise in manutes valuable opinions based on his expertise in management, and his perspectives, having been agement, and his perspectives, having been develmanagement, and his perspectives, having been developed outside the framework of the Comoped outside the framework of the Company, developed outside the framework of the Company, contribute to the Company’s management contribute to the Company’s management and pany, contribute to the Company’s management and oversight function. oversight function. and oversight function. Mr. Shimono is possessed of experience and Mr. Ogawa is possessed of experience and Mr. Masuda is possessed of experience and knowledge in not only management generally, knowledge in not only management generally, knowledge in not only management generally, and corporate governance, but also the manageand corporate governance, but also management and corporate governance, but also the making of ment of a global enterprise. Mr. Shimono has been that stresses close ties with local communities. Mr. products by manufacturing companies. Mr. reappointed as an outside member of the Board of Ogawa has been reappointed as an outside memMasuda has been reappointed as an outside Directors for the reasons discussed above. ber of the Board of Directors for the reasons member of the Board of Directors for the reasons discussed above. discussed above. Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Standing Motohiro Oniki Hirotoshi Naka Date of Birth: January 1, 1958 Date of Birth: January 14, 1957 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Outside) Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Outside Outside Masamichi Takemoto Akira Katayanagi Date of Birth: December 16, 1944 Date of Birth: February 4, 1946 Masamichi Takemoto has been involved in the management of Nitto Denko Akira Katayanagi has been involved in the management of financial institutions Corporation for many years. Applying his management expertise, he properly for many years. Applying his financial and management expertise, he properly performs his duties as an outside member of TOTO’s Audit & Supervisory Board performs his duties as an outside member of TOTO’s Audit & Supervisory Board, and contributes valuable opinions in meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board and contributes valuable opinions in meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board and Board of Directors. His perspectives, having been developed outside the and Board of Directors. His perspectives, having been developed outside the framework of the Company, contribute to the Company’s oversight function. framework of the Company, contribute to the Company’s oversight function. Mr. Takemoto is possessed of experience and knowledge in not only manMr. Katayanagi is possessed of experience and knowledge in not only management generally, and corporate governance, but also the management of agement generally, and corporate governance, but also matters of finance. In overseas business operations. In recognition of these strengths, Mr. Takemoto recognition of these strengths, Mr. Katayanagi was reappointed as an outside was reappointed as an outside member of the Audit & Supervisory Board at the member of the Audit & Supervisory Board at the 151st Ordinary General Meeting 149th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. of Shareholders. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 28 For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage CSR Management WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/management/ TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of CSR Initiatives for the purpose of bringing TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy to life. CSR Philosophy TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of Materiality Map CSR initiatives for the purpose of bringing the TOTO Group Corporate PhilosoSignificance for society Water resource conservation phy to life. The TOTO Corporate Philosophy outlines the purpose of the Preventing global warming company’s existence, our business fields and the desired image for all of our Local community contribution stakeholders as the basis of what the company motto strive to communicate. We are promoting CSR activities by using a materiality (critical issues) map and by clarifying the issues that we should prioritize to strategically Significance for the TOTO Group endeavor toward solving global social issues. CSR Promotion System We started CSR activities by setting up a CSR Committee and a full-time CSR department in 2004. The CSR Committee is held once a year and chaired by the President, and it is working to strategically integrate our businesses and CSR activities by taking a bird’s eye view of the Environmental, Social, and Governance fields. In addition, subcommittees that make up each field of the CSR Committee formulate promotion plans, and then expand those plans to relevant departments and Group companies in Japan and overseas to facilitate crossdepartmental activities. CSR Committee (chaired by the President) (Secretariat) ESG Promotion Department TOTO announced its participation in the Global Compact, which is put Environmental (E) Society (S) Management (G) forward by the United Nations, and Products and Supply chain management Group management registered as a participant company services subcommittee subcommittee subcommittee on November 8, 2011. Energy-saving Customer satisfaction Risk management measure subcommittee subcommittee subcommittee Packaging and logistics Human resource environmental management Compliance subcommittee subcommittee subcommittee Social contribution and Waste management global harmony subcommittee subcommittee Risk Management Every year, we identify the major risks that could have a significant impact on stakeholders and promote our risk prevention measures. Each major risk is mapped out on a matrix evaluating degree of impact and frequency of occurrence from the viewpoints of damage to the brand, and impact on personnel and financial consequences. Risks scoring high in risk points are flagged as priority risks and monitored by the Risk Management Committee, and risk mitigation activities are promoted throughout the entire Group. Strengthening of Compliance In order to prevent violations, we believe that we must strengthen our management system and create an organization that respects compliance. For this reason, we developed two training courses throughout the Business Group, namely, Interactive Compliance Training and Compliance Management Training. 29 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Together with Stakeholders For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage Stakeholder Engagement WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/stakeholder/ TOTO considers the concept of stakeholder engagement to be vital in building relationships of trust with stakeholders and to facilitate cooperation. By doing so, we aim to improve society for generations to come. Promoting Two-Way Communication The TOTO Group places importance on communication with all stakeholders, including customers, employees, and shareholders, and endeavors to develop closer relations with them. We deepen interaction with our customers through various occasions, such as events at our showrooms and factories, and we engage in direct dialogue with our business partners through policy briefing sessions and CSR questionnaires. As for our shareholders, we disclose appropriate information in a timely manner, and we promote understanding of the spirit of TOTO manufacturing through factory tours and other means, as well. We will continue trying to improve stakeholder satisfaction through communication as a way of further advancing our corporate activities. CSR Communication with Stakeholders Showroom Sending lecturers to seminars and educational institutes Customer Consultation Center for training Factory Remodeling Fairs Assistance for NPOs and community organizations, and Exhibitions volunteer activities (TOTO Water Environment Fund, etc.) Customers Workplace meetings Cultural activities (TOTO GALLERY-MA, TOTO Publishing) Employee awareness surveys TOTO Museum Intranet, Group magazine Factory tours, TOTO Summer Festivals Whistleblowing system Skull session with NPO, CSR specialists (in-house/external contacts) Society Employees* * At the TOTO Group, all persons working for the TOTO Group are referred to as “employees.” Policy briefing sessions General Shareholders’ Meeting CSR questionnaire Presentations CSR interview sessions Shareholder questionnaires ShareBusiness Whistleblowing system (external contacts) holders partners Participation in a Stakeholder Engagement Program We participate in the Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop, a stakeholder engagement program sponsored by Caux Round Table Japan. Since its inception in 2012, this workshop, in an effort to encourage companies to apply the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, has put together a report titled “Human Rights Issues by Sector.” This report is prepared with input from multiple stakeholders, including companies, ©CRT Japan NGOs/NPOs, and various experts. Discussing the content of the report “Human Rights Issues by Sector” In fiscal 2016, we, together with other companies, engaged in dialogue with experts and human rights NGOs/NPOs to prepare a revised and updated edition of Human Rights Issues by Sector. The content of these discussions and the report are reflected in the TOTO Group’s human rights due diligence initiatives. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 30 Together with Stakeholders For Customer Satisfaction The TOTO Group will continue to provide products and services to offer even greater satisfaction to all of our customers. Sharing Customer Feedback and Utilizing It in Manufacturing Aiming to deliver products and services that exceed customer expectations, the TOTO Group engages in manufacturing practices that make full use of customer feedback. As part of that effort, the Customer Service Division compiles feedback, including customer survey results, and opinions and requests received through the Customer Consultation Center, and provides the summarized information to relevant divisions, where it is used for purposes such as product development and improvement. The Customer Customer Consultation Center Service Division also posts summarized customer feedback on the intranet to share it with employees who have no direct contact with customers. Product Development Guided by Customer Feedback Through customer surveys and communications with the Customer Consultation Center, we became aware that our bathroom mirrors were quickly accumulating lime scale that was difficult to remove. Lime scale forms a whitish film that bonds tightly to surfaces and can be difficult to remove. Responding to this problem, TOTO developed a bathroom mirror—the Osoji Raku Raku Kagami (Easy-to-clean mirror) —that is coated with a carbon film that eases cleaning by suppressing the formation of lime scale. Even difficult-to-clean bathroom mirrors are easily handled with a soft sponge soaked in a mild detergent The TOTO Group Customer Satisfaction Convention—A Group-wide Event for Sharing Examples of Activities Emphasizing the Customer’s Perspective At the TOTO Group, every one of our divisions engages in activities aimed at improving customer satisfaction. Intended to advance customer satisfaction activities, the annual TOTO Group Customer Satisfaction Convention is where the most outstanding examples of customer satisfaction initiatives selected in separate conventions held for the manufacturing, indirect, and service divisions are presented. In fiscal 2016, approximately 400 attendees, including representatives of overseas group companies, came together to hear numerous presentations on actions taken to make customers happier. A video recording of the event was created to share customer satisfaction presentations with group companies throughout the world and promote customer satisfaction activities on a global basis. Presentation by employees from TOTO U.S.A. 31 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage. WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/cs/ In Pursuit of Greater Quality and Safety To ensure product quality customers can enjoy with safety and confidence, and to provide customers with products and services they will be satisfied with, the TOTO Group has installed an ISO 9001-based comprehensive management system and works with suppliers to continuously improve the quality assurance system. With particular regard to ensuring product safety and disclosing information to customers, we have formulated the Basic Policy for Voluntary Action Plans on Product Safety. Emphasizing After-sales Service “TOTO quality” refers not just to the quality of products themselves but also product assembly and maintenance if a problem arises. To enhance quality in this sense, we strive, for example, to improve maintenance skills, educate employees on proper behavior in interacting with customers, and reduce the time between receipt of a service request and completion of the necessary repairs. In addition, we send customers who have received after-sales services a postcard survey on a random basis to gather information on their satisfacAfter-sales service tion with the services that have been provided. After-sales Service Convention Held in China To further improve service quality in China, we hold an annual after-sales service convention to which we invite representatives of 40 service companies. Held in Shanghai, this event serves as an opportunity to announce the management direction and service quality targets for the year. It also gives us a chance to promote service awareness. We do this by sharing with attendees details on outstanding service efforts recognized at the Service Masters Contest held in Japan, and by presenting awards to Service companies recognized for superior performance at the annual after-sales service superior service companies in China. convention in China Customer Satisfaction Surveys At the TOTO Group, we believe customer satisfaction is greatly impacted by how we interact with customers and the level of skill we bring to sales, installation, and after-sales service. To evaluate customer satisfaction, we use the following four indices. Result of the Survey of Customer Satisfaction (%) (point) 91% 90% Survey Index 100 89% After-sales service satisfaction rate Proportion of customers rating services as 80 “satisfactory” or better 65% 68% 62% Total satisfaction index of the showrooms 60 51% Measure of overall satisfaction with 44% 48% recommendations received Ratio of customers impressed with bath 40 100 module assembly Proportion of customers rating service representative 75 77 behavior and workmanship as “excellent” 20 67 50 Call response satisfaction rate Satisfaction ratings of external providers of call center services 0 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 0 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 32 Together with Stakeholders For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage. All Employees Together WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/employees/ We are promoting an array of activities to create an animated working environment which the privacy of every individual working in the TOTO Group is respected. Promoting Diversity The TOTO Group respects the individuality inherent in a workforce that embodies diversity along lines such as age, gender, and nationality. We promote diversity based on our belief that it gives rise to fresh, new ideas that can further our desire to create prosperous and comfortable lifestyles Career Advancement of Women We are moving forward with a number of initiatives to achieve the target of increasing the percentage of female managers at TOTO to 10% by fiscal 2017. Regarding training specifically for female employees, for instance, we also conduct TOTO selected as a Nadeshiko Brand training aimed at making their managers better supervisors of female employees. three consecutive years Promoting Employment of Persons with Disabilities The TOTO Group aims to achieve normalization in its workplaces, and to this end, Employment rate of persons we continue to recruit individuals with disabilities. We achieved our 2.5% employwith disabilities ment rate of persons with disabilities set for fiscal 2017 in fiscal 2014. We are presently working to expand occupational fields for persons with disabilities, such as promoting more employment of persons with intellectual and mental disabilities, FY2016 Result * TOTO Group (Japan) 2.57% throughout the entire Group. Work-Life Balance We promote work-life balance because we believe that harmonizing work and home lives will result in greater productivity and a stronger sense of reward from work. In addition to encouraging employees to take paid leave, we have also put We have also obtained the Japanese Ministry of in place various systems that facilitate the adoption of diverse work styles and Health, Labour and Welfare’s “Kurumin” certification in recognition of its activities in support of child rearing. help employees balance work and child or nursing care responsibilities. Human Resource Development We offer employees training opportunities that include not only stratified training but also Open Training, in which individuals choose what they want to learn, Level Up Training for employees to grow by gaining knowledge from other industries, and the TOTO Management School (Keiei-Juku) for developing the next generation of leaders for our company. To help employees imInternal English and Chinese language instruction prove their abilities to perform their jobs from a global perspective, we conduct language classes internally. Going forward, we will continue with efforts that seek to create an atmosphere in which employees of all ages are selfmotivated to engage in ongoing learning and growth. Occupational Safety and Health TOTO included in the Health & Productivity Promoting Physical and Mental Health Stock Selection three consecutive years We are working to improve employee health based on a three-pronged approach stressing health management, mental health care initiatives, and health TOTO Group employees disaster frequency improvement. Preventing Workplace Accidents TOTO is working to increase safety awareness and eliminate unsafe work practices and conditions. FY2016 Result 0.27 * These indicators cover the manufacturing, and research and development, divisions of TOTO LTD., its 52 consolidated subsidiaries, and two equity-method affiliated companies. 33 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Together with Stakeholders For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage. Together with Suppliers WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/customers/ The TOTO Group, in order to meet its management, environmental, and social responsibilities, works together with its suppliers to provide customers with valuable products and services. CSR Procurement Activities The TOTO Group works with its suppliers to undertake activities that address TOTO Group Purchasing Policy CSR concerns in areas such as human rights and labor, safety and health, and environmental consciousness. 1. Partnership in mind We conduct survey research on suppliers in Japan, perform on-site 2. Fair and equitable transactions inspections of suppliers, and hold policy briefings for these companies. In 3. Priority given to business fiscal 2016, we held nine policy briefings in all for a total of approximately 500 with superior suppliers of our Japanese suppliers. 4. Compliance with laws, Overseas, we exercise great care in complying with local laws and cusregulations, and ethics toms in dealing with suppliers, and, through CSR activities that are respectful 5. Consideration for the of conditions in each country, strive to deepen mutual understanding and environment achieve mutually beneficial relationships. At the TOTO Group, we hold briefing sessions for suppliers, actively monitor them through on-site visits, and provide education and other types of support to ensure that suppliers understand the need for CSR initiatives. PDCA Cycle for Supply Chain Management* Plan Do Activity plans Training for purchasing managers Presentation for suppliers Continuous improvement Dialogue Action Check Individual consultation Online surveys Support and follow-up activities CSR interview sessions Site audits and monitoring Policy briefing session for Japanese suppliers (top); Discussion with overseas suppliers (bottom) * The subjects of supply-chain management are suppliers of raw materials and components, in Japan and overseas. Biodiversity-conscious Procurement Compliance item standard For earth and stone raw materials used by factories in Japan, we employ quesachievement rate of tionnaires and interviews to gather from all supplier mines information conJapanese suppliers cerning compliance with standards set by TOTO. We use the information we collect to confirm the legality and sustainability of mining activities. Performance of reforestation and other restoration work in areas where mining has FY2016 Result 100% ended, and implementation of measures to prevent river or lake pollution from mining activities or tailings, are two examples of what we check for. Compliance item standard achievement rate of mines Through these measures, we have been able to confirm that all of the mines from which TOTO raw materials are sourced are in compliance with TOTO standards. We take similar steps as those mentioned above for earth and stone raw FY2016 Result (Raw materials for factories in Japan) 100% materials used overseas. Going forward, we will continue with efforts to elevate CSR initiatives for the TOTO Group’s entire supply chain. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 34 Together with Stakeholders For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage. For the Society WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/social/ The TOTO Group uses its management resources effectively in conducting social contribution and community coexistence activities aimed at the resolution of local and global social issues. Preserving the Water Environment TOTO Water Environment Fund As a company that offers plumbing equipment, TOTO continuously strives to 11th grant assistance increase the use of water-saving products on a global basis, while also working 24 Organizations to protect rivers, oceans, and other water environments. At the center of these environmental protection activities is the support we provide through the TOTO Water Environment Fund, established in 2005, ¥ 15.56 million to further activities such as protecting water sources, water quality, and biodi1st to 11th grant assistance total versity. These activities are organized by various groups, and we encourage our 204 Organizations employees to participate as volunteers in their activities and in activities organized by local citizens. In fiscal 2016, the TOTO Water Environment Fund provided an overall sum of ¥15.56 million in financial support to a total of 24 orgaApprox. ¥ 200 million nizations, including for the first time an overseas group (in India). Creating a Sanitary and Comfortable Living Environment In accordance with our founder’s conviction to “improve the lifestyle and culture of the people” and “provide a healthy and civilized way of life,” the TOTO Group is promoting through its business activities the development and widescale use of sanitary devices and universal design products. In addition, with the TOTO Water Environment Fund as the primary medium, we are undertaking activities such as installing wells for supplying Example of activities performed by Bridge for Lives in Mozambique, an organization supported by the TOTO safe drinking water to help create sanitary and comfortable living environWater Environment Fund ments for people in various parts of the world. Cultural Activities and Development of the Next Generation TOTO GALLERY-MA Since its opening in 1985, the TOTO GALLERY-MA has been a venue for presentation of the ideas and works of architects and designers. TOTO GALLERY-MA also sponsors lectures for architecture students and professionals throughout ©Nakasa & Partners Inc. Japan, and works with TOTO Group companies overseas to hold lectures in Yasushi Horibe exhibit, “A Human Space for Architecture,” at the TOTO GALLERY-MA locations such as Shanghai and Taipei. TOTO Publishing Established in 1989, TOTO Publishing issues books with unique architectural, design, and lifestyle perspectives. It also publishes books in collaboration with TOTO GALLERY-MA. In 2016, the TOTO Information Center, a space where visitors can relax while browsing design and architecture books and magazines issued by TOTO Publishing, was established in the TOTO showroom in Ho Chi Lecture in Shanghai by the architectural firm SANAA Minh City, Vietnam. TOTO Museum Opened to commemorate our 100th anniversary, the TOTO Museum presents the history of TOTO’s efforts to help create comfortable lifestyles and provides an introduction to the manufacturing ideals we have carried forward to today. Beginning with TOTO’s establishment in Kokura, Kitakyushu, the TOTO Museum aims to be an attractive landmark that communicates the development of TOTO Museum TOTO into a global brand. 35 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Together with Stakeholders For more detailed information, please refer to the following webpage. Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/ company/csr/stockholders/ TOTO conducts IR (investor relations) activities that reflect the high priority we place on communications with shareholders and other investors in Japan and abroad. Disseminating the Latest Information, IR Policy with Transparency and Fairness WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/ ir/disclosure/ TOTO makes timely information disclosures through a dedicated webpage, holds separate meetings and briefings, and conducts other activities in accordance with its IR policy, to ensure transparency and fairness in its communications with individual and institutional investors. Relations with Institutional Investors For domestic investors, we announce financial results twice a year, hold meetings to explain our strategies, and conduct showroom and plant tours. For foreign investors, our top management regularly leads overseas IR activities to encourage institutional investors to hold our shares. Overseas investors have praised our visits to Europe and the United States. And as their Results briefing awareness of our products in their local markets grows, so does their interest in TOTO. Meeting with overseas investors Evaluation of TOTO’s CSR Management *3 *1 *2 *1 THE INCLUSION OF TOTO LTD. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HERIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF TOTO LTD. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. *2 The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first investment index of socially responsible companies in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects 150 companies from among approximately 4,000 listed companies in Japan by assessing their social responsibility, and bases the index on their stock prices. (As of June 30, 2017) *3 TOTO is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards. TOTO has been recognized as a socially responsible company and is included in SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes. SRI indexes include companies that stand out not only for their profitability but also legal compliance, handling of employment, human rights, and consumer issues, contributions to society and local communities, and other CSR initiatives. TOTO Corporate Report 2017 36 Recent Evaluations by External Parties Category Award Description / Fiscal Year The AIR-INTM-SHOWER (Aerial Shower) wins the Chairperson’s Award (Eco-Products Awards Steering Committee) in the 9th Eco-Products Awards and the Chairman’s Prize, The Energy FY2012 Conservation Center, Japan in the product and business 第9回エコプロダクツ大賞 model category of the Energy Conservation Center, Japan’s エコプロダクツ部門 エコプロダクツ大賞 推進協議会会長賞受賞 Fiscal 2012 Energy Efficiency Awards. Double winner of eco/energy-efficiency prizes in fiscal 2012 Awarded Mechanical The Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers awards Engineering Heritage Status Mechanical Engineering Heritage status to the FY2012 first-generation WASHLETTM product, the WASHLETTMG (included in the collection of the TOTO Museum). Technology/ Environment The Bedside Flushable Toilet wins the Grand Prize in the service robot category of the 6th Robot Awards for its use FY2014 of robot technology for adaptation to personal care needs. Named Grand Prize Winner in the Service Robot Category of the 6th Robot Awards TOTO wins the Prime Minister’s Prize at the 6th Monozukuri Nippon Grand Awards for developing a low-dust-emitting FY2015 material for next-generation semiconductor devices. Winner of the Prime Minister’s Prize at the Monozukuri Nippon Grand Awards Awarded The first-generation prefabricated unit bathroom, an architectural facility example of which is in the collection of the TOTO Museum, technology FY2016 heritage status is awarded architectural facility technology heritage status in fiscal 2016. The GO SERIES Single-Lever Lavatory Faucet wins the Best FY2016 of the Best Red Dot Design Award. Product Design The Washbasin (vessel-type) wins the iF DESIGN AWARD 2017 Gold Award. FY2016 Water-saving toilets and the Automatic Faucet series, both of which are being sold in markets around the world, are FY2016 named GREEN GOOD DESIGN AWARDS 2016 winners. Third-Party Assurances TOTO has received third-party assurances supporting the reliability of information reported in the Fiscal 2016 Environmental data sheet and Fiscal 2016 Social data sheet, which are available on TOTO’s website. Fiscal 2016 Environmental data sheet Fiscal 2016 Social data sheet WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/ WEB http://www.toto.co.jp/en/company/ environment/result_data.pdf csr/result_data.pdf 37 TOTO Corporate Report 2017 Philosophy and Value Creation Mid-/Long-Term Management Plan Business Promotion Resources Corporate Data Corporate Profile (As of March 2017) Company Name TOTO LTD. Fiscal Year End March 31 Headquarters 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Exchange Listings Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan Security Code 5332 Establishment May 15, 1917 Shareholder Registry Administrator 4-5, Marunouchi 1-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Capital ¥35,579 million Tokyo 100-8212, Japan Number of Employees Consolidated: 30,334 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Non-consolidated: 7,539 Group Companies and Affiliates TOTO Hokkaido Sales LTD. U.S.A. TOTO Tohoku Sales LTD. TOTO U.S.A., INC. Mexico TOTO AQUAIR LTD. TOTO MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. TOTO EXCERA LTD. Brazil TOTO MTEC LTD. TOTO Do Brasil Distribuição e Comércio, Ltda. TOTO Engineering LTD. China TOTO (CHINA) CO., LTD. CERA TRADING LTD. BEIJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Chubu Sales LTD. TOTO (BEIJING) Co., LTD. TOTO Kansai Sales LTD. TOTO DALIAN CO., LTD. NANJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Chugoku Sales LTD. TOTO (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. TOTO Shikoku Sales LTD. TOTO EASTCHINA CO., LTD. TOTO Kyushu Sales LTD. TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. TOTO Remodel Service LTD. TOTO (GUANGZHOU) CO., LTD. TOTO (H.K.) LTD. TOTO AQUATECHNO LTD. Singapore TOTO WASHLET TECHNO LTD. TOTO ASIA OCEANIA PTE. LTD. TOTO OKITSUMO Coatings LTD. Thailand TOTO SANITECHNO LTD. TOTO (THAILAND) Co., Ltd. Vietnam TOTO High Living LTD. TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. TOTO Bath Create LTD. Malaysia TOTO Fine Ceramics LTD. TOTO MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. TOTO PLATECHNO LTD. India TOTO INDIA INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. TOTO MATERIA LTD. Indonesia SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. P.T.SURYA TOTO INDONESIA (Affiliate Company) TOTO INFOM LTD. Taiwan TOTO EXPERT LTD. TAIWAN TOTO CO., LTD Korea TOTO BUSINETZ LTD. TOTO KOREA LTD. TOTO Finance LTD. Germany TOTO Maintenance LTD. TOTO Europe GmbH TOTO LOGICOM LTD. TOTO Germany GmbH TOTO Corporate Report 2017 38 Public & Investors Relations Dept. TOTO LTD. 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 802-8601, Japan URL: http://www.toto.com Published in August 2017 No.1190
