African Leader in Energy & Infrastructure ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Towards sustainable GRowth At Qalaa Holdings we firmly believe that we have a duty to leave the communities in which we do business better than we found them. We place special emphasis on the necessity of education and preserving the environment Towards Sustainable as the keystones for a sustainable future for generations to come. Growth Ahmed Heikal Chairman & Founder Over the past 12 months Qalaa has made significant strides toward reshaping its business model and positioning itself for future growth as the Egyptian economy begins to show signs of recovery. The steps taken by the Government of Egypt to fully embrace a reform program, including the float of the Egyptian Pound and the phase-out of energy subsidies, are exactly the policies we’ve been advocating for over a decade. And while the economic reform program has taken a short-term toll on private citizens from all walks of life as well as bottom-line profitability for all businesses operating in Egypt, in the long haul, we believe that the reform program is set to benefit those who can deliver increased efficiency, exporters and producers of import substitutes, all of which are characteristics of our investment portfolio. We are very proud of the steady progress that we have made on all fronts in 2016. Whether it’s the steady construction progress that we are making on our USD 3.7 billion refinery (ERC) which will curb Egypt’s present-day diesel imports by c. 50% or the growth experienced by our energy distribution subsidiary TAQA Arabia and solid waste management company Tawazon or our focus on increasing export capacity at ASCOM Carbonate and Chemicals Manufacturing and GlassRock insulation, we have managed to circumvent the adverse short-term effects of devaluation, hyper inflation and rising interest rates. Another hallmark of our investment portfolio is that from day one we have pursued responsible investments that produce profits for shareholders and positive outcomes for communities, whether its through job creation and knowledge transfer or through the provision of products and services that are crucial to the economic well-being of the developing economies in which we invest. In addition to giving equal weight to profit and impact in our own investments, we actively encourage other private sector companies in Egypt to take similar steps. We have taken concrete steps to lead by example with our adoption of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a set of goals designed to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. We have been working diligently to align our core business, portfolio and ESG practices with the SDGs, with a particular focus on: quality education, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, industry, innovation and infrastructure, and partnerships for the goals. In this year’s annual report we have chosen to highlight how our specific investments and ESG programs directly link to the SDGs. We hope that the clear and concrete progress that has been made by Qalaa and its subsidiaries is the starting point of a journey where public and private interests can converge to create a stable, prosperous society and inclusive economies. Contents Chairman’s Note 03 Our Heritage 06 Management Discussion & Analysis 10 2016 Milestones 14 Responsible Investing ESG 18 Corporate Governance 28 From day one Qalaa Holdings has pursued Executive Board Members & Committees 30 responsible investments that produce profits for Our Subsidiaries 36 shareholders and positive outcomes for communities Financial Statements 60 in the developing economies in which we invest. 2 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 3 Chairman’s Note A Note From Our Chairman & Founder Fellow Shareholders, Our company has made very significant strides in the past 12 months that have taken us to the cusp of profitability and a sustainable business model. In many ways, we are coming full circle: our outlook on profitability is driven by the fact that the macroeconomic themes The steps taken last year by the Government Ahmed Heikal that have underpinned our business model for nearly a decade are now coming into play, however belatedly. of Egypt to fully embrace a reform program Chairman & Founder based on the gradual removal of subsidies Long-time shareholders will recall that our business has, since inception, been predicated on two macro themes: and allowing the interbank market to set the the phase-out of a subsidy system (for energy in particular) that disproportionately benefits those who least need fair value of the Egyptian pound was exactly them, which will place a new premium on efficiency in the call we made nearly 10 years ago. everything from transportation to refining and building At the same time, ASCOM — our mining platform — products with limited imported content as well as the materials, and the imperative to devalue the artificially remains not just a play on the outlook for the building export of services such as tourism, an industry critical to strong Egyptian pound, which would benefit exporters materials industry and infrastructure spending, but the national economy that has suffered greatly since 2011. and producers of import substitutes. stands to benefit from the government’s recent interest in breathing life into a value-added approach to The government is signalling that it will steer a steady The steps taken last year by the Government of Egypt • Import substitutes, particularly our USD 3.7 mineral extraction. course on reforms — and that it will not back down to fully embrace a reform program based on the gradual billion Egyptian Refining Company, which from the reform of energy subsidies, on which the lift of subsidies and allowing the interbank market to will curb Egypt’s present-day diesel imports by c. Meanwhile, the devaluation of the Egyptian pound International Monetary Fund is also pressing. Foreign set the fair value of the Egyptian pound was exactly the 50%. Meanwhile, ICDP produces high-quality will disproportionately benefit our program to divest direct investment is, cautiously, returning to a market call we made nearly 10 years ago — and will allow us to cheese and fresh milk from Dina Farms, a highly non-core assets, with US dollar-denominated proceeds for which public market investors and the carry trade sustainably deliver profitability starting in 2018. sought-after substitute for imported milk powder. being used to reduce our debt levels. have proven pathfinders. Looking across our portfolio, Qalaa Holdings today • Plays on liberalization of energy markets, Broadly speaking, we are increasingly optimistic about the In sum, there is a lot to like about Egypt at this mocontrols the following sectors and companies: including leading energy company TAQA outlook for Egypt. The float of the Egyptian pound and ment, and we see ourselves well-positioned to grow Arabia, our Egyptian Refining Company and the imminent start of production at Eni’s Zohr supergiant as the economy prepares to enjoy a good multi-year • Exporters, including ASCOM Carbonates Tawazon, our waste-to-energy play. gas field in the Mediterranean will see Egypt planning run, as growth forecasts from both the IMF and World and Chemicals Manufacturing (which produces lower levels of fuel imports. The start of production at our Bank this past April suggest. world-class ground calcium carbonate for the plas• With energy efficiency at last becoming a Egyptian Refining Company will provide even further tics, paints, coatings, adhesives, paper, construction watchword in the Egyptian business community’s impetus, eliminating the need for the import of as many Against this backdrop, Qalaa Holdings stands today as and glass manufacturing industries) and GlassRock vocabulary, we see domestic market prospects for as 2.3 million tons per year of refined diesel. Thanks to a very different company than it did a few short years (which produces glasswool and rockwool insulation both our river transportation play Nile Logistics the float of the Egyptian pound, Egypt has remarkably ago. We have streamlined our investments, having for use in a variety of industries). as well as for GlassRock. enhanced its global competitiveness in the export of divested Enjoy and El Aguizy from our food portfolio 4 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Chairman’s Note this year and exited Tanmeyah — the microfinance player we grew from a modest startup into the largest private-sector player in its field — in a transaction with EFG Hermes. And, of course, in early 2016 we successfully exited Misr Glass Manufacturing and the With mechanical completion at the Egyptian United Glass Company. Refining Company (ERC) expected at the end Exits this year allowed us to deconsolidate and repay a significant portion of our debt and to put our company of 2017, we look forward to the delivery of on a solid financial footing ahead of the start of proour first product in 2018. duction at the Egyptian Refining Company. As we focus on proven winners in Egypt, we are actively working to dispose of a number of our nonEgyptian holdings. We are working toward the exit of Djelfa, our Algerian greenfield cement company, It is with all of the foregoing in mind that we look forward and are working to dispose of Rift Valley Railways in to mechanical completion of ERC before the end of this Kenya even as we continue to provide it with guidyear and the delivery of first on-spec product for 2018. With ance and support pre-exit. We are not retreating from ERC set to soon enter production; with foreign exchange African markets wholesale, but our view going forward losses now behind us; with TAQA Arabia showing healthy is to explore how we can capture hard-currency opsigns of growth at both the top and bottom line; and with portunities in East and North Africa through exports macro trends now moving decisively in our favour, I have and through commercial agreements. every confidence that 2017 will prove a transformative year for Qalaa Holdings on our journey back to profitability. Our goal for the coming three to four years is simple and achievable: we will grow our proven winners into companies that operate at a scale and level of profitability that will allow us to pay liabilities and launch Ahmed Heikal buybacks of Qalaa Holdings shares. Founder and Chairman ERC construction site, Mostorod 6 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 7 our heritage 2007 • Gozour is created to pursue investment in integrated regional agricultural and multi-category consumer foods. A Track Record of Promoting Sustainable • The Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation awards it first scholarships to 19 students to Growth Through Responsible Investments pursue graduate studies abroad on the condition that they return to Egypt to work afterward. 2008 Since our founding as Citadel Capital in 2004, we have been committed to making • Sphinx Glass begins construction of a state-ofthe-art greenfield float glass plant. responsible investments that contribute to sustainable development in Egypt and throughout Africa and the Middle East • Partial exit of ASCOM Geology and Mining on the EGX. 2004 2009 • Qalaa Holdings is founded by Ahmed Heikal and Hisham El-Khazindar as a two-person partnership to pursue growth opportunities in the • The firm lists its shares on the EGX. Middle East and Africa. • ECARU and ENTAG are acquired to form a 2005 solid waste management company that is subsequently named Tawazon. • ASEC Holding becomes the firm’s first platform • Tanmeyah Microenterprise Services is established. company for investments in the cement, construction, and engineering services sector. • ASCOM begins gold exploration in Ethiopia. 2006 2010 • Qalaa Holdings establishes TAQA Arabia, which becomes the platform company for its full-service • A majority stake in Rift Valley Railways (RVR) is MENA energy solutions group. TAQA Arabia acquired. currently provides natural gas connections to nearly 1 million customers in Egypt. • The USD 2.5 bn debt package for the USD 3.7 billion Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) is • Qalaa Holdings establishes Nile Logistics to capitalsigned. Upon completion, ERC will provide ize on Egypt’s underdeveloped river transport sector Egypt with clean energy that will reduce the and promote the use of clean and efficient energy. country’s sulfur emissions by almost one third and reduce dependency on imported fuel. • Qalaa Holdings donates USD 250,000 to open the Qalaa Holding Financial Services Center at The • ERC begins an ongoing project to refurbish American University in Cairo. The QHFSC is the schools, build training centers, provide school first institution in the MENA region dedicated to supplies, and offer vocational training for members helping students develop the skills and qualifications of the communities surrounding the refinery. needed to pursue careers in securities trading, risk management, and asset allocation. • Takamol Cement begins operations in Sudan. 8 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 9 2011 2015 • Wafra, the firm’s platform for investments in the • The firm delivers on its strategy to deleverage and Sudanese agricultural sector, completes its first divest non-core assets, including Tanmeyah, ASEC commercial wheat harvest. Minya, ASEC Ready Mix, and Rashidi El-Mizan. • ASCOM Precious Metals Mining (APM) announces • Qalaa remains committed to growing its investment encouraging indications of gold mineralization at in energy and infrastructure. the Asosa Concession in Western Ethiopia. • The firm completes its first sustainability report • ASEC Engineering signs 3 five-year contracts to manusing the UN’s GRI reporting standards. It becomes age new cement plants in Qena, Beni Suef and Assuit. the first Egyptian company to receive an “A” grade from the GRI. 2012 • Collaborative effort between ASEC Engineering and the American University in Cairo’s Engineering and Science Services Department offers students • GlassRock Insulation Co. begins producing professional training and degrees in highly specialized environmentally friendly rockwool at greenfield fields in cement engineering and management. facility in Minya. • ERC reaches financial close on the USD 1.1 bn equity component of the deal provided by a consortium of regional and international investors. 2016 • ASEC Minya, ASEC’s 2.0 MTPA greenfield cement plant in Upper Egypt begins production. • ERC reaches 94% completion. At peak construction, innovation, and infrastructure; and partnerships the ERC creates 8,000-9,000 temporary jobs. for the goals. Upon completion, it will create 700 permanent 2013 jobs in the Egyptian economy. • ERC launches its new scholarship program, Mostakbaly, which provides students and teachers • Qalaa Holdings becomes a founding member of from the communities surrounding the ERC with • Citadel Capital rebrands as Qalaa Holdings and the UN Global Compact Network in Egypt in the opportunity to pursue undergraduate degrees transforms its business model from private equity to recognition of its commitment to conducting and and professional diplomas from the American investment holding, with a narrower focus on strategic promoting sustainable business in the country’s University in Cairo and the Arab Academy for industries including energy and infrastructure. private sector. Science and Technology. • RVR achieves important operational milestones, • Qalaaa aligns its ESG practices with the UN’s • QHSF celebrates its 10-year anniversary by including the rebuilding of tracks and installing Sustainable Development Goals and communicates awarding 13 new scholarships, in addition to the new GPS signaling systems. this shift throughout its core business and subsidlaunch of the May and Ahmed Heikal NYU Scholariaries. The firm chose five key goals to focus on: ship for students to pursue graduate studies at New quality education; affordable and clean energy; York University, awarded by by Qalaa Chairman and 2014 decent work and economic growth; industry, Founder Ahmed Heikal and his wife May Elaraby. • Qalaa Holdings announces it has completed its planned purchases of additional stakes in its subsidiary companies as part of its ongoing transformation into an investment holding company. • ERC surpasses 40% completion and begins receiving and installing heavy pieces of equipment, including process reactors, fractionators, and drums that will form the core of the refinery. • Qalaa Holdings joins the United Nations Global Compact as part of its ongoing commitment to responsible investing and sustainable business practices. 10 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 2016 Financial Highlights Management Discussion & Analysis Qalaa’s top-line is capturing the upside of the macroeconomic themes now coming into Qalaa Holding energy investments: Taqa, Tawazon and ERC. play with revenues up 25.0% y-o-y at the close of 2016 Qalaa reported total revenues for the year ended 31 DeMoving down the income statement, SG&A came in revaluation; a goodwill impairment of EGP 179 million cember 2016 of EGP 7,848.8 million, up 25% y-o-y over at EGP 927.2 million in FY2016, up 12.5% y-o-y, at Nile Logistics; and EGP 178 million in impairments the FY2015 adjusted figure of EGP 6,277.4 million. The however inching down 130 bps as percentage of sales to at ASEC Cement’s Djelfa (Algeria Cement) related largest contributors to revenue during the year continued 11.8%. At the EBITDA level, Qalaa posted EGP 442.2 to goodwill and projects under construction. In sum, QH Consolidated Revenues to be the energy sector (43%) and the cement sector million in FY2016, down only 2% y-o-y despite the Qalaa recorded total impairments of EGP 1,463.5 (33%). Meanwhile, following ASCOM’s consolidation starting the third quarter of 2015, mining’s contribution prevailing inflationary environment and the significant pressures on its subsidiaries’ cost base. million in FY2016, up by 112.6% y-o-y. EGP 7,848.8 mn has been on the rise and constituted 10% of revenues in Losses from discontinued operations posted EGP 765.7 million in FY2016 of which c.63% (EGP 478.8 million) vs. EGP 6,277.4 mn in FY15 FY2016, up from 4% the previous year. On the other Following the float of the Egyptian pound in November hand, transportation and logistics’ contribution has 2016, the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) raised its primary relate to Africa Railways and EGP 80 million from Mena decreased from 8% in FY2015 to only 1% in FY2016, on interest rates by 300 bps to help strengthen the currency. Home (Designopolis mall). Higher losses from Africa the back of management’s decision to classify Rift Valley The rate hike saw Qalaa record higher interest expense on Railways came as the pound’s float inflated the company’s Railways as a discontinued operation. its standalone senior debt —booked at the holding level foreign currency denominated operational losses followand totaling c.USD 240 million — which came in 25.9% ing their translation into EGP on Qalaa’s financials. Meanwhile, revenue growth in FY2016 was largely driven higher y-o-y to EGP 665.8 million. by improved operational performance at platform comOverall the CBE’s float of the Egyptian Pound on 3 REVENUE PROGRESSION (EGP mn) pany TAQA Arabia, with top-line up 38% y-o-y to EGP Similarly, ASEC Holding’s convertible bond recorded a November 2016 — which saw the EGP lose over 50% 3,214.5 million and contributing 56% to Qalaa revenue 22.8% y-o-y increase in third-party shareholder interest of its value to trade at a USD/EGP rate of 18.41 as of 31 growth in absolute value. Additionally, cement platforms for the year at EGP 97.3 million. December 2016 versus a pre-float rate of 8.79 — led to 7,848.8 ASEC Cement and ASEC Engineering also helped driveQalaa recording total FX losses of EGP 2,067.5 million up Qalaa’s revenues in FY2016, with the two companies Meanwhile, the float of the pound also led to an asset in FY16, of which EGP 2,003.4 million were booked in 6,277.4 contributing 23% to revenue growth in absolute terms. value appreciation related to Wafra, Qalaa’s agrifoods the fourth quarter of the year. The losses are primarily Improved performance came thanks to increased volumes subsidiary. However, owing to the political instability owing to the revaluation of ASEC Holding’s convertible at ASEC Cement’s Sudan plant (Al-Takamol) and higher and security challenges in Sudan and South Sudan, bond which generated EGP 1,987.2 million in FX losses. fees per ton at ASEC Engineering. Improvements by management decided to impair these assets by EGP The figure however, was partially offset by an FX gain cement assets were also reflected on Qalaa’s share of 568.0 million to accurately reflect their true value. at ASEC Cement, netting out a total FX loss at ASEC associates’ results, with ASEC Cement’s Zahana plant in Additionally, an impairment of EGP 190 million was Holding of EGP 1,462.0 million in FY2016. Algeria contributing EGP 38.6 million in FY2016. booked at Grandview on the back of a downward asset 1 Comparative 2015 figures are adjusted to reflect the divestment of ASEC Minya, ASEC Ready Mix, MisrQena Cement, Rashidi El-Mizan, RIS, Tanmeyah, and Mashreq, eliminating the figures of divested companies in addition to figures for investments held for sale starting 1Q16, including Africa Railways. Additionally, ASCOM’s 2016 results were added to Qalaa’s 2015 figures owing to ASCOM’s income statement consolidation starting 3Q15 for a more accurate comparison of y-o-y results. 2015 2016 12 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 13 2016 Financial Highlights Meanwhile, an FX loss of EGP 772.9 million was The pound’s devaluation also led to a hike in total QALAA HOLDINGS CONSOLIDATED Debt Progression* (EGP bn) booked at one of Qalaa’s Special Purpose Vehicles consolidated debt to reach EGP 9.71 billion as at 31 REVENUES FY16 (SPV) with USD denominated financials. The SPV had December 2016, excluding Egyptian Refining Comextended EGP denominated loans to subsidiaries booked pany (ERC), versus EGP 5.9 billion at the close of the as accounts receivables, leading to an FX loss following previous period. The increase was driven by the revalua35 the EGP’s devaluation and subsequent translation of the tion of Qalaa’s USD denominated senior debt as well as All Others ERC 30.4 accounts into USD on the SPV’s financials. other foreign currency debt held primarily at ASCOM’s 30 subsidiaries. The float also drove ERC’s debt value to Substantial FX losses coupled with higher impairments EGP 30.41 billion as at 31 December 2016 compared to EGP’s Float: November 2016 — together totaling c.EGP 3.5 billion in non-cash EGP 14.85 billion at 30 September 2016. 25 7,848.8 mn charges — saw Qalaa record a Net Loss after Minority Interest of EGP 4,106.5 million in FY2016 driven EGP 20 predominantly by the float of the EGP. 14.5 15 13.5 14.9 10.2 8.8 9.7 10 7.1 6.8 6.7 6.5 6.7 6.8 EBITDA Net Profit After Minority 5 5.5 5.9 6.8 6.6 5.2 5.6 5.8 5.9 ■ Energy 43% 3.4 3.5 3.5 EGP 442.2 mn EGP (4,106.5) mn ■ Cement ■ Tran. & Logistics 33% 1% 0 vs. EGP 451.0 mn in FY15 vs. EGP (1,148.2) mn in FY15 ■ Mining 10% Mar-14 Jun-14 Sep-14 Dec-14 Mar-15 Jun-15 Sep-15 Dec-15 Mar-16 Jun-16 Sep-16 Dec-16 ■ Other 13% Total Assets Total Equity * The Debt Progression chart excludes Africa Railways’ debt balance owing to its reclassification as a liability held for sale starting 1Q16. EGP 73,182.0 mn EGP 16,470.5 mn vs. EGP 36,978.2 mn in FY15 vs. EGP 10,950.4 mn in FY15 Outlook in Egypt, in the long haul it is set can deliver increased transportation Management notes that over the to benefit those who can deliver efficiencies. past 12 months Qalaa has made increased energy and transportation significant strides toward reshaping efficiencies as well as exporters and Meanwhile, Qalaa continues to EBITDA PROGRESSION (EGP mn) NET PROFIT PROGRESSION (EGP mn) its business model and positionproducers of import substitutes, push forward with its divestment ing itself for future growth as the all of which are characteristics of strategy as well as deconsolidate economy prepares to enjoy a good Qalaa’s investment portfolio. and repay debt at both the hold451.0 2015 2016 multi-year run. ing and platform company levels. 442.2 Qalaa Holdings controls exporters Management seeks to reshape its The steps taken by the Governincluding ASCOM Carbonate investments and streamline the ment of Egypt to fully embrace and Chemicals Manufacturing company’s financials as it prepares a reform program, including the and GlassRock; import substitutes for the commissioning of ERC float of the Egyptian Pound and particularly its USD 3.7 billion in 2018, and particularly as the (1,123.9) the phase-out of energy subsidies, Egyptian Refining Company, current macro trends are moving are exactly the policies managewhich will curb Egypt’s presentdecisively in its favor. Management ment has been advocating for over day diesel imports by c. 50%; adds that with Qalaa overcoming a decade. And while the economic plays on liberalization of energy foreign exchange losses and necesreform program has taken a shortmarkets, including TAQA Arabia, sary impairments, the company is term toll on bottom-line profitsolid waste management company now better positioned for long(4,106.5) 2015 2016 ability for all businesses operating Tawazon and Nile Logistics which term growth and profitability. 14 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 15 2016 Milestones March Qalaa Holdings finalized the sale of its 70% ownership in Tanmeyah Microfinance to EFG Hermes. Qalaa helped to grow Tanmeya from its initial concept to an EGP 450 million operation providing Egyptian markets with much-needed microfinance solutions. The sale is part of Qalaa’s strategy to deleverage at the holdings and subsidiary levels. a year of steady progress Tanmeyah offering financial inclusion January April Qalaa Holdings Founder Ahmed Heikal joined the Qalaa’s agrifoods subsidiary, Gozour divested its 55% 2016 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerownership of both milk and juice producer Enjoy land. Over 100 countries participated in the event, and produce exporter El-Aguizy International for with heads of state and global CEOs coming together Economic Development to a domestic industrial to discuss challenges faced by regional economies. investor who also bought El-Misrieen in December Heikal participated in a CEO panel to make a case for 2015. The sale of these and other distressed assets will investments in Egypt’s Red Sea region. have positive impact on Qalaa’s P&L by allowing the 2016 WEF company to deconsolidate losses. February Qalaa executives presented success stories and took part in key panels on investing and partnering with African countries at COMESA’s Africa 2016 Investment Forum held under the patronage of Egyptian President June Abdel Fattah El-Sisi in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt. ECARU, Tawazon waste-management subsidiary, Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation (QHSF) signed a five-year contract to supply Ethiopia’s celebrated its 10-year anniversary, awarding new Messebo Cement Company with biomass, an scholarships to 13 students and bringing the cumulative environmentally friendly and cost efficient alternative number of scholarships offered to 151. To commemorate solid fuel that acts as a replacement for coal and reduces the occasion, Chairman and Founder Ahmed Heikal emissions from burning fossil fuel. and his wife launched the May and Ahmed Heikal Scholarships for students to pursue graduate studies ECARU signed an MOU with Ethiopia’s East African Mining to establish a JV supplying biomass at New York University. Educating Egypt’s Future Leaders ECARU biomass collection fuel to be used in Ethiopia and neighboring countries. qalaascholarships.org 16 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 2016 Milestones August Nile Logistics’ subsidiary NRPMC took steps to diversify its business by launching the operation of Inland Container Depot at its Nubareya River Port. In its first month of operations, the depot achieved promising revenues of c. EGP 631,000. In 4Q16, revenues reached c. EGP 3 million. October ASEC Cement and ASEC Cement Djelfa Offshore signed a preliminary share purchase framework agreement to sell 100% of its ownership of ASEC Ciment Algerie (AACC) to a consortium of Algerian investors in a USD 60 million transaction. The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) launched the Mostakbaly Scholarship Program to fund educational opportunities for students and teachers in Mostorod by awarding its first batch of six undergraduate scholarships to students from the surrounding community Mostakbaly scholarship to attend The American University in Cairo (AUC) and recipients The Arab Academy for Science and Technology. November Qalaa Holdings was named as a founding member of the UN Global Compact Network in Egypt in recognition of the company’s commitment to sustainability and responsible investing and its leadership role in Egypt’s private sector. December ERC reached 91% completion as of December 31 with all of the heavy/major equipment installed at the construction site. ERC is an import substitution play with ERC construction site, 100% of its production serving local demand. Mostorod Qalaa Holdings has transformed Dina Farms into Egypt’s leading producer of raw milk aligning with the sustainable development goals responsible investing Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 21 responsible investing An African Pioneer in Sustainable and Responsible Business Practices Education Environmental Sustainability Creating Inclusive Human Capital Community Development Growth Development Community Vocational Engagement Training Reem Bedair, QHSF 2010 scholar, Oxford University, examining x-rays at Egypt’s National Cancer Institute At the forefront of Qalaa Holdings business goals is the petroleum. Over the course of a decade, we have nurpursuit of a double bottom line: significant gains for tured these investments and watched our communities both our company and the countries and communities grow and thrive. in which we work. By investing in businesses that have a positive impact on our society, Qalaa plays an Our Commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) important role in fostering sustainable growth in Egypt In 2015, Qalaa Holdings made the decision to realign and Africa. Our subsidiaries have created thousands of our sustainability targets with the newly-adopted UN jobs and developed infrastructure crucial for sustainable Global Compact’s (UNGC) Sustainable Development economic development and inclusive growth. Goals (SDGs). Created to expand on the success of the Millennium Development Goals, the SDGs Environmental impact is also at the forefront of our represent a global effort to foster sustainable developstrategic concerns; this has led us to invest in projects ment at all levels of society. Over the past year, we that recycle waste into alternative fuel and produce have worked diligently to communicate and rollout clean Euro V diesel that reduces the toxins that are our commitment to the SDGs at both the holding released into the air as a result of burning low quality company level and throughout our subsidiaries. 22 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 responsible investing More than 10 Years of Sustainable Business Our Accomplishments Qalaa energy subsidiary TAQA Arabia is investing in renewable energy In order to streamline our efforts and tailor intercountry. During their time abroad, scholarship recipiIn 2016 we celebrated 10 years of successful, uninterInvesting in Affordable and Clean Energy Solutions national standards to Qalaa’s unique position as an ents gain critical thinking skills, professional qualificarupted operations at QHSF. During this time, we have At Qalaa Holdings, we believe that for Egypt’s ecoEgyptian holding company with investments in diverse tions, and international connections that equip them to provided a total of 151 students with the opportunity nomic growth to be truly sustainable, it must be fueled sectors including energy, transportation and logistics make a pivotal impact when they return to Egypt. to pursue masters and doctoral degrees at top universiby clean and efficient energy sources. Contributing and food, we have chosen to focus on projects and inities across the world including Harvard, Stanford, to the country’s need for clean energy, our waste tiatives that aim to achieve the SDGs with a particular Oxford, Cambridge, Columbia and Wharton to management subsidiary Tawazon is recycling waste emphasis on education, an area that has always been a name a few. Recognizing the crucial link between into biomass, an environmentally friendly replacement priority for our founders. Our Core Goal: Providing Access to Quality Education 163 scholarships awarded* diversity and innovation, we have sought out talented young men and women from across the country. Past scholarship recipients have come from Cairo, for coal and natural gas that is ideally suited to power heavy industries such as cement. to Egyptian students for graduate studies abroad by QHSF Recognizing the importance of education and human Giza, Alexandria, Menoufia, Ismalia, Assiut, Minya, When complete, ERC, our state-of-the-art USD 3.7 capital development in fostering economic growth and since 2007 Qalyubiya, Dakahlia, and Aswan governorates. Our billion refinery will eliminate 93,000 tons of Egypt’s social transformation, we have chosen to make access to education the core goal on which we focus. In 2006, only two years after our company was founded, 950 students also have a diverse array of passions and have pursued degrees in fields ranging from filmmaking, anthropology, and art to law, business, engineering, sulfur emissions and improve the quality of the national petrol supply by converting lowest value fuel oil into middle and light distillates that Egypt is in dire need of welders, electricians, and pipe-fitters trained by ERC as part we donated USD 250,000 to establish the Qalaa architecture, development, and medicine. for its domestic consumption. ERC will have the caHoldings Financial Services Center (QHFSC) at The of a vocational education initiative pacity to produce 4.2 million tons of refined products American University in Cairo (AUC). The QHFSC is Subsiadiaries Expand Access to Quality Education per year, including 2.3 million tons of Euro V diesel. the first institution in the MENA region dedicated to helping students develop the skills and qualifications 15,300+ Our subsidiaries are also championing education with their own programs that mirror Qalaa’s goal to provide Meanwhile, TAQA Power, a branch of our energy required to pursue careers in securities trading, risk beneficiaries of ASEC Academy’s training programs educational opportunities to those who otherwise have subsidiary TAQA Arabia, is investing in solar and wind management, and asset allocation. Since that time we no access. The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), power and actively working to connect remote househave donated USD 30,000 annually to ensure that the Qalaa’s USD 3.7 billion refinery has been refurbishing holds and industrial clients to Egypt’s natural gas grid. center continues to provide students with the training that they require in order to enter the workforce. 15,161 public schools and providing vocational training opportunities through purpose-built community centers in their surrounding neighborhood of Mostorod. They people employed at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries A year later in 2007, we launched the Qalaa Holdings have also funded school supplies and conducted vision Scholarship Foundation (QHSF) with an endowment to ensure the program’s sustainability. Today QHSF has grown to become the largest private sector funded USD 60 mn contributed tests for over 36,000 students and members of their local communities. In 2016, ERC consolidated all their initiatives under the umbrella of their newly-launched 120,360 tons of biomass processed and supplied in FY16 by solid waste scholarship program in Egypt. Despite economic and to community development programs since 2004 “Mostakbaly Scholarship Program,” which awards both political challenges, every year since 2007 QHSF has graduate and undergraduate university scholarships management company Tawazon USD 100,000 been giving 15-20 of Egypt’s brightest students the and funds training for public school teachers at AUC’s chance to pursue graduate studies abroad at leading Teaching Early Learners diploma program. global universities in the U.S. and Europe on the condition that they return to work in Egypt after donated to refurbish hospitals in Matariya and Mostorod for the benefit of more than 700,000 community members TAQA Arabia, Qalaa’s energy distribution subsidiary 29% reduction the completion of their studies. By providing youth has also endowed an additional annual scholarship in in total amount of SO2 emissions as a result of cleaner Euro V diesel from cities in 13 governorates throughout Egypt with 2016 for students working in the alternative energy supplied by the ERC opportunities, we are enabling them to make a positive sector to pursue graduate studies abroad in alternative impact on the economic and social well-being of the * Includes 2017 Scholars energy or related disciplines. 24 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 25 responsible investing leading by example The Double Bottom Line Environmental We have always strived to balance positive social impact and financial performance in an effort to leave the communities in Sustainability which we do business better than we found them. This double bottom line is taken into consideration with every investment decision that we make. Economic Social USD 30,000 donated annually 400+ to the QHFSC at The American University in Cairo teachers trained through Mostakbaly Scholarship Program 60+ 16 Access To Finance Better Governance participants in ASEC Engineering Cement Professional public schools refurbished by ERC, benefitting over By adopting a sustainability framework early on, Qalaa was Effective governance and accurate reporting has helped us Diploma Program 36,000 students able to access funding from international investors such as DFI reduce risk, identify internal and external threats and capture and Export Credit Agencies who financed some of their major profitable business opportunities investments such as the Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) Providing Decent Work and Economic Growth in Egypt A Focus on Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure and Africa Qalaa Holdings invests in a diverse array of businesses In the past 10 years Qalaa Holdings has built 27 busithat contribute directly or indirectly to building nesses, creating thousands of temporary and permanent Egypt’s infrastructure. ERC is the country’s largest jobs in the process. Seeking to add value to our emin-progress, private sector, infrastructure megaproject; ployees’ experience, we strive to create environments when it’s completed, the refinery will play a crucial Shared Value Creation Skilled Workforce where knowledge exchange is built into the workday role in Egypt’s energy infrastructure, providing the and facilitate vocational training opportunities. At country with clean-burning fuel for industry that will subsidiaries like TAQA Power and ASEC Holding, local reduce dependency on imports. Adopting the SDGs has helped Qalaa create value for all their Investing in education and human capital development employees learn from specialists and engineers working stakeholders; investors, employees and communities has helped Qalaa and its subsidiaries access top talent and onsite. Construction workers hired to build ERC have TAQA Arabia is also working to expand the country’s participate in the transfer of knowledge with other players also gained experience that will qualify them to work on energy infrastructure to reach remote areas. By providsimilar projects going forward. At ASEC Holding, our ing educational opportunities and accommodating within its industries team partnered with AUC to develop the ASEC Engiwork environments for our employees, we are giving neering Professional Diploma for the cement industry them the knowledge and opportunities that will make from which many ASEC employees have benefitted. it possible to conceive and realize innovative ideas. 26 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 27 responsible investing collaboration is one of our key startegies for supporting Global Organizations communities and Partnerships International Sustainability The United Nations Global Compact Private Sector Businesses and Organizations Government Organizations and Ratings Agencies As the world’s largest voluntary corporate social responOur most consistent private sector partner for development sibility initiative, with over 12,000 participants from 145 is The American University in Cairo. countries, the UNGC has provided us with a clear and comprehensive framework for developing, implementQalaa Holdings has collaborated with AUC to design ing, and reporting on effective Environmental, Social the QHFSC, the curriculum used at ASEC Academy, and Governance (ESG) practices. Joining the UNGC and the ASEC Engineering Cement Professional has provided us with a global network of peer business Diploma Program. Through the Mostakbaly scholarwith which to exchange knowledge and recommendaship program, ERC also provides several students with tions about adopting and fulfilling the Sustainable opportunities to pursue undergraduate degrees and Development Goals. We have also been able to use our professional diplomas from AUC every year. Additionmembership in the UNGC as a platform for engaging ally, by participating in Egypt’s local chapter of the other actors within Egypt. Qalaa is proud to be a foundUNGC, Qalaa Holdings actively encourages other ing member of Egypt’s local chapter of the UNGC. businesses to place greater emphasis on sustainable development and to adopt global reporting standards. The Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an internaIn mid-2017, Qalaa also joined the Egyptian Junior Civil Society Academia tional, independent organization that provides companies Business Association’s Integrity Network Initiative with the tools and support to assess their ESG practices (INI), a project uniting Egyptian businesses in the fight and communicate their commitment to corporate social against corruption in the private sector. As a member responsibility to other global actors. Qalaa Holdings was of the INI, Qalaa Holdings has the opportunity to the first Egyptian company to receive an “A” grade from mentor Egypt’s most promising SMEs as they develop the GRI for our 2015 Sustainability Report (published in sound corporate governance and ESG practices. 2016) conducted using the G3 reporting standards. We continue to make adjustments and improvements to our Civil Society Organizations operations based on this assessment. ERC regularly partners with civil society organizations in communities surrounding the refinery in order to provide Local Partnerships: The Golden Triangle students with school supplies, build much-needed comWe believe that in order to achieve true sustainable munity centers, and facilitate vocational trainings. development there must be collaboration and alignment between all actors: private-sector, civil society organizaGovernment Organizations tions, and government bodies. Adopting the SDGs has Qalaa Holdings believes in the importance of aligning allowed Qalaa to align our individual efforts to promote its priorities with those of the government in an effort to sustainable development with broader initiatives and foster a broader national coalition for sustainable developmovements in Egyptian society. We partner with a variety ment. As part of our overall effort to achieve our priority of government and civil society organizations as part of SDGs, we have in the past undertaken programs in our ongoing efforts and actively encourage other busipartnership with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry nesses to incorporate the SDGs into their operations. of Social Solidarity and the Ministry of Culture. 28 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 corporate governance Audit Committee Qalaa Holdings Management Philip Dundas Chairman of the Committee Osama Hafez Committee Member Management Subsidiary Companies Magdy El-Desouky Committee Committee Member GOVERNANCE & INTEGRITY Compensation Committe Management Audit Statutory Finance & Board Committee Board Investment Philip Dundas Committee Chairman of the Committee Qalaa Holdings Qalaa Holdings’ governance structure has evolved significantly over the past 13 years as the Osama Hafez company has transitioned from an entrepreneurial two-person partnership to Africa’s leadCommittee Member ing private equity firm with 19 platform companies and finally to its current structure as an Magdy El-Desouky Executive Compensation Committee Audit Committee Statutory Board investment holding company with a narrower focus in fewer strategic sectors. Committee Member Committee committee and compensation committee. Developed ethical behavior within Qalaa and its subsidiaries. This Throughout Qalaa’s 13-year journey, maintaining good This quarterly cycle of meetings and reviews, culpolicies that are now being implemented include the risk approach helps the firm to protect the organization’s governance has been critical in seeing us through the minating in the meeting of Qalaa Holdings’ audit assessment framework, in addition to the anti-fraud and assets, reputation, and employees. The Anti-Fraud volatility of our markets and helping us build sustainable committee and board, ensures a rigorous process of insider trading policies. In addition, audit committees Policy was reinforced by availing an anonymous whistlebusinesses in multiple countries throughout the region. participation by a wide cross section of executives from modeled on the Qalaa Holdings’ audit committee charter blowing channel to receive information from inside and Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiary companies. have been established for all major subsidiary companies, outside the company on the Qalaa Holdings website. We pride ourselves on a long-standing tradition of where the members of the audit committees are indepenhaving a board of directors dominated by a majority of Qalaa Holdings engages the services of only the most dent of the company’s management. Qalaa Holdings believes in continuously promoting non-executives. In 2016, we continued along the path reputable audit firms for both ongoing statutory audits and and empowering the control environment within the to strengthen our governance to support sustainable due diligence for all subsidiaries. Strict internal controls and Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit represents a key element company. Accordingly, the Internal Audit function has growth, enhance risk management, and maximize reporting standards are a cornerstone of the governance prinin its corporate governance framework, with a mission to developed a Risk Assessment Framework to be followed efficiency at Qalaa Holdings and across all subsidiary ciples at Qalaa and its subsidiaries. Financial and operational add value and improve Qalaa Holdings’ overall operations throughout the organization. Risk Assessment contributes companies. This determined approach to governance has reports are transparent to all parties with a vested interest — by providing relevant, timely, independent, and objective to the effective and efficient demonstrable achievement progressively regulated a wide range of practices at Qalaa from management and board members to shareholders. assurance and advisory activities. of objectives and the improvement of performance on Holdings and its subsidiary companies, ranging from a multiple fronts. Qalaa’s Internal Audit strives to ensure risk assessment framework and anti-fraud and financial Qalaa believes that high-quality governance is a fundaThe Internal Audit team assists the organization the presence of the Internal Audit function across all reporting policies to the manner in which management mental enabler of superior corporate performance. The in accomplishing its objectives by using a systematic platforms, in its capacity to oversee, monitor and guide, interacts with shareholders and the creation of sharecomponents of effective governance reduce risk, identify and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve advise, and administer its platform. holder value across our subsidiaries. internal and external threats, and assist in capturing the effectiveness of risk management, control, and profitable business opportunities. Qalaa Holdings’ governance process which provides Qalaa Holdings’ Over the years we have overcome many challenges and Institutionalizing the corporate governance processes governance principles align the interests of management, stakeholders with reasonable assurance over the made significant progress in implementing comprehensive is an ongoing, long-term objective across all of our shareholders, the board of directors, and subsidiaries, groups operations and strengthens the firm’s ability to and effective corporate governance strategies. In midplatform companies. Equally important are the prinfacilitating well-informed decisions. maximize stakeholder value. 2017 we took active steps to share our experiences in this ciples of fairness, openness, and transparency which we project with other companies in Egypt’s private sector by have worked diligently to instill as part of our corporate Qalaa Holdings has completed a process of institutionalizaQalaa Holdings’ independent Internal Audit body joining the Egyptian Junior Business Association’s Inculture. tion that began in 2013 at both the core and subsidiary levmaintains functional reporting lines to the audit committegrity Network Initiative (INI). This initiative connects els. The comprehensive program included the refinement tee and administrative reporting lines to the chairman and Egypt’s leading companies with its most promising SMEs An interdisciplinary approach to governance incorporates Qaand improvement of all systems, policies, and procedures chief executive officer. in a collective effort to fight corruption in the private seclaa Holdings’ management, industry platform teams, and the that management needs to support and grow the business. tor and create a culture of accountability and transparency. senior management of subsidiary companies by way of formal With a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, the Internal quarterly meetings through the management boards. These New policy documents were developed in parallel with Audit function has implemented an Anti-Fraud Policy management boards also convene on an as-needed basis. the refinement of existing charters such as the audit to promote consistent corporate integrity, honesty, and 30 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 31 Executive Board Members and Committees Executive Board Members Finance & Investment Committee Ahmed Heikal Moataz Farouk Abdalla El-Ebiary, Chairman & Founder Chief Financial Officer Managing Director Hisham El-Khazindar Tarek Salah Karim Sadek, Co-Founder & Managing Director, Board Member, Managing Director Head of Cement Head of Transportation & Logistics Alaa El-Afifi Mohamed Abdellah Amr M. El-Kadi, Managing Director, Managing Director Head of IR & Head of Mining Risk Management Ahmed Heikal Hisham El-Khazindar Karim Sadek Moataz Farouk Chairman Representing Co-Founder and Managing Managing Director, Board Member Citadel Capital Partners Ltd Director Representing Head of Transportation & Representing Citadel Citadel Capital Partners Ltd Logistics Capital Partners Ltd Management Board The management board convenes on a quarterly basis, or more frequently if needed, and is responsible for reviewing, amending, and endorsing the subsidiary companies’ financial performance and overall strategy. Attendance by the Finance & Investment Committee is welcomed. Non-Executive Board Members Ahmed Heikal Moataz Farouk Hisham El-Khazindar Chairman & Founder Chief Financial Officer Co-Founder & Managing Director Tarek Salah Karim Sadek Alaa El-Afifi Osama Hafez Magdy El Desouky Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Board Member, Board Member, Qalaa Holdings’ Board of Directors Head of Cement Head of Transportation & Logistics Head of Mining Representing Olayan Representing Citadel Capital Partners Ltd provides management with Abdalla El-Ebiary oversight and a solid regional Managing Director Philip Blair Dundas Mona Makram Ebeid perspective and now includes five Jr., Board Member Board Member* non-executive board members Dina Hassan Sherif nominated by shareholders Board Member* * Appointed in 2017 32 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 33 Management Committee Our Management Committee is a monthly forum that engages a wider management team of Qalaa Holdings to review market developments and progress on corporate Raouf Tawfik Ahmed Abdel-Sattar Rami Barsoum Hazem Dakroury initiatives at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries Managing Director Group Chief Information Officer Head of Information Technology Head of Government Relations Ahmed Heikal Hisham El-Khazindar Karim Sadek Mohamed Abdellah Ghada Hammouda Tarek Hassan Amr M. El-Kadi Yasmin Al-Gharbawie Chairman & Founder Co-Founder & Managing Director, Managing Director Chief Marketing Officer & Head of Legal Department Head of IR & General Counsel Managing Director Head of Transportation & Head of MARCOM Risk Management Logistics Abdalla El-Ebiary Alaa El-Fas Ahmed El-Sharkawy Mostafa Sowelem Shady Raphael Ihab Rizk Mohsen Mansour Managing Director Managing Director Managing Director* Managing Director Head of Internal Audit Head of Human Resources Principal * Stepped down as of 2017 34 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 35 Subsidiary Management Teams ENERGY TRANSPORTATION AND LOGISTICS AGRIFOODS Khaled Abubakr Tamer Hassan Hassan Mokhtar TAQA Arabia, Dina Farms, Managing Director Executive Chairman Managing Director, Agricultural Sector Sherif Ibrahim Sabina, Chief Financial Officer Pakinam Kafafi Maged Farag Ashraf Abousen TAQA Arabia, Nile Logistics, Dina Farms, Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the National Council for General Manager, Multimodal Transport Retail Company CEMENT Mohamed Saad Mohamed Osman ERC, Dina Farms, Managing Director Managing Director, Livestock MINING Hisham Sherif Tarek El-Gammal Fayez Gress Tawazon, ASEC Cement, ASCOM, Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer & Executive Chairman Our subsidiaries Energy Transportation & Logistics Mining Cement & Construction Agrifood ERC construction site, Mostorod 38 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC) Now more than 94% complete, ERC, a crucial import substitution project, will bolster Egypt’s energy security and provide environmentally friendly fuel for economic growth 94.1% complete as of May 2017 ERC is a state-of-the-art USD 3.7 bilThe EGPC’s Cairo Oil Refinery ERC construction site, Mostorod lion greenfield petroleum refinery and Company (CORC), the nation’s Egypt’s largest private sector in-progress infrastructure megaproject. When complete, ERC will convert lowest value largest refinery with 20% of Egypt’s current refining capacity, will provide oil as feedstock for ERC. ERC 29.1% reduction in Egypt’s SO2 emissions fuel oil into middle and light distillates will have the capacity to produce that will meet domestic consumption 4.2 million tons of refined products 2016 Financial and Operational Updates • The ERC is expected to generate an EBITDA of c. needs and eliminate 93,000 tons of Egypt’s annual sulfur emissions, almost one third of the country’s total. per year, including 2.3 million tons of Euro V diesel, representing more than 50% of Egypt’s current im50-60 % • Progress on construction reached 94.1% as of May 2017. Mechanical testing is scheduled to begin in 2017, with first product expected in 2018. USD 500 million in its first full year of operation. • All underground and domestically fabricated abovereduction in Egypt’s Diesel imports ports and 600,000 tons of jet fuel. ground piping installation has been completed. In June 2012, ERC reached financial Liquid stock products will be sold • All heavy and major equipment has been installed close on the equity and debt components of project financing. Qalaa Holdings invested in the project alongside at the EGPC at international prices under a 25-year takeoff agreement. USD 2.5 BN at the project site. • All mechanical outfitting has been completed. value of debt package for ERC Gulf and international investors, global As an import substitution project export credit agencies, and developdelivering diesel and other highment finance institutions. Construction began in 2012, with the consortium of value products to the EGPC at the heart of the consumption market in c.USD 1.2 BN GS Engineering & Construction Corp. and Mitsui & Co. Ltd acting as the contractor for the project. Greater Cairo, the ERC is strategically important to Egypt’s energy security. total equity invested in ERC 4.2 MN TONS 8,000-9,000 total annual production capacity of refined products jobs created at peak construction, 700 permanent and high-quality oil derivatives positions created Key Management QH Ownership Footprint: Mohamed Saad Managing Director 18% Egypt 2.3 MN TONS annual production capacity of Euro V Standard Diesel 40 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries TAQA Arabia TAQA Arabia provides the energy and infrastructure to fuel economic growth and improve quality of life 46 filling stations in Egypt, 7 CNG and 39 fueling stations TAQA Arabia is Qalaa Holdings’ Ten years later we have been proven primary operational investment in Egypt’s vital energy sector. Qalaa initially invested in TAQA in right. TAQA Arabia today stands as Egypt’s largest private sector energy distribution company, with more than 826,100 In 2016, TAQA Fuels Marketing was TAQA Arabia’s most profitable division with 46 stations nationwide clients connected to the gas grid June 2006 in the belief that rapid 18 years of experience investing and industrial growth in Egypt and the operating energy infrastructure includregion would provide an opportunity for private sector players to satisfy unmet industrial demand for ing gas transmission and distribution, power generation and distribution, and the marketing of petroleum products. 3.6 BCM TAQA Arabia provides complementary services in the energy sector through three distinct arms: total gas distributed energy. We also had the foresight The company has also recently taken to predict that governments would solid steps to invest in alternative TAQA Gas Distribution and Construction (residenwith tailored packages that address operational requireinevitably have to deregulate their energy sectors giving ample opportunities for an aggressive, experienergy including wind and solar power projects to help meet Egypt’s growing energy needs after the government 38 % tial, commercial, and industrial) Providing 826,100 customers with 3.61 billion cubic meters of natural gas, TAQA Gas is the leading gas ments from finance and design to construction. TAQA Power also operates and maintains low-, medium-, and high-voltage power plants and distribution networks for y-o-y increase in revenues enced, and well-financed group like announced the introduction of new distributor in Egypt. TAQA Gas regularly serves 11 the oil and gas, industrial, residential, commercial, and TAQA to become a market leader. feed-in tariffs for renewable energy. governorates within Egypt. The company also has a tourism sectors in Egypt. Additionally, TAQA Power large downstream natural gas engineering and conis the first private sector company in Egypt licensed to struction division that manages the group’s distribudistribute power in an industrial zone. tion arms and provides services to private and public sector third parties in Egypt and the MENA region. TAQA Fuels Marketing and Distribution In 2016, TAQA Fuels Marketing was TAQA Arabia’s Key Management QH Ownership Footprint: TAQA Power Generation and Distribution, Engimost profitable division, making significant contribuneering, and Procurement tions to total revenue across all four quarters. The branch With more than c.5,000 clients including several major is the first local private sector player to see refined Khaled Abubakr 62.5% Egypt, Libya, companies, TAQA Power is the leading integrated petroleum products and fuel oil to retail, industrial, and Executive Chairman Jordan, Qatar, UAE private sector power player in the Egyptian market. The wholesale customers; it focuses on underpenetrated areas Pakinam Kafafi company maintains engineering, development, generawith a favorable competitive landscape. Additionally, Chief Executive Officer tion, and distribution operations along the power value TAQA Oil Marketing operates a network of stations to chain. As a result, TAQA Power can provide clients convert and fuel vehicles with compressed natural gas. Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 43 Our Subsidiaries 2016 Financial Updates TAQA Arabia made the largest contribution to Qalaa TAQA Gas revenues came in at EGP 622.3 million, Holdings’ earnings in FY16, producing 41% of the a 22% y-o-y increase; EBITDA increased 10% y-o-y company’s total revenue. Revenues for the subsidiary to EGP 117.9 million. The arm’s strong performance increased 38% y-o-y in FY16, reaching EGP 3,214.5 was due to a 17% y-o-y increase in gas distribution million, and EBITDA increased 11% y-o-y to EGP 277.0 volumes, mostly to industrial clients in the fertilizer million. TAQA Arabia experienced a particularly strong sector, to 3.6 BCM. Total accumulated number of fourth quarter in which revenues increased almost twodomestic gas converted customers reached 826,100 fold y-o-y to EGP 1,174.2 million. clients, giving the branch a c. 14% market share. In all four quarters, the company’s marketing arm TAQA Power’s revenues increased slightly by 4% ywas the highest contributor to revenues. The branch’s o-y EGP 532.1 million, though EBITDA fell by 21% revenues reached EGP 1,667.7 million, a 31% y-o-y y-o-y to EGP 91.4 million. The arm has been hit by increase, and its EBITDA increased 42% y-o-y to the recession in the country’s tourism sector, as power EGP 58.5 million. TAQA Marketing’s success was distribution in the Nabq (Sharm El-Sheikh) touristic largely due to an increase in total sales volume across zone dropped 28% y-o-y in FY16. TAQA Power is all products. Sales of refined fuels (diesel and gasoline) seeking opportunities to diversify into new business increased 23% y-o-y to 805 million liters, and sales of lines in response to the expected continued recession. lube increased 26% y-o-y to 4,353 tons. TAQA Power is the leading integrated 11 USD 150 MN Egyptian governorates TAQA has presence in investments in developing solar energy private sector power player in the Egyptian market 2016 Operational Updates • 2016 saw the opening of four new filling stations, Consolidated Revenues (EGP mn) Consolidated EBITDA (EGP mn) increasing the total number of stations to 46 nationwide. TAQA Arabia plans to open 7 additional stations in 2017. 647.2 3,214.5 KW/hr total power generated and distributed • The company is in the final planning stages for a 2,331.8 new terminal in Alexandria. 277.0 • TAQA Arabia has taken strides to expand O&M business this year, entering into several new contracts including a 10-year contract with Mall of Arabia. 11 % 249.4 y-o-y increase in EBITDA • As part of its commitment to sustainability, TAQA Arabia is exploring opportunities to diversify into energy efficiency and waste energy services such as generating power from agricultural and municipal waste. 805.5 total fuel distributed in 2016 • The company is finalizing a USD 150 million invest2015 2016 2015 2016 ment in two solar farms, each with 50 MW of capacity. 44 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries Tawazon ECARU is a leading supplier of biomass and Refuse Derived Fuels (RDF) in Egypt Tawazon is recycling waste into energy that will fuel Egypt’s sustainable economic growth 2016 Financial Updates Tawazon’s total revenues reached EGP 184.4 million in ENTAG’s revenues reached EGP 13.9 million, down FY16, down 14% y-o-y, and the company’s EBITDA also 74% y-o-y; the scope of the company’s work was sigdeclined 20% y-o-y to EGP 24.2 million. These declines nificantly smaller in FY16 because in FY15 the company are due in part to a one-off gain in the 4Q15 that raised was contracted to design and construct a sanitary landfill annual revenues significantly and muted performance at in Oman and complete rehabilitation and upgrade works ENTAG resulting from a lack of new turnkey projects. for clients across Africa. In FY16, ENTAG was largely limited to residual rehabilitation work and supplying Qalaa originally invested in Tawazon’s two companies ECARU’s FY16 revenues increased slightly by 3% EGP 4 million in supplies to its sister company ECARU. Tawazon in 2009 as part of its reinforce one another’s efforts y-o-y to EGP 175.0 million; excluding the company’s commitment to providing the one-off gain in 4Q15, the increase is 10% y-o-y. The country with efficient renewable ECARU company’s adjusted growth can be attributed to a 75% energy solutions. Tawazon curECARU is responsible for collecty-o-y increase in RDF volumes to 82 thousand tons, rently controls two companies: the Egyptian Company for Solid Waste Recycling (ECARU), a solid waste ing, transporting, and processing agricultural waste. For five years the company has been a regional leader 82,347 which increased RDF revenues by almost two-fold in FY16 and partially offset lower biomass prices. Municipal solid waste fees received in FY16 amounted to EGP 2016 Operational Updates • Because of heightened energy consumption in Egypt, energy-intensive industries such as the tons RDF supplied by ECARU in 2016 management service operator, in biomass production, a process 49.9 million, bolstered by higher tonnage and prices cement industry have turned to burning coal and and the Engineering Tasks Group that recycles agricultural residues per ton. Biomass supply was lower throughout the year using RDF as a source of energy for the first time. (ENTAG), a solid waste managethat would otherwise be openly largely due to suspension of activity by one of ECARU’s ECARU has increased RDF fluff construction ment engineering and contracting burned into fuel for heavy industries largest clients; total tonnage declined 9% y-o-y to EGP capacity to meet this growing demand. company. Qalaa has worked closely with management at both companies to boost human and such as cement manufacturing. ENTAG 120,360 120 thousand; EBITDA declined 31% y-o-y. tons biomass supplied by ECARU in 2016 financial resources to be better ENTAG is a solid waste management Consolidated Revenues (EGP mn) Consolidated EBITDA (EGP mn) able to capitalize on existing opengineering and contracting facility that portunities as well as develop and has built many sorting and composting explore new ones. Our short to facilities in Egypt and consults for more 215.7 medium-term focus is on providthan 76 projects in Egypt. The coming biomass and RDF as alternative pany also has an international presence, 184.8 fuels to heavy energy consumers with projects in Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, 30.1 24.2 such as cement factories. Libya, Sudan, Oman, and Syria. Key Management QH Ownership Footprint: Hisham Sherif 68.1% Egypt, Oman, Ethiopia, Chief Executive Officer Sudan, Jordan, Qatar, UAE 2015 2016 2015 2016 46 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries Nile Logistics Nile Logistics delivers transportation efficiencies and significantly reduces environmental footprint Qalaa Holdings invested in Nile Logistics in 2006 to equipment. NRPMC is Nile Logistics’ subsidiary that capitalize on the immense potential of fuel-efficient, is focused on services such as warehousing and cargo environmentally friendly river transportation. One handling in Alexandria, Suez, and Damietta. river barge has the same capacity as 20-40 truckloads but requires a fraction of the fuel and money to operNile Barges for River Transport ate. Nile Logistics operates three subsidiaries that offer Located in South Sudan, Nile Barges for River stevedoring and river transportation services in Egypt Transport operates a fleet of barges transporting goods and South Sudan. In Egypt, Nile Logistics’ subsidiarbetween the north and south of the country. ies operate a stevedoring on anchor service in various Egyptian ports as well as a container feeder service across the Suez Canal. Nile Logistics has a strong fleet that allows it to transport cargo along the Nile River. In South Sudan, Nile Logistics’ subsidiary Nile Barges Unloading of a Nile Logistics barge on the owns two convoys and transports a variety of goods Nile River between the northern and southern parts of South Sudan. The three subsidiaries under Nile Logistics work together to provide an integrated network of transportation services Nile Cargo (NC) Nile Cargo owns and operates a fleet of barges that allows it to (1) transport bulk cargo along the Nile, (2) Key Management QH Ownership Footprint: provide stevedoring services in various Egyptian Ports, and (3) operate a container feeder service in Port Said between the eastern and western container terminals. Gen. Maged Farag 67.6% Egypt, South Sudan Chairman of the operating National River Ports Management Company (NRPMC) companies Nile Cargo & National River Ports Management Company is the NRPMC in Egypt & Nile owner of multiple river ports and port-handling Barges in South Sudan Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 49 Our Subsidiaries 2016 Financial Updates Nile Logistics’ full-year revenues reached EGP 100.7 of the Inland Container Depot also affected business. million in FY16, up 34% y-o-y. 4Q16 was particuAdditionally, divestment from Ostool Trucking Comlarly strong, as consolidated revenues for the quarter pany in 4Q16 and the exclusion of profits from the reached EGP 35.4 million, an impressive 76% y-o-y share of associates’ line above the EBITDA resulted in increase. The company was able to pass-on price an EBITDA of negative EGP 17.5 million. However, increases across all functions, including the Inland the divestment saw the company record a gain on sale of Container Depot, stevedoring operations, and feeder assets of c. EGP 17 million. service, which led to improved top-line performance. The company’s feeder service at Port Said was also affected Stevedoring operations handled 870 thousand tons in by depressed import levels; this problem in turn affected FY16, a 9.4% y-o-y increase. The company did face transshipment volumes. Total number of containers was several challenges during FY16. In particular, the lack 16,280 TEUs, a 43% y-o-y decline despite operation bookof foreign exchange reserves in Egypt impacted import ing an all-time one-month high of 4,335 TEUs in January levels, and suspension of operations at the company’s 2016. Fortunately, shipment volumes returned to historical Nubareya port for several months to finalize preparations averages of c. 2,000 TEUs per month in early 2017. 870 K TONS 16,280 TEUs of cargo handled in 2016 moved between SCCT and Port Said West in 2016 Nile Logistics’ container transshipment services are a benchmark for efficiency Consolidated Revenues (EGP mn) Consolidated EBITDA (EGP mn) 100.7 2016 Operational Updates • Nile Logistics is committed to diversifying its • The company is poised to benefit from removal of 75.2 client base across its stevedoring and feeder service subsidies on petrol including diesel fuel. Increased operations, with emphasis on the former. trucking rates will spur increased use of river transport, 2015 2016 giving the company a competitive advantage. • As part of this strategy, NRPMC began operating an Inland Container Depot in August 2016 at its • In South Sudan, Nile Barges recorded revenue of c. Nubareya River Port. Revenue contributions from USD 1.7 million and completed three trips despite one month of operation in 3Q16 were c.EGP 631 the difficult operating conditions resulting from the thousand, and 4Q16 revenues were c.EGP 3 million. ongoing conflict in the country. • Nile Logistics recently signed a three-year contract to transport grains from Alexandria Port to the company’s Nubareya River Port at attractive rates. The new (16.0) contract is projected to have a contribution margin of 2015 2016 (17.5) 50% once operations commence in January 2018. 50 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries ASCOM ASCOM is a leader in the regional mining sector with operations in quarry management, calcium carbonate manufacturing, mineral wools insulation, and precious metals mining sales and exports to key markets in Europe, Africa, the GCC countries, and Turkey. The company produces mineral wools used in projects such as insulation, filtration, and soundproofing. Total production capacity is split at 30,000 metric ASCOM is Qalaa Holdings’ operationcompany also operates a number of tons of rockwool and 20,000 metric al platform in the mining sector that small quarries in Egypt and has a tons of glasswool per annum. specializes in mining services, managefully specialized company operating ment of quarry services for cement and in the aggregate market in Algeria. Egypt Quarrying other industries, and exploration and ASCOM has grown to become production of industrial minerals and ASCOM’s 4 main subsidiaries the largest specialized company in precious metals, especially gold. cover a diverse scope of the quarry management sector in operations the Middle East and North Africa. Originally the geological and mining Over the past decade, the company arm of ASEC Holding, Qalaa and ASCOM Carbonate and Chemical has developed unique expertise in co-investors acquired ASCOM in Manufacturing (ACCM) the field, particularly within the 2004 and established it as a separate ACCM is ASCOM’s first manucement industry, and it manages company in order to expand the facturing plant specializing in the the bulk of large cement quarries scope and vision of the operation. production of calcium carbonate, in Egypt and Sudan, mining more GlassRock is a world-class producer of Today, the company seeks to expand a material with vast applications in than 30 million tons per annum. mineral wools for insulation, filtration, and beyond the cement industry and the fields of plastics, paper, paint, soundproofing continue diversifying revenue streams and chemicals. Total milled product ASCOM Precious Metals Mining (APM) by bringing new operations online. capacity reached 220,000 metric tons APM was established as a logical The company now controls two per annum after a USD 7.3 million progression to consolidate all of leading exporters in the industrial investment in additional mills in 2013 ASCOM’s exploration operations minerals sector, ASCOM Carbonand 2014. ACCM exports products to in precious metal mining under ate and Chemical Manufacturing Asia, the Gulf Cooperation Council one entity. The company is cur(ACCM) and GlassRock Insulation (GCC) countries, and Africa. rently focusing on its concession Key Management QH Ownership Footprint: Company. In the building materials in Ethiopia, Asosa. The company’s sector, ASCOM has transitioned GlassRock Insulation Company exploration efforts in the Asosa from acting as a service provider GlassRock Insulation Company concession have been successful, Fayez Gress 54.7% Egypt, Algeria, to holding concessions for gypsum began producing rock wool at its pushing it to complete its bankable CEO & Executive Chair Sudan, Ethiopia, mining aggregates, silica sand, gravel, USD 70 million greenfield facility in feasibility studies in an effort to Saudi Arabia, UAE, and other basic raw materials. The May 2012, targeting both domestic establish a gold production facility. Oman, Senegal Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 53 Our Subsidiaries 2016 Financial Updates ASCOM’s consolidated revenues increased 6% y-o-y GlassRock Insulation Company experienced a 22% y-o-y in FY16 to EGP 746.1 million; 4Q16 was particularly increase in top-line growth, with revenues reaching USD 5.9 strong, with revenues increasing 54% y-o-y to EGP million. The company recorded higher export sales in FY16 252.5 million. Despite an increase in revenues, EBITon the back of increased competitiveness and a strengthened DA declined 23% y-o-y to EGP 39.8 million due to position in the local market as an import-substitute play. This lower contributions from Egypt’s quarrying operations. relative success helped to narrow EBITDA losses to USD 1.0 million from USD 1.6 million the previous year. Total ACCM revenues reached USD 19.1 million, a 3% volumes sold increased 36% y-o-y to 6.2 thousand tons as y-o-y increase. The company’s EBITDA also reached the result of increased utilization rates and higher sales. USD 4.2 million, a remarkable 92% y-o-y increase largely due to ACCM’s ability to capitalize on the Despite a 4% y-o-y increase in volumes to 31.5 million, float of the Egyptian Pound. A majority of production Egypt Quarrying revenues declined 6% y-o-y to EGP 375.0 was exported in foreign currency while its cost base million in FY16. This drop came as the company’s largest remained in EGP, providing room for expansion. and highest margin contract expired in FY15. EBITDA was ACCM sold 277 thousand tons in FY16, a 12% y-o-y also driven down 45% y-o-y to EGP 14.2 million. Spurred increase in production supported by higher sales to by the float of the Egyptian pound and the ensuing inflaexport markets, particularly in the GCC region and tionary pressure, ASCOM has begun reviewing its quarry South Africa. management contracts in order to defend its margins. 6.2 31.5 MN thousand tons GlassRock volumes sold tons Egyptian quarrying business volumes sold ASCOM’s quarrying operation is among the largest in the MENA region Consolidated Revenues (EGP mn) Consolidated EBITDA (EGP mn) 746.1 2016 Operational Updates • ASCOM is embarking on further exploration of • Performance at GlassRock improved significantly 702.3 drilling work and a bankable feasibility study at with an expansion in exports on the back of 51.8 Asosa, its mining site in Western Ethiopia, which increased competitiveness following the float of the 39.8 is part of a process to obtain a full mining license Egyptian Pound in November 2016. The company and establish a gold production facility. was also able to strengthen its position on the local market with products that are considered high• ACCM has made significant operational improvements value import substitution plays. and continues to improve in 2017, aided by the flotation of the Egyptian pound and the unmatched quality of the company’s resources. ACCM is making efficiency improvements on the supply level as well as the production front. 277 thousand tons ACCM volumes sold 2015 2016 2015 2016 54 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries ASEC Holding ASEC Holding is a national and regional leader with investments in cement production, management and consultancy, and construction Cement Manufacturing ASEC Cement After divesting its Egyptian cement ASEC Holdings’ turnkey contractor, manufacturing and ready mix assets ARESCO, provides EPC services and contract and selling it’s 37% ownership stake management for a variety of industries Founded in 1975, ASEC Holding is Qalaa’s investments in ASEC Holdin AACC, a company that had a a regional vertically integrated player ing have seen the company grow license to build a 3 million ton per in the cement and construction into a well positioned operator that annum cement plant in the city of sector focusing on plant engineercan provide end-to-end solutions for Djelfa, Algeria, ASEC Cement now After 30 years of operations around fifteen years, serving major clients in the MENA region specializing ing and consultancy, construction, world-class cement plants. controls two international facilities: the globe, ARESCO has built a such as Lafarge, Italcementi, Titan, in controlling pollution and dust automation, and operational techniAl-Takamol Cement in Sudan and reputation for quality, efficiency, Cemex, and Cimpor. emissions resulting from cement cal management, with operations In 2015, Qalaa began reducing its Zahana Cement Co. in Algeria. and professionalism. production. The company supplies spanning Africa and Middle East. exposure to the cement manufacTechnical Management cement plants with a broad continOver time, ASEC Holding has turing industry, with its cement Construction & Contracting ASEC Automation uum of services and environmental grown significantly to form a fully production subsidiary ASEC Cement ASEC Automation provides autoASEC Engineering control equipment on a turnkey fledged group composed of three concluding the sale of its stake in ARESCO mation and electrification solutions ASEC Engineering strives to be basis in addition to conducting distinct divisions (cement manufacbusiness unit Misr Cement Qena in ARESCO is a turnkey contractor ranging from design and engineerthe leading company in cement dust emission measurements and turing, technical management, and a deal valued at c. EGP 700 million, specializing in industrial projects. ing to equipment, procurement plant consultancy, engineering, environmental assessment studies to construction) serving the industry as well as exiting ASEC Minya and The company provides comprehenand erection. The company has and management services in the ensure compliance with allowable and end-consumers alike. The ASEC Ready-Mix in a c. EGP 1 sive design, engineering, procureextensive operations in Africa, MENA region. Currently, the pollution limits. ASENPRO is group’s engineering and consultancy billion deal. Additionally, in 2017 the ment, manufacturing, contract the Middle East, and Europe company manages 8 cement plants supported by extensive expertise in arm has made important contribucompany finalized the sale of its Almanagement, and construction and has diversified into various in Egypt with a combined capacity environmental control within the tions to the modernization of the gerian Cement Plant (AACC) Djelfa services for industries ranging from industries such as water treatment, of 13.5 MTPA. cement industry; it has high potencement industry in Egypt and the in a US$ 60 million transaction. cement to oil to water treatment. oil and gas, and power stations. tial to diversify into other industries. MENA region. ASEC Automation has also been ASENPRO the supplier of choice for major ASENPRO is a pioneer in the international cement producers for field of environmental protection Key Management QH Ownership Footprint: Tarek El-Gammal 69.2% Egypt, Sudan, Algeria 25% 38% y-o-y increase in revenues at ASEC Holding y-o-y increase in revenues at ASEC Cement Chief Executive Officer Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 57 Our Subsidiaries 2016 Financial Updates this growth in revenues, fuel interalso faced security and logistics issues ASEC Holding’s revenues reached ruptions and difficulty sourcing in the Sinai area. An 8% hike in EGP 2,584.4 million in FY16, a 25% spare parts drove up overhead costs production fees allowed ASEC Eny-o-y increase largely attributable and inhibited the company’s ability gineering to offset lower capacities, to better performance at Sudan’s to capture a larger share of the leading to revenues of EGP 709.8 Al-Takamol Cement and ASEC Engrowing cement market in Sudan. million, a 7% y-o-y increase. This gineering. However, due to technical Al-Takamol Cement’s EBITDA topline growth also filtered down the difficulties that increased overhead declined 40% y-o-y to EGP 132.6 company’s income statement, with costs at the company’s cement plants million. However, the company its EBITDA climbing 26% y-o-y EBITDA declined 12% y-o-y to is targeting total production of to EGP 65.2 million. Because the EGP 254.2 million. close to one million tons in FY17, company maintained G&A expenses assuming no technical problems or at FY15 levels, the EBITDA margin ASEC Cement fuel interruptions. also expanded 6 points to 14% in Adjusting FY15 figures to reflect FY16, a level that management divestments from ASEC Minya, Zahana Cement’s revenues increased intends to sustain in the future. ASEC Ready Mix, and Misr Ce2% y-o-y to EGP 504.1 million ment Qena, ASEC Cement revdespite a major overhaul in April ARESCO enues reached EGP 1,135.7 million 2016 and subsequent complications Full year revenues for ARESCO in FY16, a 38% increase driven throughout the year. The facility sold declined 11% y-o-y to EGP 404.7 by higher volumes at Al-Takamol a total of 930 thousand tons, a 5% million, partly due to accountCement and Zahana Cement. This y-o-y increase in volume. Howing treatments for the company’s growth was reflected more clearly ever, increased output in the face of foreign-currency denominated in 4Q16 revenues, which increased technical difficulties increased costs contracts. Significant portions of 56% y-o-y to EGP 340.7 million. and drove the EBITDA down 30% ARESCO’s FY16 revenues resulted However, higher maintenance costs y-o-y to EGP 156.4 million. from a wide gap between official Al-Takamol Cement Factory, Sudan saw the company’s EBITDA decline foreign currency rates and those at 22% to EGP 117.5 million in FY16. ASEC Engineering which contracts are actually impleASEC Engineering’s total managed mented. However, cost overruns At Al-Takamol Cement, volumes capacity declined 3% y-o-y to 11.6 on two projects took a heavy toll sold increased 7% to 815 thousand million tons as two clients faced on the company’s EBITDA, which tons, and revenues increased 14% repeated stoppages on the back of reached negative EGP 2.6 million to EGP 1,135.7 million. Despite technical problems. The company at the close of the year. 2016 Operational Updates • Al-Takamol Cement (ATCC) made significant progress on developing the plant’s new coal mill. Once operational in 2H18, the mill should allow ATCC to fully satisfy its fuel needs from coal and pet coke. 1,745 Ktons Consolidated Revenues (EGP mn) Consolidated EBITDA (EGP mn) sold by ASEC Cement two facilities • EUR 315 million was secured in early 2017 as 2,584.4 financing for Zahana Cement’s new production line; this amount represents 90% of the total cost of c. 2,073.0 11.6 EUR 350 million. ASEC Cement has also made an 288.3 254.2 equity commitment of EUR 10.5 million. million tons in managed clinker capacity • ASEC Engineering’s successful strategy has seen it grow its global client base with overseas projects now making up a significant poritoin of the firms’ total gross profit in 2016. • ARESCO’s backlog grew by 5% y-o-y in FY16 to EGP 445.5 million as management successfully EGP 445.5 MN ARESCO total construction backlog secured new contracts worth c. EGP 175 million. 2015 2016 2015 2016 58 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Our Subsidiaries Gozour Gozour foods operates three companies that function together to produce and market fresh dairy products and produce as noncore; as a result, Qalaa has to transform the company into the concluded several exits from platform country’s leading producer of raw companies operating under Gozour, milk, with milk production reaching Dina Farms is the largest private-sector most of which took place in 4Q15. 66,113 tons in 2016. The company farm in Egypt Companies from which Qalaa has dialso has 15,694 heads of cattle, 7,464 vested include Egyptian confectioner of which are milking cows. Rashidi El-Mizan (REM), Sudan’s Qalaa Holdings began investing Rashidi for Integrated Solutions, Investment Co. for Dairy Products in the agrifoods sector in 2007 in Misr October for Food Industries (ICDP) an effort to introduce new levels (El-Misrieen), milk and juice ICDP is the company responsible 2016 Financial Updates of specialization and consolidation producer Nile Company for Food for packing and marketing Dina Consolidated FY16 revenues for Gozour reached EGP y-o-y. EBITDA also increased 4% y-o-y, reaching EGP into the market. Currently, Qalaa Products, and packing and exporting Farms’ fresh dairy products. Qalaa 849.3 million, a 12% y-o-y increase spurred by strong 22.8 million. The company’s growth was driven by Holdings invests in Gozour, a mulcompany El-Aguizy International for Holdings helped to establish ICDP in performance at both Dina Farms and ICDP. However, higher volumes, with total SKUs sold climbing 8% y-oticategory agriculture and consumer Economic Development. 2010, and within less than a year of operational disruptions at both Dina Farms and ACST led y to 14.6 thousand tons. Additionally, ICDP continues foods parent company that includes its launch, the company became the to an EBITDA of EGP 14.2 million, down 68% y-o-y. to hold almost 70% of the fresh (pasteurized) milk Dina Farms, Investment Co. for Today Qalaa Holdings has helped to market leader in its category. The companies’ outlook improved in 4Q16, though, with market ahead of Lactel and Labanita. Activity in this Dairy Products, and Arab Company create three strong companies under revenues reaching EGP 242.9 million, up 42% y-o-y. market makes up almost 80% of the company’s sales. for Services & Trade (ACST/Dina Gozour’s umbrella: ACST Markets supermarket chain). ACST is Dina Farms’ retail business Dina Farms revenues reached EGP 424.2 million, up 2016 Operational Updates Dina Farms that Qalaa built from scratch. ACST 11% y-o-y, while EBITDA declined 26% to EGP 83.7 • Farm management is pushing forward with plans In 2015, management made the Since initially investing in Dina has expanded rapidly; currently the million. Several challenges disrupted farm operations to increase land area and achieve full self-sufficiency decision to treat the agrifoods sector Farms, Qalaa Holdings has helped company operates 17 stores. and prevented top-line growth from filtering down to for silage needs (corn and barley) and 50% selfthe EBITDA level. Decreased demand for raw milk sufficiency for other feedstock requirements. forced Dina Farms to powder c.2,300 tons of milk and sell it at market price which is 50% discount compared • Dina Farms continued expansion of cheese producKey Management Footprint: to raw milk. Corn silage inventory also fell short due to tion capacity. Cheese accounted for 6% of total sales insufficient stocking in FY15, and this issue slowed milk in 4Q16 versus 1% in the same period last year. Egypt production throughout the year. Conditions improved in Hassan Mokhtar Livestock 4Q16, as milk production picked up, and the company • In 2017, Dina Farms plans to complete installation of Managing Director Mohamed Osman was able to pass-on price increases in the wake of the cooling systems in all milking parlors and consolidate Dina Farms, Managing Director, inflationary environment following the flotation of the the feeding units to minimize costs. Management Agriculture Livestock QH Ownership Egyptian pound. Additionally, the price of raw milk also plans to better utilize the company’s asset base by Tamer Hassan increased from an average of EGP 4 per kilogram to EGP ramping up cultivation density and diversify its client Dina Farms Retail 54.9% 5.15, a 30% y-o-y increase. base to reduce concentration risk. Managing Director, Ashraf Abousen Agricultural Sector Dina Farms Overall, ICDP performed well throughout year; rev• Dina Farms plans to install new weather stations General Manager enues reached EGP 155.3 million, an increase of 14% which are expected to save water by 25%. Retail 60 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 Qalaa Holdings Annual Report 2016 61 fINANCIAL sTATEMENTS Consolidated statement of financial position (in EGP) (All amounts in EGP) 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Summary Consolidated Income Restated Assets Fixed assets (net) 5 775 281 030 5 132 944 455 Projects under construction (net) 48 103 488 327 17 140 102 652 Statement (in EGP) Intangible assets (net) Goodwill (net) Biological assets (net) Trade and other receivables (net) 1 265 407 067 392 417 101 207 820 465 2 146 755 190 1 751 125 701 649 801 051 196 044 381 710 407 485 Investment property 24 000 000 Investments in associates (net) 1 106 525 021 893 874 077 For the year ended Available-for-sale investments (net) 83 800 600 54 311 317 (All amounts in EGP) 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Payments for investments (net) 110 930 719 80 997 503 Other investments 77 353 977 269 800 533 Restated Deferred tax assets 61 084 782 395 240 419 Continuing operations Total noncurrent assets 59 330 864 279 27 298 649 574 Operating revenues 7,848,798,812 5,913,856,809 Inventories (net) 1 174 203 173 1 029 593 048 Biological assets (net) 7 246 485 25 063 763 Operating costs (6,756,528,265) (4,960,408,229) Work in process 68 754 396 17 768 790 Gross profit 1,092,270,547 953,448,580 Investments at fair value through profit or loss 1 279 211 33 789 381 Due from related parties (net) 189 750 543 602 063 394 Advisory fee 12,374,198 13,550,201 Trade and other receivables (net) 1 561 850 465 1 225 561 916 Administrative expenses (1,187,045,402) (946,538,186) Debtors and other debit balances (net) 1 379 632 613 1 303 644 983 Cash and cash equivalents 2 837 035 012 3 353 000 479 Other expenses (1,256,008,608) (804,859,790) Assets classified as held-for-sale 6 631 428 162 2 552 845 910 Share of profit/loss of investments in associates 299,559,329 57,138,722 Total current assets 13 851 180 060 10 143 331 664 Total assets 73 182 044 339 37 441 981 238 Operating loss (1,038,849,936) (727,260,473) Equity Finance costs net (3,043,307,915) (709,148,827) Share capital 9 100 000 000 9 100 000 000 Loss before tax (4,082,157,851) (1,436,409,300) Treasury shares ( 3 338 658) Reserves 3 106 997 132 346 665 940 Income tax expense (226,559,263) (20,912,749) Retained losses (12 016 923 497) (6 600 704 312) Net loss from continuing operations (4,308,717,114) (1,457,322,049) Total 186 734 977 2 845 961 628 Shareholders' credit balances 1 464 311 Profit / (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (1,275,253,224) 229,701,626 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 186 734 977 2 847 425 939 Net loss for the year (5,583,970,338) (1,227,620,423) Non controlling interests 16 283 734 681 8 189 651 119 Total equity 16 470 469 658 11 037 077 058 Attributable to: Liabilities Owners of the Company (4,106,147,426) (1,119,928,873) Long term loans and borrowings 34 234 277 130 13 675 665 666 Non controlling interests (1,477,822,912) (107,691,550) Long term liabilities and derivatives 393 793 822 436 369 089 Loans from related parties 47 425 273 24 484 249 (5,583,970,338) (1,227,620,423) Deferred tax liabilities 548 951 505 664 181 100 Total non-current liabilities 35 224 447 730 14 800 700 104 Earnings per share (2.26) (0.68) Banks overdraft 498 992 120 508 626 802 Short term loans and borrowings 5 294 499 129 2 929 274 268 Loans from related parties 1 892 125 247 718 705 574 Due to related parties 1 656 544 968 721 231 160 Trade and other payables 2 897 318 193 2 855 400 529 Creditors and other credit balances 1 935 714 663 1 540 677 543 Provisions 681 537 294 620 451 082 Scan the QR code to download our audited consolidated financials in PDF from our Provision for financial guarantees contracts 5 077 970 investor relations microsite ir.qalaaholdings.com Liabilities classified as held-for-sale 5 912 284 596 1 015 904 059 Due to Tax Authority 718 110 741 688 855 089 Total current liabilities 21 487 126 951 11 604 204 076 Total liabilities 56 711 574 681 26 404 904 180 Total equity and liabilities 73 182 044 339 37 441 981 238 Chairman Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Ahmed Heikal Hisham Hussein El-Khazindar Moataz Farouk Qalaa Holdings (S.A.E.) Qalaa Holdings Algérie Qalaa Holdings East Africa 1089 Corniche El-Nil Cité Urba 2000 Bâtiment Railway Complex, Station Road Four Seasons Nile Plaza Office Building 09 Rez-de-Chaussée Appt 01 Off Haile Selassie Avenue Garden City • Cairo • Egypt • 11519 El-Biar, Algiers 1600 (P.O. Box 62502 00200) Algeria Nairobi, Kenya Tel: +20 (2) 2791-4440 Tel: +213 (23) 27 10 21 Tel: +254 (0) 20 20 444 76-9 Fax: +20 (2) 2791-4448 Fax: +213 (21) 92 96 74
