NIBC Communication on Progress (COP) – UN Global Compact March 2017 NIBC is pleased to reconfirm that we support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. This reconfirmation follows our original commitment from December 2010 and our annual ongoing commitment to advance the principles since that time. With this communication on progress, we express our intent to continue to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations. We support public accountability and transparency, and welcome feedback from our stakeholders on our progress. Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more NIBC Commitment to the UN Global Compact NIBC’s commitment to responsible business is central to our SDG 1-17 About NIBC vision, embedded in our business strategy, articulated in our Vision and Principles Code of Conduct, and carried out in our day-to-day Business and Strategy relationship with all stakeholders. Corporate Governance Sustainability Our approach is further supported by our governance Sustainability Governance framework, policies and processes. 2016 NIBC Annual Report Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the We are committed to respecting and protecting human SDG 5 2016 NIBC Annual Report protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in all of NIBC’s business practices. SDG 10 NIBC GRI SDG 12 NIBC Sustainability Policy rights During 2016, we updated our Human Rights policy. We also NIBC Human Rights Policy updated certain sector policies, addressing human rights aspects in these updates. For example, our Human Rights and Shipping policies now explicitly mentions our recognition of human rights at sea. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2017 Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human NIBC recognizes our responsibility to help ensure fair SDG 5 2016 NIBC Annual Report rights abuses. business practices in our overall value chain and direct and SDG 8 NIBC GRI indirect supply chain. SDG12 NIBC Sustainability Policy NIBC Human Rights Policy NIBC’s commitment is supported by our business practices, due diligence processes, employee training, and engagement with diverse stakeholders. During 2016, NIBC revised its procurement process, strengthening due diligence of suppliers. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of NIBC is committed to respecting and protecting labour rights SDG 8 2016 NIBC Annual Report association and the effective recognition of the in all of its activities and to support our stakeholders in NIBC GRI realizing their labour rights obligations. NIBC Sustainability Policy right to collective bargaining; NIBC Human Rights Policy 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and This includes due diligence which aims to ensure forced and SDG 1 2016 NIBC Annual Report compulsory labour; compulsory labour and child labour are not present in our SDG 3 NIBC GRI value chain. Furthermore stakeholder engagement ensures a SDG 8 NIBC Sustainability Policy continuous dialogue on labour issues and sharing of such NIBC Human Rights Policy knowledge among our peers and within our communities. Shortly after the publication of our Annual Report, NIBC will publish its Modern Slavery Statement in line with requirements of the 2015 UK Modern Slavery Act, section 54. 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and NIBC aims to ensure child labour is effectively abolished. This SDG 1 2016 NIBC Annual Report is addressed in our business practices, due diligence SDG 3 NIBC GRI processes, employee training, and engagement with diverse SDG 4 NIBC Sustainability Policy stakeholders. SDG 8 NIBC Human Rights Policy We are guided in our practices by conventions such as the UNICEF Convention on the Rights of the Child. Through our charitable contributions and activities and initiatives such as the NIBC NGO Boulevard, we aim to further boost children’s rights, education and develop opportunities for future generations. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2017 Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of NIBC supports equality and is devoted to creating a SDG 5 2016 NIBC Annual Report employment and occupation. stimulating work environment for people from all SDG 8 NIBC GRI backgrounds. We have zero-tolerance for discrimination in SDG 10 NIBC Sustainability Policy respect of employment and occupation. NIBC Human Rights Policy We recognise the sustainability benefits of having a highly diverse workforce, and therefore continue to take steps to increase diversity across the company, during recruitment and promote processes by considering candidates irrespective of gender, age, religion, ethnic origin, or nationality. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary NIBC views sustainability as an opportunity to build even SDG 7 2016 NIBC Annual Report approach to environmental challenges; closer relationships with our clients, strengthen and grow SDG 11 NIBC GRI their businesses, recognize potential ecological limits, and SDG 12 NIBC Sustainability Policy work together to address environmental and societal SDG 13 NIBC Climate Change and Environment challenges. Supplement Environmental aspects are considered in our client and supplier assessments and risk management process. This helps to ensure well informed decision-making and that our client interactions do not harm society or the environment. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater NIBC employees receive training on environmental & social SDG 6 2016 NIBC Annual Report environmental responsibility; and risks, sustainability developments and NIBC’s sustainability SDG 7 NIBC GRI framework. SDG 9 NIBC Sustainability Policy SDG 11 NIBC Climate Change and Environment NIBC is carbon neutral in terms of its direct emissions. Since SDG 12 Supplement 2010, we have measured our direct emissions, realised SDG 13 substantial reductions and compensated for remaining direct SDG 14 emissions. We manage our direct impact on the SDG 15 environment through an environmental sustainability programme. This includes measures such as reducing our carbon footprint, using responsibly-sourced paper, and further increasing energy efficiency. Through awareness programmes, we also encourage our employees to take their environmental responsibilities seriously. NIBC has taken steps with peer banks and clients to develop the Responsible Ship Recycling Initiative which aims to improve sustainability practices in the shipping sector. In 2017, we hope to publicly launch the initiative, attract additional clients, banks and investors. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2017 Principle NIBC Approach & Actions Related SDGs Where to find out more 9. encourage the development and diffusion of NIBC provides financing in the form of loans and SDG 7 2016 NIBC Annual Report environmentally friendly technologies. investments to support Renewable Energy. We promote SDG 9 NIBC GRI energy efficiency in Real Estate and support sustainable and SDG 11 NIBC Sustainability Policy responsible food production in our Food and Agri financings SDG 12 NIBC Climate Change and Environment and investments. We also provide consumer mortgages Supplement which include the possibility for green renovations. We support clients in other sectors through our financings to improve their environmental footprint, protect biodiversity and transition toward more sustainable ways of doing business. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in NIBC continues to work against corruption in all its forms. SDG 12 2016 NIBC Annual Report all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We do not accept nor tolerate any instance of bribery, SDG 16 NIBC GRI corruption or fraud. SDG 17 Vision and Principles Corporate Governance NIBC supports the UNGC Call to Action regarding AntiSustainability Corruption and is represented in the UNGC AntiBankers Oath Corruption Working Group. Our Code of Conduct applies to our entire organisation and is included in our employee contracts. In addition, NIBC’s Bankers Oath applies to all employees in the Netherlands. We are guided in the way we do business and interact with our clients by our Code of Conduct, Anti-Fraud, Bribery & Corruption policy (published internally), Business Principles, Risk Control Framework and Sustainability policies. Issues such as extortion and bribery are seen as an operational risk and monitored within our risk control framework. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2017 By incorporating the Global Compact principles into our strategy, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, NIBC aspires to not only uphold our basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also set the stage for the long-term success of our stakeholders and our communities. The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. To learn more about NIBC and how we and our stakeholders are working to promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, visit www.nibc.com We welcome your feedback on this Communication on Progress, on our policies and practices, or other suggestions. Contact us here. NIBC Bank NV UNGC Communication on Progress March 2017
