UN Global Compact, October 2017 Communication on Progress Statement of continued support in 2018 by the Chief Executive Officer Two years a member, I am pleased to confirm that In this annual Communication on Progress, we will share WindowMaster reaffirms its support of the ten principles our progress on the goals we set out as we joined the of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, UN Global Compact. We will describe the specific actions labor, environment and anti-corruption. We see the UN we have taken to improve the integration of the Global Global Compact goals as an opportunity to engage with Compact and its principles into our business strategy, government, communities and relevant stakeholders to culture and daily operations. We have laid the strategic ensure a better tomorrow for the world. We furthermore and operational foundations for the challenges that lie Table of Contents want to use the platform to encourage that green technology and natural ventilation is given priority so we can meet the goal to ‘promote greater environmental ahead and we are committed to amplify our corporate citizenship efforts moving forward to foster sustained impact in communities on a local as well as global level. responsibility’ and ‘encourage the development and Statement of continued support in 2018 3 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies’. Sincerely, by the Chief Executive Officer In WindowMaster, we are 135 people united around Erik Boyter About WindowMaster 5 a common cause: Creating healthy indoor climates Chief Executive Officer with fresh air that are good for the people and for the Part 1: WindowMaster policies for corporate responsibility 6 environment. Our key contribution is to develop innovative and alignment with the UN Global Compact principles natural ventilation solutions and make them accessible to the building industry worldwide. We are committed to Human rights 8 being a responsible business leader and how we act upon this responsibility is defined by societal needs as well as Labour 9 business priorities. Environment 10 With this report, we express our intent to advance the ten WE SUPPORT principles within our sphere of influence and to further Anti-Corruption 19 strengthen our engagement in activities that are aligned with our core focus areas. The UN Global Compact Part 2: Terres des Hommes – continued financial support 20 principles are fully consistent with WindowMaster’s values and management approach; hence our continued Fresh Air. Fresh People. – Brand-state-of-mind 22 commitment constitutes a solid platform for demonstrating our focus on responsible business practices. As for previous years, WindowMaster continues to anchor our primary effort in one overarching category (Environment) including the underlying principles. This is currently the area where we are most influential. Nevertheless, we will keep abiding by all ten principles and continuously work towards aligning our general business with these. 2 3 About WindowMaster Reducing energy consumption in buildings makes a difference Buildings account for 40% of the world’s energy consumption. Natural ventilation is one way we can help to change this scenario. When we consume less energy, we conserve our planet’s vulnerable resources and help to improve the environment. We create the perfect indoor climate with help from Mother Nature All over the world, large amounts of resources in the form of money, energy and effort are spent on keeping everyone safe and satisfied indoors when working in office buildings, shops, and factories, studying at schools and university or working out in the gym. But everyone is different. What is cold for you, might be too hot for your colleague or classmate. And a good solution for one building can be entirely useless next door. In WindowMaster, we address these types of challenges every day. Our solutions for indoor climate management, smoke ventilation, and facade and roof automation meet people’s need for fresh air and boost quality of life indoors. We make technical, intelligent, and discrete solutions with one single purpose: To ensure fresh air for everyone to breathe. We create the perfect indoor climate with help from Mother Nature. WindowMaster in brief WindowMaster employs around 135 highly experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and the United States. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural and technical ambitions. 4 5 Human Rights Part 1 Principle 1: B usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Policy: W e consider this a natural part of our operations. human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Policy: We consider this a natural part of our operations. human rights abuses. Labor WindowMaster Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Policy: We permit workers’ councils, and acknowledge policies for corporate association and the effective recognition of and respect the freedom of association. the right to collective bargaining; responsibility and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Policy: We examine and monitor our suppliers closely. alignment with the compulsory labor; UN Global Compact Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Policy: We examine and monitor our suppliers closely. principles Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of Policy: We do not discriminate in respect of employment employment and occupation. and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Policy: We continuously evaluate how we can reduce our approach to environmental challenges; total carbon footprint. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Policy: We continuously evaluate how we can reduce our environmental responsibility; and total carbon footprint. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Policy: We invest up to 10% of our revenue in R&D to environmentally friendly technologies. develop environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Policy: We do not tolerate corruption, and neither do our in all its forms, including extortion and suppliers, customers, or other stakeholders. bribery. 6 7 Human rights Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and In WindowMaster, it is a prerequisite to respect the respect the protection of internationally Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental proclaimed human rights; and protection. Accordingly, we have a code of conduct, which is shared to all employees and business partners. Principle 2: make sure that they are not We further acknowledge that personal data protection complicit in human rights abuses. is a right that all employees as well as customers are entitled to. As we solely operate in Europe and North America, we consider the matters pertaining to Human Rights to be HR a natural part of our operations. We strive to maintain a zero-abuse level and ask employees as well as · Change employment process supply chain partners to support and join the UN Global regarding handling of CVs Compact. · Delete hardcopy versions of HR data Implementation · Continue role out of Orkidé (GDPR compliant HR WindowMaster has made our Code of Conduct available management system) in all markets – will be the to employees in our handbook and to external partners only place where personal data is stored through our website. As we source components from suppliers in the Far East, where business standards could differ, we do a thorough assessment to ensure they live up to human rights and provide them copy of our Code of IT Labour Conduct. · Update and get reconfirmation Assessment, Policy and Goals Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the To uphold our promise relating to personal data protection from employees of IT policy WindowMaster permits workers’ councils and freedom of association and the effective and to abide by the General Data Protection Regulation (internet + e-mail policy) acknowledges and respects the freedom of association. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; (GDPT), we have instigated a concrete strategy to lift our · Review CRM compliance with Our company handbook covers policies concerning our current procedures. In a bifold program, we will streamline GDPR employee rights, compensation and responsibilities. We Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced procedures across Human Resources and IT respectively. · Gather compliance reports from main suppliers assess labor related risks as well as all forms of forced and compulsory labour; The program is based on documented data derived from (dealing with data from WindowMaster) and compulsory labor, both for our internal workforce and work processes in WindowMaster. for that of our suppliers. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Measurement of outcomes Non-discrimination and equal opportunities are the WindowMaster will audit and evaluate all partners and foundation for our approach to promoting diversity both in Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in suppliers against a set of defined principles, policies and terms of gender, nationality and cultural background. respect of employment and occupation. guidelines. Any contravention of human rights that comes to our attention will not be tolerated and the responsible Implementation party will be given a timeframe to address and resolve the The principles are global, but the implementation issue. tends to be more local due to local labour laws. In the time of writing, we have a worker’s council in Measurement of outcomes We will carry out a self-evaluation on compliance with Germany representing the employees. In Denmark, a We have 100% compliance on approved working GDPT on a continuous basis. representation of employees meets quarterly to discuss contracts. safety at the workplace, both in the office and one the building site, and the council informs management when things ought to be changed to improve safety. Lastly, the CEO of WindowMaster has on several occasions asked the employees to address him or the local management teams, if workings conditions could be improved. 8 9 Environment Assessment, policy and goals In 2016, when WindowMaster joined the UN Global Principle 7: Businesses should support a Compact, we took upon us to pay particular attention to precautionary approach to environmental the principles falling under the environmental category, challenges; as we believed that actions taken within this area would enable us to drive the biggest change at this point in time. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Via two initiatives we have set out to (1) improve transparency in our supply chain and (2) reduce our total Principle 9: encourage the development and carbon foot print. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. By Q4, 2018, WindowMaster’s main environmental targets are to (compared to 2015): Measurement of outcome · Reduce our annual consumption of current plastic packaging by 30% Reduced plastic packaging · Reduce our total energy consumption at our premises In 2016, a working group was established to evaluate by 20% the potential for reducing our plastic usage. Following a · Reduce fossil fuel consumption to no more than 25% thorough analysis, it was concluded that using cardboard · Reduce our total CO2 emissions from vehicles by 20% for the packaging of our chain actuators would present a viable and more sustainable alternative to plastic. Furthermore, we plan to renovate our headquarters in 2018 as well as move into a new office building in Given the complexity of changing packaging method, we According to the goals we set out in 2016, the Switzerland in 2019. Both actions will be undertaken are still to finally change our chain actuators’ packaging following actions have been successfully carried out: with great care to the principles of UN Global Compact. from plastic to cardboard. However, we are currently · We have reduced the quantity of package sizes Goal 2018 In relation to environmental protection we will aim at implementing measures that will allow us to use only containing our actuators from four different lengths to renovating the headquarters using primarily sustainable cardboard boxes for the chain actuators instead of plastic two different lengths. Accordingly, this has: Reduce materials, including furniture and building materials, bags by Q4, 2017. · Reduced complexity and thereby reduced cost. our annual and implement relevant solutions such as LED lighting · Reduced inventory. to reduce our energy consumption. When identifying a The delay in changing packaging for our chain actuators · Reduced transportation volume by using only local consumption of new premise for our Swiss office, we will similarly ensure is also the main reason why we are still stable in our total suppliers. a documented low carbon footprint in the new office consumption of plastic and have not yet been able to · Reduced the number of suppliers making it easier to current plastic building. significantly reduce this. assess and certify them. packaging by 30% Implementation As such, the goal of reducing our annual consumption of To achieve the first initiative (Improving transparency Consumption of plastic packaging at WindowMaster plastic packaging with 30% by Q4, 2018 is still realistic. of supply chain), we have implemented two primary 67 kg in average = 804 kg in Total / Year activities: Packaging in the past: Future packaging: · Reduced plastic packaging. 100 86 87 82 · Certified suppliers. 80 72 64 63 59 62 57 57 60 54 To achieve the second initiative (reducing our carbon Kg 46 footprint), we have implemented three primary activities: 40 · Reduced energy consumption at our premises. 20 · Reduced fossil fuel consumption at our premises. · Reduced vehicle CO2 emissions. 0 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 Apr 17 May 17 Jun 17 Jul 17 Aug 17 10 11 Future packaging will have a FSCand RESY symbols on Certified suppliers and lean management regarding in-house processes and the cardboard boxes. Resy Symbol: The Resy symbol In WindowMaster, we aim at having sustainable business throughout the supply chain. (recycling symbol) indicates that operations throughout the entire supply chain. Therefore, packaging can be resend to the supplier we instigated the certification initiative to ensure alignment Our target is to have an on-site conversation about our of the cardboard box for recycling. with our external suppliers. requirements and a first audit of our top 15 suppliers by the end of 2018. FSC Symbol: The Forest Stewardship For this initiative, we have been focusing on three topics: Council (FSC) symbol is used to indicate Communicate our Code of Conduct with our suppliers, Our efforts regarding compliance with REACH and RoHS that products are certified under the FSC assess compliance of our top 15 suppliers and ensure are ongoing. system. The symbol on a wood or wood compliance with EU regulations regarding REACH and based product is your assurance that it is made RoHS. with, or contains wood that comes from FSC In addition to changing packaging to cardboard boxes, certified forests or from post-consumer waste. We have harmonized our Code of Conduct with the 10 WindowMaster is currently evaluating the advantages of principles of the UN Global Compact and have already Goal 2018 changing the tape used for packaging from plastic to a recyclable cardboard solution: Supplier involvement: · ISO 140001 certified. begun communicating the content to our suppliers. Some suppliers have signed our code of conduct while others On-site · FSC certified. have implemented their own code of conduct. Discussions conversation · Close to factory in Herford (low emissions on regarding harmonization are deemed necessary and are transport). ongoing. about our · Flexible regarding volume. Besides the general code of conduct we have requirements and implemented a detailed audit form. This covers all aspects that are considered fundamental for the cooperation with a first audit of our our suppliers: Health and safety, quality management, top 15 suppliers corporate social responsibility, regulatory requirements, business continuation, recycling, supply chain traceability 25mm 27.5mm 10mm 10mm 10mm 10mm 12 13 Norwegian office Total kWh at WindowMaster premises · The office in Oslo has been closed as per 01.07.2017. · The total energy consumption in our office in Larvik amounted in the eight first months of 2017 to 16,2035 500.000 458.000 kWh compared to 15,381 kWh (+5.6%) in the same period in 2016. 400.000 366.000 US office · We moved into new premises in San Fransico in 2017 300.000 kWh and we are yet to gather data for energy consumption. · In the new building (WeWork) we use both LED lights 200.000 and sensors for reduced energy consumption. · The new office building is LEED GOLD certified. 100.000 Danish office 0 · In the first eights months of 2017, the total energy 2015 2018 consumption was 16,435 kWh compared to 98,844 kWh (-83.4%) in the same period in 2016. · We have changed all lights to LED technology, which has allowed us to reduce the yearly energy usage on Goal 2018 electricity with 28,207 kWh (from 32,236 kWh to 4029 kWh). Reduce our total · We have installed new printers that require the user to activate the printer in the printer room as opposed to energy consumption instant printing when it is activated from the computer. by 20% Reduced energy consumption at our premises we are yet to gather comparable data. The new office This will limit the amount of unnecesary print outs. WindowMaster has sales offices in Denmark, UK, USA, was chosen with respect to the principles of UN Global Norway, Germany, and Switzerland. Furthermore, we Compact. UK Office have a factory located in Germany. During the past year, · In our new office, 100% of the lamps use LED · In the first eight months of 2017, the total energy we have been monitoring our energy consumption in each technology. consumption was 14,421 kWh compared to 14,905 kWh location to evaluate our progress. · We have signed a new energy contract with LichtBlick, (-3.2%) in the same period in 2016. which allows us to save 14,11 tons of CO2 per year. Since 2016, WindowMaster has managed to significantly · In the office, we have changed to paperless work Swiss office reduce our energy consumption, while in the same period whenever possible. In the service department and · In Switzerland, we are not able to directly influence the company’s order intake has grown by 15%. internal sales, all new quotes and orders are saved as a the amount of energy used and from which sources it pdf and send by e-mail, as opposed to being printed on comes. In 2017, the average monthly energy usage on German factory paper. electricity in our two offices amounted to 834 kWh in · By August 1, 2017, the electricity consumption reached 2017 compared to 854 kWh in 2016 (-2.3%). 91,806 kWh compared to 96,584 kWh in the same · As we plan to relocate our Swiss office to a new building period in 2016 (-5%). This is despite the fact that we in 2019, we will have more control over the energy have increased our output by 6% in the first nine month consumption moving forward. of 2017. · We plan to install LED lights throughout the factory in 2018, which will further reduce our electricity consumption in the future. German office · By the end of 2016, our German sales office moved into a new office in Hamburg, which is different from the old office in terms of building size and type. Hence why 14 15 Reducing fossil fuel consumption at our premises Danish office In relation to reducing the overall energy consumption · In the first eight months of 2017, 75% of the energy at our premises, WindowMaster last year inaugurated came from non-fossil fuel sources (40% wind power, procedures and activities to minimize the total amount of 16% hydropower, 13% biomass, 4% nuclear, 2% solar). fossil fuel we consume. Working groups have scrutinized potential energy sources to establish the best matches UK office according to country specific opportunities and obstacles. · In the UK office, 96% of our electricity now comes from renewable sources. We are restricted in terms of further Since 2016, we have been able to meet the goal on improvements as we are subject to the decisions of the reducing fossil fuel consumption to no more than 25%. landlord. The following progress can be reported: Swiss office German factory · In the office in Estavayer-le-Lac, Switzerland, 100% · In 2017, 100% of our electricity came from renewable of our energy came from renewable sources in 2017 sources compared with 0% in 2016. compared to 20% in 2016. In our office in Trimbach, Switzerland, 79% of our electricity comes from nonGerman office fossil fuel sources. · In our new office, we now rely 100% on renewable energy sources for electricity compared with 0% in 2016. Norwegian office · We now get 98% of our energy from renewable energy (hydropower) and 2% from fossil fuels. 2015 Goal 2018 20152018 2018 Reduce the fossil fuel consumption 25% 31% to 25% 31% no more than 25% 69% 69% 75% 75% Renewable energy sources FossilRenewable fuels Renewable energy sources Fossil fuels energy sources Fossil Renewable fuels energy sources Fossil fuels 16 17 Reducing vehicle CO2 emissions · Technicians limit their use of airand road travel. WindowMaster’s environmental policies cover the entire Instead they use the train whenever possible and use value chain from production to delivery and everything our remote support systems for communication via the in between. Part of our business operations consists of internet. visiting stakeholders and clients for service and follow up activities. Consequently, a noteworthy portion of our total Danish office energy consumption comes from vehicle CO2 emissions. · In Q1, 2017, the total amount of CO2 emission for vehicles was 26,925 kilograms compared to 26,103 The current target for vehicle CO2 emissions is to reduce kilograms in the same period in 2016 (+3.1%). Given this by 20% before end of 2018. The following measures the growing business, 3 extra cars have been added to have been taken to reach this goal: the fleet causing a slight increase in driven kilometers (+11,769 km or +8.6%). Despite the increase in cars, German office we have been able to minimize extra CO2 emission from · In the first nine months of 2017, the total amount of CO2 vehicles. emission for vehicles amounted to 36,235,912 kilograms · Whenever possible, employees use the train instead of compared to 41,156,411 kilograms in the same period in a company car to visit customers. 2016 (-11.9%). · All new company cars have BlueMotion technology for · In 2017, approximately 20,000 km of road distance by less energy consumption and all cars that are being car was swapped with train. replaced in the future will similarly have the technology · Whenever possible, employees use the train instead of installed. a company car to visit customers. · All company cars have BlueMotion technology for less UK office energy consumption. · In the first nine months in 2017, the total amount of CO2 emission for vehicles was 39,048,970 kilograms Norwegian office compared to 51,584,040 kilograms (-24.3%) in the same · WindowMaster has reduced the number of employees with three as per 01.06.2017, meaning that we have period in 2016. Anti-Corruption less employees on the road. Swiss office · As there is no lease plan in place in Norway, it is not · Due to a shift in contracts, we have no comparable data Assessment, policy and goals Principle 10: Businesses should work against possible to accurately calculate the CO2 emission from for the Swiss office in this period. WindowMaster is committed to be in compliance with all corruption in all its forms, including extortion vehicles. Notwithstanding, the total kilometers driven relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws. We support and bribery. from January – August, 2017 amounted to 49,293 international and regional legal frameworks and have a compared to 51,876 in the same period in 2016 (-4.9%). zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. · One Sales Manager has replaced the old car with a Vehicle CO2 emissions hybrid car. In WindowMaster, ethical business conduct is about Measurement of outcome values, integrity, compliance and risk mitigation. By taking WindowMaster has not been involved in any legal cases, 477 500 a proactive approach, we strive to enhance trust in the rulings or similar events related to corruption. company and strengthen the relationship with our key 380 stakeholders. We believe that institutionalizing ethical 400 conduct necessitates the fostering of a strong corporate culture that is rooted in a common understanding of our values and morality. CO2, ton 300 Goal 2018 Implementation 200 We have launched a whistleblower program and follow-up Reduce the total CO2 mechanisms for reporting concerns or seeking advice. emissions from vehicles 100 Internationally, we have maintained a solid check with 20% and balance system over transactions. Records and transactions are checked and controlled by finance and 0 2015 2018 administration. 18 19 To meet our responsibilities of global citizenship, Part 2 WindowMaster decided in December 2015, to sponsor an IT education program under the auspices of the Terre des Hommes Khetwadi School project in Mumbai, India. In 2017, the decision was made to lengthen our donation and support the program in 2018. We strive to create a better future for the world, both in terms of health and climate but also in terms of access to knowledge and education. We believe that education is an essential building block for cultivating the human understanding of society and the environment. This is a goal that must be considered global and thus access to education must accordingly be a global attribute. The donation was initially chosen because of its direct impact on the project and not at least the children who attend the school every day. It will fund the WindowMaster Khetwadi IT Education Program by investing in their first IT equipment and running the program with two full-time teachers for the year. Terres des Hommes – continued financial support 20 21 Fresh Air. Fresh People. Brand-state-of-mind In February, 2015, WindowMaster’s present owner and Fresh Air. Fresh People. is the manifestation of a long The agile profile further leaves room and resources In WindowMaster, we acknowledge that each market CEO, Erik Boyter, acquired all shares in the company, process involving the management team, employees and for a strengthened corporate social responsibility and presents its own unique challenges and opportunities. which was formerly part of VKR Holding as its ventilation external experts who, in a joint pursue, have analyzed investment in corporate citizenship efforts. However, despite the varying levels of awareness across and indoor climate business line. how the WindowMaster brand is regarded in the market borders, it is a fact that natural ventilation is gradually today, what values are associated with the brand and the Fresh Air. Fresh People. is founded on the notion that evolving into an essential aspect of buildings all over the The purchase meant a new beginning for WindowMaster; distinctiveness of the brand. fresh air is something that every man, woman and child world. WindowMaster wants to thrive on this to ensure new ambitions and new targets. Spurred by the change understands. It is a built-in mechanism in the human body, growth and to deliver solutions that will foster a healthy in ownership and style, WindowMaster has in recent Based on the findings we created Fresh Air. Fresh People. and going outside or opening a window to let in some and sustainable society, environment and economy, which years undergone a significant transformation on all levels It is a new identity that aligns how we are perceived with fresh air will habitually generate positive associations we believe are fundamental to long-term value creation. throughout the company, which has ultimately resulted in what we want to achieve. Our new brand, including the of reduced headache, cleansed lungs and improved a new identity that encapsulates what the company wants new visual identity, is an ‘agile’ version of its former self. concentration; effects that have also been backed up by to achieve: To deliver fresh air to people in a manner that The agility mirrors our ambition to generate growth and scientific studies. If we work with fresh air as a promise does not compromise the environment. We simply believe invest in R&D to stay at the very front of innovation within to our surroundings, our business operations will also be that fresh air will breed fresh people. cleantech and sustainable natural ventilation technology. relatable to our stakeholders. 22 23 WindowMaster aspires to protect people and the environment by creating a healthy and safe indoor climate, automatically ventilating spaces with fresh air through facade and roof windows in buildings. We offer the construction industry foresighted, flexible and intelligent window actuators and control systems for natural ventilation, mixed-mode ventilation, and smoke ventilation – of the highest quality. WindowMaster employs around 135 highly experienced cleantech specialists in Denmark, Norway, Germany, United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United States of America. In addition, we work with a vast network of certified partners. With our extensive expertise built up since 1990, WindowMaster is ready to help the construction industry meet its green obligations and achieve their architectural and technical ambitions. ©WindowMaster 2017 ®WindowMaster is a registered trademark used under license by WindowMaster International windowmaster.com
