TELEKOM ROMANIA CONNECTED TO SUSTAINABILITY. MEASURING OUR PROGRESS 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report EXPERIENŢE ÎMPREUNĂ. REPORT STRUCTURE ICT FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3 ICT’S CONTRIBUTION TO UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 4 OUR VISION OF SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY 6 1. ABOUT THE REPORT 7 Message from our CEO 8 Report profile 9 The road to T 11 Telekom Romania at a glance 12 Commercial strategy and performance 13 Markets and services 14 Financial performance 16 OTE and Deutsche Telekom 17 2. STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT 18 Values and guiding principles 19 Corporate governance structure 20 Compliance and risk management 23 Compliance management system and enterprise risk management 24 Corporate responsibility strategy and management 28 Corporate responsibility governance 30 Stakeholder engagement 33 Materiality assessment process 38 3. MARKETPLACE 42 Responsible competition 44 Bridging the digital divide 46 Internet safety and public awareness 47 Responsible products and services 48 Smart cities for Romania 50 Customer responsibility 52 Customer service and satisfaction 53 Information security and data privacy 54 Sustainability in the supply chain 56 4. OUR PEOPLE 58 Management approach 59 Employment 60 Equal opportunities and diversity 61 Employee health and safety 62 Employee engagement 64 Employee working tools & benefits 66 5. SUPPORTING COMUNITIES 67 Social engagement 69 Education 74 Innovation 77 Sport 78 Volunteering 79 6. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 80 Environmental strategy 82 Environmental management system 83 Climate protection strategy 84 Improving energy efficiency 86 Material usage and waste management 88 Other environmental aspects 91 Environmental awareness 93 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 94 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 95 GRI INDEX 105 2 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ICT FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT We are committed to continue bringing our contribution to the ICT SECTOR POTENTIAL IN REDUCING GHG EMISSIONS sustainable development of Romanian economy and society. The According to GESI – SMARTer 2020 Report, at global level, ICT 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report represents the first step in enabled solutions offer the potential to reduce GHG emissions looking at our data, strategy, plans and achievement from the by 16.5%, create 29.5 million jobs and yield USD 1.9 trillion in perspective of contribution. savings. Power ICT SECTOR CONTRIBUTION TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ICT adoption in the power sector could yield 2.0 GtCO2e in It is now a fact that Information and Communication Technology abatement (or 22% of total estimated abatement) by (ICT) as a sector can contribute immensely to the national GDP playing a critical role in the creation of a more dynamic power and that ICT, acting as an enabler, can result in improved market competitiveness of a nation's products and services. ICTs can market with supply and pricing responding to changes in impact positively on governance and other sectors of the econdemand, vital for effectively integrating renewable energy into omy, can effectively assist international economic integration, the power supply. improve living standards, narrow the digital divide, and improve Agriculture and land use biodiversity utilization and management. This is true in the case of Emissions reductions from this sector could reach 1.6 GtCO2e Romania also. Between 2010 and 2015, the Romanian ICT sector (18% of total). As the inputs required to grow crops emit large grew by almost 45%, its contribution to Romania GDP increased quantities of emissions, ICT that allows farmers to accurately from 3.4% in 2011 to 6.7% in 2015. assess how much to irrigate and fertilize their crops will lead to Romania is the no.1 country in Europe and no.3 in the world of emissions abatement. download speed of fixed broadband with 72.15 Mbps and 9 out of Transportation the top 15 cities in the world in fastest internet speeds are from Emissions reductions in transportation could reach 1.9 GtCO2e our country. (21% of total). Increased efficiency in cargo transit through improved logistics networks and fleet management represents a significant abatement opportunity. Telecommuting and increased use of video conferencing can reduce transportation needs. Buildings ICT can abate 1.6 GtCO2e (18% of total) in this sector by providing Romania macroeconomic indicators occupants with the systems required to support the generation of renewable energy and incorporate it into the building's power supply. Smart design can reduce lighting and heating, ventilation, and air conditioning needs while building management systems ensure that those systems are used efficiently. Manufacturing ICT-enabled efficiency in factories and other manufacturing applications could allow for 1.2 GtCO2e (13% of total) in abateSource: National Institute for Statistics ment from the manufacturing sector. Through solutions that, for * Data for 9 months example, better control a motor system to match its power usage to a required output, there are many opportunities for ICT to make manufacturing more efficient. Consumer and services Emissions reductions through ICT in the consumer and service sector could reach 0.7 GtCO2e (8% of total). ICT connects consumers to merchants via the Internet and enables them to purchase goods online rather than physically traveling to the store. ICT enabled software can develop packaging that generates less waste and conserves resources. 3 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ICT’S CONTRIBUTION TO UN SDG Extreme poverty rates have been cut by more than ICT's can be used to increase efficiency, competitiveness and market half since 1990. While this is a remarkable achieveaccess for SME, enhancing the creation of new jobs, can change and ment, one in five people in developing regions still live invigorate old occupations, and add new public services. ICT's can on less than $1.25 a day. connect the need and demand for jobs as the first step to employment. If done right, agriculture, forestry and fisheries can ICT's can facilitate access to timely information to trigger rapid responses provide nutritious food for all and generate decent to combat hunger, managing the procurement, storage and distribution incomes, while supporting people-centered rural of essential food. It can also support the modernization of the agriculture development and protecting the environment. and the empowerment of rural farmers. Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all ICT's can support e-health policies and strategies with regard to at all ages is essential to sustainable development. telemedicine, health education and dissemination of preventive Significant strides have been made in increasing life information for general public, remote diagnostics and quality, efficiency expectancy and reducing child and maternal and cost effectiveness of health service delivery. mortality. Obtaining a quality education is the foundation for ICT’s can facilitate educational delivery at all levels of the educational improving people's lives and sustainable developsystem, widening the access and reducing the physical and social ment. Major progress has been made towards barriers to education. It supports the improvement of the educational increasing access to education at all levels and management and contributes to the schools' modernization. increasing enrolment rates in schools. While the world has achieved progress towards ICT’s can address various types and levels of gender inequalities within gender equality and women's empowerment the society and economy by providing the same level of access to (including equal access to primary education information and opportunities for men and women. ICT also provides between girls and boys), women and girls continue to mobile services to fight gender violence. suffer discrimination. Clean, accessible water for all is an essential part of ICT’s can support mapping and monitoring of water infrastructure, the world we want to live in. Because of bad facilitate mobilization, planning and allocation of resources. It also economics or poor infrastructure, every year millions provides the monitoring of service provision, water supply, water quality of people die from diseases associated with and water use management. inadequate water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Energy is central to nearly every major challenge and ICT and energy efficiency can be connected in two ways: “Greening of opportunity the world faces today. Be it for jobs, ICT” and “Greening through ICT”. ICT's enabled solutions such as smart security, climate change, food production or grids, smart buildings, and smart logistics can play a major role towards increasing incomes, access to energy for all is an energy efficient future, reducing global GHG emissions. essential. Roughly half the world's population still lives on the ICT is transforming traditional employment sectors as well as creating equivalent of about US$2 a day. And in too many brand new employment opportunities in areas such as social media places, having a job doesn't guarantee the ability to management, gaming and the mobile apps economy, information escape from poverty. technology outsourcing (ITO) or business process outsourcing (BPO). 4 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ICT’S CONTRIBUTION TO UN SDG Investments in infrastructure – transport, irrigation, “Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure” leads to “Responsible energy and information and communication Consumption and Production”, for this reason, ICT plays a crucial role in technology – are crucial to achieving sustainable providing affordable and increased access to information, enabling development and empowering communities in many research and diffusion of new sustainable technologies and solutions. countries. The most vulnerable nations, the least developed The greater potential for ICT’s to reduce inequality rests on Internet use. countries, the landlocked developing countries and By facilitating a broad and easy access to internet, ICT can address the small island developing states, continue to make health, education and economic inequalities by focusing on most inroads into poverty reduction. marginalized groups or regions. The challenges cities face can be overcome in ways ICT’s can play a significant role to reduce the carbon footprint of cities by that allow them to continue to thrive and grow, while moving to a more intelligent use of energy but also connecting various improving resource use and reducing pollution and “smart” realms of activities like electric mobility, eHealth, eCare, and poverty. The future we want includes cities of eGovernance. opportunities for all. Sustainable consumption and production aims at ICT’s have the potential to foster sustainable consumption and produc“doing more and better with less”, increasing net tion through product-specific improvements, increased dematerialization welfare gains from economic activities by reducing and virtualization, and the implementation of smart technologies in resource use, degradation and pollution along the various sectors of the economy. whole lifecycle. People are experiencing the significant impacts of ICT plays a crucial role in sharing climate and weather information and in climate change, which include more extreme weather forecasting and early warning systems. ICTs can assist climate change events. The greenhouse gas emissions from human stakeholders working at the international, national and sectoral and activities are driving climate change and continue to community levels to enhance their work. rise. Our rainwater, drinking water, weather, climate, ICT is already playing an important role in communicating water related coastlines, much of our food, and even the oxygen in scientific knowledge effectively. Geographic Information Systems and the air we breathe, are all ultimately provided and remote sensing provide opportunities for water monitoring and regulated by the sea. sustainable management of marine and coastal systems. Deforestation and desertification – caused by human The protection, conservation, and restoration of terrestrial ecosystems activities and climate change – pose major chalcan't be achieved without real time and accurate information. Satellitelenges to sustainable development and have affected based monitoring delivers timely and accurate data on a global basis, the lives and livelihoods of millions of people in the while local sensors can deliver on the spot updates in real-time. fight against poverty. Goal 16 of the Sustainable Development Goals is ICT’s can play an important role in crisis management, humanitarian aid dedicated to the promotion of peaceful and inclusive and peace building. The growing use of open data by governments' societies for sustainable development, the provision increases transparency, empowers citizens, and helps to drive economic of access to justice for all, and building effective, growth. accountable institutions at all levels. A successful sustainable development agenda The spread of ICT’s and global interconnectedness has great potential to requires partnerships between governments, the accelerate human progress, to bridge the digital divide and to develop private sector and civil society built upon principles knowledge societies by enhancing international cooperation and and values, a shared vision, and shared goals that coordination; promoting technology transfer and forging multiplace people and the planet at the center. stakeholder partnerships. 5 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview OUR VISION OF SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY As part of Deutsche Telekom Group, members of Global Compact INTEGRATING GLOBAL GOALS IN OUR VISION Romania and leading telecommunication company in Romania, QUALITY OF LIFE we have gladly accepted the challenge to contribute to the Quality of life means that needs are fulfilled by less material and achievement of the United Nations Sustainable Development energy throughput—human fulfillment is improved by a lifestyle Goals (UN SDG) and we are delivering our contribution here in that acknowledges non-material needs as being as important as Romania, as we are part of the Romanian society. The way we see material needs. our contribution is summarized across our Corporate Responsibility Report. Our vision about a Sustainable Society can be summarized as a good life and well-being for all now and in the future, sustaining the Earth's ecosystem, banning poverty and related health and housing issues, a sustainable agricultural and food system, and employment and leisure for all. We believe that Information and Communication Technology (ICT) could help achieve that, if actively directed by the right drivers. We see these drivers as three connected human needs: the need to HUMAN SOLIDARITY communicate, the need to belong and the need to live in a clean Human solidarity means that in a globalizing world the barriers and healthy natural environment. between rich and poor, between North and South, and between different religions and cultures have been diminished to a level at which each human being truly understands him/herself as a “global citizen”, with responsibility for “global neighbors” and future generations. ECOLOGICAL SENSIBILITY Ecological sensibility refers to a preservation of ecological capital by a combination of careful environmental management and the deployment of cutting-edge technologies to fulfill material functions. 6 1. ABOUT THE REPORT Message from our CEO Report profile The road to T Telekom Romania at a glance Commercial strategy and performance Market and services Financial performance OTE and Deutsche Telekom 7 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO As in Romania there are also areas in which the penetration of telco services is very difficult, we became an active supporter of the RoNet project, which provides the infrastructure for connecting remote localities to the Internet. Therefore, in 2015 we concluded works in approximately 100 localities out of the 783 included in the project. By covering white areas of the country with Internet services, there are being opened windows of opportunities for local rural businesses, for education and information of the respective communities, thus having the possibility to grow as a whole, in a sustainable way. To be more efficient, communication should be facilitated by using integrated solutions. That is why we introduced MagentaONE commercial platform which stands for: One Stop Shop, one call center, one bill, one MyAccount (including one Miroslav Majoroš: Chief Executive Officer Telekom Romania mobile app), 10 seconds average waiting time in the call centre for residential and business customers of integrated fixed & mobile Being a telecommunication company we deeply understand the services and also for entertainment and exclusivities on all value of connectivity, the need to share information with the others screens (TV, tablets, laptops, smartphones). To this can be added both at personal and professional level. And we believe that many the significant investments in exclusive content, among which of the problems we face today could be managed more efficiently football competitions such as UEFA Champions League, available by having access to better informational systems. In order to on all screens. The approach reflects our focus on delivering best contribute to the sustainable growth of the entire society, not just class experience to our customers, thus differentiating ourselves of our company, we are committed to make information easily on the market. available for everybody by providing access to it, proposing new Equally important as our customers are our employees. We ways to use it, supporting companies and communities to enhanced their skills and provided them with opportunities to exchange information and build their capabilities based on it. develop their talents. We are proud to have active and responsible colleagues who responded with enthusiasm to our CSR programs The Corporate Social Responsibility functions are now integrated and volunteered to plant trees, to restore green spaces suffocated in the governance structures directly linked with the Board of by waste, to give only a couple of examples. Directors, having the mean to contribute to the overall business strategy. The compliance management system has been Our concern for the environment was reflected also in the enhanced and certified according with the German standard improvement of the management systems and in upgrading the PS980 to support the implementation and observance of relevant free cooling network to reduce the consumption of energy. Being sustainability related standards, regulation and guidelines, driven by the consumption of fossil fuel, climate change repreensuring that all our activities are aligned to best practices and sents also an opportunity for us to examine our processes and contribute to the Triple Bottom Line. technologies to find new ways to reduce our electricity and fuel consumption. We are also focusing on replacing the outdated We embed sustainability in our operations by following efficiency, technology with new one with the scope of addressing this hot dematerialisation and decarbonisation goals but we also follow topic. the social concerns related with safety and security of new ICT Also, we are partnering with different actors from private and technologies. public sector to find new solutions for communities to address these issues. This year we started to educate the local market with For us, protection of data privacy and safer internet are as regard to the benefits of the smart cities, a concept which important as any other business aspect, this is why we developed proposes new innovative ways to manage resources, control air new ways to ensure safe and secure use of all our products and pollution, increase the dispersion level of clean technology and services. contribute to society effort to mitigate the effects of climate Financially, we invested significantly in the development of our change or other environmental problems. advanced networks: 3/4G for mobile, respectively fiber, also known as FFTx, for the landline services, with focus, for the latter However, without an intensive process of digitalization we cannot one, on further increasing the penetration of this technology in the envisage the society of tomorrow. This is why we entered the already covered areas, in order to provide access to newest market with new, innovative solutions based on Internet of Things technologies, which means up to 1 Gbps for broadband and of platforms, Machine-to-Machine (M2M) and data analytics interactive television (IPTV) services. On the mobile side, throughcomponents meant to change, in the close future, the paradigms out 2015, 4G services reached 57% coverage in urban areas, in which we work, communicate, learn and live, in general. What it offering speeds of up to 150 Mbps, and the efforts of modernizamay seem only a seed now, tomorrow will be a fully developed tion for the UMTS-3G technology network enabled significant ecosystem built to ensure a better world for all. improvements in average download and upload speeds offering a better mobile broadband experience to the customers. 8 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview REPORT PROFILE As a telecommunication company, we deal with data, providing WHY DO WE WRITE A CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY the necessary technical and operational infrastructure that allows REPORT? it to reach from its origins to its destinations and to circulate between people. The process of data transmission is a technical one but its purposes are deeply human, it helps people to make sense of the world around them by getting the information they need, it enables dialogue, it supports decision making processes, it enables people to communicate their thoughts, express their feelings, study and organize their economic or non-economic activities. Communication, storage and sharing of data and information represent an essential pillar of our civilization enabling large number of people to collaborate for common purposes, to Ruxandra Vodă share and debate ideas, to formulate plans and vision for themCorporate Communication Director selves but also for the society at large. Our business is about facilitating meaningful communication We strive to provide efficient and meaningful communication between people. Our corporate responsibility report is a slice in services and solutions which enable sustainable development of time and we make the best of it by using this opportunity to Romanian society at every level. analyse our performance against our plans and principles, to engage our employees and to share our achievements and future The goals of our reporting process are: objectives. Better understanding of our business impacts; Sustainability is one of the toughest parts of our job. It requires Contribute to a transparent business environment in Romania; time, investments, experts, excellent cross-functional collaboraShare our sustainability performance and strategy; tion. And the sustainability report is all that huge effort, put in a Engage in dialogue with employees and external stakeholders; number of pages, with numerous factsheets and analyses behind. Express ourselves and our vision. Why are we doing it? Because we are not alone, we operate with people; our aim is to improve people's lives. By approaching the people's needs and expectations, we improve our plans. Dialogue is a tool, beneficial to all parties. And reporting what we have done, in terms of sustainability, enables us to get feedback to go forward. We strive to make this cycle faster while also smoother, in the benefit of the consumers and of the company. I believe that Corporate Responsibility should be an integral part of normal everyday business. Any employee at any level faces issues where he / she needs to make trade-offs and allocate scarce resources (time, energy, money and staff). Any decision at any level in the organization should naturally and properly balance concerns for economic as well as environmental and social sustainability. To support and enhance this behavior our internal communication process aims to increase the awareness of our employees, to facilitate their contribution to our CR Strategy implementation and provide a platform for engagement and dialogue. Florina Şerban Senior Coordinator Internal Communication, Corporate Events & Corporate Responsibility Department 9 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview REPORTING FRAMEWORK CULTURE OF TRANSPARENCY REPORTING GUIDELINES The 2015 report is the first Telekom Romania Corporate The structure of our Corporate Responsibility Report has been Responsibility Report for the joint operations of Telekom Romania defined and realized in accordance with Core option of the Global Communications S.A. and Telekom Romania Mobile Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines. In defining the content of Communications S.A. It is an expression of our corporate the report we have considered the recommendation of the GRI responsibility culture and also a part of the commitment of Telecommunication Services Sector Supplement, our extensive Deutsche Telekom and OTE towards sustainability and business materiality assessment results, the UN Sustainable Development responsibility, as both companies are publishing annual Goals (SDGs) and the UN Global Compact principles. sustainability reports for more than 10 years. Also, Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. published three previous GRI G4 corporate responsibility reports according to GRI for the years This report has been prepared in 2010-2012. accordance with the GRI's Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4 Core). The REPORTING PERIOD GRI Index synthesizes the way we have This report presents the company's actions, challenges, results addressed all requirements concerning indicators and and achievements in 2015 (January – December) and it disclosures. Also, we have considered the GRI represents the beginning of a regular reporting cycle of 1 year that Telecommunication Sector Supplement framework to present the we have decided to follow in the future. Where applicable, we way we are addressing specific industry topics. have provided historical data from the two previous years. UN SDG Framework REPORTING SCOPE Based on our current understanding The scope of this report encompasses the operations of Telekom of the ICT sector contribution to the Romania Communications S.A. and Telekom Romania Mobile achievement of the UN Sustainable Communications S.A in an integrated approach. Throughout the Development Goals, we are present report, the terms „TELEKOM ROMANIA”, „TELEKOM presenting our efforts and activities towards the goals. These are ROMANIA companies”, „We” or „Our companies” refer to both being marked directly in the text or summarized in the specific UN Telekom Romania Communications S.A. and Telekom Romania SDG matrixes accompanying each chapter. Mobile Communications S.A. All references to plural shall be construed as a reference to TELEKOM ROMANIA. Also, „Mobile UN Global Compact Operations” mean the telecommunication related services Our report is aligned with our commitments managed by Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. and within the UN Global Compact. We used the „Fixed Operations” mean the telecommunication related services framework to design and deploy our managed by Telekom Romania Communications S.A. corporate responsibility strategy and we Throughout this report, where data was available, we are have incorporated in the report the actions presenting separate data and facts for the two business areas. We we have implemented and the results we encountered several data gaps which we could not address at this have achieved towards fulfilling the point due to the recent integration process. commitments. EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Materiality analysis This report has not been verified by an external independent We are prioritizing the issues of our strategy and reporting auditing company. process based on the results of the materiality analysis we conduct periodically. For the current reporting cycle we have Your opinion and feedback about our CR Report is welcomed refreshed the materiality assessment by conducting an extensive Please send your feedback to the e-mail address: Csr@telekom.ro dialogue on the sustainability aspects of the ICT sector in Corporate Communications Telekom Romania Romania with more than 150 representatives of internal and external stakeholders. 10 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview THE ROAD TO T In 2014, Telekom Romania Communications (formerly Telekom Romania Mobile Communications (formerly COSMOTE Romtelecom) and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications Romania), launched its commercial operations in December 2005 (formerly COSMOTE Romania), two major telecom operators in with the aim of making mobile telephony accessible to all. Romania, have officially joined forces, under a new and dynamic With over 80 years of expertise in the Romanian telecommunications brand, Telekom Romania, offering complete, telecommunications market, Telekom Romania Communications innovative and customized mobile and fixed communication S.A. (formerly Romtelecom) offers reliable, innovative and easy-toservices to a broad customers community, using approximately 10 use services including traditional fixed telephony, broadband million services. Internet, TV services (satellite, IPTV and cable), personalized packages, entertainment services and complete business ICT solutions. 2007 – 2016: an important contribution to the development of the telecommunication sector in Romania 1 million mobile 3G network Telekom Romania customers 11 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview TELEKOM ROMANIA AT A GLANCE Telekom Romania is the largest telecommunications company in Our operations are administrated from hundred of offices, Romania in terms of revenues and the leading player on technical spaces and stores, distributed all over the country, with convergent fixed-mobile services segment. the headquarters in Bucharest, the capital city of Romania. Key figures PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT MARKET Number of Electricity Revenues employees consumed (GWh) (million €) 6,368 215 1,040.2 6,490 (2014) 218.89 (2014) 1,048.5 (2014) Work-related fatal Managed Pro Forma EBITDA accidents (number waste (t) (million €) of employees) 0 3,255.98 205.5 0 (2014) 7,541.31 (2014) 252.9 (2014) People supported Co2 emissions Number of services (Scope 1) (t) (million) 406,428 1 14,077 10.35 412,950 (2014) 14,626 t (2014) 10.68 (2014) 1 Through sponsorship projects (estimated figure from partners reporting) 2 Scope 1 emissions – direct CO2 emissions from operations fuel consumption and company owned vehicles 12 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview COMMERCIAL STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE Commercial premiers, customer excellence focus, all-in-one EVOLUTION OF COMMERCIAL INDICATORS philosophy, significant investment in technology and infrastructure are some of the major outcomes of our strategy based on innovation and technological leadership. STRONG RESULTS ON 3 COMMUNICATION PILARS 1 BUILT #1 INTEGRATED OPERATOR The operational integration is now complete and is reflected commercially in the launch of MagentaONE integrated offers. 2 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP We continued to invest in top technologies, with focus on expanding our 4G network. 3 TRANSFORM THE OPERATING MODEL Everything in one place for all fixed and mobile communication needs. Achieved results 10 seconds average waiting time at the call center for residential and business customers of integrated fix and mobile services, as of May 2015 One Stop Shop, one Call Center, one Bill, one MyAccount including one mobile app and one click payment Over 226k FMC integrated customers at the end of 2015 13 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview MARKET AND SERVICES MARKET STATUS TELEKOM ROMANIA SERVICES Telekom Romania' vision is to create the no.1 integrated operator MagentaONE in the Romanian market, with a sustainable position in all Telekom Romania introduced MagentaONE, the new commercial segments and geographies. Our 2015 strategy was focused on concept for integrated fixed and mobile bundles addressing both intensive infrastructure investment and on creating technology residential and business customers. Romania is the third country leadership. in Deutsche Telekom Group to launch the new commercial approach for the integrated offers, after Germany and Slovakia. On the Romanian telecom market there is a by price driven competition, but positive signals in economy (recovery of private MagentaONE stands for simpler communication offers: consumption, rising wages and low inflation) led to a gradual Everything in 1 place for all fixed and mobile communication move toward more qualitative solutions. The very strong needs: One Stop Shop, one Call Center, one bill, one competition (3 big fixed line operators and MyAccount (including one mobile app); 750 small ISP with own infrastructure) exclusively on tariff is 10 seconds average waiting time in the call centre for gradually slowing down, with competitors focusing on exclusive customers of integrated fixed & mobile services; content, increasing broadband access speeds or introducing Entertainment and exclusivities on all screens (TV, tablets, fixed-mobile convergent FMC bundles. laptops, smartphones). The total market grew in 2015 (broadband and TV). For the business segment, MagentaONE reinforces Telekom's All relevant players have own extensive infrastructure with focus “One Stop Shop” philosophy, which means more simplicity and on network development, FTTH/B being by far the largest fixed convenience through a unique contact point for all the broadband technology. Urban fiber coverage exceeded 80%. communication needs of the companies, of all sizes. Telekom has launched the first true convergent fixed, mobile and cloud bundle TV market is almost saturated in terms of customers (95% on the market with the addition, for all the MagentaONE business penetration), but TV services growth is possible through relevant customers, of 1 TB of secure storage space (ISO Certified), as well content packaging and the right technology mix. as access to the online version of the Microsoft Office software. Telekom Romania's strategy is to focus on convergent packages, TV content with exclusivities on all screens and the experience of Mobile offers 3/4G coverage for mobile services. Telekom successfully launches the communication platform for youngsters called Tadaaam with GigaShare offer, followed by The mobile market is saturated and the operators had to deepen GigaWeekend campaign enabling prepaid customers to enjoy 1 their relationship with existing customers to maximize GB of free data traffic during weekends. monetization opportunities. In addition, a special offer for prepaid users became available: Since the T brand launch in September 2014 and until the end of new and existing customers who activate one of the extra-options December 2015, Telekom Romania gained 208,000 fixed-mobile available in the Telekom Romania portfolio will receive more convergent customers. benefits, guaranteed for life, at each activation or reactivation of the chosen extra-option. The new bundled offers under the T brand are a significant differentiator on the market. The combination between Another special offer for postpaid mobile services included 1GB investments in network and commercial presence via innovative data traffic at 4G speed each month, for life, including for all family solutions on both the residential and business segments are members. expected to improve the company's market position over time. 14 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview MARKET AND SERVICES TV services for all screens TV services, especially interactive television and exclusive content were the focus of the company for 2015. The enhanced version of the IPTV service, providing the best TV experience on the Romanian market, includes: TV Archive, possibility to record and create personal content library, including through Cloud recordings, Video on demand on all screens, enhanced Electronic Programs Guide, possibility to create favorite channels lists, PiP (picture in picture), Media Player feature, Champions League and other international competitions. On Telekom TV Web & Mobile platform is available the highest number of TV channels on an online platform in Romania, up to 115. More than 200 Discovery shows were offered online as Video on Demand, on www.telekomtv.ro, on Telekom TV app, as well as on Telekom TV Interactiv (IPTV), exclusively at Telekom. As a premiere, 21 audio books in the Video on Demand menu for the TELEKOM TV INTERACTIV Telekom TV Interactiv and Telekom TV Web & Mobile users became available. Find out more about personal services here Leading position on fix B2B segment On the business fix segment, Telekom Romania Communications maintained its leading position both in terms of RGUs and revenues. The premium internet services (MetroNet) achieved Stability spectacular increase in the gross additions year over year, while for VPN the company maintained its market leading position. Telekom Romania Communications continued the development of Cloud service portfolio. Thus, software as a service Office 365 Performance and Hosting Data Centre sales led to double digit growth rates on these product lines. While continuing its focus on existing M2M solutions like GPS Tracking, in 2015, Telekom Romania launched new solutions such as vending machine monitoring and a smart Entertainment office solution, as well as a new SIM management platform offering to M2M customers advanced SIM management functionalities. In addition, pilot projects for the implementation of smart city 4G SERVICES FOR BUSINESS solutions available at Group level increased the presence of Telekom Romania in all areas of operating ICT solutions. As a Find out more about business services here systems integrator and major IT services supplier, the company implemented important projects in both public and private sector. 15 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FIXED OPERATIONS In a very competitive market, the financial results reported by Telekom Romania Communications for 2015 show revenues slightly decreasing by almost 1%. Key areas such as TV and integrated offers continued to generate growth for the company. The level of revenues reflects mainly the continuous decrease of fixed voiced segment, with corresponding revenues lower by 17% at the end of 2015. ProForma EBITDA (Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization), excluding impact of restructuring plans, was 118.4 million Euros, down by 26% compared with 2014. The results were affected by higher TV content and TV sets related costs, as a result of company's focus on providing improved and seamless customer experience for both fixed and mobile segments. The convergent services generated a more than Total revenues evolution breakdown double increase of mobile revenues in Q4 2015 compared to Q4 in million € 2014, with corresponding increase in the number of MagentaONE customers, which reached over 208,000, up by more than 48,000 since Q3 2015. MOBILE OPERATIONS Telekom Romania Mobile Communications overall revenues in the year remained stable, at 438.5 million Euros, down 0.2% yoy. Mobile broadband service revenues continued to register a positive evolution, with an advance by 14% yoy. At the end of Q4 2015, the total customer base (including Zapp) was of 5.754 million. The overall postpaid customer base increased by 3.7% in 2015 vs 2014, accounting for 29% of total customer base. In addition, Telekom Romania Mobile Communications registered Pro forma EBITDA evolution breakdown an increase of 16 pp in the weight of smartphones out of the total in million € terminals sold in 2015 versus 2014. In Q4 of 2015, despite intense competition, the business segment continued to register positive performance, with 7.7% increase of business customers base yoy. Mobile data proved a significant growth driver on this segment, as reflected by the increase of mobile broadband business customer base by 22% in Q4 2015 vs Q4 2014 and by 25.5% on a yearly basis. ProForma EBITDA (Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, without redundancy cost) margin reached 20% in FY 2015, down by 4 pp versus FY 2014. ProForma EBITDA amounted to 87.1 million Euros in 2015. * Total taxes paid at national level, except penalties which are reported separately Total operating expenses evolution breakdown in million € 16 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview OTE AND DEUTSCHE TELEKOM OTE group overview The OTE Group is the largest telecommunications provider on the Greek market and one of the leading telecom groups in Southeast Europe with presence in Greece, Romania and Albania. OTE is among the largest listed companies, with respect to market capitalization, in the Athens Stock Exchange. OTE Group offers the full range of telecommunications services: from fixed-line and mobile telephony, broadband services, to pay television and ICT solutions. In addition to its core telecommunications activities, the Group is also involved in maritime communications, real-estate and professional training. Additional Information is also available here Access OTE Group Corporate Responsibility Report here Deutsche Telekom Group overview Deutsche Telekom, one of the world's leading integrated telecommunications companies with around 156 million mobile customers, 29 million fixed-network lines and more than 18 million broadband lines (as of December 31, 2015). Deutsche Telekom is present in more than 50 countries and has approximately 225,000 employees worldwide. Detailed presentation of Deutsche Telekom Group financial KPIs is available here Access Deutsche Telekom Group Corporate Responsibility Report here 17 2. STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Values and guiding principles Corporate governance structure Compliance and risk management Corporate responsibility strategy and management Stakeholder engagement Key partnerships Materiality assessment process 18 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview VALUES AND GUIDING PRINCIPLES OUR VISION HOW DO WE WANT TO WORK? Become the no. 1 integrated operator in the Romanian market, with a sustainable position in all segments and geographies, Our Code of Conduct capturing fixed-mobile synergies across the value chain, to The following principles describe what should characterize our deliver customer excellence, with a highly efficient and focused dealings and interactions with third parties and with others within operating model. our company. They also serve as the basis for our Code of Conduct, explaining what they mean in our daily work as well as their tangible and practical impact. We are determined to achieve our vision by fulfilling the promise of technology, that to support and enhance a good life for people Customer delight and simplicity drive our action without compromising the ecosystem or the prospects of later This is about the core asset of the company, the customer. It's generations. about the thoughts, emotions, needs and experiences of customers. They drive Telekom's success. Society's base of information and knowledge is developing drastically. In order to accompany changes in customer behavior Respect and integrity guide our behavior and support innovative development of digital technologies, The second Guiding Principle is not only about respect among Telekom Romania continuously puts itself to the test to further colleagues. This is also about the appreciation of customers, develop its vision and ambition. partners, suppliers and shareholders and for society and the environment. Corporate culture is a key factor in this development process and the Guiding Principles serve as the cornerstone that forms this Team together – Team apart culture. The company values were therefore enhanced to create The third Guiding Principle relates to the culture of cooperathe current Guiding Principles. They define how we behave and tion. As a team, issues must be discussed openly. There has to represent our values and beliefs. However, the Guiding Principles be room for different opinions and serious discussions. But are not only meant for internal use, but also for dealing with when a decision is made, it is final and will be implemented Telekom Romania external environment as well. They help accordingly. emphasize the company's social commitment. Best place to perform and grow They are a key tool in our human resources activities. They form For Telekom to become the most highly regarded company in the basis of reliable cooperation at the company and help us keep the industry, it needs good, motivated employees. Therefore, delighting our customers with our products and services. We this Guiding Principle is an obligation for all managers to regularly communicate the Guiding Principles via our internal recognize individual commitment and success and to offer a communication to help incorporate them into our employees' positive environment with opportunities for professional everyday work routines. Also, we are developing projects and development. internal actions considering our values and to this end, we also host our annual Guiding Principles Day underling their imporI am T – Count on me tance and benefits at employee level. The fifth Guiding Principle is the personal commitment of every employee. This means, for example, that each and every colleague is personally committed to finding a solution to a Access here our code of conduct customer's problem. The customer may be a consumer, but also a colleague, business partner or another corporate partner. 19 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Generally, corporate governance refers to the host of legal and Telekom Romania Communications S.A. non-legal principles and practices affecting control of publicly Board members held business corporations. Most broadly, corporate governance affects not only who controls publicly traded corporations and for what purpose, but also the allocation of risks and returns from the firm's activities among the various participants in the firm, including stockholders and managers, as well as creditors, employees, customers and even communities. As part of DT and OTE groups, our Corporate Governance system is in line with national and international laws and regulations, following 5 fundamental ethical principles: Honest and ethical conduct; Disclosure of information; Compliance with law; Internal reporting; Accountability for compliance. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Organisational structure The General Assembly of Shareholders The General Assembly of Shareholders is the company's supreme body and has the right to decide on all matters of the Company, except on the matters falling within the competence of the Board of Directors, according to the law or the Company's Article of Incorporation; It convenes at the call of the Board of Directors in an ordinary session at least once a year and within five months from the end of the fiscal year; The General Assembly of Shareholders is also responsible for appointing Members of the Board of Directors according to the criteria set by the Law, taking into account corporate governance and avoidance of conflict of interest policies. Board of Directors The Boards of Directors (BoD) constitute the top administrative bodies of the companies. Their aim is to safeguard the general interests of the companies and ensure their operational efficiency. The BoD is responsible for taking any decisions regarding to administration, management, resource utilization and overall in order functioning to achieve our companies' corporate objectives; The Boards' responsibilities include, among others, convening Ownership General Assemblies of Shareholders, preparing and submitting the Annual Report and financial statements to the Annual General Assembly of Shareholders and setting and approving the corporate strategy, while monitoring its execution. 20 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Board of Directors (continued) Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. On 31 December 2015, The Board of Directors (BoD) for Board members Telekom Romania Communications S.A. was constituted of nine (9) members, eigt (8) of these BoD members are nonexecutive, while one is independent and two (2) are female. The Board of Directors (BoD) for Telekom Romania Mobile Communications S.A. was constituted of seven (7) members, six (6) of these BoD members are non-executive, while one is is female; Members of the Board are selected based on their qualifications and expertise, while at the moment there is no separate consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity in the selection criteria; Compensation of Board members is linked to the company's overall performance, including indirectly issues of Corporate Organisational structure Responsibility, however at the moment there is no separate direct linkage of compensation with social and environmental performance; Wages and other compensation of BoD members are decided by General Assembly, according to the Constitutive Acts of the Companies and to applicable legislation (Law 31/1990 on trading companies). Audit Committee (Applicable only in Telekom Romania Communications) Monitors & approves the company's Internal Audit, Compliance, Risk Management & Insurance activities; Evaluates whether management is setting the appropriate “control culture” by communicating the importance of internal control and the management of risk and ensuring that all employees have an understanding of their roles and responsibilities; Reviews the annual and interim financial statements and determine whether they are complete and consistent with the information known to committee members and reflect appropriate accounting principles; Ownership Reviews annually the performance of the external auditors and make recommendations to the Board regarding the reappointment; Receives the reports on the compliance cases if the financial reporting or audit of financial statements is affected, executive management is involved, the damages are over Euro 500,000 or involves corruption, financial reporting manipulation, violation of competition regulation, compliance infringement or fraud. 21 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Nomination and Remuneration Committee Compliance Committee (applicable only in Telekom Romania Communications) Approves the quarterly reports of the Compliance Officer Reviews and opines to the Board of Directors on executive related to the status quo of current and planned compliance remuneration policies concerning CEO and Chief Officers; organization activities; Receives the reports of the plausible compliance cases, based Reviews and opines to the Board of Directors on the on the complaints received on the whistleblowing channels; achievement of corporate targets, related to the annual Approves the findings and the proposed measures performance assessment of CEO and of Chief Officers; recommended by Compliance structure in specific fraud cases and whistleblowing complaints. Reviews and opines to the Board of Directors on the establishment and/or termination of Management Team employment/management and the modification of the The management team formed of Chief Officers is employment/management contract of the Chief Executive coordinated by the CEO and its responsibilities include, Officer; among others, recommendations towards the BoD of strategies to achieve company's objectives and development Opines to the Chief Executive Officer on the establishment and implementation of programs to increase the Triple Bottom and/or termination of employment of the Chief Officers, such Line performance; opinion being also presented to the Board of Directors. One of the key roles of the management team is to provide corporate leadership by articulating the transcended goals, Enterprise Risk Management & Corporate Governance Committee communicating high performance standards, set the ethical Is mainly responsible for defining, implementing, monitoring and professional behaviour example and communicate clearly and improving the Risk Management System Program (RMS) the values by which the company is being governed. and other issues of corporate governance; Supports the Internal Audit and Risk Management Director on Risk Management & Corporate Governance issues and proposes the adoption of measures that will further improve Find out more information about our Management Team here corporate governance; Supports the business units on risk analysis and effective communication of RMS to employees. 22 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT The foundation of our corporate responsibility strategy 2015 was a reference year for our companies from many points of view and one of the processes which is extremely relevant for the internal life of our company is the advancement and progress of our compliance system. We have focused our attention on developing the internal compliance culture by communicating its benefits and working closely with all functions to increase awareness and understanding. We started the 2015 year with the campaign “Trust is the core of our business”, having as key messages internal cooperation and our attitude towards the company's clients and towards the company's business partners. The year continued with Mihaela Ioniţă “Compliance torch”, the symbol of equity and fairness. Finally, we Legal, Corporate Affairs and Compliance Director Romania have celebrated the 9th of December – the International AntiCorruption Day, through a Group communication campaign. “I consider my area of responsibility as a key sustainability driver. We believe that every single step matters in advancing our Ensuring adoption of business decisions based on a solid legal responsible business model. frame, protecting both the company and the customers against future issues, is at the basic level of sustainable operation. A special attention is paid to data privacy. In telecom industry, with our portfolio of products and services, addressed to a very large number of customers, constant efforts to enhance data protection by any means are just an example of our way to understand how we can contribute to a sustainable business rollout.” Olga Moroșanu Cristina Cojocaru ERM and Subsidiaries Audit Manager Compliance Manager Romania Risk management is a powerful corporate tool which, in the right “The Compliance concept requires all employees to follow a set of set-up and appropriate implementation can help to: internal rules and an ethical behavior, based on integrity, honest Improve corporate governance; and credible communication, both with external partners, as well Protect company's reputation; as with internal ones. We believe that every single compliant step, Encourage proactive management and improve decision as small could it be, really matters in advancing our responsible making; business model.” Reinforce risk culture. “Risk management is not done by ERM function. It is the tool and in the hands of each good manager.” 23 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT In the current context of the fight against corruption in Romania, the compliance and risk management cannot be ignored, even more because it takes effect only by involving all company employees.more because it takes effect only by involving all company employees. COMPLIANCE CULTURE For Telekom Romania, “Compliance” means more than observing laws and regulations. It means, the way we “want” to act, not the way we are “obliged” to act. Theoretically speaking, compliance culture might be perceived by implementing special Policies and Procedures, set of principles, by having dedicated communication channels, so that every employee of the company could ask Compliance team questions and could report any breaches or abuses. Compliance culture might be enhanced also by periodically performing of Compliance Risk Assessment in the Company, and by having a training program aimed for mitigating the main risks areas. The ethical culture and integrity of behaviour are the core elements of our compliance programmes supporting principled performance. As part of society we strive to live up to the expectations of our stakeholders and act in a socially responsible manner, to be a strong player in the market and to be trustworthy for customers, business partners and, especially, for our employees. This summarizes best our compliance culture. 24 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM We have integrated the compliance principles in all our activities Telekom Romania' Compliance Management System and under the umbrella of the Compliance Management System Antitrust System were examined by external auditors, being (CMS) with the goal to support and strengthen our core audited under the German Auditing Standard IDW PS 980, with a operational principles: transparency, justice, professionalism, focus on prevention of corruption and antitrust violations. integrity and respect for the rule of law and for the ethical principles. Anti-Corruption Certification Our Compliance Management System is developed around 3 In 2013, the auditors confirmed that the processes of the pillars: compliance organization are effective. In 2017 we aim to reach a Awareness about the risks of non-compliance and prevention re-certification with a focus on anti-corruption, among other of misconduct are the primary goals of our CMS. For their Deutsche Telekom Group subsidiaries. achievement we have developed specific training programs Antitrust Certification: The Antitrust System of Telekom Romania for our employees on topics like avoiding corruption and was examined as well by an independent auditing institution in conflict of interests, fraud, personal data usage, financial 2104, according to the German standard IDW PS 980. The audit statements manipulation and data privacy; report certifies that Telekom Romania has an effective Detection and treatment of compliance issues represents the compliance management system to avoid antitrust violations and second pillar, supported by a clear reporting policy and to recognize them in time. As part of this certification Telekom reporting channels available for every stakeholder: employees, Romania, as well Deutsche Telekom AG and OTE were examined. contractors, suppliers, clients, partners and general public; Response is the third pillar of Compliance Management To sum it up, compliance stands for clear rules and doing the right System, including activities such as: case management, thing. At Telekom Romania compliance mean adhering to legal consequence management and remediation. provisions, the Company's internal policies and ethical principles. Compliance Management Framework Compliance Management Structure Our Compliance Management System is based on the German audit standard PS 980 issued by the German Public Audit Institute. Aligned with internationally recognized principles, the standard is primarily aimed at publicly listed companies. The elements it covers represent best practice and are therefore applicable to all companies. In common with the recently issued BS10500 antibribery standard, the German compliance management standard is based on principles and values, not rules, giving businesses of all sizes and from all sectors the scope to adapt the framework to their own unique requirements. The standard allows for a riskbased approach and is based around 7 interrelated and coConsultation desk – Ask Me dependent core principles: Compliance culture; Compliance objectives; Compliance organisation; Compliance risks; Compliance programme; Compliance communication; Compliance monitoring and improvement. 25 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Enterprise Risk Management is a systematic approach of identifying, analyzing and evaluating risks in order to develop preventive strategies and ensure the effectiveness of existing control measures. Benefits: Consistent risk assessment criteria; Accurate and concise risk information for decision making; Cost effective and efficient risk mitigation; Ensure risk exposure remains within acceptable level (thresholds); Protect staff, assets, property and reputation; Meet compliance and government requirements. It aims to manage risks to an acceptable level which has been determined by the Board of Directors and Management Team. At the core of our ERM there are two key processes: Enterprise Risk Landscape development and update based on key risk areas and specific risks arising in each of the areas; Risk matrix – Heat Map, the assessment tool we use to identify all relevant risks, based on their impact and likelihood of occurrence. Risk Landscape, 'risk map' of the group's most critical risk areas, used to facilitate identification, monitoring and reporting of risks, with structured analysis per category (Strategic, Financial, Operational and Compliance). Risk assessment entails: Risk identification: identify and describe risks that could affect the achievement of corporate objectives; Risk analysis: understand root causes of the identified risks, estimate impact and consequences, and review any existing controls; Risk evaluation: compare risk analysis results with risk criteria in order to check whether the risk is within acceptable or tolerable limits. Risk treatment: select and implement the best way to address the risk (Avoid, Reduce, Transfer, Accept). Risk monitoring: continuously watch over the risk situation. Information and Communication: communicate the right information, at the right time, to the right people. 26 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview COMPLIANCE IN PRACTICE COMPLIANCE TRAINING Compliance training hours per topic In 2015 our compliance training programme reached a total of 3,141 employees and it was focused on three key compliance topics: Anti-Corruption, Anti-Trust and Data Privacy on Telecommunication Secrecy. We have organized classroom training sessions and e-learning sessions during which we gave our employees the opportunity to challenge existing attitudes and to 'practice' online so they understand how a risky situation could present itself, how it could evolve and see the consequences of a poor decision in a safe environment. Our Compliance training programme is developed around the internal guidelines and policies which, during 2015, have been updated and completed as part of continuous improvement of the Compliance Management System. COMPLIANCE AWARENESS RISING United Against Corruption On 9'th of December 2015 we have celebrated the Anti-Corruption Day, joining our Deutsche Telekom colleagues all over the world. With this occasion we have reviewed what transparency and integrity means, how we fight against corruption in our daily business and how important are the internal measures against actions of corruption. We launched our dedicated Intranet page on anti-corruption. COMPLIANCE GUIDELINES AND POLICIES FRAMEWORK During 2015, Telekom Romania was not part of any incidents of non-compliance with regulations regarding money laundering and Policy on Avoiding Corruption and Other Conflicts of Interest corruption. Internal Operations Regulation Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers Code of Conduct for the Protection of the Individual's Rights to Privacy in the Handling of Personal Data Policy on Accepting and Granting of Benefits Events Policy Policy on Avoidance of Sexual Harassment Policy on Anti-trust Law Policy on Employee Relations Corporate Responsibility Policy Social Charter Benefits Policy Fraud Policy Donations and Sponsorship Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Whistleblowing Policy 27 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Responsibility (CR) has gone mainstream and one of the key drivers for this is Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Increased and easy access to information allows people, organizations, academia, NGOs and governments to engage in dialogue and to seek solutions to our current social, economic and environmental challenges. We believe that any challenge can be overcome if we act together, if we share knowledge and best practices and if we connect our efforts. Our Corporate Responsibility objectives are to operate in a responsible way, to be accountable for the potential impact that our operations have, to improve our competitiveness and ensure our growth and contribute to a sustainable development of Romanian society. We believe that we can achieve our objectives by connecting life and work, connecting the unconnected and contributing to a low carbon society. Raluca Ezaru Internal Communication, Corporate Events & Corporate Responsibility Department Manager “ Our objective is to operate in a responsible way, to be accountable for the potential impact of our operations and at the same time, to improve our competitiveness and ensure growth. “ 28 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES Our CR strategy is aligned with those of Deutsche Telekom and The key principle of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy is OTE Group. Telekom Romania coordinates with DT Group connectivity and digitalization. We are aiming to connect our Corporate Responsibility and OTE Group Corporate business development strategy with the broader goals of Communications Divisions to ensure a common approach, Romanian society and achieve a balance growth, meaning a understanding of and engagement in CR by all employees and growth that is not detrimental, but beneficial, a growth that is both stakeholders. Telekom Romania's sustainability efforts, as do DT's inclusive and environmental sustainable. For each of our strategic and OTE Group's, comprise of five pillars. pillars we have identified key aspects where we focus our resources and efforts to achieve these goals. 29 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE Telekom Romania is committed to corporate governance based Finance Market on the principles of corporate responsibility. It assumes corporate Generates sustainable added value; responsibility toward society, integrates economic, ecological and Contributes to the inclusion of Telekom Romania in social aspects in its work and decision making processes along its appropriate sustainability indexes and steadily improves its entire value chain, and maintains a regular exchange with its rating and ranking evaluations. stakeholders. To ensure that our commitment is transformed in Suppliers and human rights action and results, we have connected the Corporate Ensures compliance with national and international rules, Responsibility with the Board of Directors scope through our standards and laws; Corporate Communication functions. Ensures and actively supports adherence with environmental and social standards and human rights during all stages of the supply chain; Manages CR opportunities and risks in the Group's purchasing process; Identifies risks and improvement potential, and develops improvement measures; Analyses and evaluates the impact of the ICT industry on society. Resource and energy efficiency, climate protection Develops, implements and reviews the company-wide waste management strategy; Improves resource efficiency by providing instructions and recommendations; Provides transparency on the company overall environmental footprint and identifies improvement potential; Monitors company's actions with respect to their environmental effectiveness. Society Supports the most vulnerable groups among the population; Enables disadvantaged people to participate in the knowledge and information society; Supports education initiatives and opportunities via sponsorships, donations and corporate volunteering programs. Customers and products Improves customer satisfaction with sustainability issues; Assesses the relevance of product and service sustainability in a dialog with external stakeholders. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE AREAS Environmental and other management systems With CR governance structure, Telekom Romania ensures that Establishes framework conditions for environmental topics related to sustainability are integrated in its key business performance according to the current relevant standards; processes. The Board of Directors grants the overall responsibility Evaluates and implements relevant national and international for Corporate Responsibility to the CEO, who in turn keeps BoD standards on CR aspects; up to date. Corporate Communication Romania Director is Reviews and improves the efficiency of CR related responsible for strategic design and implementation of relevant management systems. actions. We have defined the key roles and goals of CR bodies for 6 key business areas as follows: 30 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITMENTS Advancing the 10 UN Global Compact Principles As from May 2015 we have officially adhered to the 10 principles of UN Global Compact and joined the Global Compact Network in Romania. We have gradually implemented the UN Global Compact Principles in our operations and in our compliance system, ensuring that our activity is in line with the principles and respects and advance the principles, internally and externally. This step forward is not a coincidence. Our company is changing towards a more sustainable business model which already allows us to bring a positive contribution to the progress of Romanian society. The Telekom brand is not just about the image but is more about the way we act in the market, the way we behave and grow together, the way we develop our services. We have embarked in a journey to materialize in Romania the ITC contribution to sustainable development. Access our UN Global Compact Declaration here 31 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview INTEGRATING RESPONSIBILTY INTO OPERATIONS Integrated Management Systems We are integrating principles of responsible operation in our Their aim is to support company's goals by building simple, management practices, in order to ensure that they are taken into reliable and efficient processes, designed in partnership with consideration in decision making process in its daily operation. internal customers in an objective, transparent and honest way; to We have developed a business process model based on eTOM evaluate risks and provide innovative solutions through a unitary (enhanced Telecom Operations Map) and we implemented model, enabling performance and encouraging change while integrated management systems in the areas of quality, maintaining control and functionality of our E2E Processes. environment, health and safety, information security, business continuity, service management, risk management and During 2015 our management systems goals have been compliance. consistently monitored and evaluated. We constantly work to improve our performance and every year we are running in-depth Our management systems are coordinated by the Process SWOT analysis, external and internal audits for each of the Management Romania Department and are harmonized with systems to identify our strengths and weaknesses and improve Telekom Romania's strategic objectives. them continuously. All management systems are externally certified. External certifications and achievements 32 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Telekom Romania has a broad range of interactions with From the development of telecommunication infrastructure to new stakeholders. Managing these relationships and stakeholder smart solutions for cities, we are continuously engaging and expectations is integral to our core business. Our sector is one of collaborating with central and local authorities, communities, local the most dynamic and engaging, as communications and data suppliers and NGOs so we can bring people together in a transmission represent a key activity in the life of every nation, in sustainable way. the life of every community. We understand that engagement is a two-way process and we Engaging with stakeholders the people and organizations who appreciate the benefits of mutual learning. affect our business or who are affected by it – is fundamental to Our stakeholder management is built on the three key principles our long term success. Engagement is also integral to our of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. sustainability strategy. We cannot be successful if we do not listen to our customers or work with them. Our sector specificity requires In our case, the observance of these principles is not theoretical. a close cooperation with public authorities at local and central We are pursuing the Romanian society goals in the field of level, communities and technology suppliers and partners. telecommunication and digitization. The need to modernization and technological advancement of our country represent the most material aspect for our strategy and we are responding by embedding sustainability in our operations and services. 33 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Stakeholder mapping We have mapped our stakeholder landscape and we are updating the information on a yearly basis. The process is being realized in close collaboration by each business function and is being coordinated by the Internal Communication, Corporate Events & CR Department. Engagement mechanisms We engage with our stakeholders in a variety of ways, including: Integrating sustainability into core business relationships and day-to-day engagement; Forming or joining strategic partnerships to address key sectorial issues; Mobilizing others – raising awareness and encouraging involvement; Seeking expert input on our sustainability strategy and reporting; Developing or participating in joint initiatives; Requesting inputs and suggestions; Dialogue on interests and expectations. We have developed specific engagement mechanisms for each stakeholder category to increase engagement effectiveness 34 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Engagement topics Public Authorities We are engaged in a broad number of topics together with our Implementation of Regulatory Measures stakeholders, following common interest and expectations. Issues of Effective Regulatory Adjustment Monitored by our Internal Communication, Corporate Events & CR Specialized National Goals for European Digital Agenda Department, the engagement activities are decentralized, carried Transparency most of the time at the level of business units. This approach Governance enables closer and more efficient cooperation between all actors Economic Growth involved. As engagement is a two way process which all actors can initiate Investors and develop, we also take part in initiatives which are not Company strategy and results launched by us but which concern our sector, the communities in Outlook on labour relations, regulatory decision which we operate, our partners and customers. Climate Change Policy Inclusive stakeholder engagement process Communities & NGOs Engaging effectively with those seen to be marginalized or 'harder Importance of CR to reach' often requires particular or different efforts. The Internet Safety Public Education Romanian society is diverse and there are different characteristics Support for Vulnerable Groups and Charities between people, such as ethnicity, sex, age, values, mental and Social Contribution physical ability, and socioeconomic background. Being inclusive Meetings and Electronic Communication preferred is not just about ensuring policy and projects are representative or Electro Magnetic Fields that the outcomes address inequality, it is also about valuing Biodiversity difference. Our Telekom Romania Foundation represents our Environmental Performance main tool to engage on topics and issues of marginalized groups and it help us to maintain our focus on inclusive growth and to Suppliers consider their expectation and interest in our strategy and Tender Criteria and Competitions operations. Communication on Supplies Issues Transparency Employees Market Policy Rationalization and reduction of labour costs in agreement, to Economic Growth the greatest extent possible Inserting CR Criteria, including Environmental Criteria Fair Work (diversity, work– life balance) Planning and Conduct of Training Programs Media Professional Development Timely Response Health and Safety Management Protection of Personal Data Commercial Technology Customers Financial Activation of products, quality of services (in relation to costs) Environment Technical Support (e.g. web hosting, DNS services, IPVPN) Labour Commercial and Billing Issues CR Telephony Operations Improving the way customer complaints are handled Safe use of Services Electro Magnetic Fields Responsible Marketing (e.g. consumer rights) Introduction of new technologies Data Security and Privacy 35 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ASSESSING STAKEHOLDER INTEREST ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITES In 2015 we have engaged our stakeholders to identify the Results of CSR relevance survey relevance and importance from their perspective of the Corporate Social Responsibility activities of companies and more specifically Q1: How important is it for you that telecom companies get of telecommunication companies. involved in social responsibility activities? We have been also interested if our Corporate Social Responsibility activities are perceived and understood as such. Top two As engagement method we have chosen the survey method boxes based on 2 questions: Q1: How important is it for you that telecom companies get involved in social responsibility activities? Q2: Are these telecom companies (Telekom) involved in social responsibility actions? The study was made in Bucharest and it was conducted by our commissioned research agency in two cycles, during February 2015 and December 2015. The results are based on a total number of 1,500 respondents. As results are showing, 59% of the persons interviewed are considering that is very important respectively important that telecommunication companies engage in CSR activities. The study helped us to better understand the expectation of our stakeholders and validated our plans to continue our programs and projects contributing to social progress. Q2: Are these telecom companies (Telekom) involved in social responsibility actions? We have also saw that our social responsibility initiatives are known and understood by the majority of the respondents and that Telekom Romania is the operator most associated in the market related to involvement in CSR activities, according to our study. 36 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview KEY PARTNERSHIPS For us, stakeholder engagement is not a one-off process, but it is continuous. We have developed long standing partnerships with various stakeholder groups, including NGOs, local communities, suppliers and business sector. We see this approach as our standing contribution. UN Global Compact Partner since 2015 Position: Member in the Steering Committee Thematic area: Human Rights, Labour, Environment, Anticorruption International Telecommunication Unit Partner since 2015 Position: Member of board of directors Thematic area: Sustainability, Technical Standards, Radio Spectrum, Satellite Communication Romanian Advertising Council Partner since 2015 Position: Member Thematic area: Advertising self-regulation, Copyrights The American Chamber of Commerce in Romania Partner since 2010 Position: Member Thematic area: Advocacy and business growth professional association German-Romanian Chamber of Commerce Partner since 2011 Position: Member Thematic area: Advocacy and business growth professional association Forum Investment Council Partner since 2010 Position: Member Thematic area: Advocacy and business development climate Association of Mobile Operators in Romania Partner since 2008 Position: Founding member Thematic area: ICT regulation, Consumer information, Responsible operations on internet, Responsible competition Association of Romanian Telecommunication Operators Partner since 2010 Position: Member Thematic area: Telecommunication regulatory framework development CEO International Clubs Partner since 2014 Position: Member Thematic area: Business development Transparency International Romania Partner since 2014 Position: Member Thematic area: Anticorruption practices 37 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS Organizations are faced with a wide range of topics on which they Our materiality assessment process could report. Relevant aspects are those that may reasonably be We are engaged in a broad number of topics together with our considered important for reflecting the organization's economic, stakeholders, following common interests and expectations. In environmental and social impacts, or influencing the decisions of order to cover all the relevant sustainability aspects in our stakeholders, and, therefore, potentially merit the inclusion in the reporting process, we have carried an extensive materiality report. Materiality is the threshold at which Aspects become assessment process between March and May 2016, engaging sufficiently important that they should be reported. Beyond this more than 150 persons from more than 35 organizations. Our threshold, not all material Aspects are of equal importance and process is comprised from 3 steps and its results were used to the emphasis within a report should reflect the relative priority of define the structure and content of our Corporate Responsibility these material Aspects (Materiality Principle: Global Reporting Report. Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines). 38 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview IDENTIFICATION OF SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS Which are the sustainability aspects connected with our services, products and operations? For us it is absolutely clear that the answer to this question cannot be based only on our opinion and our responsibility is to ask others too and consider their answers as well. We have started to answer the question considering the already recognized important issues for our business, part of our CR Strategy and management objectives. We have addressed the question to our employees via direct conversations during internal workshops, e-mail and internal communication channels. We expanded the search for answers by looking at our organization activity, how we generate economic value and what is its relationship with the natural environment and society. We have inquired into the ICT sector specific aspects to identify its relationships with the sustainable development goals, its contribution and its impacts on the goals. We have analyzed also what our peers, industry and sustainability experts considered for expressing the sustainability within ICT sector. Identifying sustainability aspects Sustainability aspects categories Our approach was holistic, trying to encompass information on sustainability aspects from all levels, organizational, sectorial and 1. Products (hardware, accessories) with low environmental cross-sectorial. impact The information which we used for this process was: 2. The type of materials used in the products (hardware, Internal data about: overall company performance, process accessories) and services key performance indicators, strategy and 3. Services that promote and facilitate resources efficiency operations; 4. Biodiversity External information from standards, peers, studies, reports, 5. Efficiency of resource use within company operations academia. 6. Energy efficiency and climate change mitigation Our sources included: 7. Waste management Internal performance scorecards; 8. The economic performance of the organization GRI Telecommunication Sector Supplement; 9. Economic impact GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) A Materiality 10. Responsible business practices Assessment for the ICT Industry; 11. Social impact management SASB Sustainability Accounting Standard. Technology & 12. Responsibility towards employees Communication Sector; 13. The health, safety and welfare of employees Greenpeace Green electronics initiative; 14. Responsibility in labour relations DT and OTE materiality assessment data. 15. Customers' health and safety 16. Respect for privacy and personal data protection We have identified 113 sustainability aspects organized under 4 17. Access to telecommunications products and services general categories: environment, economy, society and Bridging the digital divide governance and 22 sub-categories. 18. Customers' relationships 19. Corporate governance 20. Collaboration with stakeholders 21. Promoting sustainable development in the supply chain 22. Research and development 39 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview PRIORITIZATION OF SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS Materiality assessment – external dimension Externally, we have asked our organizational stakeholders about Materiality assessment – internal dimension the relevance of each category of aspects from their perspective. The determination of the significance of economic, social and During May and June 2016, we launched an on-line questionnaire environmental impacts of sustainability aspects that we identified survey in which 48 organizational stakeholders participated, was the first step in our assessment. including customers, media, NGOs, suppliers, other We are realizing impact assessments of various aspects of our telecommunication companies from Romania and entrepreneurs. business on a continuous basis, as part of our management For each of the question we have averaged the significance level approach, and we have developed specific procedures and in order to identify those aspects which are commonly regarded processes. as significant and very significant. Significant sustainability aspects for Telekom Romania Materiality assessment survey To determine the relevance level of any given sustainability aspect The results of the materiality assessment survey have revealed the we are using a qualitative assessment method based on 3 criteria: opinions of participants regarding the importance of each aspect, as presented in the example bellow. We have aggregated the 1. Aspect's impact on financial conditions of Telekom Romania results to determine the average importance level for each aspect. Provides an indication about the aspect's impact on the company's financial performance 2. Aspect's impact level (intensity) Provides an indication about the level at which the impact effects are manifesting Results of materiality assessment survey 3. Aspect's impact scale Assessing stakeholder opinion (example) Provides an indication about the dimension and importance of the impact based on the changes it produces 1. Products (hardware equipment, accesories) with low environmental impact We have carried out the assessment process together with our employees, engaging all business functions in the process in order to ensure a balance view from all perspectives. We have organized one materiality assessment workshop with more than 20 participants and we have asked the opinion of other 75 employees across mobile and fixed operations. Internal materiality workshop Telekom Romania employees are assessing the relevance of sustainability aspects. 40 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview RESULTS OF THE MATERIALITY PROCESS Material (significant) sustainability aspects The importance of the materiality assessment is that it generates The aspect categories determined as having a high and very high understanding about what is important from internal point of view importance for our company and for our stakeholders represent (the company and its employees) and from external point of view the topics on which we are focusing in our reporting process and (the external stakeholders). For Telekom Romania, the materiality in our strategy, without affirming that we can address all of them at process results are influencing not just the reporting process but the same level or in the same time, as this is quite impossible and also the company's CR strategy which now can be better aligned idealistic. also with external expectations and interests. Materiality matrix Telekom Romania 1. Products (hardware, accessories) with low environmental impact 2. The type of materials used in the products (hardware, accessories) 3. Services that promote and facilitate resources efficiency 4. Biodiversity 5. Efficiency of resource use within company operations 6. Energy efficiency and climate change mitigation 7. Waste management 8. The economic performance of the organization 9. Economic impact 10. Responsible business practices 11. Social impact management 12. Responsibility towards employees 13. The health, safety and welfare of employees 14. Responsibility in labour relations 15. Customers' health and safety 16. Respect for privacy and personal data protection 17. Access to telecommunications products and services. Bridging the digital divide 18. Customers' relationships 19. Corporate governance 20. Collaboration with stakeholders 21. Promoting sustainable development in the supply chain 22. Research and development 41 3. MARKETPLACE Responsible competition Bridging the digital divide Internet safety and public awareness Responsible products and services Smart cities for Romania Customer responsibility Customer service and satisfaction Information security and data privacy Sustainability in the supply chain 42 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CONTRIBUTION TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS EXPANDING BROADBAND AND MOBILE INTERNET Many people today consider fast, secure, full-coverage telecommunications networks to be an indispensable part of their everyday lives. These networks make new forms of communication and collaboration possible, make it easier for people to get involved, and boost economic development. They also facilitate the emergence of new business models. Production processes and services become more efficient and decisionmaking processes are enhanced due to the wide range of information available on the Internet. Our response to this increasing demand is to provide attractive offers. That is why we continue to push the expansion of our infrastructure and increase data transmission speeds in both our mobile communications and fixed-line networks. Our objective is to follow a management approach based on the principles of transparency and ethics, while, at the same time, to contribute to the responsible operations in the marketplace. Our corporate responsibility strategy regarding commercial operation is developed around the following principles: Responsible Competition; Responsible Marketing; Responsible Procurement; Public Awareness; Customer Satisfaction; Data Security and Privacy. 43 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview RESPONSIBLE COMPETITION Our commitment Regulatory action frame Our companies are committed to be compliant with national and In 2015, our companies concentrated on a number of regulatory European regulations of the telecommunications market in and administrative actions on the following topics: Romania. Moreover, we are committed to work together with Customers' information about contractual conditions to ensure governmental agencies, enterprises and other stakeholders to transparency on the market; ensure a regulatory framework that protects all stakeholders' Respecting the licenses' obligations regarding spectrum interests and at the same time contributes to the overall welfare of utilization, numbering, technical resources allocation; society. Respecting the obligations regarding wholesale, We have translated this commitment across both fix and mobile interconnection, MVNOs, alternative services partners; operations within our internal policies and procedures. Electromagnetic fields public perception mitigation, through ensuring transparency of ICNIRP and national regulations and The authorization regime for the provision of electronic World Health Organisation recommendations; communications networks and services Debating legislative proposals on the telecommunication According to the general authorization regime adopted by the market regarding charge control and other local authorities regulatory authority (ANCOM), any person intending to start the initiatives; provision of public electronic communications networks or On-going consultancy process regarding European and publicly available electronic communications services has the national legal framework implementation in the business obligation to send ANCOM a notification on this intention. The activity. person who submitted the notification is considered a provider of the networks/ services specified in the notification, gaining the Compliance with fair competition regulations corresponding rights and obligations. In 2015 there were registered 160 complaints to ANCOM For the purpose of ensuring the enforcement and observance of (National IT&C regulator) regarding our mobile operations and the law, ANCOM is conducting the monitoring and control activity 176 regarding our fixed operations. All the complaints were in order to promote competition in the market and protect the answered in the legal term and no financial penalties have been users' rights and interests. The control activity envisages the issued. compliance with the obligations imposed by the legislation in force, the resolution of complaints, as well as the assessment of During 2014 and 2015, Telekom Romania was not part of any the quality of the provided networks and services. incidents of non-compliance with national fair competition On the other hand, the providers are obliged to inform ANCOM on regulations. a series of aspects such as general statistical data, contracts, access and interconnection, annual financial statements. Together with the main telecommunication operators in the Romanian market, our commercial competition policies have been assessed by Competition Council and the results are presented in decision no. 33 / 18.08.2015. 44 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ROMANIA IN DIGITAL ERA Fixed telephony ANCOM's data regarding the fixed telephony services show a As regards roaming services, voice traffic continues to register a downward trend both in the number of access lines (-6%, significant increase by 63%, exceeding 1 billion minutes (of which reaching 4.27 million) and, respectively, in the number of 361 million minutes were outgoing calls and 690 million incoming subscribers (-6% to 3.71 million), as well as in the volume of the calls), while traffic of outgoing roaming SMS rose by 5%, to 129 voice traffic achieved. On 31 December 2015, the fixed telephony million SMS. Roaming data consumption also rose significantly, penetration rate at population level was 21.5%, whereas the three times, from 202 thousand GB in 2014 to 606 thousand GB penetration rate at household level was 46.5% per 100 in 2015. households. The voice traffic achieved on the fixed networks in the first half of Internet access services 2015 amounted to 3.8 billion minutes, 16% lower than the 4G connections number increased by more than three times and previous year. Thus, the voice traffic to fixed networks dropped by a half in 2015, from less than 800,000 in 2014 to 2.7 million in 18% to 2.5 billion minutes, traffic to mobile public networks 2015. decreased by 14% to 1 billion minutes, whereas outgoing crossBy the end of 2015, in Romania there were 14.7 million mobile border traffic diminished by 11%, to 286 million minutes. broadband connections, growing by 22% per year. Mobile broadband internet penetration rate per 100 inhabitants reached Mobile telephony 74%, an increase by more than 13 p.p. compared to 2014. Of the By the end of 2015, 23.1 million people were actively using 14.7 million mobile broadband connections, 9 million were mobile telephony services, a 1% rise compared to 2014. It should subscription-based (40% increase over the last year) and 5.7 be noted that the number of subscription based users continued million were based on prepaid cards (1% increase). Total traffic to rise to 10.7 million (+8%), whereas the active prepaid cards achieved by these connections doubled in 2015, from 46 number fell by 5% (to 12.5 million). The penetration rate of mobile thousands TB in 2014 to 99 thousand TB in 2015. Also, the telephony services per 100 inhabitants reached 116.4% by the average monthly traffic per connection rose from 0.26 GB to 0.48 end of 2015. GB. Although the number of mobile telephony users is constant, the By the end of 2015, the number of fixed broadband connections total traffic achieved rose by 4% in 2015 compared to 2014, to rose by more than 300,000, mainly ultra-high speed connections. almost 70 billion minutes. More than half of the 4.3million fixed broadband connections Significant rises were recorded in international traffic (+76% to allow transfer speeds of over 100 Mbps. The traffic achieved 3.7 billion minutes) and traffic to other mobile telephony networks through these connections reached a total of 4.5 million TB, while (+64% to 14.9 billion minutes), the latter case being determined the average monthly consumption per user reached 91 GB. by an increase in lucrative offers on the retail market which Out of the fixed broadband connections, 52% enable speeds of at contain national minutes, as a result of ANCOM intervention on least 100Mbps -, propelling Romania among the European top the wholesale market by regulating the maximum value of performers regarding the share of high speed connections out of termination tariffs in mobile networks. Traffic to fixed networks the total number of connections. rose by 3%, whereas on-net traffic decreased by 9%. In 2015, over 20 billion SMS were sent, 3% more than in 2014, Regarding end-user access infrastructure, at the end of 2015 we 85% of these being sent in their own network. Over half of the witness growth in the number of FTTH connections, which voice traffic and 40% of the SMS traffic is made by subscription reached 428 thousand (+196%), and of radio, satellite, mobile based users. The average call duration on a mobile terminal in networks connections which reached 144 thousand (+151%). At 2015 rose to 2 minutes 32 seconds, while the average monthly the same time, due to the natural trend in upgrading optical fibre voice traffic by an active user was 4 hours 13 minutes, 7 minutes networks and investments in new technologies, the xDSL and more than the monthly average in registered in 2014. Such active FTTx connections with end-user access by coaxial cable dropped user sends an average of 74 SMS per month. by over 5% but they continue to have the biggest share out of the total number of broadband internet access connections – FTTx Source: ANCOM 2015 Annual Report (access here) with UTP/FTP cable access 50% and xDSL 23%. 45 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview BRIDGING THE DIGITAL DIVIDE CONTRIBUTING TO EXPANSION OF BROADBAND AND KEY INFRASTRUCTURE INITIATIVES INTERNET ACCESS IN ROMANIA The national challenges RO-NET Project Romania faced two main challenges in connectivity in 2015. First, Contractor for a MCSI project for building national broadband it needs to improve the coverage of fixed broadband networks infrastructure in disadvantaged areas, through the use of reaching only 89% of households, significantly below the EU structural funds average (97%). Second, it needs to increase the number of broadband subscribers: only 60% (June 2015) of households The RO-NET project, whose beneficiary is the Ministry of subscribe to fixed broadband (EU average is 72%) and 59 Communications and Information Society, is one of the biggest subscribers per 100 people (June 2015) subscribe to mobile communication infrastructure projects in Romania. broadband (EU average is 75), limiting Romania's ability to exploit After a very thorough tendering process, Telekom Romania group the benefits of the digital economy. of companies has been designated to implement the project. The initiative focuses on 783 out of 2,268 localities throughout Our contribution Romania in “white areas”, where there are neither electronic At the end of 2015, Telekom Romania 4G network covered 57% access communication networks, nor electronic distribution of the urban population and 32.4% of the total population (urban communication networks. Those selected 783 localities have and rural). In Bucharest, 4G covered 98% of the city area, while in been divided into seven lots for the implementation of the project, Brasov and Poiana Brasov, main tourist destinations, the coverage which will ultimately result in some 400,000 residents, 8,500 was 98% and 100% respectively. In addition, Telekom customers businesses, and 2,800 public institutions being able to connect to that are not located in the 4G area can enjoy the 4G Experience, an internet broadband network. with an advanced connection based on 3G HSDPA dual carrier In 2015 we concluded works in approximately 100 localities from technology allowing speeds of up to 43.2 Mbps in 275 cities and the 783 included in the project. over 5,000 other locations. On the fixed segment, Telekom Romania's FTTx footprint covered 1.3 million households in 25 Romanian cities at the end of 2015, the focus being on further increasing the penetration of this technology in the already covered regions. Customers opting for this technology benefit of speeds of up to 1 Gbps for broadband and of interactive television (IPTV) services. Key investments in 2015 Telekom Romania maintained a constant investment level over the last 5 years, of around 150 million EURO per year. In 2015, our total investments were directed mainly towards ensuring technological leadership, through the expansion of both fixed (FTTx) and mobile infrastructures (3G / 4G). This infrastructure serves as a foundation for further services for citizens and businesses and helps increasing the company's competitiveness. 46 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview INTERNET SAFETY AND PUBLIC AWARNESS The safe usage of internet is a common responsibility of industry, Complete protection for businesses government, law enforcement, civil society, and consumers We are looking at data security from many angles as the threats themselves. At Telekom Romania we are dedicated to protect our have been intensified, diversified and multiplied. In 2015 the customers, their families and their business by providing safe and cyber security incidents grew worldwide with 38% compared with secured services and contributing to their awareness about 2014 and our objective is to ensure viable protection for our internet safety risks. customers. Our approach is based on the following guiding principles: Our security solutions are organized on the following categories: Provision of services with a high degree of data privacy and data security; 1. Network Security Improve media skills of our customer and work in partnership Distributed Denial of Services (DDoS) – on-line detection and with others to create a child-friendly internet; mitigation at network level for local and international attacks Include data privacy and data security aspects throughout the up to 10 Gbps. entire life cycle of our products; 2. Cloud Data Security Collaborate closely with prosecuting authorities, NGOs and In case of disaster, Telekom data centers guarantee data with other partners from business, politics, and society to ban recovery and business continuity for all customers. online content that is harmful to children and young people. 3. Equipments Security Our security services portfolio includes Norton Security Online Products and services for private users to ensure protection for any device: mobile phone, tablet, PC. Telekom Romania offers its customers a variety of services addressing online safety and security. The broad range of applications include: anti-virus, anti-spam, firewall, browser protection, as well as enriched parental control services that allow Secure your network parents to monitor, filter and block access to websites with Establish secure VPNs and firewalls inappropriate content (e.g. violence, adult content, weapons, Set up anti-DDoS management drugs, etc.). Secure hosting in a high security data centers The parental control functionality gives the users the ability to adjust the level of protection depending on the age of the children. Parental Control Services are also offered, in both IPTV and satellite platform. With these services, the subscribers have Secure your data the option to set the parental control level of their choice to block Back up your data access to specific programs, based on the parental control rating Encrypt your data level that all program in the service carries. Additionally, in satellite Establish disaster recovery strategy service, the subscribers can block access to specific channel(s) of their choice. Our mobile services enables parents to control their children's Secure your mobile device access to mobile services addressed only to adults, through a Use secure mobile applications series of user friendly parental control services developed and Keep your system up to data offered to subscribers free of charge. Specifically, the antivirus Establish BYOS, MDM, EMM policies and security protection program “Lookout” is pre-installed in all Android devices that we distribute, offers parents the option to block the “erotic” category as well as to block unwanted access by calling Telekom Romania customer service. 47 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES ICTs can help increase economic efficiency and competitiveness, Technological progress offers new ways to address the can facilitate better management of procurement, storage and challenges posed by climate change, scarcity of resources, and distribution of food, can support e-health policies and strategies nationwide healthcare. Information and communications with regard to telemedicine, can facilitate educational delivery at technology plays a key role in this context. all levels, can play a significant role to reduce the carbon footprint Telekom Romania is helping consumers and business customers of cities, can foster sustainable consumption and production and effectively lower their energy consumption and reduce CO2 enable global interconnectedness which accelerate human emissions with our growing offer of green products and innovative progress. ICT solutions. We have been offering services to dematerialize Our goal is to transform the ICT potential in reality. business processes such as online billing, digitized workflows and We are investing in developing products and services which are cloud computing for several years. addressing the current social, economic and environmental challenges, sector by sector. In 2015 we focused on developing Cloud computing services to support Romanian cities and businesses in reducing By moving common business applications like email, CRM their energy consumption and emissions, improving their social software and bundled productivity software (spread sheets, file engagement level and increasing their material efficiency. sharing, word processing, etc.) from local computer systems to centralized cloud services one can cut IT electricity consumption Our product and service strategy aims to achieve the following at the company level and directly contribute to CO2 emissions goals: reduction. Our One Drive cloud service enables enterprises to Enable sustainable growth of our company; minimize also the traditional high logistics and maintenance costs Support the transition to a low carbon society; (hardware/ software). Essentially the cloud computing provides Facilitate access to education and health services for as many online services in a safe and uninterrupted utilization of IT people as possible; infrastructure, giving users the ability to directly access, monitor Support the sustainable development of Romanian and manage their data through user-friendly tools. Telekom's One communities; Drive service provides 1 TB data storage space and access to Enable customers to achieve their own sustainability goals. various office and management applications. We invite you to discover our approach and our achievements. Find out more about business services here Telekom Romania seeks to offer responsible products and services, with appropriate labelling and information to provide to their customers, security for the lifetime of products and services and to ensure the confidentiality of their personal data. In this context, all products for sale, accessory products and services offered are certified and carry all obligatory markings required by EU legislation, directives and regulations on the safe use, the restriction of use of hazardous substances and the reduction of electronic waste. Telekom Romania strives to enhance reuse and recycling of materials and support the safe use of the Internet. Communication concerning marketing is carried out in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, while at the same time the company is constantly working to develop tools and procedures to ensure the confidentiality of personal information of customers. 48 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Teleconference Teleconferencing solutions provides substantial sustainability For those who are looking for a more secure environment, the benefits. They enable fuel, time and costs reduction associated Security Package includes a connecting hub, a 3-in-1 sensor for with reduced physical travel. Business meetings, conference, door/ window opening, temperature and light, a siren and a HD events or even training can now be realized with no travel efforts. camera monitor. Connected Home Hub ensures the connection We have integrated the Teleconference application in our services between the Wi-Fi network and the other devices, while through for corporate clients. The service (based on cloud computing) the mydlink Home application users can control and monitor the allows businesses to make videoconferences from anywhere, via office remotely. Additionally, customers can include in the smartphones, tablets or laptops, in which the appropriate software package motion and water sensors, as well as sirens, 360 degrees is installed. IP cameras, smart plugs or other 3-in-1 sensors for door/ window At the same time, we have offered audio conferencing services opening, temperature and light. directly where our customers and partners needed, enabling social engagement and communication not possible otherwise. First “digital tree” with Wi-Fi connectivity Internally, teleconference solutions help us to manage our In March 2015 Telekom Romania and Smart Sun Solutions national wide activities and remain connected with our colleagues “planted” the first digital tree in Romania in Timisoara. This from the group. Strawberry Tree, the world's first solar energy-based public mobiledevice charger offering Wi-Fi connectivity, is very suitable for As a modern technology company, our aim is to assume a “planting” in parks, open-air restaurants or commercial areas. The pioneering role and help shape future developments, which is why internet connection is based on 3G or 4G technology, depending we develop smart solutions for more efficiency and convenience on the coverage, and has a reach of approx. 10 meters. The while keeping environmental impact to a minimum. Our focus system's rechargeable batteries store the energy and can run for here includes the growth areas M2M communication, up to 14 days. The Strawberry Tree allows simultaneous charging telemedicine, smart office and smart cities. of up to 16 devices and has an annual capacity of up to 840,000 10-minute charges. It is not only a very innovative concept but also an environmental-friendly one with an eco-design and a neutral carbon footprint, while offering a friendly, convenient and inspiring service in crowded public places. Smart Office In 2015 Telekom Romania added in its portfolio two new M2M packages allowing companies to control, monitor and automatize their offices remotely: the Security Package and the Comfort Package. Thus, Telekom translates IT&C technological innovations into concrete solutions meant to help small and medium companies manage their resources more efficiently and identify new opportunities for developing their own business. The Smart packages for offices are managed through mydlink Home application, available for free in AppStore and Google Market. The application connects and coordinates intuitively all the equipment included in the package, while the functioning settings can be established according to the customers' needs. The Comfort Package includes a Smart Plug, a motion sensor and a HD camera with built-in night vision function allowing you to see up to 5 meters even in complete darkness. These devices communicate based on the Wi-Fi network available in the office and are controlled through mydlink Home application. Customers can add other “smart” device in the package as well, such as water sensors, sirens, IP cameras or Wi-Fi audio extender. The “Strawberry Tree” find out more here 49 SMART CITIES FOR ROMANIA Smart cities: Innovative solutions for urban spaces Cities account for a large share of global CO2 emissions. At the The digitalization of urban space is motivated by societal, same time they can also be the driving force behind and the origin economic, ecological and technological developments. They of sustainable solutions. Telekom Romania, based on Deutsche include superordinate current and future challenges such as Telekom group's expertise, is dedicated to innovative solutions increasing urbanization and demographic change, and also that help reshape cities into smart urban spaces. individual plans for the future and problems faced by individual communities. The road towards the connected city must thus be Since 2015, Telekom Romania started to implement several understood as a complex interplay of different interests and innovative solutions meant to prepare the field for the objectives of cities, citizens and other stakeholders like local implementation of integrated smart cities solutions. The face of a companies and institutions. city can change with the help of digital “trees” solar charges for mobile devices connected to Wi-Fi, like the one Telekom “planted” in one of the parks of Timisoara city. Another solution for public spaces is Managed Wi-Fi which offers free Wi-Fi for the citizens and analytical data for the public administration. Urban data are thus collected and then processed with the help of analytical tools known as “Big data Analytics”. The generated data is very useful for the ones who design the development strategy of a city, with the aim to improve the life quality of its citizens. 50 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview SMART CITY SOLUTIONS Our Smart City solutions entail many different building blocks and Collaboration, open platforms and multi-layered urban networks challenges – from processes, hardware, software and are the key to take the digital transformation of cities forward. The communication layers to the design of new business models. They move towards Connected Cities is an evolutionary process in have to meet the interests, needs and political aspirations of which heterogeneous building blocks need to be integrated in a citizens, authorities and businesses. Building on its expertise at larger ecosystem of connected things and people. operating, managing and advancing large communication infrastructures, its experience in the M2M sector and its IT The step bystep transformation of public infrastructures and integration capabilities, Telekom Romania aims to put the pieces services addresses the challenges of modern cities – from energy of this complex ecosystem together. supplies and traffic planning to economic and ecological sustainability. How a Smart City should look like Smart City Ecosystem Smart Parking Fluid traffic, less congestion, increased mobility of drivers Operating platform Reducing personnel costs for parking surveillance Reducing the risk of parking tickets Protecting the environment by reducing carbon emissions Parking Greater efficiency of traffic monitoring Street lighting Real-time visibility of failure to comply with parking regulations Water meters Energy Management Charging stations for electric cars Natural gas meters Telemedicine Air quality monitoring Connect patients with health care providers and specialists to facilitate remote medical examination Public WI-FI Video Cost reduction and optimization of medical activity Waste surveillance logistics Public Smart traffic Quick and easy access of patients to medical services bicycles service Allows consultations second opinion Smart Street Lighting Public Transport Management Low power consumption Real-time information on public transport traffic Adjust intensity depending on occupancy More efficient management of public transport Alert in case of copper theft The ability of citizens to access info-traffic system remotely, via Maintenance report in real time mobile phones Detailed reports that compare traffic in different time intervals Find out more about our Smart City solutions here 51 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILTY RESPONSIBLE MARKETING PRACTICES Telekom Romania adheres to RAC Rules for Commercial We ensure that our marketing is always honest, truthful, decent Communication and fair and that all employees responsible for company advertising, direct marketing and point-of-sale material carry out Clarity of the information their responsibilities in a manner that upholds these values. The commercial communication shall be conveyed in such a We conform fully to the applicable laws and regulations for way that it is clear, unequivocal and easily understood by the communication and advertising and we follow the “Commercial average consumer. communication rules on telecommunication services and Correctness of the information products” issues by the Romanian Advertising Council (RAC). All the information conveyed by the commercial communication shall be correct and adequate. To ensure that the companies' communication material is Advertising substantiation consistent with legal requirements, appropriate, fair and sincere, The announcer must be able to, at all times, provide evidence accurate and respecting people's differences, in terms of age, for the validity and trustworthiness of the data, descriptions, gender, race, religion and physical or mental status, the Brand and statements, illustrations and testimonials used for advertising Communication Strategy Division Romania reviews all advertising purposes. Such evidence shall consist of concrete and messages and campaigns, before releasing them to the public. relevant elements. Complete information Transparency of pricing The commercial communication shall not offer erroneous, Our transparency and pricing policy is fully aligned with the ambiguous or misleading presentations of the data or national laws. We are committed to clear, simple and transparent information and it shall not leave out information that might be communication of pricing issues, implementing measures to important for the decision to purchase a certain service or ensure that our customers' decisions are well informed. This product. measure includes: Footnotes immediate notification of pricing information within the a. In the case of audio-visual communications (television, cinema, prescribed time limits; video or similar), the footnotes shall be at least 14 points in size availability of full pricing information on the website and (Arial font) and shall be present on screen at least during the customer service centers; time the information they supplement or explain is displayed or availability of diverse cost control options. spoken; b. The footnotes shall be on display enough for the average consumer – as defined in this code – to be able to read them; c. For communications conveyed on the radio, the footnotes shall be spoken at a speed that allows the consumer to understand them clearly and easily; d. For communications conveyed on printed media (newspapers, magazines, booklets, flyers, posters, leaflets, catalogues or similar) the size of the footnotes shall be enough to make them easy to read and understand by the consumer; e. The footnotes shall be clear and explicit enough for the consumer to understand the real requirements for benefiting from the products or services promoted in the commercial communications. However, if there should be any constraint due to the size of the footnote space or duration of the display time, the footnotes may point to a web address or other such solution providing to the average consumer all the information he might need before purchasing a product. 52 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CUSTOMER SATISFACTION We invest in our network, in innovation and in cultivating a mutual, CUSTOMER SERVICE PERFORMANCE sincere and trustful relationship with our customers. The first Residential segment principle of our Code of Conduct is about customers and all our Yoy, TRI*M index maintained at similar level for mobile customers strategies, initiatives and programs are driven by the goal of while for fixed it registered a 3 points decrease. achieving customer delight. Telekom Romania is constantly measuring and analyzing TRI*M Index Residential customer satisfaction using two approaches: Satisfaction surveys issued directly by us to the customers; Fixed Overall Mobile Overall Independent studies realized by a third party. 76 76 Our goal is to understand and respond to client needs and consciously improve our service quality. 61 58 Within the NG ICCA (Next Generation International Contact Center Analysis) customers are requested to respond to a 6 questions questionnaire via SMS, differentiated per interaction Q4’14 Q4’15 type (corporate store, call center or technician), by providing ratings from highest to lowest. The results are available by means of reports. Business segment Telekom Romania also has adhered to the study coordinated Yoy, for business customers, TRI*M index maintained at similar by the Deutsche Telekom (DT) Group in all Group companies. level for mobile customers while for fixed it decreased 4 points. TRI*M (Customer Satisfaction & Loyalty study) is developed on fixed and mobile, for both residential & business segments. TRI*M Index Business Fixed Overall Mobile Overall We are aiming to achieve a slight improvement in the development of our customer satisfaction in 2016 and 2017 respectively, measured in terms of the TRI*M index performance indicator. When assessing our customer satisfaction level we are closely 56 55 54 52 monitoring and following any complaint received through external and internal channels. In 2015, Telekom Romania Communications and Telekom Q3’14 Q4’14 Q3’15 Q4’15 Romania Mobile Communications received a total of 4,382 complaints through National Authority for Consumer Protection, out of which 105 generated a total of 40,555 EURO financial penalties for our companies. TRI*M (Measuring, Managing and Monitoring): indicator that analyses measures and portrays stakeholder relationships on the basis of standardized indicators. The index is made up of 4 points of view (performance, recommendation, further usage, competitive advantage. The information is based on surveys/interviews. 53 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview INFORMATION SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY It is crucial for us, for our customers, for our partners and for our Part of OTE and DT framework programs but also based on employees! specific needs and requirements of our local systems architecture, Our continuous commitment to provide a safe and secure during the reporting period Telekom Romania realized a series of information environment and data privacy for all is embedded in measures and project for the improvement of the safety and our organisational DNA and in the personal values of all our security of data protection systems: employees. Telekom Romania is making sure that all data and 4,176 employees were trained in 2015 on information security information on their possession are processed purely for their aspects; intended purpose and are protected from misuse. Since 2015 we also asked the training of our subcontractors on information security aspects and we provided them Our shared information security and data privacy framework is materials in this respect, tailored to our needs; based on the following elements: Moreover, we have periodical awareness campaigns on current Information Security issues; Specific policies and safety standards, which cover areas such We are testing tens of applications for vulnerabilities and as: IT/NT Security, Information Security and Data Protection; misconfigurations, both created by us or belonging to our Binding Corporate Rules. Privacy within the DT Group partners; we are also testing CPE (customer premises The new Binding Corporate Data Privacy Rules' cover the equipment) that we provide to our customers; legal requirements for the exchange of personal data both We ask our partners and suppliers through contract the within the Deutsche Telekom Group as well as outside the OTE implementation of high information security standard Group. They contain the applicable minimum requirements compatible with ours and we impose information security in all under European legislation on the adequate protection of new applications and products; we are also testing their personal data. They have been applied within Deutsche implementation before production. Telekom as of December 2013 and were entered into force within Telekom Romania as of December 2015. By protecting personal data belonging to customers will increase their confidence in the company and it will gain the title of reliable Telekom Romania Communications (former Romtelecom) was the player on the relevant market. Compromising data security could first telecommunications company in Romania certified with ISO produce severe effects on economic activity and growth rate of a 27001 starting 2006, in significant aspects of the business. company. A company located in such a situation can expect the Telekom Romania Mobile Communications (former Cosmote) was loss of a significant number of customers, costly litigation and in certified with ISO 27001 since 2013. In 2015 TUV Hellas certified administrative fines grave, all taking place together with the our Information Security Management System based on ISO decrease reputation, which will require payment of considerable 27001. amounts to be rebuild. Today 396 million internet users in the EU generates user personal Ensuring data security and technical conditions of processing data in social networks, games, search engines, online commerce them in a safe environment as possible are equally important; and other such services. These data such as name, sex, IP therefore, periodically, we are training our employees handling address, personal preferences, is considered by the applicable personal data. legislation on data protection field as having the nature of personal data. 54 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview During 2015 we have received 3 external complaints regarding In 2015 we implemented activities such as: data privacy, out of which 2 have been determined as nonUseful Information relevant to physical security, information compliant with national regulation and resulted in a total of 7,778 security and business continuity, in the introductory training of EURO financial penalty. all new employees; E-learning and classroom training course on data protection Business continuity is as important as information security and and safeguarding of the privacy of communications in which a data privacy in order to be able to offer seamless communication total number of 1,541 employees participated; with minimum interruption and damage to human lives, material Business Continuity relevant information for major disasters assets and environment. Business Continuity Management such as earthquakes and e-learning courses for more general System based on ISO 22301 has been certified by TUV Hellas purposes. since 2014 for our companies. Data privacy training Business Continuity Management System's aim, in response to a significant disruption (whether actual or impending), will always be to: Ensure the safety of the Company's employees and other occupants or visitors within the buildings; Endeavour to meet our obligations to employees, customers, shareholders and other interested parties; Minimize disruption to our customers and to protect and preserve our assets and reputation; Facilitate a return to normal operations as soon as practicable; Stay in business. The Telekom Romania’ Business Continuity Management System Key Objectives are to: Ensure the availability of company's products, services and key business functions in-line with key stakeholders' expectations considering business objectives; Maintain the organization certification as a prerequisite for auctions or contracts and as well as to ensure a good reputation on the market. We are developing our internal competences and knowledge permanently and we support our employees to understand and apply the specific data security and privacy, as well as business continuity requirements by continuously developing awareness raising and training programmes. 55 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN “Our environmental and social impact is influenced also by the SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK way we manage our supply chain and our infrastructure. We are We see sustainability in our supply chain as an opportunity for all. gradually implementing responsible and sustainable practices in We are aware that without the support and collaboration of our all of these areas by closely working with our suppliers and suppliers we can't achieve a sustainable growth but also, as contractors on aspects like energy efficiency, emissions leading telecommunication company in Romania we drive reductions, cost optimization, waste management, health and development along our entire supply chain. Thus through a safety and responsible business practices. development program, we help strategic suppliers to introduce The Romanian business environment is just beginning to move in business practices that are socially and ecologically acceptable this direction, our suppliers are starting to realize and understand and economically efficient. The program is developed around four the benefits and every step forward represents a success for us key components which together ensures that the relationship with and for them. “ suppliers are mutually beneficial, respects social responsibility and environmental sustainability principles and forms our Supplier Assessment Framework. The advancement of sustainable practices represents a key objective for our procurement management. Since 2014 we implemented the principles of DT Group Procurement Policy. Supplier Code of Conduct Requires ethical and legally impeccable behaviour; Addresses requirements of integer behaviour for business relationships, for handling information and the avoidance of Alberto Manea, conflicts of interest; Supply Chain Director Romania Active and passive corruption, public procurement, trade controls, donations, sponsorship, money laundering, data Procurement Policy security and privacy are addressed in detail. Our procurement policy is based on the following principles: Obtain the best value for the companies in terms of price, Social Charta quality, goods, services etc; Refers to the Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD Avoid conflict of interests; guidelines, Global Compact and the ILO core labour Conduct ethically and fairly all business relationships with our standards; suppliers and all other parties; Includes the topics of human rights, working conditions, Procurement will be conducted in accordance with all prohibition of child labour and forced labour, equal applicable laws, government regulations, transparency and opportunities as well as labour, health and environmental integrity requirements; protection. Conduct business with environmentally and socially responsible Suppliers, in alignment with the overall Corporate responsibility and anti-corruption clause Sustainable Procurement Strategy of OTE and Deutsche Obliges suppliers to take all measures that are necessary to Telekom AG; prevent and sanctimonies active and passive corruption; Procurement has the responsibility to ensure that Contains obligations for our suppliers to improve the environmental and social responsibility principles of Deutsche environmental performance and to reduce energy use; Telekom (according to Code of Conduct, Social Charter and Includes our Code of Conduct; CSR-clause) are known and contractually agreed through Provides regulations to review the adherence of them and general terms and conditions and other project agreements. includes regulations how to handle breaches. Environmental consideration for supplier assessment procedure The overall assessments of suppliers consider the establishment and implementation of an Environmental Policy, including procedures, clear targets and improvement programs regarding: Pollution prevention; Resource consumption reduction. 56 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Suppliers’ selection The suppliers are selected on the basis of purchase orders (POs) issued via SAP-ERP systems, within a 12 month period. All the selected suppliers are evaluated by the business units involved and also a self-assessment questionnaire is completed by the Supplier. The selection criteria are based on technical specification, price, commercial terms, contractual issues and CR specific requirements. The contracts with all suppliers include specific clauses or annexes on health and safety, anti-corruption, security, environment protection, confidentiality and compliance with Telekom Romania Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers’ evaluation The active suppliers of our companies are evaluated on an annual basis. This process is coordinated by the Process Management and Improvement Division. The suppliers to be evaluated are selected on the basis of purchase orders (POs) issued within a 12 month period. Thus all suppliers with orders worth over €2 million and all suppliers providing crucial supplies (as defined by the OTE Group, i.e. goods and services that have a significant impact on products and services provided to customers) worth more than €500,000, were evaluated. In addition, all suppliers of products/services related to certified management systems of these companies are evaluated (i.e. Management systems according to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, etc.). Supplier classification and development The rating of suppliers, performed by the involved business units of our companies, together with the completed suppliers' selfSpending on local suppliers questionnaires, are posted into the OTE Group's Supplier 74% of our total supplier spending in 2015 has been realized Evaluation System, in order to obtain a quantified performance of with local suppliers (suppliers based in Romania). each supplier. The performance of each supplier on Corporate Responsibility represents 10% of the total score. For the suppliers with a low score, the decision about further actions is taken at the level of OTE Group Management, whether they need to show improvement in their performance or whether their cooperation with the Group is terminated. In the case of international suppliers, the decisions are taken based on DT supplier policy. Number of local and external suppliers within Telekom Romania supply chain (fix and mobile operations) 57 4. OUR PEOPLE Management approach Employment Equal opportunities and diversity Employee health and safety Employee engagement Employee working tools & benefits 58 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview MANAGEMENT APPROACH „Our belief is that the positive change we want to bring in the society starts with our company. Our aim is to ensure a fair, diverse, supportive and safe working environment which will leverage both professional and personal development of our people. Values and mission are translated into our day to day activities so we are permanently developing the necessary endowment, proactively improve the ways in which we guide and support our employees. Incorporating the external knowledge and good practices into our company environment, supporting through our employees a healthier and better society this is how we see the connection between the internal and external dimensions of corporate responsibility. The annual corporate responsibility report is the summary of our efforts – company by its' people – a proof of what we have managed to achieve in areas like training and education, health and safety, engagement and dialogue, diversity and ethical behaviour.” Carmen Dumitrache, Chief HR Officer Having a national reach with hundreds of offices, shops and The transformation process of our company, its integration within thousands of telecommunication infrastructure locations in all the Deutsche Telekom Group, the integration of fixed and mobile regions of our country, we are in a way a reflection of the services and further advancement of our sustainable business Romanian people, at very smaller scale. model raised also challenges for our employees. We have Our employees, no matter their place of origin or their working addressed these challenges by translating our HR vision into more location, work together as one team to facilitate and ensure the specific terms on 5 themes: Romanian citizens' access to communication services which can improve their lives. Continue business-driven total workforce In 2015, our main goal was to continue the operational integration Transformation programs management are helping us on process of fixed and mobile activities, unifying and simplifying making adjustments correlated with the re-shaped business procedures, improving operational efficiency and enhancing model. customer-orientation and competitiveness. Our diverse employee Encourage leadership and performance development community is formed of highly professional and skilled people We have established leadership principles which address with various expertise and backgrounds, working together on a topics such as collaboration, innovation and empowering our national level, making us confident for the future. For this reason employees to perform. we are committed to offer development and training opportunities Foster employability of our workforce and to encourage individuality. We are focused on expanding the expertise of our employees, We continued to invest in the development of modern skills of our driving our training programmes in the direction of skills that employees through re skilling and up skilling programs to will be in high demand in the future and supporting different enhance skills and provide new knowledge, and with programs to aspects of diversity. enhance innovation and creative thinking. Increase organizational effectiveness The basics of our employee relations framework comprises 6 key We must ensure the effectiveness of the large Telekom team in elements: respect for human rights, fair labour practices, nonrelationship with both industry and market. Modern discrimination, equal treatment for men and women, combating workstations, working-time models and job structures form the child forced labour, ensuring a safe and healthy. basis of our concept of flexible work environments. We make it lean and simple We focus on the efficiency of our HR areas of activity and continuously aligning our HR portfolio with the needs of the business. 59 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview EMPLOYMENT HUMAN RESOURCES OVERVIEW Trusting relationships with our employees as well as with trade unions and employee representatives is the core of our responsible employer vision. To align ourselves with the market response to modern technological developments as well as to adapt the number of employees to the business model transformation, in 2015 we implemented voluntarily exit schemes in a socially responsible manner. Our active change management program, Job Service & Placement, prepares employees whose positions are scheduled to be cut or have already been cut for employment opportunities within and outside of our company. We assist them with professional location analyses, perspectives consulting and application assistance; they can also receive compensation payments according to internal applicable practices. At the end of 2015, the total workforce of our mobile and fixed EMPLOYMENT INDICATORS operation was of 6,368 full time employees, slightly decreasing with 1.9% compared with 2014. Workforce evolution Telekom Romania Communication In Telekom Romania, the main focus is to create a homogeneous corporate culture, based on an open dialogue with the employees and promoting teamwork, participation and strategy & business status knowledge. To this end, we are using internal communication processes and tools to ensure unified and synchronized information to all our employees. In 2015, we launched „One Intranet”the first integrated Intranet platform, YAM groups & campaigns, info e-mails, weekly electronic newsletters, internal campaigns and activations, SMS messages, live streaming and informative leaflets and posters. In 2015, Telekom Romania brought the national story to the next Workforce evolution Telekom Romania Mobile Communications level via best practice on CR communication. A 100% response rate for any inquiry received by e-mail on the Corporate Communication dedicated e-mail address has been ensured. 26% of the employees took part in internal contests organized to promote corporate and commercial initiatives, while the level of understanding the changes and strategy was over 60%, accordingly to the internal employees' surveys. 60 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND DIVERSITY Fair Employment Policy Framework Freedom of Association and Collective Labour Agreements Non-discrimination, fairness and integrity in the workplace are We fully comply with the Romanian regulation on labour, freedom fundamental for Telekom Romania. The framework of our fair of association and collective labour Agreements. Our employees labour policy, based on respect for human rights, is in accordance are organized within representative unions, covered 100% by with the following: collective labour agreements. Within Telekom Romania Mobile The regulatory framework in Romania and the EU, which Communications a union has been formed in 2015 but no prohibits the use of child labour, forced labour and involving collective working agreement was concluded by the end of the young people in dangerous jobs; year. However, our employees are covered by individual working The United Nations Global Compact, which Telekom Romania contracts. signed in 2015; The Collective Labour Agreements within Telekom Romania The Telekom Romania Code of Conduct and Employee on Communications regulate payroll issues, permits, benefits, Labour Relations Policy, recognizing explicitly the basic compensation and working hours. The current fix CLA covers the freedom of association and the right to participate in collective period from 01/03/2015 – 01/03/2016. agreements under national legislation, and expressly prohibit unlawful discrimination or harassment based on age, sex, NON-DISCRIMINATORY REMUNERATIONS religion, ability, background or sexual orientation. COMPENSATION The management of personal data is realized in accordance with Within our company, no distinction or sex differentiation on the Code of Conduct for the Protection of Human Rights, compensation is practiced. The compensation level is determined developed in accordance with the existing national legal by the level of the position held, performance at the job, education framework. level, market information available, while the minimum wage level is adjusted according to the law. The ratio of male/female Non-Discrimination, Equal Opportunities and Diversity remuneration is 1:1. The core principle of our human resources management of Telekom Romania is that all decisions and actions relating to Male to female remuneration ratio within Telekom Romania matters such as recruitment, wages, growth and employee fixed and mobile operations development and termination of contracts are characterized by meritocracy, transparency and non-discrimination. Our Code of Conduct is the framework guide for the behaviour of all employees. It reaffirms our strong commitment to comply with Parental leave the laws and regulations, with the specific obligations relating to Telekom Romania provides parental leave for childbirth and ethical behaviour which, together with the five Guiding Principles, parental leave for childcare. Parental leave, which is considered support our success. and paid as working time, is provided to working mothers or Non-discrimination principle covers gender, age, religion, ability, fathers immediately after the end of maternity leave, origin and sexual orientation. We have established internal In 2015, at Telekom Romania Communications 58 women and 11 reporting mechanism for all questions, concerns or complaints men took parental leave. related with non-discrimination and all Code of Conduct At Telekom Romania Mobile Communications were 28 women principles. and 1 man who took parental leave. All working women made use of parental leave they were entitled to. No employee resigned during child care leave with pay, and all men and women, returned to their normal duties. 61 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Good health and safety practices are as important to our company as operational efficiency and service quality – meaning that business decisions are always made considering the health and safety of our employees' customers and partners. A proactive health and safety culture that engages employees and supports a cross-functional participative approach to prevent injuries is fundamental to our journey toward optimal wellbeing and safety of our employees. In 2015 we managed to reduce significantly lost time injury rate and number of accidents compared with 2014. We achieved this improvement by ensuring that people know what to do to manage risks, encouraging them to take personal responsibility and keeping things as simple as possible. Training in health and safety is mandatory for all our employees. We have incorporated health and safety in our management processes and in our activities via the certified management system based on the OHSAS 18001 standard, developing appropriate policies and procedures. Both companies are certified according with OHSAS 18001 standard since 2014. Health and safety management framework goals and performance overview 1. Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; 338 jobs reassessed in 2015 (107 for mobile, 231 for fixed); 2. Prioritize prevention and ensure early identification of H&S 198 H&S internal reports issued, analyzed and closed; risks; Both companies have successful recertified their OHSAS 3. Continuous monitoring of application of safety measures by management systems; employees and third parties (e.g. contractors); Both companies' establishes Health and Safety Committees 4. Certification of Telekom Romania operations, according to the which are directly involved in setting the H&S objectives and international standard for Occupational Health and Safety programmes. On a yearly basis, the management issues the management systems (OHSAS 18001); “Report of the General Director – CEO to the Health & Safety 5. Ensure continuous consultation between Management and Committee” presenting the overview of the H&S management employees; system performance; 6. Ensure preventive medical testing and mental health support Telekom Romania provides to all employees yearly medical services; evaluations according with national legislation plus additional 7. Ensure systematic training and communication to employees medical exams and health services, part of its reward and regarding Health and Safety principles, and specialized compensation package; training for potentially hazardous tasks. The training programmes of Telekom Romania includes: H&S Induction training for new employees, H&S periodical training for employees, first aid training for dedicated teams, OH&S Management System e-learning via intranet for all employees, H&S specific training according with national legislation for H&S responsible at national and regional level. 62 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE H&S PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2015 our objective was to strengthen our H&S management Telekom Romania Communications and increase our performance on all core aspects. We achieved almost all of these objectives with one exception regarding accidents related to work tasks. 4 of our colleagues (3 technicians, 1 senior engineer) suffered accidents during working at height. We have initiated clear correction actions and preventive measures and we keep our 0 accidents goal for 2016. We have focused also on ensuring that our employees are and remain healthy by providing easy access to medical exams requested by law but also to additional medical services as part of the compensation and benefits package. Telekom Romania Mobile Communications We are aware that much of our performance is based on the direct involvement of the management in supporting the H&S system, good collaboration between HSE Committees, top management and unions and the entire workforce engagement. Health and safety management system performance overview H&S training (number of employees) 2015 H&S medical exams (number of employees) 2015 Compliance with health and safety laws and regulations During the reporting period, Telecom Romania participated in 11 inspections from local authorities on emergency situations resulting in 1 financial penalty of 2,222 EURO. 63 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Team together – Team apart and Best place to perform and grow Our engagement initiatives included: represent the core principles of our employee engagement The STEP project which has brought in the organization an approach. The involvement, the commitment and the satisfaction infusion of youth, ideas and color, with the 255 trainees that of our employees are key elements of our business success. spent around 3 months in the company, many of them having We believe in open and continuous communication between all a substantial contribution to real projects that were on going at levels of our workforce, as essential ingredient for an inclusive and that time; fair working environment. We inform employees about the Development Days, involving around 1,000 people in several strategic, technological and organizational changes made, cities from the whole country; encouraging active participation and involvement in all decisions. Certification of more than 100 employees on specific technical Our employee survey is an essential feature through which our topics: CISCO, PMP, ACCA, ITIL etc. employees have the chance to provide feedback on a regular basis. The biannual Pulse Survey captures up-to-date opinions Development Days – new concept of training, through which the and we strive to incorporate the employees' feedback into the internal trainers team, along with famous training company, management decisions and initiatives. We also offer our presented the employees concepts and new ways to approach it. employees many different ways to get involved, e.g., in the form of The first edition was organized in Bucharest and brought together corporate volunteering projects or taking part to informal events. 70 training programs and approximately 1,000 participants. The second edition of the event was organized in Bucharest and In 2015, our engagement approach focused on development of 3 Ploiesti, and offered 5 days of concentrated development, in an values that we believe are relevant for the company and for its experiential and pragmatically environment of learning. There employees: were covered, through the courses, themes such as Management Good climate in the team and Leadership, Sales, Negotiation and Customers Services, We can feel like in a family, it is up to us to create the working Personal and professional development, Team development, as atmosphere we want. well as topics regarding Project management. Development opportunities We make available soft skills training, technical certificate Brand Champions Awards is set to find out who are the best courses, promotions and internal recruitment, opportunities employees at embodying the Telekom brand values (Innovation, which enable every employee to advance its career within Competence and Simplicity), how they manage to do Telekom Romania or within the DT Group. extraordinary things and then to reward them for their on-going Technology and innovation contribution to the success of the Telekom brand. The campaign Telekom is a place where every employee can be in touch with started in 2015. Participating in this contest means that each the highest technological peaks and to permanently enrich its manager can nominate only one person from their team for the knowledge. title of Telekom Brand Champion, whether this person is a manager or staff. After two stages of evaluation (behaviors and profile), the first 10 best candidates nominated in the contest are winners and each will be awarded 1,000 euro training, from the company, for financing one or more training programs, at their free choice. 64 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Addressing the employees feedback Engagement Based on the results of the major Employee Survey process Changing the Employee Value Proposition, the concrete realized during the spring of 2015, we have defined four major promise and offer we make to our present and future areas of intervention for further improvement, considering the employees; specific aspects of our company and the alignment with DT Group Brand Champions Awards an initiative aiming to reward and human resource strategy. For each of the areas we have already make more visible those colleagues who are really living the initiated programmes and measures which have addressed the Telekom brand values, and to make them role models; identified improvement potential. A brand is a promise Be a Double Bagger! a workshop that has two sections: an informative one, where we increase awareness of the most important Telekom achievements, from rebranding to present; the other is for trying to learn what means excellence in the customer experience, an attitude that we can adopt only if we are willing to; My folks wwork @ Telekom – a group of initiatives which are intended to build internal communities, to increase the pride and promote the company brand among the youngest generations. Workload Work analysis have been initiated and is still on-going, in order to increase effectiveness and productivity in the teams with the most unfavorable perceptions; There is a green light for simplifying the work processes and procedures wherever this is possible, using also employees' ideas for that; There is an on-going process to align IT applications between former fixed and mobile companies. Leadership The main training initiatives are centered on managerial development programs; The regionall visits will continue for increasing top management visibility and to facilitate their contact with the organization life employees. Collaboration Organizational Development Division is now able to activate a program for team coaching as response to any initiative of a manager that wants to improve the climate inside his / her team; The training curriculum puts a lot of focus on collaboration, both in the Development Days programs and in a new course Managing Millennials – which will approach intergenerational collaboration at the workplace; We have on-going exchange programs, between back and front office. 65 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview EMPLOYEE WORKING TOOLS & BENEFITS Telekom Romania provide a range of benefits and programs to their employees in order to support them and their families in their daily needs, to promote work and life balance, and to help them to deal with emergencies in their lives. In this context, the benefits have been aligned and include a flexible scheme which can be set up individually by each employee, and contain also some partnerships with different suppliers in order to ensure the best offers: Meal tickets; Holiday bonus; Christmas money gift for children; Life insurance (Risks Covered – death, total and partial permanent disability by any cause, hospitalization by any cause, allowance for temporary disability due to hospitalization); Settlement of expenses for tourism and/or treatment; Christmas Premium; Easter Premium; Easter money gift for children; “8th of March” Money Gift for Women; “1st of June” Children Money Gift; Gift Voucher; Sport Club – 7Card; Private Pension Pillar 3; Fuel Card; Medical services; Friend and family program; On site chair massage; Settlement of expenses for transport home work – home; Discount to Travel Agencies; Discount to Spa & Beauty; Discount to Electronics; Discount to Libraries; Microsoft licensees; Discount to Education & Entertainment; Special Offers for banks. 66 5. SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES Social Engagement Education Inovation Sport Volunteering 67 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview TELEKOM ROMANIA SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT We all heard the term “knowledge society”. For us it means exhaustive and reliable access to the benefits of modern information and communication technology for all people, without discrimination. These benefits can manifest in all aspects of our life, economic, social, educational, cultural, and contributing to our progress and advancement both at individual level but also at the social level. As a leading company in ICT sector and part of the society we play an important role in the development of our country and its communities. Our goal is to connect business success with social prosperity and quality of life. We are determined to facilitate the access to the advantages of information and communication technology for as many Romanians as possible. We are convinced that we can best bring our contribution to society by using our core competences and experience in the following areas: Social Products and Services, Social Contribution, Volunteering, Entrepreneurship and Digital Divide. Our programs and initiatives support communities and civil society in the advancement of: social protection, education, health, environment, development and innovation. In 2015 we have extended our social engagement and contribution with 600,000 EURO through Fundatia Telekom and our own platform Teimplici.ro, through internal scholarship and volunteering programs, through partnering in external relevant projects and by using our services and infrastructure to support social causes and initiatives. 68 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT In both our fix and mobile operations we are seeking to provide SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT RESULTS OVERVIEW our employees and our customers' means to connect their professional and personal life beyond the traditional approach. Our initiatives and projects are focused on supporting a balanced life in which personal growth and development, social contribution and professional development can be achieved easier and safer for as many people as possible. Information and communication is crucial for the achievement of this goal as it enables improvement in the areas of education, health, environment and innovation. In 2015 Telekom Romania involved its employees, customers, suppliers and business partners in various initiatives and programs that respond to the Romanian social needs. Aiming to mobilize our employees, increase their awareness of social needs and to promote responsible and active citizenship, we cultivates volunteerism through various actions, such as reforestation, sports events, blood donations and volunteering for children's healthcare. Through our Teimplici.ro platform we are supporting every year various projects and initiatives of local or national NGOs, addressing social needs in the area of education, sport, innovation, environment and social development. In 2015 we have directly financed projects through teimplici.ro platform amounting 70,000 EURO. Within Teimplici.ro platform we have connected ourselves to society needs but also we connected social actors across various fields. The awarding of submitted projects is realized based on expert jury assessment, ensuring that projects are both social beneficial and can effectively achieve their goals. 69 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Teimplici.ro We are aware about the role we can play, directly and indirectly, in improving the social conditions and addressing the current challenges of Romanian communities. We have used our expertise and competences to create a bridge between social needs and social solutions through our Teimplici.ro on-line platform on the following areas: Education Environment Health Innovation Development Social protection The goal of Teimplici.ro platform is to support projects and initiatives which are using ICT to find new solutions for current social problems, enable access to education, improve medical services or provide social protection for disadvantaged groups. The platform itself represents an example on how ICT can be used to address various social aspects and find solutions by facilitating collaboration and engagement between various actors. We have launched Teimplici.ro on-line platform in 2014 by asking the general public about the social development aspects which they consider we should address with priority and we used their feedback to define the scope of our platform. We invested 50,000 euro in 10 projects in 2014 and in 2015 we continued to support social development by direct financial contribution within Teimplici.ro, supporting 10 projects with a total contribution of 70,000 EURO. Supporting fundraising We are supporting social and environmental initiatives of NGOs to rise their necessary funding through dedicated phone and SMS lines which we are providing free of charge for illness situations or at a significantly discounted rate for other causes. Find out more about the projects and achievements of Teimplici.ro here 70 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview SUPPORTING THOSE IN NEED “One part of our Corporate Responsibility strategy is oriented toward those issues which are not part of the headlines or part of the day to day social discourse; it is focusing on categories of people in special situations and with special needs, social causes, and children with serious diseases, talented young people and humanitarian cases. Our primary tool to address this social aspects is the Telekom Foundation aiming to identify, through direct interaction with communities and people, the social categories and cases that primarily need support and to answer their real needs in due time.” Ionela Păunică Executive Director, Telekom Romania Foundation and Senior Coordinator Internal Communication, Corporate Events & Corporate Responsibility Telekom Romania Foundation Telekom Romania Foundation is a non-profit organization that supports categories of persons in special situations, social causes, children and adults diagnosed with serious illnesses, young talented, students and calls from humanitarian response to natural disasters. This Foundation is the link between Telekom Romania and the community in which it is present. It is continuing the activities and initiatives started in 2008 by the Romtelecom Foundation which supported various social, humanitarian, educational and environmental causes. Find out more about Telekom Foundation here 71 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview 2015 initiatives and their results (selection) 2% campaign For 7 years, Telekom Romania supported children and adults The team of therapists consists of 22 professionals in fields like having rare diseases, people who asked for help when they were psycho pedagogy, clinic psychology and kinetotherapy. The whole in difficult situations, had a fast reaction in case of natural activity of the association is oriented towards the recovery of the disasters and developed campaigns and projects with impact in children's potential and the harnessing of their vocation. More health, social protection, education, environment, innovation and details about the services offered by the association you can find development. on the website www.copiiidecristal.ro. In this respect, the Foundation developed yearly the annual 2% campaign for the employees and third parties who chose to The run “Sports is good” powered by Dolce Sport, the TV station redirect the percent of the annual income tax already paid to the of Telekom Romania State, according to the Romanian law. This campaign represents the main source of funds of the Encouraged by the joy of the children with cancer who benefited Foundation. of the medicine brought from abroad, the “Sport is good” race According to official data, in 2015, the Telekom Romania continued in 2015 also, hoping that more children will have the Foundation ranked the 1st place, compared with its competitors, chance to receive help. in collecting 2% forms. From the funds raised at this edition, the Telekom Romania Foundation acquired the medicine Asparaginaza, necessary to You choose and we help together! children with leukemia from Fundeni Institute. The Telekom Romania Foundation continued the 6th edition of “Sport is good” is a campaign that promotes health through the program You choose and we help together , launched in sports and a healthy diet, started by Dolce Sport in 2011. “Sport is 2010, following the numerous requests of helping people with good” became a platform under which other events were severe diseases or without financial possibilities. supported and developed since its launch. Since its beginning, the programme supported financially more than 50 children and adults. Green Work The 2015 edition was addressed to colleagues or family It's a programme developed with the help of over 200 volunteers members, diagnosed with serious diseases. in Bucharest Botanical Garden in partnership with Team Work Association. Telekom Romania employees, together with their Brasov International Marathon powered by Telekom Romania families and friends, participated to the programme that consisted Via Telekom Romania Foundation, the taxes raised at the 5 km of green space maintenance activities and assisting biologists in race, but also 10% from the value of the competitive races plant care. The project aims to motivate and engage employees in (marathon, relay, half marathon and 10 km), were donated to the supporting the communities by taking care of a representative Association „Cristal children”, in order to cover the expenses space for Bucharest, this place being considered the “jewel of the necessary for the therapy sessions for 10 children with autism. capital”, through its green and relaxing oasis that it offers to over In this project, the Telekom Romania Foundation chose to join 12,000 visitors per month. children and young people with autism coming from families with The objective of the programme is to clean an area neglected for low incomes, who cannot afford to cover the costs of recovery 10 years and recreate it with a round, walkways and benches. through the types of therapies necessary for their integration in the education system and society. Crowd funding campaign “Together for Romanians” The story of the Association “Cristal Children” started in 2006, at Telekom Romania Foundation together with Telekom Romania the initiative of a group of parents whose children were diagnosed developed a crowd funding campaign meant to help 8 NGOs to with autism and other related disorders. The association and the raise funds in order to implement their social, educational and Centre for Evaluation, Rehabilitation through Specialised Therapy environmental projects by using Telekom Romania phone and for Disorders from the Autism spectrum, Down Syndrome, SMS lines. Asperger Syndrome, and ADHD were born from the desire and the necessity to offer children, young people and adults with autism the chance to benefit from social assistance services and specialised therapy, services that are not offered by the public assistance system guaranteed by the Romanian State. 72 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Together for Romania's athletes! In Romania, there are many sports champions that after their retirement have a poor conditions life, because their pensions are very low. We all appreciate the sport performances with medals and the achievements of those who represent the country. Rarely do we think about the difficult trainings and the long hours dedicated to sport, in order to represent the country and to gain the recognition we all wish for. We enjoy being filled with emotion every time the flag is up and we hear the national hymn, and we forget so quickly those people who made us live these moments. Thus, through this project, the Telekom Romania Foundation, in partnership with the Romanian Olympic Foundation, granted financial support of 100 Euro/month to 5 former athletes with serious health problems. I am a child and I need protection! Heavy and dangerous works in agriculture are NOT for me! Through this project, Telekom Romania Foundation provided support to prevent child labour. In this regard, in partnership with SOS Children's Villages Romania, has provided support for 53 children from four communities in Bacău. The project aimed to raise awareness of local authorities in Bacău on cases of children involvement in dangerous agriculture work and determine the authorities to develop immediate solutions to prevent and combat cases of child labour and exploitation. The beneficiaries of the project were families with children between the ages of fourteen and sixteen, who no longer attend school, as well as DGASPC Bacău, local team members and agriculture specialists. In this case is Razvan, from a village in Bacau County, who was forced to abandon school in the second grade to work, to help his parents and younger siblings. Donation for individual cases In 2015, the Telekom Romania Foundation financially helped 9 cases of children and adults with severe diseases. In 2015, our projects reached to 395 beneficiaries. 73 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview EDUCATION Telekom Romania is already part of the modernization process of the Romanian education system, along with our partners and other telecommunication companies. We are committed to use our technology and expertise to support the advancement of education in Romania by facilitating educational delivery at all levels of the educational system, widening the access and reducing the physical and social barriers to education. We are also supporting the improvement of the educational management “Obtaining quality education is the foundation to improving by supporting the training and empowerment of teachers and people's lives and sustainable development. Major progress has contributing to the schools modernization. been made towards increasing access to education at all levels and increasing enrolment rates in schools particularly for women and girls. Basic literacy skills have improved tremendously, yet bolder efforts are needed to make even greater strides for achieving universal education goals. For example, the world has achieved equality in primary education between girls and boys, but few countries have achieved that target at all levels of education” Telepresence within Romanian schools During 2015, together with our partners from Cisco and Webhit, we have been part of 5 national projects funded through EU funds, as providers of technical expertise for the implementation of telepresence systems in schools. We have developed digital solutions to interconnect schools or high schools through telepresence systems and interactive whiteboard so that students from different locations can participate simultaneously at the same lesson. The program targets a number of 8,000 young people in the counties of Braşov, Constanţa, Iaşi, Brăila and Galaţi, students of classes 7-8 respectively of grade 11-12 and aims at improving student's skills training to support their successful evaluation and national baccalaureate exam and better integrate them into future educational stages. Within the programmes, we have provided our technical support for implementation of 20 telepresence centers and 16 centers where telepresence is complemented by a software application, providing students in remote areas access to high-quality content and facilitating contact with teachers in big cities. In the county of Tulcea, the baccalaureate exam promotion rate increased from 58.91% to 73.34% in 2015 compared with 2014 in high schools that have implemented these solutions. More information about our Telepresence solutions here 74 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Telekom Romania Scholarships Since 2007 Telekom Romania is involved in the formation of the younger generation, supporting educational performance within the framework of Telekom Scholarship programme. Our goal is to identify young potential leaders, passionate about their chosen field of study, with very good results, with well-established career objectives and engaged in extracurricular activities and volunteering. The Scholarship programme was organized in 2015 as a contest opened for students admitted to a an accredited higher education institution from Romania, regardless of profile, regardless of year of study (I, II, III, IV, V, VI or master). The participants were evaluated by a jury formed from 7 professionals with high level of expertise and diverse backgrounds. From initiation in 2007, we have offered a total of 95 Telekom scholarships. Due to its impact and excellent results of winners, we are continuing the programme, planning its extension in the next years. 2015 edition Over 650 students have applied in 2015 edition of the Scholarships Telekom programme. 20 applications have been selected for the final evaluation, out of which 10 were awarded with 1 full year scholarship of more than 10,000 LEI (around 2,200 euro) each. The programme was organized in partnership with 7 universities and 3 student associations, allowing us to remain connected with the current needs and interest of the Romanian educational system. Career counselling In 2014-2015, Telekom Romania developed the project STEP, a project co-financed from the European Social Fund through the Sectorial and Operation Program Development of Human Resources 2007-2013. Invest in People! STEP's objectives include information and selection, orientation and career counselling, and paid internships for students. During the program, 525 students benefited from career counselling services and a profile drafted by experts. Also, 255 students benefited from internship and obtained an internship certificate and a qualification on their university specific. Find out more about Telekom Scholarships here In 2015, 10,000 students were informed about the projects and 9,000 applied for an internship, 1,500 were selected and benefited from the experience of 100 mentors. 75 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CoderDojo Vocational training Since September 2015 Telekom Romania has been running the Telekom Romania is involved in training students in fourth round of the Coder Dojo Bucharest North Workshops, with undergraduate education, the dual system, beginning with the over 50 children and youngsters aged 7 to 16 studying 2015-2016 school year, in order to facilitate the integration of programming and computer-assisted electronics based on the young people into the labour market immediately after the three Arduino development platform. The workshops are being years of training. Dual education program complements the lack organized free throughout the 2015-2016 school year and include of practical experience therefore offering young professionals the training sessions for beginner programmers as well as for chance to start a successful career in desired job immediately youngsters who have already gathered experience at the previous after completing three years of study. years' Dojos and want to upgrade their programming or Arduino In collaboration with the Embassy of Austria, in the College of skills. The children and young people attending are coordinated Economic Costin C. Kiritescu through o'SCAR program, along by volunteering mentors from the world of business or with 6 other companies, we supported students after secondary independent specialists who want to get involved in educating the schools, who wish to specialize in sales and obtain a qualification younger generation. Bucharest North @Telekom Romania has for the job Merchant Seller. been running for four years with monthly meetings staged at a Starting with 2015-2016 school year, we supported 7 pupils from location where logistical support and Internet connections are the Post and Telecommunications Technical College Gh. Airinei provided by Telekom Romania. by providing them internship programmes in Telekom Romania, scholarships and other benefits. After three years of vocational CoderDojo, an international movement initiated in Ireland in 2011, schooling they have priority for employment within the company. aims to offer interested children the chance to learn programming in an informal environment through regular sessions outside normal school hours. Find out more about CoderDojo here 76 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview INNOVATION We are driven by innovation, constantly looking for solutions which can help us, our customers and society at large to progress in a sustainable way. Our approach on encouraging innovation is to support new technological ideas and initiatives which can contribute to social and economic progress while protecting the environment. Partnerships for innovation Telekom has an active collaboration with hub:raum Krakow (Deutsche Telekom's start-ups incubator), thus promoting its acceleration programs called WARP, as well as any other relevant program for Romanian start-ups in order to boost their activity on the market; WARP is a programme with mentoring by experienced Techhub entrepreneurs, workshops by international experts and meetings with companies that will boost your idea. Also, Telekom Romania is promoting Deutsche Telekom's international programs dedicated to start-ups and/or entrepreneurs such as ChallengeUP (rolled out by Deutsche Telekom, Cisco and Intel which supports start-ups to develop their ideas), Telekom Innovation Contest (which brings winning startups of 2015 edition to an exclusive Innovation Expo in Budapest in 2016) and Business Wall of Fame (rolled out in Romania and other several countries within the group). Another of our approaches on supporting innovation is to help the WeLoveDigital development of digital spaces in which new ideas can flourish and change the world. In 2015 we have supported with digital services 3 co-working initiatives to develop and successfully manage their activities: Techhub WeLoveDigital NOD Makerspace NOD Makerspace Find out more about the innovations we support here 77 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview SPORT Sport, in all its forms, is essential for human wellbeing and health but also enables friendships, cooperation, mutual understanding contributing to stronger communities. When sport is also connected with other social needs it can become even more significant. As a leader of telecommunication sector in Romania and part of the society, we are determined to be an active player, take the lead and inspire others to get involved and play. Continuing to extend our sport sponsorship policy, in 2015 we became the main sponsor for the Romanian National Football team, for the period 2015-2016. It came naturally as we share the same values: fair-play, integrity and the will to succeed. . Sport is good and Biggest Sports Hour When sport connects thousands of people from different communities it demonstrates our common needs and interests for healthy leaving and companionship. Besides direct sponsorship, our engagement in supporting sports has another component. Through our sport initiatives we are leveraging donations to social causes, multiplying the outcomes of our efforts with the help of all. In 2015, Telekom Romania, in partnership with SmartAtletic and Getfit, organized the fifth edition of the “Biggest Sports Hour” event in Bucharest, Brașov and Mamaia. Over 50,000 persons (active participants or supporters) took part at 89 sports classes held by 115 national and international trainers. Within the event, over 1,000 people benefited of free medical tests. From the funds raised at this edition, Telekom Romania Foundation acquired the medicine Asparaginaza, necessary to children with leukemia from Fundeni Institute. Other major event powered by Telekom Romania was the 1st edition of the International Braşov Marathon at which participated over 1,200 people. From the funds raised at this edition, Telekom Romania Foundation covered the therapy costs for 10 children with autism within “Cristal Children” Association. Also, the company supported other two traditional sport events very appreciated and loved by all the runners, namely Gerar Semimarathon – a competition with high level difficulty because it rolls out on heavy snow weather and Forest Cross – a traditional competition that aims to raise funds in order to plant trees in the deforested areas of the country. 78 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview VOLUNTEERING Building a culture of participation When it comes to social responsibility we should not forget that For over 7 years Telekom Romania supports afforestation this implies both personal and corporate dimension. One of the programs undertaken by NGOs active in environmental goals of our strategy is to keep all our colleagues up to date with protection. From 2009 to 2015, more than 900 of our employees our initiatives and corporate responsibility programmes and to and volunteers planted 50,500 saplings and carried afforestation support them in taking part on these programmes. Our internal activities on more than 8 hectares in collaboration with ViitorPlus volunteering programmes provide the framework in which every and MaiMultVerde associations. employee can contribute according to its personal values to our efforts for a better and fairer society. In March 2015 we have supported the 7th edition of the Forest running race, initiated by ViitorPlus Association, inviting all sport We are encouraging and supporting our employees to engage lowers to run for children and nature. The funds raised with this actively within society by providing them the information needed occasion were directed to plant a sapling for every new-born in through our internal communication channels and facilitating their Romania, within the Children's Forest-Adopt a tree initiative. In actions through our various partnerships with civil society October 2015, volunteers from Telekom Romania together with organisations. volunteers of ViitorPlus Association planted a total of 1,800 seedlings of lime and English oak on an area of 10,000 square Our volunteering framework provides the informational, technical meters in the village of Draganesti-Vlasca, Teleorman County. and administrative support for direct employee involvement in improvement of individual and social health conditions by enabling them to participate directly in activities addressing the following aspects: Reforestations Blood donation Supporting sport events Promotion of healthy leaving Supporting children healthcare We have concluded the 2015 volunteering activities in November when 100 of our employees planted over 7,000 saplings over 50,000 square meters near Ploiesti within “Adopt a Forest” initiative coordinated by MaiMultVerde 79 6. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Environmental strategy Environmental management system Climate protection strategy Improving energy efficiency Materials usage and waste management Other environmental aspects Environmental awareness 80 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview TOWARDS A LOW CARBON SOCIETY Safeguarding the quality of the environment is a major concern of Telekom Romania. In that respect, we strive to minimize the environmental impact of our operations and to raise awareness of our employees and stakeholders on acting more responsibly on the issue of environmental protection. Environment aspects of concern and attention include: Energy Use and Climate Change, Resource Use and Waste Management, Ozone, Water, Environmental Awareness, Biodiversity, EMF, Visual impact and Noise. Our commitment to environmental protection is expressed directly within the framework of the environmental management systems that we have implemented for our mobile and fixed operations. We know that we have an important role to play in the journey towards a low carbon society. For this reason we are also engaged in increasing the social awareness regarding environmental challenges and opportunities and in developing of new products and services which will enable the users to decrease their environmental impact. 81 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY Ecologic sensitivity To fulfill our vision of a low carbon society, our goal is to preserve the ecological capital by a combination of careful environmental management and deployment of cutting-edge technologies to achieve material functions, contributing to the achievement of United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Environmental strategy We have developed our environmental strategy around three general goals: reduction of our own environmental impact, increase the environmental awareness of our employees, stakeholders and communities and contribute to low carbon society through products and services we provide. We are constantly monitoring our environmental performance using a wide range of indicators regarding consumption of materials, energy and fuels, waste generation and recycling and we systematically seek to find new ways to reduce our impact. Environmental challenges and opportunities are an integral part of our internal and external communication initiatives and of our community engagement projects. We have already developed and launched services like Smart City solution, videoconferencing and cloud application which are addressing key environmental aspects regarding energy consumption, emissions and dematerialization. Within the framework of our environmental management systems, we are analyzing our activities and operations with regard to their environmental impact, we set programmes and measures to increase our performance and we monitor our progress monthly. We collect selectively and recycle various materials, such as paper, plastic, IT&C equipment, accessories, batteries, ink cartridges, etc. In parallel, all Telekom Romania companies implemented actions to encourage stakeholders to reduce, reuse and recycle resources through various public campaigns, events and projects. 82 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Environmental management Environmental management systems performance overview Both our companies, Telekom Romania Communications and (mobile + fixed operations) Telekom Romania Mobile Communications have implemented environmental management systems certified according to ISO 14001:2008 standard in 2014, respectively 2015. Our integrated management policy on quality, health and safety and environment defines our 10 commitments, defining also the general performance goals we are pursuing to improve our performance. Integrated management policy principles: We are continuously improving our operations performance by establishing, monitoring and reviewing our goals with the intention to meet and where possible exceed the expectations of our partners; We act proactively by complying with the applicable legal requirements or even exceeding them, where possible; We ask our employees, our contractors and suppliers to actively participate in achieving our goals in terms of quality, occupational health and safety and the environment by implementing all adopted regulations and programs; We pursue innovative approach with regard to our operations, our products and services, adopting preventive measures to reduce the environmental impact of pollution and to avoid possible injury or diseases of our staff, partners and the general public; We inform the public, employees and partners on issues related to Quality, Occupational Health and Safety and Environment; We voluntarily protect the public by the principles and recommendations described in the policy about electromagnetic fields, including transparency, information, and participation and promoting scientific elements; We seek to improve continuously the effectiveness of our integrated management system. 83 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CLIMATE PROTECTION STRATEGY Energy efficiency and climate protection strategy Our strategy, part of Deutsche Telekom Climate Protection We have committed ourselves to contribute to a low carbon strategy is focusing on long and middle term goals on 4 pillars: society both directly, by reducing our own CO2 emissions and reduction of energy consumption through efficiency measures, indirectly, by providing services and products with a low carbon increasing the percentage of energy used from renewable footprint over their life cycle which can also support our clients to sources, reduction of direct CO2 emissions and increase portfolio reduce their own emissions. of sustainable products. 1 2 3 Medium term goals 2016-2018 1 2 3 4 5 To support the implementation of our Climate Protection Strategy, We calculate our CO2 emissions on the basis of standards such as we are constantly monitoring our performance regarding energy the internationally recognized Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, consumption and CO2 emissions using a set of key performance which distinguishes between three CO2 emissions categories: indicators (KPIs) developed to cover all aspects of our operations. GHG Scope 1, 2 and 3. 84 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview CO2 EMISSIONS We are measuring our direct (scope 1) and indirect (scope 2) CO2 CO2 emissions monitoring emissions based on the methodology of GHG Protocol and we plan to extend our measuring, monitoring and reporting to Scope CO2 emissions evolution breakdown for Telekom Romania 3 within the next 2 years. The CO2 emission calculation is based on our environmental indicators data base, covering all types of energy we consume in our operations: electricity, fuels, heating energy and natural gas. In 2015 our total CO2 emissions, direct and indirect (scope 1 + scope2) dropped with 23.9% compared with 2014, from 12,2581.1 t CO2-eq to 93,317.97 t CO2-eq. One of the most relevant aspects which determined the reduction was the introduction of energy efficiency measures in the telecommunication network. CO2 emissions Telekom Romania Communications (tons CO2-equivalent) CO2 emissions Telekom Romania Mobile Communications (tons CO2-equivalent) 85 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY Energy consumption Energy consumption KPIs In 2015 our total energy consumption for mobile and fixed operations was 286.35 GWh, 1.75% lower than in 2014 (291.39 GWh) due to the fact that we have managed to reduce electricity consumption for mobile network and data centers and the fleet fuel consumption. Energy efficiency Improving energy efficiency represents one of our major sustainability objectives as it contributes both to reduction of our own environmental impact but also contributes to general social effort to reduce environmental footprint and fight climate change. For both our fixed and mobile operations we have developed energy efficiency plans which are reported yearly to ANRE (National Regulatory Authority for Energy). Our energy efficiency management approach is based on: Long term goals towards 2020; Midterm goals covering a period of 2 years; Yearly operational efficiency measures. Through our energy efficiency and conservation programmes we managed to achieve energy savings of 5.93 GWh, out of which, 4.25 GWh of electricity and 1.67 GWh of district heating and fuel consumption. The most relevant measures we took in 2015 were: Modernization of electricity network; Increase control and management of temperatures in the equipment rooms of BTS (base transceiver stations); Replacement of old equipment and air conditioning systems. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION In 2015, our total electricity consumption (mobile + fixed operations) was of 215.08 GWh, 1.7% lower compared with 2014 (218.89 GWh). Our mobile and fixed networks accounts for almost 90% of our total electricity consumption representing our main focus within the modernization process. In 2014 and 2015 we have restructured and consolidated our commercial spaces, reducing their numbers and improving space usage efficiency in the existing ones, which lead to a direct reduction of electricity consumption of more than 10%. We continued the upgrade process of the mobile telecommunication network and the implementation of saving energy solutions and we managed to reduce the electricity consumption by almost 10% compared with 2014. Nevertheless, we expect an increase for 2016 as we are continuing to expand our coverage 86 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview District heating and fossil fuel consumption We are using district heating energy and natural gas for heating purposes in our buildings and shops, especially for our fixed operation locations. We have installed electricity backup generators using diesel on all our technical locations to ensure non-interrupted service provision and technical systems integrity. Our improvement options are limited by old heating infrastructure but also by limited control of heating generation and distribution. District heating is used only on our fixed operations facilities and compared with 2014, the consumption increased slightly with 2%. Compared with 2014, we have managed to reduce the consumption of diesel associated with backup electricity generators in our buildings and base stations with 19.3%, leading also to a reduction of our direct CO2 emissions. Partially this aspect has been influenced by a reduced number of interruptions of electricity supply from the national grid, leading to a reduced need of generators. Fleet fuel consumption Our car fleet consists of service vehicles used for all technical operations and commercial vehicles used by our sales team. In 2015 our fuel consumption decreased with almost 9% compared to 2014 based mainly on fleet restructuration both in term of number of cars, which decreased, and vehicle types. The average fuel consumption per kilometer within the fleet decreased also with 5.2%, from 0.071l/km in 2014 to 0.067 l/km in 2015. Evolution of energy consumption for Telekom Romania 87 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview MATERIALS USAGE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Our approach Packaging materials Through our environmental policy and objectives we have Our commercial operations use packaging materials to pack, committed ourselves to manage and reduce the environmental transport and deliver our product to shops and customers. Also, impacts of our operations and we have established a precise and we are using package materials within marketing and detailed monitoring system for all materials and resources we use. administrative activities. Within this category, we are monitoring This enables us to identify the improvement potential and the following material: plastic, paper and cardboard, wood. In establish targeted actions and measures on the aspects within our 2015 our consumption structure of packaging materials shifted as control. we moved towards replacing plastic based packaging with paper, cardboard and wood. To advance our material efficiency and waste management we developed our strategy around 7 key principles: Packaging waste Monitoring materials consumption associated with our (tons) operations; Reduce the usage of materials with high environmental impacts in their production phase; Prevent waste generation whenever is possible; Reuse whenever possible the materials or recycle them through specialized companies; Manage all electric and electronic waste to prevent environmental impact; Develop products and services which contribute to dematerialization; Enhance environmental awareness, internally and externally, to increase participation in recycling practices. We focus on managing our packaging materials, reduce our waste quantities and increase the recycling rate. In the same time we are developing initiatives and programmes to support collection and recycling of old electric and electronic equipment from the market. We control all package materials used in commercial and marketing activities, monitoring monthly the consumption of wood, plastic, cardboard and paper consumption. 88 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste categories Waste monitoring We are classifying the waste generated by our fixed and mobile operations in main categories, according to specific criteria. Waste quantities generated 2015 (tons) Hazardous waste (lead batteries, lamps, portable batteries); Technical waste generated during technical operations on our networks and systems (e.g. cables, metals, electronic and telecommunication equipment) and used products (e.g. phones and related accessories, etc.); Others (waste categories not included in the previous categories, such as residual waste). All materials that can be recycled or managed in an environmental Waste quantities recycled in 2015 way are disposed separately with authorized contractors and the (tons) rest of the waste is sent to landfills or incinerated. In 2015 we have produced 6,927.70 tons of waste and we managed to recycle a total 3,255.98 tons of waste. Internally, our awareness rising efforts focused on paper, cardboard and mobile devices and accessories recycling and we saw an increase of recycling rate of all these categories. Technical waste breakdown 2,469.5 t cables, aluminum and cooper were sent to recycling (tons) in 2015; 578.89 t of IT and telecommunication equipment was sent to recycling in 2015; Paper recycling reached 10% as we managed to recycle 101.33 t out of total 1,121.91 t generated; 2.68 tons of plastic have been collected and sent for recycling; Mobile devices and accessories recycling quantity was 0.71t compared with 13.64 tons in 2014. Hazardous waste The waste types included in our hazardous waste category are the lead batteries which we use in base stations as energy backup source, lubricants, lamps, car oil and batteries. In 2015 we have collected and eliminated with the help of authorized companies 100% of our hazardous waste, without any environmental incident. Lead batteries represent 99% of the hazardous waste and the yearly quantity of lead batteries waste we collect depends directly on the number of batteries reaching the end of their lifetime. 89 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Technical waste Metals, cables, wood, electrical and electronic equipment In 2015 we have collected 0.71t of phones, batteries and withdrawn from service represents the major part of our technical accessories through “one-to-one” mechanisms. waste. Beside these categories we are also including here the IT hardware and telecommunication equipment represent the WEEE collected within our offices and shops, mobile and fixed main WEEE type we collect and manage. In 2015 we have phones, phone accessories, batteries and ink cartridges. The continued our modernization programme by replacing old difference between 2014 and 2015 quantities of recycled equipment. We have decommissioned and collected 578.89t of IT technical waste is determined by the cycle of replacing old hardware and telecommunication equipment. We have also infrastructure and equipment, which is not constant over the collected 1.97t of small WEEE (MP3, cameras, etc.). years. In order to manage and control the environmental impact of the ink cartridges, we are reusing as much cartridges as possible through refilling and for the rest which are at the end of their refilling cycle, we have established a separate collection systems which help us to send all unused cartridges to authorized companies for recycling. In 2015 we have reused a total number of 195 cartridges and we have sent for recycling 0.42t. Paper recycling When it comes to paper, our efforts are oriented towards reduction of consumption and increasing recycling. In 2015 we consumed 66.9 tons of paper in our offices, 4.5% less compared with the 70.08 tons in 2014. In terms of waste, we have recycled 10% of total paper and cardboard waste generated, respectively 101.33 t out of total 1,121.91 t generated. Our “Green Office” initiative, active from 2008, is playing an important role in increasing the awareness of our employees. GREEN OFFICE represents the Telekom Romania internal environmental awareness rising platform addressing the topics of material, energy and waste. It enables internal communication, events and activities which highlights the importance of everyday life behaviour of our employees in protecting the environment. 90 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS Telekom Romania is addressing all its environmental aspects, Quantity of refrigerants replenished in 2015 including in its strategy and management systems not just the (kilograms) material aspects but also the aspects with a lower impact. We are monitoring our environmental performance regarding ozone layer depletion substances, water consumption, EMF radiation, biodiversity and noise. Ozone protection We are using refrigerants within our cooling systems for offices and technical rooms and our objective is to avoid and reduce the Water consumption leakages of refrigerants which can occur due to technical failures, (cubic meters) during reparations and refilling activities. To improve the control of refrigerants and increase the efficiency of our cooling systems, we have implemented a clear maintenance and verification programme which allows us to detect failures and leakages, we are working with authorized companies and experts and we trained and authorized our internal personnel. In 2015, at national level, our cooling systems lost through leakages a total quantity of 2,029 kg of refrigerants. Water consumption / employee fixed operations Water consumption m3 Water consumption is associated with our administrative and commercial activities, respectively with our office and commercial buildings. We are using water only from public sources. Besides increasing the awareness of our employees, we have limited technical influence on water usage which depends on buildings owners (except Telekom owned buildings). In 2015 our total water consumption increased with 3.88% compared with 2014, mainly driven by the increased consumption within mobile operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations In 2015 we have received 3 external complaints regarding the noise impact of our equipment. The complaints have been Water consumption / employee mobile operations checked together with the Environmental Guard and generated a m3 set of 10 corrective measures which have been implemented. In the reporting period, Telekom Romania Communications and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications were not part of any other incidents of non-compliance with environmental regulation. 91 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Biodiversity Telekom Romania is aware of the high value of biodiversity for All protected area sites are developed, installed and operated Romania and recognizes the close relationship between based on Environmental Impact Assessment studies approved by biodiversity, sustainable development and human well-being. At designated authorities, in line with the national legislation. The the same time, the provision of high quality telecommunication contents of these studies and the approval process that includes a services everywhere and at any time necessitates the operation of public consultation phase are specified in the relevant legislative a geographically extensive network of telecommunication acts. These studies, on the basis of current scientific knowledge, installations (base stations and wireless communication stations) conclude that impacts on biodiversity are not material, and including, inevitably, in protected area. In 2015 we had 31 base therefore there are no protected and/or restored habitat areas that stations that were situated in protected areas. are affected by the operations. Noise and visual impact Telecommunication technical installations are not generating The visual impact is associated with our Base Stations which noise but the auxiliary equipment. Our electricity generators usually have visible elements needed to be placed on high exhaust and ventilator systems and outdoor cooling equipment ground. We are making constant efforts to reduce the visual represent noise sources of our operations. In 2015 we have impact by integrating our Base Stations within existing receive and solved 3 external complaints regarding the noise level infrastructure, collaborating with other telecommunication of our equipment. We are maintaining the noise level of our operators and public utilities companies. We are also using equipment bellow legal thresholds through maintenance smaller Base Station equipment where possible. We did not programmes and by replacing the old equipment with new ones, receive any complaint regarding the visual impact of our part of our modernization programme. installation in 2015. We also use different architectural techniques, especially in the urban environment, which help us to integrate and blend our equipment within the visual environment, harmonious and without any negative visual impact. Electromagnetic fields The topic of electromagnetic fields is been discussed for more We have also conducted radio emissions study for every Base than 40 years. Station that we have in Romania with the occasion of Telekom Romania is aware about the concerns related with EMF environmental assessment, part of the authorization process with Radiation and adopted the EMF Policy to ensure that it is Romanian authorities. In 2015, there were performed 52 EMF addressing all this concerns. On this topic, our management and measurements on Telekom Romania sites at the request of our communication activities are based on the principles of external stakeholders. The measurements performed by ANCOM transparency, awareness rising, participation and scientific have not indicated levels exceeding the limits provided by the approach. Order of the Minister of Public Health no. 1193/2006. Following our EMF Policy we have adopted a number of practices which help us to monitor, analyse and communicate publicly all In its turn, the Romanian National Authority for Management and aspects related with EMF. Based on these practices we are Regulation in Communications (ANCOM) makes publicly confident to declare that the levels of electromagnetic fields, in all available real time results of the electromagnetic field strength our Base Stations, are significantly lower than the national limits measurements performed through its fixed monitoring sensors set by the Order of the Minister of Public Health no. 1193/2006 installed in urban centers. In addition, ANCOM performs which transposes Recommendation 1999/519/EC on the measurements with mobile equipments which are also publicly limitation of exposure of the general public to electromagnetic available. fields (0 Hz to 300 GHz), a reference document for all the EU Member States, endorsed by the Commission on Non-Ionizing Find out more about EMF monitoring here Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), a non-governmental organization formally recognized by World Health Organization. 92 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS Part of its corporate responsibility policy, Telekom Romania is developing and implementing awareness rising initiatives for its own employees, its clients and for the general public, to support, not just the achievement of its own sustainability performance goals, but to support the change of behaviour of general pubic regarding environmental aspects. Environmental awareness initiatives In 2015 we have continued to engage our employees and partners on environmental topics through our internal and external communication channels. The most relevant of our initiatives were: With the occasion of Earth Hour, through our internal newsletter, we have informed more than 7,000 employees about the importance, benefits and best practices concerning energy saving and we have used our SMS service to urge our clients to save energy; We have trained 1,950 employees on environmental topics; In collaboration with National Society for batteries Recycling (SNRB), we have organized internal communication campaign to promote ecological attitude and selective collection of batteries waste, using internal newsletter and intranet informative materials. Our employees responded by collecting almost 300 kg of used batteries; All company's shops were distributed flyers with information for customers, regarding electric and electronic equipment waste; In partnership with NGOs, we have organized outdoor employee volunteering activities for planting of more than 8,800 trees and maintaining 10h of forest planted in previous years. 93 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Our efforts to contribute to Romania social, ecological and economical development have been recognized and appreciated by the civil society and our stakeholders. Among other, we have been awarded for our community support campaigns and projects, for our transparent and consistent reporting of nonfinancial data and also for our environmental performances. Telekom Romania Awards (selection) Telekom Romania awarded twice in the Romanian Telekom Romania awarded the Greenest company in CSR Awards, first place in the category Community Romania , at the Forbes Romania's Gala, for social Support for Teimplici.ro project, and second place in responsibility and involvement in collecting and recycling the category Internal CSR campaigns with Recycle waste (November 2015). and Innovate project (April 2015). Telekom Romania received The Silver Award for Excellence , for the campaign Recycle and Innovate, at the Romanian PR Awards, 23th edition (November 2015). International Recognition Since May 2015, Telekom Romania is a participant in the Global Compact Network Romania, and its CEO is a member of the Steering Committee. Telekom Romania is thus committed to respect the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Telekom Romania ranked 1st in the IT&C industry and 6th nationally in the Romanian CSR Index 2015, a ranking based on disclosure of non-financial data according to Directive 2014/95/ UE, GRI G4 and Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2014. The CSR assessment includes the Top 100 most valuable companies in Romania (as ranked by Ziarul Financiar, most prestigious financial newspaper in Romania (December 2015). 94 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW ECONOMIC ASPECTS Financial results Market presence and commercial performance Direct and indirect economic impacts Procurement FINANCIAL RESULTS Economic value generated and distributed (million €) Summary § Mobile operations revenues remained stable, at 438.5 million Euros, down 0.2% in 2015 vs 2014; § Mobile broadband service revenues registered a positive evolution, with an advance of 14% in 2015 vs 2014; § Telekom Romania maintained a constant investment level over the last 5 years, of around 150 million EURO per year; § Fixed operations revenues slightly decreased by almost 1% in 2015 compared with 2014 reflecting mainly the continuous decrease of fixed voiced segment; § ProForma EBITDA decreased in 2015 by 26% compared with 2014, affected by higher TV content and handsets and TV sets related costs, as a result of company‘s focus on providing improved and seamless customer experience for both fixed and mobile segments; § ProForma EBITDA margin reached 87.1 million Euros in 2015, decreasing compared with 2014 by 17.5%, affected by increased investment and development costs. *Total taxes paid at national level e xcept penalties which are reported separately 95 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview MARKET PRESENCE AND COMMERCIAL PERFORMANCE Market presence Telekom Romania on the market Summary § ANCOM‘s data regarding the fixed telephony services show a downward trend both in the number of access lines and, respectively, in the number of subscribers, as well as in the volume of the voice traffic achieved; § The number of mobile subscription based users continued to rise to 10.7 million (+8%), whereas the active prepaid cards number fell by 5% (to 12.5 million); § The penetration rate of mobile telephony services per 100 inhabitants reached 116.4% by the end of 2015; § By the end of 2015, in Romania there were 14.7 million mobile broadband connections, growing by 22% per year; § Mobile broadband internet penetration rate per 100 inhabitants reached 74%, an increase by more than 13 p.p. compared to 2014; § The very strong market competition exclusively on tariff is gradually slowing down, with competitors focusing on exclusive content, increasing broadband access speeds or introducing fixed-mobile convergent FMC bundles; § TV market is almost saturated in terms of customers (95% penetration), but TV services growth is possible through relevant content packaging and the right technology mix; § The mobile market is saturated and the operators had to deepen their relationship with existing customers to maximize monetization opportunities; § Since the T brand launch in September 2014 and until the end of December 2015, Telekom Romania gained 208,000 fixedmobile convergent customers; § At the end of 2015, Telekom Romania 4G network covered 57% of the urban population and 32.4% of the total population; § On the fixed segment, Telekom Romania‘s FTTx footprint covered 1.4 million households in 25 Romanian cities. Procurement economic implications Summary § 74% of Telekom Romania total supplier spending in 2015 has been realized with local suppliers (suppliers based in Romania); § In 2015, local suppliers represented 86.2% of total number of suppliers in Telekom Romania supply chain; § The contracts with all suppliers include specific clauses or annexes on health and safety, anti-corruption, security, environment protection, confidentiality and compliance with Telekom Romania Supplier Code of Conduct. 96 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Commercial performance Evolution of commercial KPIs Summary § The operational integration of mobile and fixed operations is complete and is reflected commercially in the launch of MagentaONE integrated offers; § The convergent services generated a more than double increase of mobile revenues in Q4 2015 compared to Q4 2014, with corresponding increase in the number of MagentaONE customers, which reached over 208,000, up by more than 48,000 since Q3 2015; § On the business fix segment, Telekom Romania Communications maintained its leading position both in terms of RGUs and revenues; § At the end of Q4 2015, the total mobile customer base (including Zapp) was of 5.754 million; § The overall postpaid customer base increased by 3.7% in 2015 vs. 2014, accounting for 29% of total customer base; § Telekom Romania Mobile Communications registered an increase of 16 pp in the weight of smartphones out of the total terminals sold in 2015 versus 2014; § Mobile broadband business customer base increased by 22% in Q4 2015 vs. Q4 2014 and by 25.5% on a yearly basis; § In March 2015 Telekom Romania and Smart Sun Solutions ―planted the first digital tree in Romania in Timisoara, offering free solar generated electricity for charging mobile devices and free WI-FI. 97 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview SOCIAL ASPECTS Employment Employee engagement and development Employee health and safety Social engagement Customer responsibility Employment Employment data Telekom Romania Communications Summary § 100% of fixed operations employees are part of collective labour agreement; § In 2015, an employee union has been formed within Telekom Romania Mobile Communication but no collective working agreement was concluded by the end of the year; § At the end of 2015, the total workforce of our mobile and fix operation was of 6,368 full time employees, slightly decreasing Employments data Telekom Romania Mobile with 1.9% compared with 2014; Communications § Male to female remuneration ratio is 1:1 for both mobile and fixed operations; § In 2015, 86 women and 12 men from our fixed and mobile operations took parental leave; § No employee resigned during child care leave with pay, and all men and women, returned to their normal duties. Employee engagement and development Values addressed within the employee engagement process Summary Good climate in the team § In 2015 we launched „One Intranet” the first integrated Intranet We can feel like in a family, it is up to us to create the platform, YAM groups & campaigns, info e-mails, weekly working atmosphere we want. electronic newsletters, internal campaigns and activations, SMS Development opportunities messages, live streaming and informative leaflets and posters; We make available soft skills training, technical § 26% of the employees took part in internal contests organized to certificate courses, promotions and internal promote corporate and commercial initiatives; recruitment, opportunities which enable every § 1,000 employees participated in the first edition of Development employee to advance its career within Telekom Days – a new concept of training, through which the internal Romania or within the DT Group. trainers team, along with famous training company, presented Technology and innovation the employees concepts and new ways to approach it; Telekom is a place where every employee can be in § In 2015, more than 100 employees have been certified on touch with the highest technological peaks and to specific technical topics: CISCO, PMP, ACCA, ITIL etc. permanently enrich its knowledge. 98 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Summary Compliance training § In 2015 our compliance training programme reached a total of 3,141 employees and it was focusedon three key compliance topics: Anti-Corruption, Anti-Trust and Data Privacy on Telecommunication Secrecy; § During 2015, Telekom Romania was not part of any incidents of non-compliance with regulations regarding money laundering and corruption; § In 2015, 4,176 employees were trained on information security aspects; § With the occasion of Earth Hour, through our internal newsletter, we have informed more than 7,000 employees about the importance, benefits and best practices concerning energy saving and we have used our SMS service to urge our clients to save energy; § In 2015, 1,541 employees participated in E-learning and classroom training course on data protection and privacy of communications. Employee health and safety Health and safety KPIs Summary H&S lost day rate § There were no fatal accidents in our fixed and mobile operations (number of lost days due to non-fatal accidents) in 2015; 675 § In 2015, 338 jobs have been reassessed from the perspective of H&S risk perspective (107 mobile operations employees, 231 600 fixed operations employees); 360 400 § 198 H&S internal reports issued, analyzed and closed; § Both companies have successful recertified their OHSAS 200 management systems; § In 2015 no occupational disease have been identified, no working accidents recorded for mobile operations an 4 working accidents 2014 2015 have been recorded for fixed operations; Work accidents § Both companies‘ establishes Health and Safety Committees (number of non-fatal accidents) which are directly involved in setting the H&S objectives and programmes. On a yearly basis, the management issues the 9 8 ―Report of the General Director– CEO to the Health & Safety Committee presenting the overview of the H&S management 6 system performance; 4 § During the reporting period, Telecom Romania participated in 11 3 inspections from local authorities on emergency situations resulting in 1 financial penalty of 2,222 EURO. 2014 2015 99 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Telekom Romania Communications Telekom Romania Mobile Communications H&S training (number of employees) 2015 H&S medical exams (number of employees) 2015 Social engagement and contribution Social engagement contribution within our communities Summary Amount invested in the social projects supported § In 2015 we have extended our social engagement and during 2015 (EURO) contribution with 600,000 EURO through Fundatia Telekom and 613,730 our own platform Teimplici.ro, through internal scholarship and volunteering programs, through partnering in external relevant Beneficiaries in the social projects supported during projects and by using our services and infrastructure to support 2015 social causes and initiatives; § In 2015 , through teimplici.ro platform we have directly financed 406,428 projects amounting 70,000 EURO, addressing Education, Health, Sport, Environment, Development and Innovation; Number of people reached by social engagement § From the funds raised during the 2015 edition of the ―Sport is initiatives supported within Teimplici.ro platform good campaign, the Telekom Romania Foundation acq uired the medicine Asparaginaza, necessary to children with leukaemia 29,495 from Fundeni Institute; Number of total participants involved in volunteering § Via Telekom Romania Foundation, the taxes raised at the 5 km actions during 2015 race of Brasov International Marathon powered by Telekom Romania but also 10% from the value of the competitive races 985 (marathon, relay, half marathon and 10 km), were donated to the Association „Cristal children , in order to cover the expenses Number of employees participating in volunteering necessary for the therapy sessions for 10 children with autism; initiatives in 2015 § Telekom Romania Foundation together with Telekom Romania 271 developed a crowd funding campaign meant to help 8 NGOs to raise funds in order to implement their social, educational and Number of supported fundraising initiatives environmental projects by using Telekom Romania phone and SMS lines; 59 § Through ‘Together for Romania‘s athletes’ initiative, the Telekom Romania Foundation, in partnership with the Romanian Olympic Sums collected via Telekom donation lines Foundation, granted financial support of 100 Euros/month to 5 (approximated figure) (EURO) ex-athletes with serious health problems. 1,000,000 100 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Summary Results of Telepresence initiative § During 2015, together with Cisco and Webhit, part of 5 national Number of students‘ beneficiating of telepresence educational projects funded through EU funds, we provided systems from Telekom Romania, Cisco and Webhit technical support for implementation of 20 telepresence centers in schools and 16 centers where telepresence is complemented 8,000 by a software application, providing students in remote areas access to high-quality content and facilitating contact with Number of schools with telepresence systems from teachers in big cities; Telekom Romania, Cisco and Webhit § Over 650 students have applied for the ―Telekom Scholarship 36 Programme 2015 edition. 20 applications have been selected for the final evaluation, out of which 10 were awarded with 1 full year scholarship of more than 10.000 LEI (around 2,200 euro) each; Results of Telekom Scholarships programme § During 2014-2015, within our STEP project (cofinanced from the European Social Fund through the Sectorial and Operation Telekom Romania financial contribution in 2015 Program Development of Human Resources 2007-2013. Invest in 270,000 LEI People ), 525 students benefited from career counselling services, 255 students benefited from internship and obtained an Total number of students awarded with Telekom internship certificate and a qualification on their university scholarships specific, 9,000 applied for an internship, 1,500 were selected and benefited from the experience of 100 mentors; 95 § Since September 2015 Telekom Romania has been running the fourth round of the Coder Dojo Bucharest North Workshops, with Total number of students awarded with Telekom over 50 children and youngsters aged 7 to 16, studying scholarships in 2015 programming and computer-assisted electronics based on the 10 Arduino development platform; § Over 50,000 persons (active participants or supporters) took part at 89 sports classes held by 115 national and international Results of Telekom sport initiatives trainers, during the Biggest Sports Hour event in Bucharest, Estimated number of participants in Brașov and Mamaia. During the events, over 1,000 people recreational sport activities benefited of free medical tests; § In October 2015, volunteers from Telekom Romania together with 53,000 volunteers of ViitorPlus Association planted a total of 1,800 seedlings of lime and English oak on an area of 10,000 square meters in the village of Draganesti-Vlasca, Teleorman County. Customer responsibility Summary 10 seconds average waiting time at the call center § In 2015 TUV Hellas certified the Telekom Romania Information for residential and business customers of integrated Security Management System based on ISO 27001; fix and mobile services, as of May 2015 § On Quarter to quarter basis, the TRI*M index (Customer Satisfaction & Loyalty study) maintained at similar level for mobile residential customers and registered a 3 points decrease for residential fixed customers while for business customers, TRI*M index maintained at similar level for mobile customers while for fixed it decreased 4 points; § During 2015 we have received 3 external complaints regarding data privacy, out of which 2 have been determined as noncompliant with national regulation and resulted in a total of 7,778 EURO financial penalty. 101 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS CO2 emissions Energy efficiency Packaging and waste Water consumption and other environmental aspects Environmental management performance Compliance data CO2 emissions CO2 emissions evolution breakdown for Telekom Romania Summary § In 2015 our total CO2 emissions, direct and indirect (scope 1 + scope2) dropped with 23.9% compared with 2014, from 122,581.1 t CO2 -eq to 93,317.97 t CO2 -eq. One of the most relevant aspects which determined the reduction was the introduction of energy efficiency measures in the telecommunication network. Energy efficiency Energy consumption data Summary § In 2015 our total energy consumption for mobile and fix operations was 286.35 GWh, 1.75% lower than in 2014 (291.39 GWh); § Through our energy efficiency and conservation programmes we managed to achieve energy savings of 5.93 GWh, out of which, 4.25 GWh of electricity and 1.67 GWh of district heating and fuel consumption; § In 2015, our total electricity consumption (mobile + fix operations) was of 215.08 GWh, 1.7% lower compared with 2014 (218.89 GWh); Energy consumption evolution Telekom Romania § In 2014 and 2015 we have restructured and consolidation (fixed + mobile operations) (GWh) our commercial spaces, reducing their numbers and improving space usage efficiency in the existing ones, which lead to a direct reduction of electricity consumption of more than 10%; § We continued the upgrade process of the mobile telecommunication network and the implementation of saving energy solutions and we managed to reduce the electricity consumption by almost 10% compared with 2014. 102 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Summary § Compared with 2014, we have managed to reduce the consumption of diesel associated with backup electricity generators in our buildings and base stations with 19.3%, leading also to a reduction of our direct CO2 emissions; § In 2015 our fuel consumption decreased with almost 9% compared to 2014 based mainly on fleet restructuration both in term of numbers of cars, which decreased, and vehicle types. The average fuel consumption per kilometer within the fleet decreased also with 5.2%, from 0.071l/km in 2014 to 0.067 l/km in 2015; Energy consumption breakdown for Telekom Romania § District heating is used only on our fix operations facilities and compared with 2014, the consumption increased slightly with 2%. Packaging and waste Packaging waste (tons) Summary § In 2015 we have collected and eliminated with the help of authorized companies 100% of our hazardous waste, without any environmental incident; § In 2015 we have collected 0.71t of phones, batteries and Waste quantities generated 2015 (tons) accessories through one to one mechanisms, we have decommissioned and collected 578.89t of IT hardware and telecommunication equipment and we have also collected 1.97t of small WEEE (MP3, cameras, etc.); § In 2015 we have produced 6,927.70 tons of waste and we managed to recycle a total 3,255.98 tons; Waste quantities recycled in 2015 (tons) § In 2015 we have reused a total number of 195 cartridges and we have sent for recycling 0.42t; § In 2015 we consumed 66.9 tons of paper in our offices, 4.5% lower compared with 2014 and we have recycled 10% of total paper and cardboard waste generated, respectively 101.33 t out of total 1,121.91t. 103 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Water and other environmental aspects Water consumption (cubic meters) Summary § In 2015 our total water consumption increased with 3.88% compared with 2014, mainly driven by the increased consumption within mobile operations; § To improve the control of refrigerants and increase the efficiency of our cooling systems, we have implemented a clear maintenance and verification programme which allows us to detect failures and leakages; § In 2015, at national level, we replenished under careful observation 2,029 kg of refrigerants (R134a, R407c, R410a, R427a); § In 2015 we have received 3 external complains regarding the noise impact of our equipment. The complaints have been checked together with the Environmental Guard and generated a set of 10 corrective measures which have been implemented; § In 2015 we had 31 base stations that were situated in protected areas; § In 2015, there were performed 19 EMF measurements on Telekom Romania sites at the request of our external ; stakeholders. The measurements performed by ANCOM have not indicated levels exceeding the limits provided by the Order of the Minister of Public Health no. 1193/2006. Environmental management Environmental management systems performance overview (mobile + fixed operations) Summary § Both our companies, Telekom Romania Communications and Telekom Romania Mobile Communications have implemented environmental management systems certified according to ISO 14001:2008 standard in 2014, respectively 2015; § .No environmental incidents or accidence have been Water recorded consumption during the reporting (cubic meters) period; § 1,950 employees were trained on environmental topics, in 2015, within our fixed and mobile operations. 104 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI INDEX Our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report has been developed based on the requirements defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in accordance with the Core option of GRI4. GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page General standard disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO Letter F Message from our CEO 8 ICT for sustainable development 3 ICT contribution un UNSDG 4 Our vision of sustainable society 6 G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities F Message from our CEO 8 Corporate Governance structure 20 Compliance and risk management 23 Corporate responsibility strategy and management 28 Organizational Profile Reporting framework 10 G4-3 Organization name F The road to T 11 The road to T 11 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services F Market and services 14 G4-5 Headquarters location F Telekom Romania at a glance 12 Telekom Romania at a glance 12 G4-6 Where the organization operates F Market and services 14 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form F Corporate governance structure 20 The road to T 11 G4-8 Markets served F Market and services 14 Telekom Romania at a glance 12 G4-9 Scale of the organization F Financial performance 13 Telekom Romania at a glance 12 G4-10 Total number of employees by type F Employment 60 Employment 60 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements F Equal opportunities and diversity 61 G4-12 Supply chain description F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 Organizational changes during the reporting G4-13 F The road to T 11 period Organization precautionary approach or Compliance management systems 25 G4-14 F principle Enterprise risk management 26 Reporting framework 10 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives F Corporate responsibility commitments 31 G4-16 Membership associations F Key partnerships 37 Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 105 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page General standard disclosures Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in financial statements F Financial performance 16 Reporting framework 9 Reporting Principles for Defining Report G4-18 F Stakeholder engagement 33 Content Materiality assessment process 38 Identification of sustainability aspects 39 G4-19 Material aspects included in the report F Results of the materiality process 41 Identification of sustainability aspects 39 G4-20 Aspect Boundaries within the organization F Prioritization of material aspects 40 G4-21 Aspect Boundaries outside the organization F Results of materiality process 41 G4-22 Restatements F No restatements have been issued Changes from previous reports in terms of G4-23 F Reporting framework 10 scope and/or boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups F Stakeholder engagement [Stakeholder mapping] 34 G4-25 How stakeholders were identified F Stakeholder engagement [Stakeholder mapping] 34 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement F Stakeholder engagement. [Engagement mechanisms] 34 G4-27 Topics raised durin g stakeholder engagements F Stakeholder engagement. [Engagement topics] 35 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period F Reporting framework 10 G4-29 Date of most recent report F Reporting framework 10 G4-30 Reporting cycle F Reporting framework 10 G4-31 Report contact F Reporting framework 10 ―In accordance option, GRI index and report Reporting framework 10 G4-32 F assurance GRI Index 105 G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance F Reporting framework 10 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization F Corporate governance structure 20 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Code of conduct F Values and guiding principles 19 Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 106 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page Specific standard disclosures – Economic Economic performance Commercial strategy and performance 13 Financial performance 16 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach F Corporate responsibility management objectives 29 Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 43 Telekom Romania at a glance 12 Financial performance 16 G4-EC1 Economic Value F Employee working tools & benefits 66 Social engagement 69 Message from our CEO 8 Smart cities for Romania 50 G4-EC2 Climate change risks F Environmental strategy 82 Climate protection strategy 84 No government financial assistance received during the G4-EC4 Government financial assistance F reporting period Market presence Prioritization of sustainability aspects 40 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach F Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 43 G4-EC5 Entry level wage by gender F Equal opportunities and diversity 61 Indirect economic impacts Prioritization of sustainability aspects 40 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach F Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 43 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments F Bridging the digital divide 46 Bridging the digital divide 46 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts F Responsible products and services 48 Smart cities for Romania 50 Procurement practices Prioritization of sustainability aspects 40 G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach F Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 43 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Sustainability in the supply chain 56 G4-EC9 F significant locations of operation Spending on local suppliers 57 Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 107 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page Specific standard disclosures – Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume F Materials usage and waste management 88 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption (Scope 1 +2) F Improving energy efficiency 86 G4-EN5 Energy intensity F Improving energy efficiency 86 G4-EN6 Energy reductions F Improving energy efficiency 86 Reductions in energy requirements of products G4-EN7 P Responsible products and services 48 and services Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source F Other environmental aspects 91 Water sources significantly affected by No waters sources have been significantly affected by G4-EN9 F withdrawal of water withdrawal of water Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or G4-EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high F Other environmental aspects 91 biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in G4-EN12 F Biodiversity 92 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Emissions G4-EN15 GHG emissions (Scope 1) F CO2 emission 85 G4-EN16 GHG emissions (Scope 2) F CO2 emission 85 CO2 emission 85 G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions F Improving energy efficiency 86 G4-EN20 Emissions of ODS P Ozone protection 91 Effluents & Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination F Water consumption 91 G4-EN23 Waste by type and disposal method F Waste management 89 No significant spills registered during the reporting G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills F period Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the G4-EN25 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and F Waste management 89 VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity No water bodies and related habitats are significantly value of water bodies and related habitats affected by Telekom Romania discharges of water and G4-EN26 F significantly affected by the organization‘s runoff. All waste water is being discharged in the local discharges of water and runoff municipal sewage in all areas of operations Products and Services Extent of impact mitigation of environmental 89 G4-EN27 F Waste management impacts of products and services Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 108 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page Specific standard disclosures – Environmental Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for G4-EN29 F Other environmental aspects 91 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport Environmental impacts from product Improving energy efficiency 86 G4-EN30 F distribution and employee travel Fleet fuel consumption 87 Overall Total environmental protection expenditures G4-EN31 F Environmental management system 83 and investments by type Supplier Environmental New suppliers screened using environmental G4-EN32 F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 criteria Number of grievances about environmental G4-EN34 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through F Compliance with environmental laws and regulation 91 formal grievance mechanisms Specific standard disclosures Social Labor practices & decent work Employment Total number and rates of new employee hires G4-LA1 and employee turnover by age group, gender F Employment 60 and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees F Employees working tools and benefits 66 Return to work and retention rates after parental G4-LA3 F Equal opportunities and diversity 61 leave, by gender Labor/Management relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational G4-LA4 F Employment 60 changes Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in G4-LA5 formal joint management-worker health and F Employee health and safety 62 safety committees Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days, G4-LA6 F Health and safety performance 63 absenteeism, and work related fatalities Health and safety topics covered in formal G4-LA8 F Employee health and safety agreements with trade unions Training & Education Compliance in practice 27 Information security and data privacy 54 G4-LA9 Average hours of training for employees F Health and safety performance 63 Environmental awareness 93 Programs for skills management and lifelong G4-LA10 F Employee engagement 64 learning Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and G4-LA12 P Corporate governance structure 20 breakdown of employees G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration F Equal opportunities and diversity 61 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Percentage of new suppliers that were screened G4-LA14 F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 using labor practices criteria Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 109 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page Specific standard disclosures – Social Labor Practices Grievance Mechanism G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices F Health and safety performance 63 Human rights G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights F Compliance in practice 27 Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and No discrimination incident have been recorded during G4-HR3 F corrective actions taken the reporting period Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 G4-HR4 collective bargaining may be violated and at Equal opportunities and diversity 61 significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having Sustainability in the supply chain 56 G4-HR5 F significant risk for incidents of child labor Equal opportunities and diversity 61 Forced or Compulsory Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having Sustainability in the supply chain 56 G4-HR6 significant risk for incidents of forced or F Equal opportunities and diversity 61 compulsory labor Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations No incidents of violations involving right of indigenous G4-HR8 involving right of indigenous peoples and F peoples have been recorded during the reporting period actions taken Assessment Total number and percentag e of operations G4-HR9 that have been subject to human rights reviews F Integrating responsibility into operations 32 or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Assessments G4-HR10 New suppliers screened for human rights F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in the supply chain F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 Human Rights Grievance Mechanism Number of grievances about human rights No grievance about human rights impact have been G4-HR12 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through F recorded during the reporting period formal grievance mechanisms Local communities Telekom Romania has no operations with significant Operations with significant actual and potential G4-SO2 F actual or potential negative impacts on local negative impacts on local communities communities Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 110 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page Specific standard disclosures – Social Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of operations Compliance management system 25 G4-SO3 addressed for risks related to corruption and the F Compliance in practice 27 significant risks identified Communication and training on anti-corruption G4-SO4 F Compliance in practice 27 policies and procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions G4-SO5 F Compliance in practice 27 taken Public policy Telekom Romania is not involved in any political aspects G4-SO6 Political contributions F and did not had any political contribution during the reporting period Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for anti G4-SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly F Responsible competition 44 practices and their outcomes Compliance Compliance in practice 27 Responsible competition 44 Customer service and satisfaction 53 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines F Information security and data privacy 54 Health and safety performance 63 Other environmental aspects 91 Supplier Assessment for Impact on Society G4-SO9 New suppliers screened for impacts on society F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 Significant actual and potential negative G4-SO10 F Sustainability in the supply chain 56 impacts on society in the supply chain Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on society G4-SO11 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal F Other environmental aspects 91 grievance mechanisms Product responsibility Customer Health and Safety Percentage of significant product and service G4-PR1 categories for which health and safety are F Information security and data privacy 54 assessed for improvement Total number of incidents of non -compliance with regulations and voluntary codes G4-PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of F Information security and data privacy 54 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 111 ICT for Sustainable Development About the report Strategy and Management Marketplace Our people Supporting communities Environmental sustainability Performance overview GRI Summary description Status References and notes Page Specific standard disclosures – Social Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required Customer responsibility 52 G4-PR3 by the organization‘s procedures for product and F Customer service and satisfaction 53 service Total number of incidents of non -compliance with Customer service and satisfaction 53 G4-PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning F Information security and data privacy 54 product and service information and labeling G4-PR5 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction F Customer service and satisfaction 53 Marketing Communications Telekom Romania is not selling banned or disputed G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products F products Total number of incidents of non -compliance with No incidents of no-compliance with regulations and G4-PR7 regulations and voluntary codes concerning F voluntary codes concerning marketing communication marketing communications Customer Privacy Complaints regarding breaches of customer G4-PR8 F Information security and data privacy 54 privacy and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for nonCustomer service and satisfaction 53 G4-PR9 compliance with laws and regulations concerning F Information security and data privacy 54 the provision and use of products and services Index Key: F – fully P – partially Not – not reported 112
