Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Page 1 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General CORE VALUES We put our customers first as they matter most We work together as one team to achieve our goals We are passionate about powering the nation We believe in integrity and delivering on our promises We strive for excellence in all that we do Align. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Grow. Limited Transform. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 1 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is our report to shareholders for the trading (Mwongozo Code), the Capital Markets Act Cap period ended 30th June 2017 to be adopted at the 485A as well as global best practice. 96th Annual General Meeting of the Company. The report is prepared under the direction of the Board This report contains highlights on our trading of Directors who are accountable for veracity and performance, strategic focus areas in the medium completeness of its content. term and operational performance during the year. In addition, the report articulates our corporate In preparation of this report, the Board seeks governance framework and commitment to to provide an objective view of the business sustainability including details of corporate social performance and disclosure of any material matters investment initiatives undertaken in the period. for consideration by shareholders. The content development process is guided by legal and Feedback regulatory requirements including the Companies We appreciate your feedback on this report for Act 2015, International Financial Reporting improvement in future reporting. Please forward Standards (IFRS), Public Audit Act 2015, the Code suggestions to integratedreport@kplc.co.ke. of Corporate Governance for State Corporations Page 2 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT..................................................................................................................2 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS..............................................................................................................4 CORPORATE INFORMATION....................................................................................................6 DIRECTORS’ BIOGRAPHIES 2017............................................................................................7 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT.................................................................................................... 12 REGIONAL MANAGERS............................................................................................................ 14 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING....................................................................... 16 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT....................................................................................................... 21 MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO’S STATEMENT......................................................... 28 STRATEGIC FOCUS .................................................................................................................. 36 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE .......................................................................................... 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING .............................................................................................60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT..............................................................................64 CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT REPORT................................................................ 92 DIRECTORS’ REPORT.............................................................................................................100 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT.......................................................................... 101 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES...................................................... 104 REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS..... 105 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME....111 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION............................................................................112 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY..............................................................................113 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS.............................................................................................114 NOTES.............................................................................................................................................115 TEN YEAR FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL RECORDS...............................................176 STATISTICAL TABLES..............................................................................................................179 PROXY FORM..............................................................................................................................195 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 3 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Page 4 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Lighting Up Kenya This year, we raised the national electricity access to 70.3% giving access to safe and reliable electricity for socio-economic development thereby improving the quality of lives in the country. The Kenya Power and Lighting CompanyAlign. LimitedGrow. Transform. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 5 CORPORATE INFORMATION DIRECTORS Hon. Kenneth Marende Chairman Kenneth Tarus, PhD Managing Director and CEO Mr. Henry Rotich Cabinet Secretary, the National Treasury Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei Director Mr. Adil Khawaja Director Mr. Kairo Thuo Director Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo Director Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa Alternate Director to Cabinet Secretary, the National Treasury Eng. Isaac Kiva Alternate Director to Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum COMPANY SECRETARY Beatrice Meso Certified Public Secretary (Kenya) P.O. Box 30099 – 00100, Nairobi REGISTERED OFFICE Stima Plaza Kolobot Road, Parklands P.O. Box 30099 – 00100, Nairobi BANKERS Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Citi Bank NA Harambee Avenue Upper Hill Road P.O. Box 2006300200, Nairobi P.O. Box 3071100100, Nairobi Kenya Commercial Bank Limited Equity Bank Moi Avenue Hospital Road P.O. Box 30081 – 00100, Nairobi P.O. Box 75104 – 00100, Nairobi The Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited Commercial Bank of Africa Stima Plaza Ragati Road P.O. Box 48231 – 00100, Nairobi P.O. Box 30437 – 00100, Nairobi Stanbic Bank Limited Barclays Bank of Kenya Kenyatta Avenue Barclays Plaza P.O. Box 30550 – 00100, Nairobi P.O. Box 30120 – 00100, Nairobi PRINCIPAL AUDITOR The Auditor-General Anniversary Towers P.O. Box 30084 – 00100, Nairobi DELEGATED AUDITOR PricewaterhouseCoopers Certified Public Accountants (Kenya) PwC Tower Waiyaki Way/ Chiromo Road, Westlands P.O. Box 43963 – 00100, Nairobi LEGAL ADVISOR Hamilton Harrison & Mathews Advocates Delta Office Suites, Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 30333 – 00100, Nairobi Page 6 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 DIRECTORS’ BIOGRAPHIES 2017 Hon. Kenneth Marende, EGH, ACIArb., Certified Mediator, LLB (Hons), Dip. (Law) – Chairman Hon. Kenneth Marende (61 years) joined the Board of Directors of the Company on 19th December 2014 and was appointed the Chairman of the Board on 5th January 2015. Hon. Marende is an Advocate of the High Court of Kenya with over 35 years standing.He is a former President of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) and a former Speaker of the Kenya National Assembly as well as Chairman of the Parliamentary Service Commission. Hon. Marende holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Law from the University of Nairobi and a Post Graduate Diploma in Law from the Kenya School of Law. He was awarded a Doctor of Letters Degree by Maseno University in 2011 and an Honorary Doctor of Philosophy of Humanities Degree by United Graduate College, USA, in July 2010. Hon. Marende is also a director of Kenmar Limited. Kenneth Tarus, B.Com (Hons), MBA, PhD (Finance), CPA (K) – Managing Director and CEO Dr. Kenneth Tarus (47 years) is the Company’s Managing Director and CEO. Dr. Tarus holds a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Business Administration (Finance) from Kabarak University, an MBA and a Bachelor of Commerce degree from University of Nairobi. He is a Certified Public Accountant and a Member of the Kenya Institute of Management. He previously held the position of General Manager in charge of Finance in the Company. He was appointed Acting Managing Director and CEO of the Company in January 2017 following the retirement of Dr. Ben Chumo and appointed to the position in 1st August 2017. Dr. Tarus has extensive work experience in management and accounting having held senior positions in various organisations and in the energy sector. Mr. Henry Rotich, B.A. (Econ.), MA (Econ.), MPA Cabinet Secretary, the National Treasury Mr. Henry Rotich (48 years) is the Cabinet Secretary for the National Treasury. He holds a Master’s Degree in Economics and a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics (First Class Honours), both from University of Nairobi. He also holds a Master’s Degree in Public Administration (MPA) from Harvard University. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Rotich was the head of Macroeconomics at the Treasury, Ministry of Finance, since March 2006. Under this capacity, he was involved in formulation of macroeconomic policies that ensured an affordable and sustainable path of public spending aimed at achieving the Government’s development priorities. Prior to joining the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Rotich worked at the Research Department of the Central Bank of Kenya from 1994. Between 2001 and 2004, he was attached to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) local office in Nairobi as an economist. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 7 Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge, CBS, PhD, MBA, BSc (Eng.), R. Cons. Eng., C. Eng., MIET, FIEK Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge (59 years) is the Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. He was the Managing Director of the Company from June 2007 until he was appointed to his current position in May 2013. He holds a Doctor of Philosophy Degree, MBA in Strategic Management and First Class Honours Degree in Electrical Engineering all from University of Nairobi. He is a Registered Consulting Engineer, a Chartered Engineer, a Member of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (UK) and a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers of Kenya. He is also a member of the Institute of Directors of Kenya and a trainer in Corporate Governance. He has wide experience in power engineering and management of the power sector, having joined the Company in 1980 and serving in various senior positions prior to his appointment as Principal Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei, B.A (Math.), MBA (Finance) Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei (51 years) has over 20 years’ experience in investment banking and fund management. Mr. Mugung’ei has progressive experience in investment environments and in various capacities notably in operations management and dealership in stockbrokerage. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Mathematics from Kenyatta University and Global Executive Master of Business Adminstration from United States International University. He is also a director of Quadrix Capital Management Limited and Seriani Asset Managers Limited. He joined the Board on 19th December 2014. Mr. Adil Khawaja, LLB (Hons), Dip. (Law) Mr. Adil Khawaja (46 years) joined the Board on 19th December 2014. He specializes in commercial law, corporate law, real estate law, energy, oil and gas, commercial litigation and arbitration. He has over 23 years of dispute resolution experience and vast experience in real estate and finance work. He has undertaken many complex company restructurings, mergers and acquisitions, bank security work and bank regulatory work, schemes of arrangement for banks and other companies. Mr. Khawaja holds a Bachelor of Law Degree from University of Sheffield and is an advocate of High Court of Kenya. He is also the chairman of KCB Bank Kenya Limited and serves as a director in several other private companies. Page 8 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Mr. Kairo Thuo, LLB (Hons), Dip. (Law), CPA (K) Mr. Kairo Thuo (42 years) holds Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Nairobi and is a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya, CPA (K). He is the founding partner at Viva Africa Consulting which specialises on consultancy in tax, legal and financial. Prior to joining Viva Africa Consulting he was responsible for establishing and running the Tax Transaction Advisory group for Deloitte & Touche and was director of the unit. Mr. Kairo has extensive experience in all areas of taxation, transaction advisory and legal structuring in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Tanzania. He is the non-executive director of NIC Bank, ICEA-Lion Asset Management and Special Economic Zones Authority. He joined the Board on 23rd December 2016. Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo, B.A (Development Studies), Diploma in Education Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo (32 years) holds a Bachelor’s degree in Developmental Studies from Mt. Kenya University and a Diploma in Education from Kenya Science Teachers College. She has experience in Project Management and currently works as Programme Project Officer for Hunger Safety Net in Turkana North and Kibish Sub County in Turkana County. She previously worked as a high school teacher. She is the Chairperson of Kataboi Girls Secondary School in Turkana County. She joined the Board on 23rd December 2016. Eng. Isaac Kiva, OGW, BSc (Eng.), R. Eng., MIEK Alternate Director, Ministry of Energy and Petroleum Eng. Isaac Kiva (49 years) is currently the Secretary for Renewable Energy at the Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. Eng. Kiva has wide experience in public sector management, having held senior Government positions for over 20 years. He is a registered Professional Engineer with the Engineers Board of Kenya and a member of the Institution of Engineers of Kenya. Eng. Kiva joined the Board on 16th December 2009 as an Alternate Director to the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Energy and Petroleum. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 9 Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa, Bcom, MBA, CPA(K) Alternate Director, the National Treasury Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa (61 years) is a Senior Deputy Accountant General/Director of National Assets and Liabilities Management Investment in the Diretorate of Public Investment and Portfolio Management in the National Treasury. She Holds a Masters of Business Administration, Moi University, Bachelors of Commerce (Accounting Option), University of Nairobi and a Certified Public Accountant (K). She has over 30 years experience in the Public Sector. Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa joined the Board on 5th May 2017 as Alternate Director to The National Treasury. Beatrice Meso, LL.B, LL.M, Dip (Law), MBA, CPS(K), MCIArb General Manager, Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary Beatrice Meso is the Secretary to the Board of Directors. She holds a Master of Laws (LL.M), Bachelor of Laws (LL.B Hons) and Master of Business Administration (MBA) degrees from the University of Nairobi. She also holds Post Graduate Diploma in Law from the Kenya School of Law and is an advocate of the High Court of Kenya, a Certified Public Secretary, an Arbitrator, a Commissioner for Oaths and a Notary Public. She has proficiency in public and private sector administration, governance, policy formulation and implementation, company secretarial practice, legal and regulatory matters and in electricity trade. Page 10 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Enhancing Grid Capacity As part of grid expansion this year, we continued to build, upgrade and complete various substation projects; reliably increasing our services to more Kenyan homes and businesses across the country. The Kenya Power and Lighting CompanyAlign. LimitedGrow. Transform. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 11 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Managing Director and CEO General Manager, General Manager, Corporate Kenneth Tarus, PhD Business Strategy Affairs & Company Secretary (Finance), B.Com (Hons), Eng. Peter Mungai, Beatrice Meso, MBA, CPA (K) BTech (Elec. Eng.), MBA, LL.B, LL.M, Dip (Law), MBA, R.Eng., MIEK, MIET CPS(K), MCIArb General Manager, Head, Connectivity General Manager, Infrastructure Development Implementation Network Management Eng. Stanley Mutwiri, Joshua Mutua, Eng. Daniel Tare, BSc (Eng.), Bsc (Eng.) BTec (Eng.), MBA, Intl. MBA, P.Cons, Eng., FIEK, Dip. (Project Mgt.), MIET, MIEEE, MCIPS R.Eng., MIEK Page 12 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 General Manager, General Manager, Customer General Manager, Director, Kenya Power Street Lighting Service & Ag. General Information Communication International Ltd Eng. Benson Muriithi, Manager, Regional & Technology Dr. Jeremiah Kiplagat, BSc (Eng.), Coordination Eng. Samuel Ndirangu, PhD (Engineering), MBA, R. Eng., MIEK Eng. Peter Mwichigi, BSc (Eng.), MBA, Reg. Cons. M.Sc, B.Sc BTech (Eng.), Eng., R.Eng., MIEK, MIEE R. Eng., MIEK EMBA, PM Diploma, MKIM General Manager, General Manager, Ag. General Manager, General Manager, Supply Chain Human Resource Finance Internal Audit Bernard Ngugi, & Adminstration Harun Karisa, Charles Cheruiyot, MCIPS, MKISM, CPA(K), Abubakar Swaleh, B.Com(Accounting), CIA, CPA(K), MBA, CPS(K), MBA(Finance), BEd, MBA, MIHRM CPA(K) BCom(Accounting) B.Com(Acct) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 13 REGIONAL MANAGERS Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Nairobi North Nairobi South Nairobi West Eng. Charles Mwaura Eng. Aggrey Machasio Phineas Marete Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Coast Central Rift North Rift South Nyanza Eng. Hezekiah Mwalwala Eng. Geoffrey Muli Kimutai Bett David Mugambi Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Regional Manager, Western North Eastern Mt. Kenya Dan Obiero Eng. Daniel Kamau Eng. Kenneth Chege Page 14 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Network Modernisation We have upgraded and modernised our existing infrastructure including our power lines to provide grid flexibility, enhance stability and improve accessibility. The Kenya Power and Lighting CompanyAlign. LimitedGrow. Transform. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 15 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE NINETY-SIXTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Shareholders of the Company will be held at Safari Park Hotel, Thika Road, Nairobi, on Friday 1st December 2017 at 11.00 a.m. to transact the following business: 1. To read the Notice convening the Meeting and note the presence of a quorum. 2. To receive, consider and adopt the Company’s Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 30th June 2017, together with the Chairman’s, Directors’ and Auditors’ reports thereon. 3. To approve payment of a first and final dividend of Shs 0.50 per ordinary share, subject to withholding tax where applicable, in respect of the year ended 30th June 2017. 4. To elect Directors: (i) Mr. Adil Khawaja retires by rotation in accordance with Article 120 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. (ii) Hon. Kenneth Marende retires by rotation in accordance with Article 120 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election. (iii) To elect one new director to fill the vacancy in the Board. 5. In accordance with the provisions of Section 769 of the Companies Act 2015, the following directors being members of the Board Audit and Risk Committee will be required to be elected to continue to serve as members of the said Committee: (i) Mr. Kairo Thuo (ii) Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo (iii) Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei (iv) Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa 6. To approve payment of fees to non-executive Directors for the year ended 30th June 2017. 7. Auditors: To note that the audit of the Company’s books of accounts will continue to be undertaken by the Auditor-General or an audit firm appointed by him in accordance with Section 23 of the Public Audit Act 2015. 8. To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors’ remuneration. 9. To consider any other business for which due notice has been given. By Order of the Board Beatrice Meso Company Secretary 19th October 2017 Page 16 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTE: A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of her/him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A Form of Proxy is enclosed with this Report. To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be duly completed and lodged at the office of the Company Secretary, Stima Plaza, Nairobi or posted in time to be received not less than forty-eight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting. A scanned copy of the Proxy Form can also be emailed to shares@kplc.co.ke within the stipulated time. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 17 ILANI YA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA ILANI INATOLEWA HAPA KWAMBA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA WA TISINI NA SITA wa Wenyehisa wa Kampuni utaandaliwa katika Safari Park Hotel, Thika Road, Nairobi, mnamo Ijumaa, Desemba 1, 2017 saa 5.00 asubuhi kuendesha shughuli zifuatazo: 1. Kusoma Ilani ya kuandaa Mkutano na kutambua kuwepo kwa idadi ya kutosha ya wanachama kuendesha shughuli. 2. Kupokea, kuchunguza na kuidhinisha taarifa za Kifedha za Kampuni zilizokaguliwa kwa mwaka uliomalizika Juni 30, 2017 pamoja na ripoti za Mwenyekiti, Wakurugenzi na Wahasibu. 3. Kuidhinisha malipo ya kwanza na ya mwisho ya mgao wa Shs 0.50 kwa kila hisa ya kawaida, baada ya kuondoa ushuru wa kushikilia inakohitajika, kuhusiana na mwaka uliomalizika Juni 30, 2017. 4. Kuchagua Wakurugenzi: (i) Bw. Adil Khawaja anastaafu kwa mzunguko kwa mujibu wa Kipengee 120 cha Katiba ya Kampuni na kwa kuwa anahitimu, ajitokeza kwa uchaguzi tena. (ii) Mhe. Kenneth Marende anastaafu kwa mujibu wa Kipengee cha 120 cha Katiba ya Kampuni na kwa kuwa anahitimu, ajitokeza kwa uchaguzi tena. (iii) Kuchagua mkurugenzi mmoja mpya kujaza pengo katika Bodi. 5. Kwa mujibu wa Sehemu ya 769 Sheria ya Kampuni ya 2015, Wakurugenzi wafuatao ambao watakuwa wanachama wa Kamati ya Bodi kuhusu Uhasibu na Hatari za Kibiashara watahitajika kuchaguliwa kuendelea kuhudumu kama wanachama wa Kamati hiyo: (i) Bw. Kairo Thuo (ii) Bi. Brenda Eng’omo (iii) Bw. Wilson Mugung’ei (iv) Bi. Beatrice Gathirwa 6. Kuidhinisha malipo ya Wakurugenzi wasio na Mamlaka kwa mwaka uliomalizika Juni 30, 2017. 7. Wahasibu: Kutambua kuwa ukaguzi wa vitabu vya hesabu vya Kampuni utaendelea kufanywa na Mhasibu Mkuu wa Serikali au taasisi ya uhasibu atakayoteua kwa mujibu wa Sehemu ya 23 ya Sheria ya Uhasibu wa Umma 2015. 8. Kuidhinisha Wakurugenzi kuamua malipo ya Wahasibu. 9. Kuangalia shughuli zozote zile ambazo ilani ifaayo imetolewa. Kwa Amri ya Bodi Beatrice Meso Katibu wa Kampuni Oktoba 19, 2017 Page 18 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 MAELEZO: Mwanachama aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura katika mkutano uliotajwa hapo juu anaweza kuteua mwakilishi mmoja au zaidi kuhudhuria, na katika upigaji kura, kupiga kwa niaba yake. Si lazima mwakilishi awe mwanachama wa Kampuni. Fomu ya Uwakilishi imeambatanishwa kwenye ripoti hii. Ili kuwa halali, Fomu ya Uwakilishi ni lazima ijazwe kikamilifu na kuwasilishwa kwa Afisi ya Katibu wa Kampuni, Stima Plaza, Nairobi au kutumwa kwa posta ili kupokelewa saa 48 kabla ya mkutano kuanza. Mwanachama anaweza kutuma Fomu ya Uwakilishi kupitia barua pepe shares@kplc.co.ke katika muda unaotarajiwa. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 19 Hon. Kenneth Marende, EGH Chairman, Board of Directors Page 20 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Chairman’s Statement CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT A Company can live up to its vision and soar President. However, further amendments were to greater heights of prosperity when its key recommended to this Bill which is expected to stakeholders, more so its shareholders, stand repeal the Energy Act 2006 when approved, and solidly behind it. Good performance begets value, result in significant impacts on the operating reputation and prosperity, driven by the people environment in the electricity subsector. Some who make it happen. Shareholders, you are the of the salient issues in the Bill which touch on our foundation for this success, and we appreciate your business include opening the electricity market sustained contributions as we grow the Company. for competition, compensation to consumers for losses incurred during outages and open Once again, I am pleased to present the Company’s access in power distribution infrastructure. annual report and financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2017 during which we recorded 2. Trading performance good performance in a challenging business During the year under review, our electricity environment. sales grew by 4.5 percent to 8,272 GWh from 7,912GWh the previous year. This growth 1. Economy and the operating environment was mainly attributed to increased sales in The macroeconomic environment at both the Industrial and Commercial consumer global and domestic level influences our category, a 6.5 percent rise in sales under business performance. This is attributable to a the Domestic customer category as a result bi-directional relationship that exists between of enhanced connectivity, and improved electricity consumption and economic growth. system efficiency. Sales from Industrial and In 2016, the global economy expanded by Commercial customer category increased by 2.9 per cent with the Eastern Africa region 3.8 percent, corresponding with the modest registering an average growth rate of 5.3 growth in the manufacturing sector which percent. In the same period, Kenya’s Gross expanded by 3.5 percent due to reduced cost Domestic Product (GDP) expanded by of production and increased volume output in 5.8 percent up from 5.7 percent the previous the year. year, mainly supported by growth in the tourism, agriculture and manufacturing Revenue from electricity sales excluding foreign sectors. There was a general slowdown of the exchange adjustment and fuel cost recoveries economy notably in the fourth quarter of the increased by 5.6 percent to Shs. 91,952 million financial year largely due to inadequate rains from Shs. 87,081 million realised the previous experienced in most parts of the country year. exacerbated by the political environment in the electioneering period.  Power purchase costs, excluding fuel and foreign exchange costs, decreased by Shs 784  Our business operates in a regulated million from Shs 51,400 million the previous environment with diverse stakeholder interests. year, to Shs 50,616 million. This is attributable The Company’s commercial operations are to a reduction in units purchased from the supported by a regulatory paradigm with a hydro generation due to poor hydrology and retail tariff that permits recovery of costs and a reduced geothermal generation in the year. fair return on investment. However, the current The units purchased from hydro power sources retail tariff which was due for review in the year and geothermal reduced by 13.2 percent from remained unchanged, evoking unfavorable 3,787GWh to 3,341GWh and 3.4 percent from impact on network expansion projects and 4,609GWh to 4,451GWh, respectively. other business operations. Fuel cost increased by Shs 9,434 million from During the financial year, the Energy Bill 2015 Shs 12,690 million the previous year to Shs was tabled in both the National Assembly and 22,124 million due to increased usage of thermal the Senate and presented for assent by the sources during the year. The units generated The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 21 from thermal plants increased by 66.9 percent, Finance income decreased to Shs 46 million from 1,297GWh the previous year to 2,165GWh. during the year compared to Shs 965 million realised the previous period, because of reduced Transmission and distribution costs increased bank balances. On the other hand, finance costs by 16.6 percent from Shs 28,651 million to Shs decreased by Shs 160 million during the year to 33.417 million in the year. The rise was attributed Shs 5,651 million compared to Shs 5,811 million to higher operational and maintenance costs the previous year. The reduction is attributable on the expanded electricity network facilities, to restructuring of our loan portfolio in the last depreciation due to increased capital investment financial year. and the rising cost of doing business. Our capital asset base grew by 11.6 percent 5. Board changes from Shs 247,532 million the previous year, to During the year, Mr. Kairo Thuo and Mrs. Brenda Shs 276,367 million. This growth was associated Eng’omo were elected as directors of the with new capital investments in the period Company on 23rd December 2016 to replace aimed at improving quality of power supply, Mrs. Jane Nashida and Mr. Macharia Kariuki network expansion and accelerated connection who retired as directors. In the same year, of new customers. Mrs. Susan Chesiyna resigned as a director on 5th May 2017 to pursue other interests, 3. Net profit while Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa replaced The Company recorded a net profit before tax Mr. Joseph Kariuki as alternate Director to the of Shs 10,912 million during the year compared Cabinet Secretary, the National Treasury on to Shs 12,083 million the previous year. The 5th May 2017. reduction was mainly attributed to increase in transmission and distribution costs by Shs 4,765  Dr. Kenneth Tarus was appointed as Acting million and decreased finance income. Managing Director and CEO on 7th January 2017 4. Dividend payable following the retirement of Dr. Ben Chumo, and  The Directors recommend to shareholders, confirmed to the position on 1st August 2017. a first and final dividend of Shs 0.50 (previous year Shs 0.50) per ordinary share for the year As I welcome the incoming Directors, I sincerely ended 30th June 2017, subject to withholding thank my former colleagues for diligently tax where applicable, to shareholders registered serving the Company during their term in office in the books of the Company at the close and wish them well in their personal endeavours. of business on 30th November 2017. If approved, the dividend will be paid on or about 31st January 2018. Page 22 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Chairman’s Statement 6. Moving forward As we look into the future, it is important to reflect on the tremendous gains we have made in the last five years. In line with our business growth strategy, we have invested heavily in network expansion and modernisation projects to improve service delivery and accelerate customer connectivity to grow sales. Consequently, our assets have doubled and our customer base tripled within the period. As a lead sector player, we have continued to align, grow and transform our business in a dynamic and complex business environment. However, we are cognisant of the macroeconomic challenges in the business environment largely characterised by sluggish growth in manufacturing, mining and other key sectors of the economy that drive growth in electricity consumption. We also acknowledge existence of regulatory uncertainties in the electricity subsector relating to retail tariff review, energy policy shifts and generation expansion. Towards this, we remain focused on Thank you our business goals as we engage with policy stakeholders and adapt where necessary as I wish to extend my sincere appreciation to all conditions evolve. our shareholders, business partners, esteemed customers, my colleagues in the Board, the Going forward, our medium term corporate Executive Management team and our employees strategy is centred on five priority areas: for the unwavering support and confidence in infrastructure development, effective network the Company.n management, customer focus, loss reduction and resource alignment for efficiency. In addition, we will leverage on the goodwill from our stakeholders including government and development partners to foster business growth Hon. Kenneth Marende, EGH and increase returns to shareholders as we work Chairman, Board of Directors towards achieving our corporate mission of 19th October 2017 powering our people for better lives. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 23 TAARIFA YA MWENYEKITI Kampuni yaweza kutimiza maono yake na kufikia yalipendekezwa kufanyiwa Mswada huo ambao mafanikio ya juu zaidi wadau wake muhimu, hasa unatarajiwa kufutilia mbali Sheria ya Kawi 2006 wanahisa, wanapoiunga mkono kwa dhati. Mafanikio utakapoidhinishwa, na kuleta mabadiliko muhimu hukuza thamani, sifa na ustawi wa Kampuni, na kwenye mazingira ya kazi katika sekta ndogo ya kuendeshwa na wale waliochangia kuyakuza. umeme. Baadhi ya masuala kipaumbele katika Wanahisa, nyinyi ndio nguzo ya mafanikio haya, na Mswada huo yanagusia biashara yetu ikiwemo tunawashukuru sana kwa mchango wenu wa dhati kuruhusu ushindani wa wazi katika soko la tunapoendelea kukuza Kampuni. umeme, fidia kwa wateja wanapopatwa na hasara umeme unapokuwa mwingi kupita kiasi Kwa mara nyingine, nafurahi kuwasilisha ripoti ya na kuruhusu ushindani wa wazi katika utoaji vifaa kila mwaka ya utendakazi wa Kampuni na taarifa za vya kusambaza umeme. fedha kwa mwaka uliokamilika Juni 30, 2017 kipindi ambacho tulishuhudia mafanikio mazuri licha ya 2. Utendakazi mazingira yenye kubadilika ya kibiashara. Katika mwaka unaoangaziwa, mauzo ya umeme yaliongezeka kwa asilimia 4.5 hadi 8,272GWh 1. Uchumi na mazingira ya kazi kutoka 7,912GWh mwaka awali. Ukuaji huu  Mazingira ya kiuchumi katika viwango vya ulitokana hususan na ongezeko la mauzo kwa kimataifa na kitaifa huathiri mafanikio yetu Wateja wa Viwanda na Mashirika ya Kibiashara, kibiashara. Hii inatokana na uhusiano uliopo ongezeko la asilimia 6.5 la mauzo kwa Wateja baina ya matumizi ya umeme na ukuaji wa wa Matumizi ya Nyumbani kwa sababu ya uchumi. Mwaka 2016, uchumi wa kimataifa ongezeko la watu wanaopata umeme, na ulikua kwa asilimia 2.9 huku kanda ya Afrika kuimarishwa kwa utendakazi wa mifumo. Mashariki ikishuhudia ukuaji wastani wa Mauzo kwa Wateja wa Viwanda na Mashirika asilimia 5.3. Katika kipindi hicho, Pato Kuu la ya Kibiashara yaliongezeka kwa asilimia 3.8 Taifa (GDP) la Kenya liliimarika kwa asilimia kushabihiana na ukuaji wa kadri katika sekta 5.8 kutoka asilimia 5.7 mwaka awali, husu sana ya utengenezaji bidhaa iliyokua kwa asilimia kutokana na ukuaji katika sekta za utalii, kilimo 3.5 kutokana na kupungua kwa gharama ya na utengenezaji bidhaa. Ukuaji wa uchumi uzalishaji na ongezeko la idadi ya bidhaa ulididimia kiasi hasa katika robo ya nne ya zilizoundwa katika mwaka huo. mwaka wa fedha hususan kwa sababu ya mvua duni iliyoshuhudiwa maeneo mengi ya taifa, na  Mapato kutoka kwa mauzo ya umeme bila kutoneshwa hata zaidi na hali ya siasa wakati wa kuzingatia ubadilishanaji wa sarafu za kigeni na kampeni za uchaguzi. gharama ya mafuta, yaliongezeka kwa asilimia 5.6 hadi Shs 91,952 milioni kutoka Shs 87,081  Biashara yetu inahudumu katika mazingira milioni mwaka awali. yanayodhibitiwa kisheria kwa kuzingatia maslahi mbalimbali ya wadau. Operesheni za Gharama ya ununuzi wa umeme, bila kuzingatia kibiashara za kampuni huendeshwa na msururu gharama ya mafuta na ubadilishanaji wa sarafu wa sheria zinazojumuisha ada ya wateja rejareja za kigeni, ilipungua kwa Shs 784 milioni kutoka inayotoa fursa ya kulipia gharama zilizotumika Shs 51,400 milioni mwaka awali, hadi Shs na kuzalisha faida kiasi kutokana na uwekezaji 50,616 milioni. Hii inatokana na kupungua kwa uliowekwa. Hata hivyo, ada ya sasa kwa wateja vipimo vya umeme vilivyonunuliwa kutokana rejareja ambayo ilifaa kufanyiwa marekebisho na uzalishaji wa umeme kupitia maji katika imesalia ilivyo, na kuathiri miradi ya upanuzi na mwaka uliopita na kupungua kwa uzalishaji wa shughuli zingine za kibiashara. umememvuke katika kipindi hicho. Kiwango cha umememaji kilichonunuliwa kilipungua kwa  Wakati wa mwaka wa fedha, Mswada wa asilimia 13.2 kutoka 3,787GWh hadi 3,341GWh. Kawi 2015 uliwasilishwa katika Bunge la Nacho kiwango cha umemejoto kilichonunuliwa kitaifa na Seneti na kupelekwa kwa Rais ili kikipungua kwa asilimia 3.4 kutoka 4,609GWh kutiwa saini. Hata hivyo, marekebisho zaidi hadi 4,451GWh. Page 24 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Chairman’s Statement Gharama ya mafuta ilipanda kwa Shs 9,434milioni mwisho wa Shs 0.50 (mwaka awali ulikuwa kutoka Shs.12,690 milioni mwaka awali hadi Shs 0.50) kwa kila hisa ya kawaida kwa Shs 22,124 milioni kwa sababu ya ongezeko la mwaka uliokamilika Juni 30, 2017, kutegemea matumizi ya vyanzo vya umemejoto mwaka ushuru unaotozwa na serikali utakapohitajika, huo. Umeme uliozalishwa kutoka kwa viwanda kwa wanahisa walioandikishwa kwenye sajili vya umemejoto uliongezeka kwa asilimia 66.9 ya Kampuni kufikia Novemba 30, 2017. kutoka 1,297GWh mwaka awali hadi 2,165GWh. Ukiidhinishwa, mgawo huo utalipwa siku ama mnamo Januari 31, 2018. Gharama za usambazaji zilipanda kwa asilimia 16.6 kutoka Shs 28,651 milioni hadi Shs 33,417 5. Mabadiliko katika Bodi ya Usimamizi milioni. Ongezeko hilo lilichangiwa na gharama Katika mwaka huo wa fedha, Bw. Kairo Thuo ya juu ya operesheni na utunzi wa vifaa vya na Bi. Brenda Eng’omo walichaguliwa kama upanuzi, kupungua kwa thamani ya vifaa wakurugenzi wa Kampuni mnamo Desemba kwa sababu ya ongezeko la ununuzi wa vifaa 23, 2016 ili kuchukua pahali pa Bi. Jane na kuongezeka kwa gharama ya kuendesha Nashida na Bw. Macharia Kariuki waliostaafu biashara. kama wakurugenzi. Mwaka huo huo, Bi. Susan Chesiyna alijiuzulu kama mkurugenzi Mei 5, 2017 Mapato ya kifedha yalipungua hadi Shs 46 huku Bi. Beatrice Gathirwa akichukua nafasi ya milioni wakati wa mwaka huo ikilinganishwa na Bw. Joseph Kariuki kama Mkurugenzi wa zamu Shs 965 milioni mwaka awali, kwa sababu ya wa Waziri wa Fedha, Mei 5, 2017. kupungua kwa masalio ya fedha katika benki. Kwa upande mwingine, gharama za kifedha Dkt Kenneth Tarus aliteuliwa kama Kaimu zilipungu kwa Shs 160 milioni katika mwaka Meneja Mkurugenzi na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji huo hadi Shs 5,651 milioni ikilinganishwa na (CEO) Januari 7, 2017 kufuatia kustaafu kwa Shs 5,811 milioni mwaka awali. Hilo lilichangiwa Dkt Ben Chumo, na wadhifa huo kuthibitishwa na mabadiliko tuliyofanyia mikopo yetu katika Agosti 1, 2017. mwaka wa fedha uliopita.  Ninapowakaribisha wakurugenzi wapya, Mali zetu za kudumu ziliongezeka kwa asilimia nawashukuru sana wenzangu walioondoka 11.6 kutoka Shs 247,532 milioni mwaka awali kwa kujitolea vilivyo kuhudumia Kampuni hadi Shs 276,367 milioni. Ukuaji huu ulitokana na kuwatakia kila la heri katika mkondo na ununuzi wa vifaa vipya katika kipindi hicho waliochukua. uliolenga kuimarisha ubora wa umeme tunaotoa, upanuzi wa mifumo na kuimarisha kasi ya idadi 6. Kwenda mbele ya wateja wapya wanaopata umeme. Tunapopiga darubini siku za usoni, ni muhimu kutafakari mafanikio tuliyopata katika miaka 3. Faida halisi mitano iliyopita. Kufuatana na mkakati wetu wa Kampuni ilipata faida halisi ya Shs 10,912 ukuaji, tumewekeza pakubwa katika upanuzi wa milioni kabla kutozwa ushuru katika mwaka huduma na miradi ya kisasa ili kuimarisha utoaji unaoangaziwa ikilinganishwa na Shs 12,083 huduma na kuzidisha kasi ya idadi ya watea milioni mwaka awali. Kupungua kwa faida hiyo wapya wanaopata umeme ili kuongeza mauzo. kulitokana hususan na ongezeko la gharama za Hivyo basi, rasilimali zetu zimeimarika maradufu usambazaji kwa Shs 4,765 milioni na kupungua na idadi ya wateja kuongezeka mara tatu katika kwa mapato ya kifedha. kipindi hicho. 4. Mgawo wa faida Kama mhusika mkuu katika sekta, tumeendelea Wakurugenzi wanapendekeza kwa wanahisa, kurekebisha, kukuza na kufanya mageuzi katika mgawo wa faida kwa awamu moja na ya biashara yetu katika mazingira haya yenye The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 25 kubadilika. Hata hivyo, tunafahamu changamoto ili kuwa na utendakazi mwafaka. Vile vile, za kiuchumi zinazokumba mazingira ya tutatumia nia njema ya wadau ikiwemo serikali kibiashara zinazotokana pakubwa na ukuaji na wafadhili kusaka ukuaji wa kibiashara na polepole katika sekta za utengenezaji bidhaa, kuzidisha faida kwa wanahisa huku tunapojizatiti uchimbaji madini na sekta zinginezo muhimu kutimiza lengo letu la kampuni la kutoa umeme za uchumi ambazo huchangia kuzidisha kwa wananchi ili wapate maisha bora. matumizi ya umeme. Vile vile, tunatambua kuwepo kwa mashaka ya kisheria katika sekta Shukrani ndogo ya umeme kuhusiana na marekebisho Ningependa kutoa shukrani zangu za dhati kwa ya ada inayotozwa wateja rejareja, mabadiliko wanahisa wote, washirika wa kibiashara, wateja katika sera ya kawi na upanuzi katika uzalishaji. wetu wapendwa, wanachama wenzangu katika Kuhusiana na hayo, tumeendelea kuzingatia Bodi, Wasimamizi Wakuu na wafanyakazi wetu malengo yetu ya kibiashara huku tukishauriana kwa imani na kuunga mkono vilivyo Kampuni.n na waundaji sera na kufanya mabadiliko yanapohitajika jinsi matakwa yanavyozidi kujitokeza.  Kuendelea mbele, mkakati wetu wa kipindi cha kati unalenga maeneo matatu makuu: ukuzaji miundomsingi, usimamizi bora wa Mhe. Kenneth Marende, EGH huduma, kumfaa mteja, kupunguza hasara na Mwenyekiti, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi kuambatanisha rasilimali na matumizi mema Oktoba 19, 2017 Page 26 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Kenneth Tarus, PhD Managing Director and CEO The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 27 MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO’S STATEMENT I am glad for the opportunity to share with you the to increase electricity access, enhance major highlights on our achievements, commitments reliability and, consequently, improve the and goals during the year, this being my first report Company’s financial position. The project to shareholders as the Managing Director and entails improving service delivery through CEO. I was appointed to head the Company in upgrading the Company’s Supervisory the middle of the financial year in acting capacity Control and Data Acquisition/Energy and subsequently confirmed to the position in the Management System (SCADA/EMS), current financial year. I wish to thank the Board for enhancing flexibility of the distribution having confidence in me and for the opportunity to system and improving our network serve the Company. Together with my management maintenance programmes. In addition, team and staff, we are committed to work with the project includes a smart metering passion to enhance efficiency and performance component targeting large and medium size for the growth and continued prosperity of the power consumers as a revenue protection Company as highlighted in this report. measure. KEMP also complements the Last Mile Connectivity project being 1. Performance overview implemented by the Company through  In the period under review, we focused on providing financing for the connection of three major objectives that are prioritised in new customers. our medium-term strategic plan: improving power supply quality and reliability, increasing During the year, various projects financed electricity access through a sustained by the Company under KEMP were ongoing connectivity drive, and reducing energy losses. including construction of 36 substations These are core areas which not only determine and associated lines in various parts of how our business performs but also generate the country, and upgrade of the Kipevu value and increase satisfaction to our customers. 132/33kV substation. The upgrade of the Our commitment towards achieving these goals Kipevu substation is aimed at stabilising is indeed demonstrated by the substantial electricity supply in Mombasa Island investments in infrastructure expansion and and parts of North Coast. In addition, modernisation projects over the last three years. construction of the new Thika Road 220/66kV substation to stabilise power in  In line with the Company’s strategy, we Nairobi West and Nairobi North regions continued extending our network coverage by continued during the year. building new substations and power lines across the country, and upgrading and modernising the existing infrastructure by adopting system control technologies for improved technical and operational efficiency. Consequently, we registered significant improvements in power supply reliability and quality. To  secure the market and grow revenue, we sustained connection of over one million new customers during the period. This intiative also complements our country’s development goals. 1.1 Network modernisation  Further, we continued implementation of the One of our key infrastructure improvement new Nairobi underground cabling project projects under implementation during financed by the Exim Bank of China at a the year was the USD562 million Kenya Shs 13 billion loan, with 80% of the works Electricity Modernisation Project (KEMP) completed by the end of the period under funded by the Company and the World review. The project entails development Bank. Key objectives of the project are of 16 kilometres of 220kV electricity Page 28 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 transmission cable from Embakasi to located Nairobi substations: Likoni Road, the Nairobi Central Business District and Muthurwa, City Square, Cathedral, Nairobi construction of a Gas Insulated Substation West and Parklands. This project will (GIS) at Landi Mawe in Industrial Area. It improve quality and reliability of power also involves construction of a total of 31 supply, reduce system losses, minimise kilometres of 66 kV power lines emanating load transfers and create alternative supply Managing Director and CEO’s from the GIS substation to six strategically points for system operation flexibility. Laying of underground cable at Langata, Nairobi. 1.2 Expanding our footprint faults. Electricity systems, therefore, In the year under review, a total of 1,357,539 require continual investments to keep customers were connected growing our them in optimal operating condition to customer base by 28.1 percent to 6,182,282, serve the business efficiently. In the year which raised the national electricity access under review, we spent over Shs 41 billion rate to 70.3 percent. This growth was on system improvement projects that achieved by intensive implementation enhanced service delivery and contributed of various connectivity strategies mainly to improved revenue. through the Last Mile Connectivity Project and the electrification project targeting We deployed our Business Intelligence informal settlements and low income system to identify the top 20 feeders and areas. We plan to sustain the rapid pace 40 substations that are most problematic of electricity connections in our quest to across the country, and prioritised them for achieve a customer base of 9 million and proactive maintenance to minimise power attain universal access by the year 2020. interruptions. Other network improvement initiatives carried out in the year include 1.3 Towards a resilient network intensifying wayleave trace maintenance on Best practice in power network operations medium and low voltage lines and mapping and management prescribe adequate out of hotspot areas with frequent outages preventive maintenance, and prompt and undertaking focused maintenance detection and resolution of technical aimed at eliminating the incidences. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 29 We also constructed additional high and sustainability of our business. To grow our medium voltage feeders totaling 5,565 revenue, we are pursuing multiple strategies kilometer in circuit length to further to increase and supplement electricity sales. enhance flexibility of the network, ease load These include growing our customer base, transfers and reduce technical losses. enhancing efficiency, promoting productive use of electricity, diversifying our revenue The network network enhancement projects streams and seeking cost reflective tariffs implemented contributed to remarkable for our customers. In this regard, our basic improvements in quality of power supply as electricity revenue has been on an upward demonstrated by a 28 percent reduction in trend in the last three years, having grown the average number of outages per month from Shs 78 billion as at June 2015 to from a high of 27,274 to 19,588 recorded Shs 92 billion by June 2017, representing a during the year. 15.2 percent increase. Revenue contribution from our Fibre Optic Business grew by 22 percent, from Shs 276 million to Shs 336 1.4 Secure and grow revenue million over the same period.  Revenue growth is fundamental to the  We recognise that among the key convenience while protecting our revenues. determining factors in securing future Since adoption of prepaid metering in 2009, revenues in the dynamic business our prepaid customer accounts had grown environment is our ability to consolidate to 4,008,019 as at the end of the financial effective metering and revenue protection year, representing 65 percent of the total measures. For this reason, we have adopted customer accounts. In the last three years, metering solutions that enhance customer we have migrated our Large Power and Page 30 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Small and Medium Commercial customers and has been integrated into the performance to the advanced and more versatile smart contracting process for ownership. Staff meters. By the end of the year, a total of sensitisation on the concept commenced during 15,376 smart meters had been installed in the year under review. the two customer segments. We are also making every effort to ensure that our 3. Commitment to sustainable operations Managing Director and CEO’s postpaid customers settle their bills on We are building on the successes in our core time as we provide diverse and convenient business areas in the recent past to align, grow payment options. As such, our average and transform our business for long-term monthly revenue collection rate for billed sustainability, creating value for our customers, postpaid accounts stood at 98 percent shareholders and other stakeholders. in the year, one of the best performance in the region. As part of our initiative towards securing the Company’s long-term viability, we are adopting 2. Resource alignment for efficiency a reporting mechanism that will entrench In our endeavour to enhance service delivery sustainability pillars in our business strategies to customers and improve our bottom line, and processes. In this regard, we are developing we adopted feeder based approach to a comprehensive sustainability framework that network management. The strategy involves will provide guidelines for the introduction, alignment and optimisation of human and development and maintenance of proactive capital resources to enhance accountability, financial, social and environmental management efficiency and productivity. The feederprocesses and procedures. Our target is to based approach is anchored on the resource publish the first sustainability report in the alignment theme in our corporate strategic financial year ending June 2018. plan. This approach complements the devolved business structure at the regional and county In conclusion, I wish to thank the Board of level designed to take our services closer Directors and all stakeholders for their support to customers. throughout the period under review. I also thank all our employees for the hard work and The new feeder management concept is a commitment in the mission to provide power for paradigm shift in our business operations where better lives.n members of staff are assigned a cluster of feeders for maintenance, connectivity, customer care operations and commercial cycle activities. It involves mapping and grouping of meters, which were previously based on geographical locations, and aligning them to feeder clusters to ease revenue collection and energy management activities. The operationalisation Kenneth Tarus, PhD of the feeder based business unit programme Managing Director and CEO is being carried out across all the ten regions 19th October 2017 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 31 TAARIFA YA MENEJA MKURUGENZI NA AFISA MKUU MTENDAJI (CEO) Niko na furaha kupata fursa ya kuwaeleza mafanikio, wa dola za Marekani (USD)562 milioni, majukumu na malengo makuu yam waka, hii ikiwa unaofadhiliwa na Kampuni pamoja na Benki ripoti yangu ya kwanza kwa wanahisa kama Meneja ya Dunia. Malengo makuu ya mradi huo ni Mkurugenzi na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji. Niliteuliwa kuzidisha kiwango cha kuenea kwa umeme kama kaimu afisa mkuu wa Kampuni katikati ya nchini, kuimarisha upatikanaji ili umeme mwaka wa fedha na kisha wadhifa huo kuthibitishwa uwe wa kutegemewa na, hivyo, kuimarisha katika mwaka wa sasa wa fedha. Ningependa mafanikio ya Kampuni. Mradi huo unanuia kushukuru Bodi kwa imani yao kwangu na kwa kuimarisha utoaji huduma kwa kuimarisha fursa ya kuhudumia Kampuni. Pamoja na kundi la usimamizi wa kawi kupitia mfumo wa wasimamizi wakuu na wafanyakazi, tumejitolea Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition/ kuchapa kazi kwa dhati ili kuimarisha utendakazi Energy Management System (SCADA/ utakaoleta ukuaji na ufanisi wa Kampuni kama EMS), kuimarisha mfumo wa usambazaji ili ilivyoangaziwa katika ripoti hii. kuwa rahisi kufanya mabadiliko ya umeme, na kuimarisha mikakati yetu ya kutunza 1. Utendakazi umeme. Vile vile, mradi huo unajumuisha  Katika kipindi husika, tuliangazia malengo mita za kisasa za umeme zitakazotolewa matatu makuu yaliyowekwa kipaumbele katika kwa wateja wanaotumia umeme kwa mkakati wetu wa kipindi cha kati: kuimarisha kiwango kikubwa na kati kama mbinu ya ubora na upatikanaji wa umeme tunaotoa, kulinda mapato. KEMP pia itashirikishwa kueneza zaidi umeme kupitia kampeni ya pamoja na mradi wa kueneza umeme kuzidisha idadi ya watu wanaopata umeme, mashinani wa Last Mile Connectivity (LMC), na kupunguza hasara ya kawi. Haya ni masuala kwa kutoa ufadhili utakaowezesha wateja muhimu ambayo hubaini utendakazi wa wapya kupata umeme. biashara yetu na vile vile hukuza thamani na kuwafanya wateja wetu kutoshelezwa hata  Miradi inayoendelea katika KEMP zaidi. Kujitolea kwetu kutimiza malengo haya ni inajumuisha ujenzi wa vituo 36 vidogo vya ishara ya uwekezaji mkubwa uliofanywa katika mitambo katika maeneo mbalimbali nchini upanuzi wa miundomsingi na miradi ya kisasa na nyaya husika inafadhiliwa na Kampuni. katika miaka mitatu iliyopita. Kituo cha Kipevu 132/33kV pia kilikuwa kikifanyiwa ukarabati katika mwaka huo wa  Kuambatana na mkakati wa Kampuni, fedha huku ufadhili ukitoka kwa Kampuni tuliendelea kupanua huduma zetu kwa kujenga kupitia mradi huo huo, ili kutoa umeme vituo vipya vidogo vya mitambo pamoja na wa kudumu kwa kisiwa cha Mombasa na nyaya za kusambaza umeme kote nchini, Kaskazini mwa Pwani. Fauka ya hayo, kituo kuimarisha na kuleta usasa katika miundomsingi kipya cha mitambo cha Thika 220/66kV iliyopo kwa kuweka teknolojia za kudhibiti ambacho pia ufadhili wake ulitoka kwa mifumo ili kuimarisha utendakazi wa kiufundi na Kampuni kupitia KEMP kilijengwa ili kutoa operesheni zetu. Kutokana na hayo, tulishuhudia umeme wa kudumu kwa maeneo ya mafanikio makubwa katika upatikanaji na ubora Magharibi na Kaskazini mwa Nairobi. wa umeme tunaotoa. Kudhibiti soko na kukuza mapato, tuliendelea na mpango wa kutoa  Utekelezaji wa mradi mpya wa kujenga umeme kwa wateja wapya milioni moja katika kebo ya umeme chini ya ardhi Nairobi, kipindi hicho, na hivyo pia kuendeleza mapengo unaofadhiliwa na Benki ya Exim ya China ya ustawi wa taifa. kwa Shs 13 bilioni, uliendelea huku asilimia 80 ya kazi ikiwa imekamilikia kufikia 1.1 Kuweka vifaa vya kisasa mwisho wa mwaka wa fedha unaongaziwa. Moja ya miradi yetu muhimu ya kuimarisha Mradi huo unahusu ujenzi wa kilomita 16 miundomsingi iliyotekelezwa katika mwaka za kebo ya 220kV ya kusambaza umeme unaoangaziwa ni mradi wa umeme wa Kenya kutoka Embakasi hadi katikati mwa jiji la Electricity Modernisation Project (KEMP) Nairobi. Pia kuna ujenzi wa kilomita 31 za Page 32 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 nyaya za umeme za 66 kV kutoka kituo cha zingine za kuimarisha vifaa vya umeme mitambo cha GIS hadi vituo vingine sita zilizochukuliwa katika mwaka huu wa fedha vidogo vya mitambo mjini Nairobi: Likoni ni pamoja na kuimarisha utunzi wa maeneo Road, Muthurwa, City Square, Cathedral, kunakopitia nyaya za kusambaza umeme Nairobi West na Parklands. Mradi huu wa kadri na kiwango cha chini, na kutambua utaimarisha ubora na upatikanaji wa maeneo hatari ambayo hushuhudia visa umeme, utapunguza hasara za kimitambo, vya kupotea kwa umeme mara kwa mara Managing Director and CEO’s utapunguza kuhamishwa kila mara kwa na kisha kufanya utunzi ili kuzuia kutokea umeme kutoka kebo moja hadi nyingine kwa visa hivyo. Vile vile, tumejenga nyaya na kutoa njia mbadala za usambazaji ili zaidi za kusambaza umeme wa kiwango cha kuwezesha mitambo kufanya mabadiliko juu na kadri za urefu wa 5,565 kuwezesha ya umeme kwa urahisi. utendakazi rahisi wa mitambo, kurahisisha shughuli ya kuhamisha umeme kutoka kebo 1.2 Kuzidisha idadi ya wateja moja hadi nyingine, na kupunguza hasara Katika mwaka unaoangaziwa, jumla ya watu za kiufundi. 1,357,539 walipata umeme na kuimarisha idadi ya wateja wetu kwa asilimia 28.1 hadi  Miradi iliyotekelezwa ya kuimarisha mitambo 6,182,282, jambo ambalo pia liliimarisha ilileta mabadiliko makuu katika ubora wa kiwango cha watu walio na umeme hadi umeme kama ilivyoashiriwa na kupungua asilimia 70.3. Ukuaji huu uliafikiwa kupitia kwa asilimia 28 ya visa vya kupotea kwa kampeni shupavu hususan mradi wa LMC, umeme kila mwezi, kutoka visa 27,274 hadi na mradi wa kuweka umeme katika mitaa 19,588 katika mwaka huo wa fedha. ya mabanda na makazi ya wananchi wenye mapato ya chini. Pia tunapanga kuendeleza 1.4 Kulinda na kukuza mapato kampeni ya kutoa umeme kwa haraka kwa Ukuaji wa mapato ni muhimu katika wateja wapya katika juhudi za kutimiza kudumisha biashara yetu. Kukuza mapato lengo letu la kuwa na wateja 9 milioni na yetu, tunatekeleza mbinu mbalimbali kutoa umeme kwa wananchi wote kufikia kuzidisha mapato na kuzalisha mapato ya mwaka 2020. ziada. Mbinu hizi ni pamoja na kuongeza idadi ya wateja, kuimarisha utendakazi, 1.3 Kukuza mitambo thabiti ya kutoa umeme kupigia debe matumizi bora ya umeme, Kanuni za usimamizi bora wa huduma kusaka mbinu tofauti za kupata mapato, za kutoa umeme zinaagiza kuwepo kwa na kutumia ada zinazodhihirisha matumizi mikakati kabambe ya kuzuia, na kutambua halisi ya umeme kwa wateja wetu. pamoja na kusuluhisha kwa haraka Kuhusiana na hayo, mapato yetu ya kimsingi matatizo yoyote ya kiufundi yatakayoibuka. ya umeme yamekuwa yakiongezeka katika Mitambo ya umeme, kwa hivyo, inahitaji miaka mitatu iliyopita, kutoka Shs 78 bilioni uwekezaji wa kudumu kuiweka shwari ili Juni 2015 hadi Shs 92 bilioni Juni 2017, kutumikia biashara vilivyo. Katika mwaka kuashiria ongezeko la asilimia 15.2. Mapato unaoangaziwa, tulitenga Shs 49.5 bilioni yaliyotokana na huduma za kebo ya Fibre kwa miradi ya kuimarisha mitambo, ambayo Optic yaliongezeka kwa asilimia 22 kutoka nayo iliimarisha utoaji huduma zetu na Shs 276 milioni hadi Shs 336 milioni katika kuchangia kuzidisha mapato. kipindi sawa. Tulianzisha mfumo shupavu wa kibiashara Tunatambua kuwa miongoni mwa masuala kwa jina Business Intelligence kutambua makuu yatakayotuwezesha kupata mapato nyaya kuu 20 za kusambaza umeme na vituo siku za usoni katika mazingira haya mazito vidogo 40 vya mitambo vinavyokumbwa na ya biashara, ni katika uwezo wetu wa matatizo ya mara kwa mara kote nchini, na kutumia mita bora za kubaini matumizi kuziorodhesha ili kufanyiwa utunzi na hivyo kamili ya umeme na pia kulinda mapato. kupunguza visa vya umeme kupotea. Hatua Kwa sababu hii, tumeweka mita zilizo The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 33 rahisi kwa wateja huku zikilinda mapato mita, ambazo awali zilipangwa kulingana na yetu. Tangu kuanza kutumika kwa mita maeneo ya kijiografia, ili kuziambatanisha na zilizolipiwa ada mbele mnamo 2009, idadi mitambo ya kusambaza umeme kurahisisha ya wateja wetu waliofungua akaunti za shughuli ya ukusanyaji mapato na usimamizi wa ada iliyolipiwa mbele imeongezeka hadi kawi. Utekelezaji wa mpango huu unaoangazia 4,008,019 kufikia mwisho wa mwaka wa mitambo ya kusambaza umeme unaendeshwa fedha na kuwakilisha asilimia 65 ya jumla katika kanda zote kumi na umejumuishwa katika ya akaunti zote za wateja. Katika miaka shughuli ya utayarishaji kandarasi za umiliki. mitatu iliyopita, tumewahamisha Wateja Shughuli ya kuhamasisha wafanyakazi kuhusu wa Biashara zinazotumia Umeme Mwingi na mfumo huu ilianza kutekelezwa katika mwaka Wateja wa Biashara zinazotumia Umeme wa wa fedha unaoangaziwa. Kadri na Chini hadi katika matumizi ya mita bora za kisasa. Kufikia mwisho wa mwaka, 3. Kujitolea kukuza biashara ya kudumu jumla ya mita 15,376 za kisasa zilikuwa  Tunajijenga katika misingi ya ufanisi ambao zimewekwa katika biashara za wateja hao. umeshuhudiwa siku za hivi karibuni katika Vile vile, tunafanya kila juhudi kuhakikisha malengo yetu makuu ya kibiashara ili wateja ambao hulipa ada baada ya kutumia kuambatanisha, kukuza na kufanyia mageuzi umeme wanakamilisha bili zao kwa wakati biashara yetu kwa manufaa ya siku zijazo, unaofaa tunaposaka mbinu zingine tofauti kuwaletea manufaa wateja, wanahisa na na rahisi za malipo. Kutokana na hilo, wadau wetu. kiwango chetu cha ukusanyaji mapato wastani ya mwezi kwa akaunti za wateja Kama sehemu ya juhudi zetu za kuhakikisha wanaolipa bili zao baada ya matumizi ya kampuni inakuwa na ufanisi siku zijazo, umeme, ilikuwa asilimia 98 mwaka huo tumeanza kutumia mbinu ya kutoa ripoti na kuwa moja ya matokeo mazuri zaidi zitakazotumika kukuza nguzo thabiti katika katika kanda. mikakati na taratibu zetu za kibiashara. Kufuatana na hilo, tunaunda mfumo kabambe 2.  uambatanisha rasilimali na matumizi K wa kudumu utakaotoa mwongozo ili kuwezesha mwafaka utangulizi, ukuzaji na utunzi wa mipangilio na Katika juhudi zetu za kuimarisha utoaji huduma taratibu za kifedha, kijamii na kimazingira. kwa wateja na kuhakikisha biashara inadumu, Lengo letu ni kuchapisha ripoti ya kwanza katika tulianza kutumia mfumo mbadala wa kusimamia mwaka wa fedha unaokamilika Juni 2018. mitambo ya umeme. Mfumo huo unahusu kuambatanisha rasilimali na wafanyakazi kwa matumizi bora ili kuimarisha uwajibikaji,  Kuhitimisha, ningependa kushukuru Bodi ya utendakazi bora na uzalishaji. Mfumo huu Wakurugenzi na wadau wote kwa uungwaji umejumuishwa kwenye mkakati mkuu wa mkono wao katika kipindi kinachoangaziwa. kampuni. Zaidi ya hayo, mbinu hii inaenda Pia ningependa kuwashukuru wafanyakazi sambamba na mfumo wa ugatuzi wa huduma wote kwa bidii na kujitolea kwao kutimiza lengo za kampuni katika kanda na kaunti unaonuia letu la kutoa umeme ili kuwapa wananchi kupeleka huduma karibu kabisa mashinani kwa maisha mazuri.n wateja wetu.  Mfumo huu mpya wa usimamizi unaashiria mabadiliko katika operesheni zetu ambapo wafanyakazi hupewa jukumu la kusimamia makundi ya mitambo ili kuitunza, kuwekea wateja wapya umeme, kutoa huduma za wateja Kenneth Tarus, PhD na kuendesha shughuli za kibiashara. Unahusu Meneja Mkurugenzi na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji juhudi za kutambua na kupanga katika makundi Oktoba 19, 2017 Page 34 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Growing Our Customer Base Our sustainability is deeply entrenched in widening our presence in homes across Kenya and offering value to our customers. To attain this, we have progressively grown our customer base by connecting over a million customers for the second year running. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Align. Limited Grow. Transform. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 35 STRATEGIC FOCUS 1. Market structure and business model The Company currently operates a “Cost of Kenya’s electricity market is coordinated by the Service” business model in which the utility’s Ministry of Energy and Petroleum and regulated commercial operations are supported by a by the Energy Regulatory Commission with regulatory framework over a tariff period players in generation, transmission and that permits the recovery of fixed costs and a distribution spheres. As the main off-taker, the fair rate of return on investments. The model Company purchases electrical energy from is designed to provide sufficient funds for power generating companies through power business sustainability and supporting universal purchase agreements (PPAs) approved by ERC access to electricity while generating profit for for transmission and distribution to customers. shareholders. 2. Strategic priorities 2.2 Network management Our corporate strategic plan is a road map for  To remain competitive and ensure achieving our business goals by leveraging on sustainability, we continue to pursue our resources and competitive advantage to strategies to improve quality and reliability enhance shareholder value. The current plan of power supply for effective and efficient (2016-2021) aims at positioning the Company service delivery to customers. In this at the center of social economic development regard, we are implementing key initiatives of the country as it continues to work towards including automation of the distribution providing reliable and competitively-priced network, live-line maintenance programme, power to all. The plan champions strategic system reinforcement projects, use of aerial themes of infrastructure expansion, network bundled cables and undergrounding of management, customer centricity, loss medium and low voltage feeders. These reduction, and resource alignment. initiatives support our journey towards a resilient and intelligent grid which will 2.1 Infrastructure expansion enable us to measure, analyse, predict,  A robust infrastructure network is the protect and control the network efficiently. bedrock of growth to our business. It plays a critical role in effectively serving existing 2.3 Customer centricity customers through improved power supply  Real growth in business is driven by quality as well as providing capacity to understanding customer behavior, support the growing customer base. expectations, needs and creating processes Within the planning horizon, we envision that culminate in a cultural change to a modern, efficient and economically delight customers. As such, we strive to responsive infrastructure network that maintain a positive customer experience by guarantees reliable electricity supply to embracing the right internal and customerour customers. In the year under review, we facing strategies, processes and initiatives continued to intensify capital investments to improve customer satisfaction in a in expanding and upgrading the network progressively dynamic market. We continue capacity, increasing accessibility to the to listen and act on customer insights grid, enhancing flexibility and reducing which inform our strategies on enhancing technical losses. Page 36 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 connectivity, improving power supply this, we are investing in system management quality, easing cost of doing business and tools and bulk digital metering solutions developing innovative customer-oriented that allow data gathering to effectively products. understand and monitor consumer behavior, network impact and control energy usage. In addition, we are adopting appropriate modern and more efficient cost saving technologies such as smart metering, feeder metering, and outdoor metering. 2.5 Resource alignment Strategic resource alignment is the process and the result of linking an organisation’s resources with its strategy and business environment. This involves deployment of available resources, both human and Strategic Focus financial, efficiently to maximize returns. A dynamic business environment calls for adaptive strategies that align resources 2.4 Loss reduction towards realisation of business objectives. Electricity utilities experience both technical and commercial losses along the value chain The Company is focusing on improving from the generation front to the retail end. the productivity of our human capital Technical losses are inherent in the process through capacity building, enhancement of transmitting and distributing electrical of employee welfare and implementation energy because power networks consume of talent management programme. and lose a proportion of the energy Other approaches include realigning transported. Commercial losses occur due our organisational culture to strategy, to electricity pilferages, faulty meters and development of leadership capability, inaccuracies in meter reading. Reduction implementation of staff retention strategies in energy losses leads to increase in the and provision of suitable work environment. trading margin which ultimately improves In addition, we are aligning our financial our financial sustainability. resources to identified priority investment areas with an aim of improving our  The Company is working towards reducing operational efficiency, optimising revenue system losses from double to single digit gain and diversifying the business for over time to improve the energy balance, improved profitability.n reduce energy purchase costs and consequently increase revenues. To achieve The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 37 MKAKATI MKUU 1. Muundo wa Soko na Biashara wa usambazaji umeme, kuimarisha uwezo  Sekta ya utoaji umeme Kenya inaendeshwa wa mitambo kufanya mabadiliko ya umeme na Wizara ya Kawi na Mafuta na kudhibitiwa kwa urahisi, na kupunguza hasara za na Tume ya Kudhibiti Kawi (ERC) ikijumuisha kiufundi. wahusika katika nyanja ya uzalishaji kawi na usambazaji. Kampuni hununua umeme kutoka 2.2 Usimamizi bora wa mitambo kwa viwanda vya uzalishaji kupitia Mikataba ya  Kusalia katika ushindani na kuhakikisha Ununuzi wa Umeme (PPAs) iliyoidhinishwa na Kampuni inadumu, tunazidi kutekeleza ERC ili kueneza kwa wateja. mikakati itakayoimarisha ubora na upatikanaji wa huduma za umeme ili  Kampuni kwa sasa hutekeleza muundo wa kuhakikisha tunatoa huduma bora na biashara kwa jina “Gharama ya Huduma” ambapo mwafaka kwa wateja. Kutokana na hilo, gharama za operesheni hulipwa kuambatana na tunatekeleza miradi muhimu ikiwemo mfumo wa kisheria unaotoza ada kwa kipindi kutumia mitambo ya kisasa inayojiendesha fulani na hivyo kutoa fursa ya kufidia gharama katika mfumo wa usambazaji umeme, za kudumu na kupata faida kiasi kutokana na mpango wa kutunza nyaya zenye umeme, uwekezaji. Muundo huu unanuia kuchangisha miradi ya kuimarisha mifumo, matumizi fedha za kutosha kuhakikisha kampuni inadumu ya kebo za juu zilizofunikwa na vipitishi na pia kuunga mkono maono ya utoaji umeme vya umeme, na kuweka chini ardhini kwa kila mwananchi huku ukizalisha faida kebo za kusambaza umeme. Miradi hii kwa wanahisa. inatusaidia katika juhudi zetu za kuwa na mfumo wa mitambo thabiti na shupavu 2. Mkakati mkuu utakaotuwezesha kukadiria, kutathmini, Mkakati wetu mkuu unaeleza jinsi ya kutimiza kubashiri, kulinda na kudhibiti mitambo hiyo malengo ya biashara kwa kutumia rasilimali na kwa njia mwafaka. ushindani wetu kuimarisha thamani ya wanahisa. Mkakati wa sasa (2016-2021) unanuia kuweka 2.3 Kuthamini wateja Kampuni katika kitovu cha ustawi wa uchumi  Ukuaji halisi wa biashara huchangiwa wa jamii huku ikiendelea kujizatiti kutoa huduma na ufahamu wa mienendo, matarajio na za umeme za bei nafuu na zenye kutegemewa mahitaji ya wateja, na kuunda mipango na watu wote. Mpango huo unalenga hususan itakayoleta mabadiliko ya desturi ili upanuzi wa miundomsingi, usimamizi bora wa kuwapendeza wateja. Kwa hivyo, tunajizatiti mitambo, kuthamini wateja, kupunguza hasara, kudumisha huduma bora kwa wateja kwa na kuambatanisha rasilimali na matumizi mema. kuweka mikakati, taratibu za kazi na miradi mwafaka ili kuwatosheleza wateja. Tunazidi 2.1 Upanuzi wa miundomsingi kusikiza na kushughulikia maoni ya wateja   Mfumo kabambe wa miundomsingi ni ambayo huchangia mno katika uundaji wa nguzo kuu ya kukuza biashara. Huchangia mipango yetu ya kuimarisha idadi ya watu pakubwa katika kutoa huduma mwafaka wanaopata umeme, kuimarisha ubora wa kwa wateja kupitia utoaji huduma bora umeme tunaotoa, kupunguza gharama za umeme na pia kuwezesha ongezeko ya kuendesha biashara na kubuni bidhaa la idadi ya wateja wapya. Katika mipango zinazomlenga mteja. ya Kampuni, tunatazamia kuwa na mfumo mwafaka, wa kisasa na unaozingatia hali ya 2.4 Kupunguza hasara uchumi, ulio na hakikisho la kuwapa wateja Kampuni za kusambaza umeme hukumbana umeme wa kutegemewa. Katika mwaka wa na hasara za kiufundi na kibiashara katika fedha unaozingatiwa tuliendelea kuwekeza mchakato mzima kuanzia hatua ya uzalishaji rasilimali katika upanuzi na uimarishaji wa hadi usambazaji. Hasara za kiufundi hutokea mitambo ya umeme, kuimarisha fursa ya wakati wa usambazaji kwa sababu mitambo watu zaidi kuunganishwa kwenye mtandao Page 38 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 ya umeme hutumia na kupoteza kiwango ya kibiashara. Hii inahusu matumizi fulani cha kawi inayosafirishwa. Hasara zqa mwafaka ya rasilimali zilizopo, kifedha kibiashara hutokana na wizi wa umeme, na wafanyakazi, ili kupata faida ya juu mita mbovu na kukosa kusoma mita iwezekanavyo. Mazingira yenye kubadilika kwa usahihi. Kupunguza hasara za kawi ya biashara yanahitaji mikakati iliyo huchangia kuimarisha huduma na hatimaye rahisi kubadilika itakayoelekeza rasilimali hupiga jeki hali yetu ya kifedha. kuwekezwa katika shughuli zitakazochangia kutimiza malengo ya biashara. Kampuni inajizatiti kupunguza hasara hizi na hivyo kuimarisha matumizi ya kawi, Kampuni inalenga kuimarisha utendakazi kupunguza gharama za kununua kawi na wa wafanyakazi wetu kwa kukuza uwezo mwishowe kuzidisha mapato. Kutimiza wao wa kuchapa kazi, kuimarisha maslahi hayo, tumewekeza katika vifaa vya yao, na kutekeleza mpango wa usimamizi usimamizi bora wa mitambo na matumizi ya bora wa talanta na ujuzi. Juhudi zingine ni mita za kidijitali zinazorahisisha ukusanyaji pamoja na kuambatanisha upya desturi za data ili kuelewa na kufuatilia vyema shirika na mikakati yetu, kukuza uwezo wa Strategic Focus mienendo ya wateja, athari kwa mitambo uongozi, kutekeleza mikakati ya kudumisha na kudhibiti matumizi ya kawi. Isitoshe, wafanyakazi na kukuza mazingira mwafaka tumeanza kutumia teknolojia mwafaka za ya kufanya kazi. Vile vile, tunaambatanisha kisasa zinazopunguza pakubwa gharama rasilimali zetu za kifedha na maeneo za matumizi, kama vile mita za kisasa, mita kipaumbele ya uwekezaji kwa lengo la kwenye mitambo ya kusambaza umeme, kuimarisha utendakazi wa operesheni na mita za nje ili kuwawezesha wahudumu zetu, kufikia upeo wa mapato na kupanua wetu kusoma data kwa urahisi na pasipo biashara ili kuunda bidhaa za aina nyingine kuwasumbua wateja. ili kuongeza faida yetu.n 2.5 Kuambatanisha rasilimali na matumizi  Kuambatanisha rasilimali na matumizi yake ni shughuli ya kuelekeza rasilimali za shirika ziwe sambamba na mipango na mazingira The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 39 Keeping the Lights On Investments in network projects has led to improved quality and reliability of power supply as demonstrated by a 28 percent reduction in the average number of outage incidences during the period. Page 40 I Align. Grow. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Transform. Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 1. Investing in our people The Company continued to roll out a talent and Our employees are the Company’s most precious succession management programme to ensure resource and are key to the success of our availability of a robust talent pipeline in all critical business. It is therefore of paramount importance areas of the business as the older generation of to continually invest in our human capital as an employees gradually exit. This approach include effective way of promoting business growth. strategic resourcing of young talent in critical Our employee sourcing and retention strategy positions such as Trainee Engineers to be taken includes offering competitive remuneration through talent and succession pipeline. packages, tailored skills development and capacity building, recognition and reward  To continually motivate and harness the potential programmes, and improving work environment. of human capital in the business, management implemented salary reviews for management staff following approval from Salaries and Employee productivity progressively improved Remuneration Commission (SRC) during the during the period under review. Our staff to year. Union represented employees had their customer ratio improved from 1:439 the previous terms also reviewed following implementation of the year to 1:547 by 30th June 2017 with a total a new Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA). workforce of 11,295 serving 6,182,282 customers. Management employees continued to be on the 2. Balanced Growth performance contracting regime in the period 2.1 Energy to meet demand under review. Their performance was reviewed Our strategy to maintain a diversified periodically and measures put in place to generation capacity mix and adequate enhance productivity. To promote performance reserve margin enabled us to withstand a excellence, employees who delivered in their period characterised by poor hydrology Operational Performance performance contracts were recognised during occasioned by inadequate rains. The the year. country’s two main water reservoirs, Turkwel and Masinga, were gradually depleted to The Company increased service outlets and lows of 1,106 and 1,036 meters above renovated various offices towards enhancing sea level (masl) compared to required employee productivity and customer operational minimum levels of 1,105masl satisfaction in the period. This included and 1,037masl respectively. Unlike in the past improvement in service delivery by opening when such occurrences would adversely emergency offices and improving stores yards affect our supply capability, we were able in various towns. In addition, we progressed to utilise enhanced geothermal capacity on renovation of regional headquarter buildings complemented with thermal generation in Kisumu and Nakuru and Electricity House in to meet demand thereby avoiding load Nairobi. We further initiated refurbishment and shedding and procurement of expensive improvements works in our workshops and emergency power. depots to enhance their functionality and value. In the period under review, geothermal To bolster leadership and managerial capacity accounted for 44 percent of the total in the business, the Company implemented energy purchased or 4,451GWh while leadership development and cultural change hydro provided 3,341GWh equivalent to programmes by benchmarking with top notch 33 percent. The contribution from thermal renowned institutions directly and through power plants to the total energy mix e-learning. Other specialised tailor made increased to 21 percent up from 13 percent technical programmes such as live-line training the previous year. The proportion of imports, were also implemented to ensure availability sourced mainly from Uganda, increased and sustainability of needed technical skills. to 1.8 percent from 0.7 percent the Management also spearheaded executive, previous year. team coaching as well as targeted mentorship programmes across the business. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 41 A total 317.5MW of new generation capacity completion of a 324 kilometre transmission was installed during the year of which line by the Kenya Electricity Transmission 15 MW was integrated to the national Company. The additional renewable energy grid. This capacity comprised 10MW of capacity will further diversify our generation Geothermal from KenGen Olkaria Wellheads mix to enhance supply security and meet in Naivasha and 5MW of hydro from Teremi the growing demand. GenPro in Bungoma county. As at the end of the year under review two hydro plants, Electricity demand grew by 4.4 percent developed by the Kenya Tea Development from 1,586 MW the previous year to 1,656 Authority, Chania and Gura with capacities MW in the year under review against an of 0.5MW and 2MW respectively were installed and effective capacity of 2,333 undergoing commissioning tests. MW and 2,259 MW respectively. The current Additionally, 300MW wind power was demand supply level provides a reasonable installed at Loiyangalani in Marsabit county reserve margin for contingency planning by Lake Turkana Wind Power. The plant and cater for electricity demand growth in will be connected to the national grid after the short term. 2.2 Growing our customer base a million customers for the second year  The sustainability of our business is running. The connectivity drive is aimed at anchored on entrenching our presence increasing revenue to sustain our business in the electricity market and increasing and promote socio economic development. desired and perceived value of service to our customers. Towards this, we continued The Last Mile Connectivity Project which to zealously grow our customer base and was rolled out in the previous year to venture into new frontiers byconnectingover accelerate electricity access continued Page 42 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 to be implemented in the period. The at the micro-economic level. Towards this project is funded by the Government end, the Government has secured funding with support from various development from development partners totaling partners including the African Development Shs 65 billion targeting connection of Bank (AfDB), the World Bank, the French 1.2 million customers over the next three Development Agency (AFD) and the years. During the period under review, a European Investment Bank. The Last Mile total of 49,813 customers were connected in project predominantly targets customers the initial phase under the AfDB financing. living in rural and peri-urban areas to improve livelihoods and accelerate economic growth Operational Performance Rural homesteads connected to electricity under the Last Mile project in Kilifi County. 2.3 Increasing electricity sales During the year, electricity sales grew by 4.5 percent to 8,272 GWh from 7,912 GWh the previous year. This growth resulted from increased sales in our various customer categories: Domestic at 6.5 percent; Small Commercial at 4.2 percent; Commercial Industrial at 3.8 percent and Street Lighting at 41.6 percent. The sales growth rate was slightly higher than the previous year of 3.4 percent. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 43  The sales growth rate was however, below efficient technologies by customers also the expected level mainly affected by a lag in contributed to the general slow growth in consumption by newly connected domestic electricity consumption. customers but are expected to consume more as they acquire electrical appliances. As part of our measures to protect revenue, In addition, industrial consumption which we carried out countywide inspection of nonconstitutes 51 percent of our annual vending prepaid meters to establish reasons electricity sales grew marginally due to behind non-purchase of electricity tokens by susceptibility to the macroeconomic the customers since the meters were installed. environment largely affected by low As at end of the year, 57 percent of the meters growth in the manufacturing sector of the had been inspected leading to revenue recovery economy. Increased adoption of energy of Shs 11.2 million. 3. Improve network performance 3.1 Investing in the grid During the year under review, a number of critical grid expansion projects were completed. A total of 6 new and 22 upgrade substations were completed enhancing the transformation capacity by 633 MVA which is adequate to serve over 200,000 standard households. In addition, 5,565 kilometers of new medium voltage lines were constructed during the year. Page 44 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 On-going capital projects Programmes / Expected Status as at Projects Objectives Outcomes Scope 30th June 2017 Network expansion KEMP Capacity Increase in 575.5 MVA of Ongoing 36 Substations enhancement capacity to absorb installed capacity, and associated new generation 1,109km of MV lines financed by lines Kenya Power Nairobi CBD Stability of power Reduced outages, 220/66kV Substation 220/66kV supply in Nairobi stable voltages, substation completed, Substation City improved quality 400MVA, 16km underground financed by of supply 220kV cabling ongoing China-EXIM bank underground Network Network upgrade Reliability of 2 substations, Ongoing upgrade 66kV and reinforcement supply, reduction (92MVA), 25km underground lines of power outages of 66kV for Nairobi underground lines financed by China-EXIM bank Thika Road Stability of power Reduced outages, 220/66kV Ongoing 220/66kV in Nairobi West stable voltages, substation Substation and North areas improved quality 400MVA, 66kV financed by of supply lines Kenya Power Kipevu 132/33kV Stability of Reduced outages, Installation of 11kV Ongoing Operational Performance substation supplies in alternatives & 33kV Gas rehabilitation Mombasa Island supplies, improved Insulated financed by Kenya and parts of North quality and Switchgear (GIS) Power Coast reliability and outgoing feeders Network modernisation Live Line Improve quality Reduced Procurement of 12 teams Maintenance of supply, reduce interruptions, live live line operational under financed by WB outage time line maintenance maintenance phase I, work tools; set up of Phase II 24 teams live line laboratory undergoing training Upgrade SCADA/ Reduction of Automated 60 upgrade Ongoing EMS and operational costs, operations, substations to Automation system flexibility reduction of SCADA financed by WB outages Distribution System flexibility, Automated Installation of Procurement System Enhanced reduce time of distribution and 1,000 switches and Flexibility interruptions enhanced automatic load accessories in financed by WB flexibility break switches progress Loss reduction Revenue Reduce Permanently Installation of AMI Procurement of Protection non-technical protected for 44,300 large meters and through automatic losses, revenues and and medium accessories in metering protect revenues accurate billing consumers progress financed by WB Electricity access Last Mile Phase 1 Increase Increased number 314,200 new A total of 49,813 AfDB connectivity and of customers customers new customers electricity access connected The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 45 Programmes / Expected Status as at Projects Objectives Outcomes Scope 30th June 2017 Last Mile Phase Increase Increased number 296,000 new Project 2WB connectivity and of customers customers implementation electricity access ongoing Last Mile Phase 2 Increase Increased number 255,000new Procurement of AfDB connectivity and of customers customers contractors in electricity access progress Last Mile Phase Increase Increased number 296,649 new Procurement of 3AFD/EU/EIB connectivity and of customers customers supervision electricity access contractor in progress Transformer Increase Increased number 1,000 Project Densification-AFD connectivity and of transformers transformers implementation electricity access ongoing KEMP-Kenya Electricity Modernisation EU-European Union Programme UG-Underground WB-World Bank SCADA/EMSSupervisory Control & Data AFD-French Development Agency Acquisition/Energy Management System AfDB-African Development Bank CBD-Central Business District EIB-European Investment Bank AMI-Automatic Metering Infrastructure 3.2 Solar power for off-grid areas Average Interruption Duration Index The Kenya Off-Grid Solar Access Project (CAIDI) of 5.66 hours against a target of (K-OSAP) is a Public Private Partnership 6 hours. SAIFI measures the number of project initiated jointly by the Government interruptions experienced per customer in and the World Bank, to increase access to a month while CAIDI evaluates the length of energy services in underserved counties time taken to restore supply to a customer. in Kenya. The project, which commenced These indices were corroborated by the during the year, supports development of June 2017 Customer Satisfaction Survey solar hybrid power supply complemented findings which indicated that the frequency by water projects in 14 least electrified of outages had indeed declined to the counties. The beneficiary counties are: delight of customers. Garissa, Isiolo, Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Mandera, Marsabit, Narok, Samburu, Taita Taveta,  The improvement in performance is as Tana River, Turkana, Wajir, and West Pokot. a result of implementation of various network management strategies to  K-OSAP targets to connect 1.3 million improve quality and reliability of power households located beyond the reach of supply. The strategies include carrying out the national grid and the existing mini-grids. reinforcement works on overloaded circuits The Company will be the main generation and transformers, and undertaking focused off-taker, network operator and retailer in maintenance work on identified network 86 remote sites identified by the project. hotspots. Further, we built additional The project will be financed by the World distribution lines and interlinks for flexibility Bank to the tune of Shs. 16 billion. and ease load transfers to keep the lights on for customers during maintenance. 3.3 Flexible and stable network In the period under review, we achieved  As the power network expands, monitoring, a System Average Interruption Frequency control and management becomes Index (SAIFI) of 3.78 per customer per increasingly complex. In this regard, the month against a target of 4 and Customer Company continued the rollout of the Page 46 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition reduced incidences in vandalism cases (SCADA) energy management system to on transformers, conductors and power enable automation and enhance system accessories during the year. flexibility through remote operations. In the year, we increased remotely operated substations from 160 to 182 after completing upgrade works on 12 substations. The SCADA project includes the second phase of the distribution automation project for Coast Region which was completed during the period. The project will contribute to effective management of the power network and improve sales through reduced outage durations. Other initiatives implemented during the year involved maintenance targeting Consequently, the number of transformers feeders associated with frequent supply vandalised reduced from to 222 the interruptions, intensified wayleave previous year to 133 in the year under trace maintenance, focused distribution review representing a 40 percent reduction. transformer maintenance, distribution network automation and operationalisation of the Live-Line maintenance on medium In addition, we enhanced surveillance on Operational Performance voltage power lines. other critical Company assets and increased application of modern technology in detection and deterrence of crime including 3.4 Guarding our assets installation of CCTV cameras. These As we expand the network and increase interventions have resulted in a reduction in our footprint across the country, vandalism the number of incidences to 14 down from remains a challenge to our business as 27 the previous year in these installations. it contributes to supply interruptions Further, in collaboration with National which inconvenience our customers and Counter Terrorism Centre, our employees reduce electricity sales. Through sustained were taken through Counter Terrorism operations and heightened surveillance of Security Awareness training to raise the our network installations, we registered levels of security preparedness. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 47 4. Supporting a 24-hour economy We continued with the implementation of the criminal activities, protecting property and National Public Lighting project initiated by enhancing sense of personal safety. Successful the Government in 2014 to create an enabling implementation of the National Public Lighting environment for a 24-hour economy. The project, project yielded a 41.6 percent growth in implemented at a cost of Shs 10.3 billion as electricity sales under the Street Lighting at the end of the year, involves providing customer category during the year. adequate public lighting to strategic industrial locations, residential areas, commercial centers, As at the end of the period under review, we had roads, railway and public transport facilities installed a total of 74,099 lanterns spread across across the country. the country including all county headquarters and major urban centres. The implementation  The provision of adequate public lighting of the project will continue to cover more towns has helped improve security by deterring and public areas. 5. Enhancing efficiency smart metering project also targets domestic During the year our overall system efficiency customers consuming more than 500 units per improved to 81.1 percent up from 80.6 percent month. The project is aimed at ensuring accurate the previous year translating to approximately and timely customer billing while securing our Shs 700 million in revenue gains. The revenue and enhancing efficiency through improvement is largely attributed to remote monitoring and operation of meters. focused network maintenance efforts, line Smart meters have capability to generate real reinforcements, and effective metering time tamper alerts which are sent through SMS solutions, smart, outdoor and feeder metering. and email for action. Customers can also access their meter readings and consumption pattern We continued to implement smart metering data from any location through the internet. solutions for large power and small commercial This measure will also help reduce commercial customer segments in the same period. The losses leading to improved sales and revenue. Page 48 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 As at end of the year, we had installed a total engagement fora. Customers were sensitized of 5,967 outdoor smart meters in large power on safety, prepaid token vending, registration customer premises. In addition, 9,409 smart for E-bill and how to identify fraudsters who meters were installed under pilot project for masquerade as Company employees. Feedback domestic customers covering parts of Nairobi from the 2017 Customer Satisfaction Survey estates including Rosslyn, Runda, Saika and indicate the need for continued awareness Uhuru as well as the Central Business District creation initiatives. and Kariobangi Light Industries areas. The Company targets to install 55,000 smart meters for customers with consumption over 500 units per month in the next phase. In addition, we are deploying an information technology system to help manage system losses. In this regard, we have acquired an Energy Balance Module (EBM) software to help identify areas with high losses within our power network. As at the end of the year, a total of 300 feeders had been modeled in the system to enable energy balancing. We are in the process of metering 10,000 distribution transformers starting with areas that have the highest losses as guided by the EBM. Operational Performance 6. Simplify, engage and delight Strategic engagements with our customers help Our efforts to simplify electricity connection foster good relations which is critical for the process has resulted in the reduction in sustainability of our business. During the year, average connection time for new customers we held various meetings with key customers which contributed to improving the country’s notably in Nairobi, North Rift and Coast regions. business environment. Consequently, Kenya The meetings involved large power customers rose 21 places in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing drawn from various member organisations Business annual global ranking from position 113 such as Kenya Association of Manufacturers, the previous year to 92 in the year under review. Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and In particular, the Ease of Getting Electricity Industry, Kenya Association of Hotel Keepers Indicator which is one of the key measure in the and Caterers, and residents’ associations. survey, stands at an average of 106 days down from 127 days in the previous year. One of the successful initiatives from these engagements was the creation of WhatsApp During the year, we initiated a number of social media communication groups for large activities to create awareness about our power customers and residents’ associations. products with the aim of growing electricity These platforms facilitate information sharing, demand and enhancing customer experience. speedy resolution of customer complaints These initiatives include a television cookery and improved interaction between our staff show dubbed ‘Pika Na Power’ to promote use and customer. of electrical appliances for cooking. Further, as part of customer awareness campaigns, In our endeavour to delight customers, we we continued to sensitise customers about regularly conduct Customer Satisfaction our products and services through different The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 49 surveys to establish their satisfaction levels and and managed by various custodians. Towards experience with our brand and products. During this, we operationalised the Enterprise Data the year under review, we registered an overall Warehouse (EDW) and Business intelligence customer experience index of 67.8 percent with (BI) system, a technology driven system for data major drivers being improved communication mining, analysis and presentation of actionable with customers, enhanced banking hall information. The system provides historical, experience and improved power restoration. current and predictive view of business In addition, implementation of projects geared operations using data that is chartered in a data towards improving power supply quality and warehouse. In addition, the system displays real reliability helped improve the power reliability time information on selected key performance satisfaction driver from 69.4 percent to 76.7 indicators to management. percent. Further, power restoration satisfaction driver improved from 54.2 percent to 61 percent. We continued to extend our fibre network across our administrative regions to enhance system 7. Technology for business transformation communication and improve business processes.  The Company embarked on roll out of the The project involves establishing a stable Integrated Customer Management System cross-border fibre connection with Tanzania (InCMS) in the year under review. InCMS is through Namanga and alternative links with an advanced customer management system Uganda through Busia as well as a north-bound that efficiently integrates customer service link to Kapenguria in West Pokot. With increased applications such as billing, new meter long distance fibre optic links, we installed high applications, customer payment systems speed fibre optic hardware as part of improving and debt management on one platform. The corporate data, video surveillance and web based InCMS system supports remote alternative links to radio repeaters. In addition, access and operations using various platforms we installed Gig-Ethernet backbone connecting including mobile devices thus creating flexibility all regional offices and office nodes within all in operations and management while enhancing major substations to the National Control interactions with our customers. and Stima Plaza to increase data transfer rate between users and servers. All these upgrade  Availability of timely and accurate data works are beneficial to our internal operations provides the basis for sound business and provide additional business opportunities management decisions. This is more so in this to lease dark fibre to clients.n era of big data and Internet of Things where information is generated from diverse sources Page 50 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 UTENDAKAZI 1. Kuwekeza katika wafanyakazi wetu jinsi ya kushughulikia nyaya zenye umeme, Wafanyakazi wetu ndio rasilimali muhimu zaidi pia ilitekelezwa kuhakikisha ujuzi wa kiufundi kwa Kampuni na ni nguzo kuu kwa ustawi unaohitajika unapatikana na kudumishwa. Pia wa biashara. Kwa hivyo, ni muhimu kabisa tulianzisha miradi ya kuimarisha utangamano kuendelea kuwekeza katika wahudumu wetu miongoni mwa wasimamizi wakuu, wafanyakazi kama njia mwafaka ya kuleta ukuaji wa biashara. kwa jumla na kukuza walezi. Utaratibu wetu wa kusaka na kudumisha wafanyakazi inajumuisha masuala kama vile  Kampuni iliendelea kutekeleza mradi wa mishahara mizuri, ukuzaji ujuzi maalum na kutambua talanta na urithi wa nyadhifa uwezo wa kuchapa kazi, miradi yaa kutambua za usimamizi ili kuhakikisha kuna msururu na kutuza wahudumu bora, na kuimarisha wa wafanyakazi wenye talanta na ujuzi wa mazingira ya kazi. kutosha katika maeneo yote muhimu ya kazi huku wahudumu wakongwe wanapoendelea Kiwango cha utendakazi cha wafanyakazi kustaafu. Mpango huo unajumuisha mbinu kiliimarika hatua kwa nyingine katika mwaka za kusaka chipukizi wenye talanta na ujuzi wa fedha unaoangaziwa. Mgawo baina ya katika nyadhifa muhimu kama vile Wahandisi wahudumu na wateja uliimarika kutoka 1:439 Wanagenzi, ambao wataelekezwa katika desturi mwanzoni mwa mwaka hadi 1:547 kufikia zitakazowatayarisha kwa urithi. Juni 30, 2017 huku jumla ya wafanyakazi 11, 295 wakiwa wamehudumia wateja 6,182,282. Kuendelea kuwapa motisha na kutumia vilivyo Wafanyakazi wanaoshikilia nyadhifa za ujuzi wa wafanyakazi kukuza biashara, maafisa usimamizi waliendelea kuhudumu kwa kandarasi wakuu walifanya marekebisho katika malipo za utendakazi. Utendakazi wao ulitathminiwa ya wafanyakazi wanaoshikilia nyadhifa za Operational Performance kila baada ya muda fulani na mikakati ikawekwa usimamizi baada ya kupokea idhini kutoka kuimarisha hilo. Kukuza utendakazi bora zaidi, kwa Tume ya Mishahara na Marupurupu (SRC) wahudumu waliotimiza kikamilifu matakwa yao mwaka huo. Malipo ya wafanyakazi waliojiunga kuambatana na kandarasi za kazi walitambuliwa na vyama vya wafanyakazi pia yalirekebishwa katika mwaka huo. kufuatia utekelezaji wa Mkataba mpya wa Makubaliano ya Malipo (CBA). Kampuni iliongeza vituo vya kuwahudumia wateja na kufanyia ukarabati ofisi mbalimbali 2. Ukuaji sawa ili kuimarisha utendakazi wa wafanyakazi na 2.1 Kawi itakayotimiza mahitaji kuwatosheleza wateja. Mikakati hiyo ilijumuisha Mpango wetu wa kuwa na vyanzo mbalimbali kuimarisha utoaji huduma kwa kufungua ofisi vya uzalishaji kawi na kudumisha hifadhi ya za masuala ya dharura na kuimarisha kumbi za kutosha ulituwezesha kukabiliana na kipindi kuwahudumia wateja katika miji mbalimbali. kilichoshuhudia viwango vya chini vya Vile vile, Kampuni iliendelea kukarabati ofisi maji kutokana na mvua duni zilizonyesha. kuu za kanda mjini Kisumu, Nakuru na jumba Maji katika hifadhi mbili kubwa, Turkwel la Electricity House mjini Nairobi. Pia tulianza na Masinga, yalipungua maji hadi mita shughuli ya kukarabati katika karakana na 1,106 na 1,036 matawalia kutoka sakafu ya mabohari yetu ili kuimarisha utendakazi na bahari (sea level) ikilinganishwa na viwango thamani ya mali hizo. vya chini zaidi vinavyohitajika ili kuzalisha umeme: 1,105m na 1,037m mtawalia kutoka sakafu ya bahari. Tofauti na awali ambapo Kuimarisha uongozi na usimamizi wa biashara, hali ama hiyo ingeathiri mno uzalishaji Kampuni ilitekeleza mipango ya kukuza uongozi umeme, tulitumia kawi inayozalishwa na kuleta mabadiliko ya desturi kwa kulinganisha kutokana na mvuke na kawi inayozalishwa na viwango vya ubora vya taasisi zingine kutokana na joto ili kutimiza mahitaji ya maarufu ulimwenguni moja kwa moja ama umeme ya wateja na hivyo kuzuia kukatiza kupitia elimu ya kidijitali (e-learning). Mipango uzalishaji umeme ama kununua umeme wa mingine maalum ya kiufundi kama vile mafunzo dharura kwa bei ghali. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 51  Katika kipindi kinachoangaziwa, umeme 2.2 Kuongeza idadi ya wateja wetu uliotokana na mvuke ulichangia asilimia 44  Misingi ya kudumu kwa biashara yetu ya jumla ya kawi iliyonununuliwa, ama 4,451 inapatikana katika uwezo wetu wa kuzidisha GWh. Kawi iliyozalishwa kutokana na nguvu mgawo wa soko tunaomiliki na kuimarisha za maji ilitoa 3,341 GWh za umeme ama ubora wa huduma wanazotaka wateja wetu. asilimia 33. Mchango wa kawi inayotokana na Kuhusiana na hilo, tulijizatiti vilivyo kukuza joto iliongezeka hadi asilimia 21 ya kawi yote idadi ya wateja na kuendeleza mpango iliyozalishwa, kutoka asilimia 13 mwaka awali. wetu kabambe wa kutoa umeme kwa wateja Kiwango cha kawi iliyonunuliwa kutoka nje, wapya milioni moja. Mpango huo uliokuwa ambayo kwa wingi ilitoka nchi jirani ya Uganda, ukiendeshwa kwa mwaka wa pili mfululizo, iliongezeka hadi asilimia 1.8 kutoka asilimia 0.7 unanuia kuzidisha kiwango cha mapato mwaka awali. tunayokusanya na kukuza ustawi wa uchumi wa jamii. Jumla ya MegaWati (MW) 317.5 za kawi mpya ziliundwa mwaka huo huku 15 MW zikiongezwa Mradi wa Last Mile Connectivity Project kwenye mtandao wa kitaifa wa mitambo ya ulioanza kutekelezwa mwaka awali ili kusambaza umeme. Kiwango hiki kilijumuisha kuharakisha shughuli ya kutoa umeme 10 MW za kawi ya mvuke kutoka kiwanda cha kwa wananchi, uliendelezwa katika kipindi KenGen Olkaria Wellheads mjini Naivasha, kinachoangaziwa. Mradi huo unafadhiliwa 5 MW za kawi ya maji kutoka kiwanda cha na Serikali ya Kitaifa kwa ushirikiano na Teremi GenPro katika Kaunti ya Bungoma. wafadhili wengine ikiwemo benki ya African Viwanda viwili vya maji Chania, 0.5MW Gura, Development Bank (AfDB), Benki ya Dunia, 2MW vilivyotengenezwa na Halmashauri ya shirika la French Development Agency Ustawi wa Maji Chai (KTDA) katika Murang’a (AFD) na shirika la the European Investment na Nyeri viliendelea kufanyiwa majaribio kabla Bank. Mradi huo wa LMC unawalenga ya uzinduzi katika mwaka uliomalizika. Vile hasa wananchi wanaoishi mashambani na vile, 300 MW za kawi inayozalishwa kutokana makazi duni mijini ili kuimarisha maisha yao na upepo ziliundwa katika kiwanda cha na kuchochea ukuaji wa uchumi miongoni Loiyangalani, Kaunti ya Marsabit, cha shirika mwa wananchi hao wa pato la chini. Serikali la Lake Turkana Wind Power. Kiwanda hicho imepata ufadhili wa jumla ya Shs 65 bilioni kitaunganishwa kwa mtandao wa kitaifa wa zitakazotumika kuwqapa umeme wateja mitambo ya kusambaza umeme baada ya wapya 1.2 milioni katika miaka mitatu ijayo. kukamilika kwa ujenzi wa kebo ya kilomita Katika mwaka wa fedha unaoangaziwa na 324 ya kubeba umeme, ujenzi unaofanywa ripoti hii, jumla ya wateja wapya 49,813 na kampuni ya Kenya Electricity Transmission walipokea umeme kwenye awamu ya Company. Fursa ya kuwepo kwa kawi inayoweza kwanza ya mradi huo iliyofadhiliwa na benki kutumika tena (renewable) itapanua aina za ya AfDB. kawi tunazozalisha nchini na hivyo kuimarisha uwezo wetu wa kutoa umeme wa kudumu na vile vile kutimiza mahitaji ya wateja 2.3 Kuimarisha mauzo ya umeme yanayozidi kuongezeka.  Katika mwaka huo wa fedha, mauzo ya umeme yaliongezeka kwa asilimia 4.5 hadi 8,272 GWh kutoka 7,912 GWh mwaka awali. Mahitaji ya umeme yaliongezeka kwa asilimia Ukuaji huu ulitokana na ongezeko la mauzo 4.4 kutoka MW 1,586 mwaka uliotangulia miongoni mwa viwango mbalimbali vya hadi MW 1,656 mwaka uliopita ikilinganishwa wateja wetu: umeme unaotumiwa nyumbani na kiwango cha uzalishaji cha MW2,333 na ulikuwa asilimia 6.5; umeme unaotumiwa MW2,259 mtawalia. Kiwango cha sasa cha na biashara ndogo ulikuwa asilimia 4.2; uzalishaji na usambazaji kinatoa akiba kiasi kwa umeme unaotumiwa na viwanda ulikuwa mahitaji ya dharura na kutosheleza mahitaji ya asilimia 3.8; umeme unaotumiwa na taa za ziada ya umeme kwa kipindi kifupi. barabarani ulikuwa asilimia 41.6 Kiwango Page 52 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 cha ongezeko la mauzo hayo kilikuwa juu yetu, tulifanya uchunguzi kote nchini kiasi kuliko mwaka awali wa asilimia 3.4. kubaini kwanini wateja walio na mita za kulipia ada mbeleni hawanunui tena umeme Kiwango cha ongezeko la mauzo, hata hivyo, tangu mita hizo kuwekwa. Kufikia mwisho kilikuwa chini ya matarajio yetu hususan wa mwaka, asilimia 57 ya mita hizo zilikuwa kutokana na kudidimia kiasi kwa matumizi zimechunguzwa na kusababisha kupatikana ya umeme na wateja wapya wa nyumbani, kwa mapato ya Shs 11.2 milioni. lakini inatazamiwa kuwa wataendelea 3. Kuimarisha utendakazi wa mitambo kutumia umeme mwingi zaidi wakinunua 3.1 Kuwekeza katika mtandao wa mitambo ya vifaa vyaa nyumbani vinavyotumia umeme. kusambaza umeme Vile vile, mauzo ya umeme wa viwandani Katika mwaka unaoangaziwa, miradi kadha ambayo ulichangia asilimia 51 ya mauzo wa kadha ya kupanua mtandao wa mitambo ya mwaka mzima ulipanda kwa kiasi tu. ya kusambaza umeme ilitekelezwa. Jumla Hii ilitokana na kuathirika kwa urahisi kwa ya vituo vipya 6 vidogo na vituo 22 vidogo mazingira ya uchumi wa kitaifa hususan vilivyofanyiwa ukarabati vilikamilika na kwa sababu ya kudorora kwa sekta ya hivyo kuzidisha kiwango cha umeme utengenezaji bidhaa. Hatua ya wateja kilichosambazwa kwa 638 MVA, ambazo kuanza kutumika kwa teknoloji zinazotumia zinatosha kuhudumia nyumba zaidi ya vyema zaidi kawi pia ilichangia ukuaji 200,000. Vile vile, kilomita 5,565 za nyaya mdogo katika matumizi ya umeme. zinazobeba umeme wa kadri ziliundwa mwaka huo. Kama sehemu ya juhudi za kulinda mapato Operational Performance Miradi inayoendelea ya mtaji mkubwa Matokeo Hali kufikia Miradi Malengo yanayotarajiwa Upeo Juni 30, 2017 Upanuzi wa mtandao wa mitambo ya umeme KEMP Kuimarisha Kuzidisha uwezo Uwezo wa kubeba Unaendelea Vituo vidogo 36 uwezo wa wa kubeba 575.5 MVA vya mitambo na kusambaza umeme zaidi nyaya zake umeme Kilomita 1109 za nyaya za MV Unafadhiliwa na Kenya Power Kituo kidogo Utoaji huduma Kupungua kwa Kituo kidogo Kituo kidogo cha mitambo thabiti kwa jiji visa vya umeme cha 220/66kV kimekamilika cha 220/66kV la Nairobi kupotea, umeme chenye uwezo wa katikati mwa thabiti, utoaji 400MVA Kebo ya Nairobi huduma bora chini ardhini Kebo ya chini inaendelea Unafadhiliwa ardhini ya kilomita na China-EXIM 16 na uwezo wa bank 220kV Kuimarisha Kuimarisha Huduma za Vituo vidogo 2 Unaendelea mtandao wa na kustawisha kutegemewa, (92MVA) mitambo ya mtandao wa kupungua kwa umeme mitambo ya visa vya umeme Kebo za kilomita umeme kupotea 25km chini ardhini Kebo ya chini zenye uwezo wa ardhini ya 66kV 66kV kwa jiji la Nairobi Unafadhiliwa na China-EXIM bank The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 53 Matokeo Hali kufikia Miradi Malengo yanayotarajiwa Upeo Juni 30, 2017 Kituo kidogo Huduma Kupungua kwa Kituo kidogo Unaendelea cha mitambo thabiti visa vya kupotea cha 220/66kV cha 220/66kV Magharibi na kwa umeme, chenye uwezo wa cha Thika Road Kaskazini mwa kiwango thabiti 400MVA Nairobi cha umeme, Unafadhiliwa na huduma bora Kebo za 66kV Kampuni Ukarabati wa Huduma Kupungua kwa Kuwekwa kwa Unaendelea kituo kidogo thabiti katika visa vya kupotea swichi ya 11kV cha mitambo kisiwa cha kwa umeme, & 33kV ya cha 132/33kV Mombasa na umeme mbadala, Gas Insulated cha Kipevu Kaskazini mwa huduma bora na Switchgear Pwani za kutegemewa (GIS) pamoja Unafadhiliwa na na mitambo Kampuni ya kusambaza umeme (feeders) Kuimarisha mtandao wa mitambo ya umeme kuwa ya kisasa Utunzi wa nyaya Kuimarisha Kupungua Ununuzi wa vifaa Makundi 12 zenye umeme ubora wa kwa hitilafu za vya kutunza nyaya yameanza huduma, mitambo, shughuli zenye umeme shughuli katika Unafadhiliwa na kupunguza za kutunza nyaya Kuunda maabara awamu ya I Benki ya Dunia muda ambao zenye umeme ya nyaya zenye umeme umeme Makundi 24 utachukua ya awamu ya kabla kurejea II yanapokea mafunzo Kuimarisha Kupungua kwa Operesheni Vituo vidogo Unaendelea SCADA/EMS na gharama za zinazojiendesha, 60 vya ziada kuweka vifaa operesheni, kupungua kwa vyaongezwa kwa vinavyojiendesh wepesi wa visa vya umeme SCADA mtandao kutoweka Unafadhiliwa na kukubali Benki ya Dunia mabadiliko Kuimarishwa Mfumo ulio Mitambo ya Kuwekwa kwa Ununuzi wa kwa mfumo mwepesi usambazaji swichi 1,000 swichi na vifaa wa usambazaji kukubali umeme zinazojiendesha unaendelea umeme ili kuwa mabadiliko, inayojiendesha za kudhibiti rahisi kukubali kupungua kwa na mfumo ulio umeme (load mabadiliko visa vya hitilafu rahisi kufanyiwa break switches) za mitambo marekebisho Unafadhiliwa na Benki ya Dunia Kupunguza hasara Kulinda mapato Kupunguza Mapato Kuweka mita Ununuzi wa kupitia mita hasara zisizo yaliyolindwa na za AMI kwa mita na vifaa za kisasa za kiufundi, kuwepo kwa bili wateja 44,300 unaendelea zinazojiendesha linda mapato sahihi wanaotumia umeme mwingi na Unafadhiliwa na kadri Benki ya Dunia Upatikanaji umeme Page 54 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Matokeo Hali kufikia Miradi Malengo yanayotarajiwa Upeo Juni 30, 2017 Awamu 1 ya Kuimarisha Ongezeko la idadi Wateja wapya Jumla ya wateja Last Mile idadi ya watu ya wateja 314,200 49,813 wapya wanaopata wamepata Unafadhiliwa na umeme umeme benki ya AfDB Awamu 2 ya Kuimarisha Ongezeko la idadi Wateja wapya Utekelezaji Last Mile idadi ya watu ya wateja 296,000 mradi wanaopata unaendelea Unafadhiliwa na umeme Benki ya Dunia Awamu 2 ya Kuimarisha Ongezeko la idadi Wateja wapya Utekelezaji Last Mile idadi ya watu ya wateja 255,000 mradi wanaopata unaendelea Unafadhiliwa na umeme benki ya AfDB Awamu 3 ya Kuimarisha Ongezeko la idadi Wateja wapya Shughuli Last Mile idadi ya watu ya wateja 296,649 ya kusaka wanaopata mwanakandarasi Unafadhiliwa na umeme wa kusimamia AFD/EU/EIB mradi inaendelea Kuongeza idadi Kuimarisha Ongezeko la idadi Transfoma 1,000 Utekelezaji ya transfoma idadi ya watu ya transfoma mradi wanaopata unaendelea Operational Performance Unafadhiliwa na umeme benki ya AfDB KEMP-Kenya Electricity Modernisation Programme EU-European Union WB-World Bank UG-Underground AFD-French Development Agency SCADA/EMSSupervisory Control & Data AfDB-African Development Bank Acquisition/Energy Management System EIB-European Investment Bank CBD-Central Business District AMI-Automatic Metering Infrastructure 3.2 Umeme unaotokana na miyale ya jua katika K-OSAP inalenga kutoa umeme kwa nyumba maeneo ya yasiyo na umeme 1.3 milioni ambazo hazijaunganishwa   Mradi wa kutoa umeme wa jua katika kwenye mtandao wa kitaifa wa mitambo ya maeneo yasiyo na umeme, Kenya Offkusambaza umeme wala mitandao midogo Grid Solar Access Project (K-OSAP), ni iliyopo. Kampuni itakuwa mpokeaji wa kawi mradi wa pamoja wa Serikali ya Kitaifa itakayozalishwa, msimamizi wa mtandao na Benki ya Dunia unaonuia kuimarisha wa usambazaji umeme huo na mtoaji uttoaji huduma za kawi katika kaunti zisizo umeme husika katika maeneo 86 ya mbali na huduma hizo nchini Kenya. Mradi huo, yaliyotambuliwa. Mradi huo utafadhiliwa ulioanza kutekelezwa katika mwaka wa na Benki ya Dunia kwa gharama ya fedha unaoangaziwa, unafadhili utoaji vifaa Shs 16 bilioni. vya kuzalisha umeme wa jua katika kaunti 14 zisizo na huduma za umeme. Kaunti hizi ni 3.3 Huduma thabiti za kutegemewa pamoja na Garissa, Isiolo, Kilifi, Kwale, Lamu, Katika mwaka unaoangaziwa, tulitumia Mandera, Marsabit, Narok, Samburu, Taita mbinu mbili za kubaini visa vya kupotea Taveta, Tana River, Turkana, Wajir, na Pokot kwa umeme na muda uliochukua kabla Magharibi. umeme kurejea. Mbinu ya System The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 55 Average Interruption Frequency Index kutakuwa na visa vichache vya kutoweka (SAIFI) ilirekodi visa 3.78 vya kupotea kwa umeme. kwa umeme vilivyoripotiwa na wateja katika kipindi cha mwezi mmoja, dhidi ya Miradi mingine iliyotekelezwa katika mwaka visa 4 vilivyotazamiwa kuripotiwa kwa huo wa fedha ilihusu shughuli za kutunza mwezi. Nayo mbinu ya Customer Average mitambo ya kusambaza umeme ambayo Interruption Duration Index (CAIDI) ilipata hukumbwa na hitilafu za mara kwa mara, kuwa wateja walisubiri muda wa saa 5.66 kuimarisha utunzi wa maeneo kunakopitia kabla umeme kurejea, dhidi ya saa 6 nyaya za kusambaza umeme, kutunza zilizotazamiwa. Vipimo hivyo vilithibitishwa transfoma za kusambaza umeme, kuendelea na matokeo ya Utafiti wa Kutathmini kuweka mitambo ya kisasa inayojiendesha Kiwango cha Kuridhika cha Wateja katika mfumo wa usambazaji umeme na uliofanywa Juni 2017 ambao ulionyesha kuanza utunzi wa nyaya zenye umeme wa kuwa idadi ya visa vya kupotea kwa umeme kiwango cha kadri. ilikuwa imepungua. 3.4 Kulinda mali zetu Matokeo hayo yalitokana na utekelezaji wa Tunapopanua huduma zetu na kuongeza mikakati mbalimbali ya usimamizi bora wa idadi ya wateja kote nchini, visa vya wizi mitambo ya umeme ili kuimarisha ubora wa vifaa vingali changamoto sugu kwa na upatikanaji wa umeme. Mikakati hiyo biashara yetu kwani huchangia kutoweka inajumuisha shughuli za kukarabati saketi kwa umeme na hivyo kuwaletea bughudha na transfoma zilizoshindwa kuhimili umeme wateja wetu jambo ambalo hupunguza kupita kiasi, na kufanya utunzi wa mitambo mauzo yetu ya umeme. Kupitia misako ya katika maeneo inayokumbwa na matatizo mara kwa mara na ulinzi mkali wa mitambo ya kiufundi. Vile vile, tuliweka nyaya za ziada yetu, tulishuhudia kupungua kwa visa vya za usambazaji na unganishi ili kurahisisha wizi wa transfoma, vipitishi umeme na vifaa shughuli ya kuhamisha umeme kutoka kebo vingine katika mwaka huo wa fedha. Idadi moja hadi nyingine na hivyo kuhakikisha ya visa vya wizi wa transfoma ilipungua wateja wanapata umeme hata wakati nwa kutoka 222 mwaka awali hadi 133 mwaka shughuli za ukarabati. wa fedha unaoangaziwa, hii ikiwa ni asilimia 40 ya kupungua kwa visa hivyo.  Huduma za umeme zinapoongezeka, shughuli ya utathmini, udhibiti na usimamizi Aidha, tuliimarisha ulinzi wa mali zingine inakuwa nzito zaidi. Hivo, Kampuni iliendelea muhimu za Kampuni na kuzidi kutumia kutekeleza mfumo wa usimamizi bora wa teknolojia za kisasa za kubaini na kuzuia kawi kwa jina Supervisory Control and Data uhalifu ikiwemo kuweka kamera za CCTV. Acquisition (SCADA) ili kuwezesha kutumika Hatua hizi zimechangia kupungua kwa kwa mitambo ya kisasa inayojiendesha na idadi ya visa kutoka 27 mwaka awali hadi hivyo kutoa fursa ya kuendesha operesheni 14 katika mwaka unaoangaziwa. Vile vile, za mitambo hiyo kutoka mbali. Mwaka kwa ushirikiano na Kituo cha Kitaifa cha huo huo, tulizidisha idadi ya vituo vidogo Kupambana na Ugaidi, wafanyakazi wetu vinavyoweza kuendeshwa kutoka mbali wapokea mafunzo kuhusu usalama na kutoka 160 hadi 182 baada ya kukamilika ugaidi ili kuimarisha ujuzi wao wa usalama. kwa shughuli ya ukarabati katika vituo vidogo 12. Mradi wa SCADA unajumuisha 4. Kusaidia uchumi wa saa 24 awamu ya pili ya kuweka mitambo ya kisasa Tuliendelea na utekelezaji wa Mradi wa Kitaifa inayojiendesha katika ukanda wa Pwani, wa Kuweka taa maeneo ya umma ulioanzishwa shughuli ambayo ilikamilika katika kipindi na Serikali mnamo 2014 kutoa mazingira bora kinachoangaziwa katika ripoti hii. Mradi huo kwa biashara kuendelea kwa saa 24. Mradi utachangia pakubwa katika usimamizi bora huo unaotekelezwa kwa gharama ya wa mitambo na kuimarisha mauzo kwani Page 56 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Shs 10.3 bilioni kufikia mwisho wa mwaka, wanaotumia umeme mwingi. Isitoshe, mita unahusisha kuweka umeme katika maeneo 9,409 za kisasa ziliwekwa chini ya mpango muhimu ya kiviwanda, vituo vya kibiashara, wa majaribio kwa wateja wa nyumbani katika makazi, barabarani, vituo vya reli na vituo vya mitaa ya jiji la Nairobi ikiwemo, Runda, Rosslyn, magari ya usafiri kote nchini. Saika na Uhuru pamoja na maeneo ya katikati mwa mwa jiji na Kariobangi Light Industries. Utoaji umeme wa kutosha umesaidia kuimarisha Kampuni inalenga kuweka mita 55,000 kwa usalama kwa kuzuia visa vya uhalifu, kulinda wateja wanaotumia zaidi ya vipimo 500 kwa mali na kufanya raia kujihisi salama. Utekelezaji mwezi katika awamu nyingine. ulifaulu wa Mradi wa Kitaifa wa Usambazaji Umeme maeneo ya Umma ulisaidia kuongeza Vile vile, tutapeleka mfumo mpya wa teknolojia mauzo ya umeme kwa asilimia 41.6 chini ya ya mawasiliano kusaidia kupunguza hasara ya mpango wa kusambaza umeme barabarani umeme kwenye mtandao wetu. katika mwaka uliomalizika. Kwa mintaarafu hii, tumenunua mitambo ya Kufikia mwisho wa mwaka unaoangaziwa, Energy Balance Module (EBM) kutusaidia tulikuwa tumeweka taa 74,099 kote nchini kutambua maeneo yanayokumbwa na hasara zikiwemo makao makuu ya kaunti na vituo ya umeme kwenye mtandao wetu. Kufukia vikubwa vya kibiashara. Utekelezaji wa mpango mwisho wa mwaka, jumla ya vituo vidogo huu utaendelea katika miji zaidi na maeneo 300 vilikuwa vimeunganishwa na mitambo ili ya umma. kudhibiti umeme.Tumo njiani kuweka mita kwa transfoma za usambazaji 10,000 tukianza na 5. Kuimarisha ufanisi maeneo ambapo tunapata hasara kubwa ya Operational Performance Katika mwaka uliomalizika, ufanisi wa mitambo umeme kama tutakavyoongozwa na EBM. yetu uliimarika kutoka asilimia 81.1 kutoka asilimia 80.6 katika mwaka uliotangulia na 6. Rahisisha, jadiliana na furahisha hivyo nyongeza ya mapato ya Shs 700 milioni.   Juhudi zetu za kurahisha utaratibu wa Kuimarika huku kulitokana na jitihada za kuunganishwa na umeme zimesaidia kupunguza kukarabati mtandao wetu wa umeme na kuweka kipindi cha wastani cha kusambazia wateja mita zinazofanya kazi na mita za kielektroniki na wapya umeme hali iliyoboresha mazingira ya zile za nje. kibiashara. Hivyo basi, Kenya ilipanda ngazi 21 kwenye mizani ya Benki ya Dunia ya kuangazia Tuliendelea kweka mita za kisasa kwa wateja urahisi wa kuendesha Biashara ikilinganishwa wakuu kwa wadogo katika kipindi hicho. Mita na nafasi ya 113 hadi 92 katkka kipindi hizo za kisasa pia zitapelekwa wa wateja wa tunachoangazia. Hasa, kiashirio cha urahisi wa nyumbani wanaotumia zaidi ya vipimo 500, kwa kupata umeme ambacho ni kiungo muhimu mwezi. Mradi huu unalenga kuhakikisha kuwa kwenye uchunguzi huo, kimo katika siku 106 wateja wanatumiwa bili zifaazo na kwa wakati kutoka 127 mwaka uliotangulia. ufaao ili kuongeza mapato na kufuatilia kwa mbali matumizi ya umeme ya wateja wetu. Mita Katika mwaka uliomalizika, tulianzisha shughuli hizo za kisasa zina uwezo wa kutupasha habari mbalimbali za kuhamasisha umma kuhusu endapo kutakuwa na jaribio la kuzivuruga. Hii ni bidhaa zetu kwa lengo la kuongeza mahitaji kupitia ujumbe wa SMS au baruapepe. Wateja ya umeme na kuridhisha wateja. Shughuli hizo pia wanaweza kufuatilia vipimo vya umeme ni pamoja na kipindi cha televisheni cha upishi walivyotumia kutoka eneo lolote kupitia kwa ‘Pika Na Power’ kukuza matumizi ya vifaa vya intaneti. Hatua hii pia itasaidia kupunguza umeme katika upishi. Vilevile, kama sehemu ya hasara na hivyo kuongeza mauzo na mapato. kampeni za kuhamasisha wateja kuhusu bidhaa na huduma zetu, tuliendelea kutumia majukwaa Kufikia mwisho wa mwaka, tulikuwa tumeweka tofauti. Wateja walielimishwa kuhusu usalama, mita za kisasa 5,967 katika makazi ya wateja kujinunulia kadi za umeme, kujisajili kutumiwa The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 57 simu kwa njia ya simu na namna ya kutambua uliomalizika. InCMS ni mfumo wa kiwango walaghai wanaojifanya wafanyikazi wa Kampuni. cha juu ambao unaunganisha huduma zote za Maoni kutoka uchunguzi wa kuridhika kwa wateja kama vile bili, maombi ya mita mpya, wateja 2017 yaonyesha shughuli zaidi za kutoa malipo ya wateja na kufuatilia madeni kwenye uhamasisho zinahitajika. jukwaa moja. Kutangamana na wateja wetu husaidia kukuza  Mfumo huu ambao hutumia mtandao wa uhusiano mwema ambao ni kiungo muhimu intaneti unasaidia kusoma mita na kuwasiliana katika uendelezaji wa biashara yetu. Katika na wateja kutoka mbali kwa kutumia vifaa mwaka uliomalizika, tuliandaa mikutano tofauti tofauti kama vile simu za mkononi na kurahisha na wateja muhimu hasa maeneo ya Nairobi, operesheni zetu na usimamizi huku tukiimarisha North Rift na Pwani. Mikutano hiyo ilihusisha utangamano wetu na wateja. wateja wakubwa kutoka vyama washirika kama vile Kenya Association of Manufacturers, Kenya  Uwepo wa data sahihi kwa wakati ufaao National Chamber of Commerce and Industry, huwezesha maamuzi muhimu ya kibiashara Kenya Association of Hotel Keepers and kufanywa. Hali hii ipo hasa enzi hizi za data Caterers, na vyama vya wakazi. nyingi na intaneti ambapo taarifa inatolewa kupitia vyanzo mbalimbali na kusimamiwa na Mojawapo ya ufanisi wa shughuli hii ni kuundwa watu tofauti. Kutokana na hili, tulianza kutumia kwa makundi kwenye mtandao wa WhatsApp mifumo ya Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) kwa wateja wakubwa na vyama vya wakazi. na Business intelligence (BI), mfumo wa Majukwaa haya hutoa nafasi ya kugawana teknolojia wa kusaka data, kuchanganua na habari, na kutatua kwa haraka malalamishi ya kuwasilisha taarifa inayoweza kutumika. Vile wateja na kunboresha uhusiano wa wafanyikazi vile, mitambo huonyesha papo hapo maelezo wetu na mteja. kuhusu vigezo muhimu vya usimamizi. Katika jitihada zetu za kufurahisa wateja, huwa Tuliendelea kupanua mtandao wetu wa faida tunafanya uchunguzi wa maka kwa mara kuhusu katika maeneo yote tunakohudumu ili kuimarisha kuridhika kwa wateja na ufahamu wao wa mawasiliano na kuboresha taratibu za kibiashara. kampuni na bidhaa zetu. Mradi huo unahusisha ujenzi wa mtandao wa faiba kuunganisha Tanzania kupitia Namanga na  Katika mwaka uliomalizika, tulipata asilimia njia mbadala ya Uganda kupitia Busia pamoja na 67.8 ya kuridhishwa kwa wateja kutokana na njia ya eneo la kaskazini hadi Kapenguria, West kuimarisha mawasiliano na wateja, kuboresha Pokot. Kutokana na kuongezeka kwa nyaya za huduma katika eneo la kufanyia malipo faiba, tuliweka vifaa vya kuwezesha intaneti na kuboresha kasi ya kurudisha umeme yenye kasi kama sehemu ya kuimarisha data ya unapokatika. Isitoshe, utekelezaji wetu wa mashirika, kufuatilia kwa njia ya video na mbinu miradi inayolenga kuimarisha usambazaji mbadala za kutumia redio. Vile vile, tuliweka umeme na kuufanya kuwa wa kutegemewa mitambo mikubwa ya Gig-Ethernet kuunganisha ulisaidia kuimarisha vipimo vya kuridhika kwa afisi zote za kimaeneo na kiunganishi cha afisi wateja kutoka asilimia 69.4 hadi asilimia 76.7. zetu katika vituo vyote vikubwa na Kituo cha Kitaifa na Stima Plaza ili kuongeza kiwango cha kusambaza data kati ya watumiaji na mitambo Pia kipimo cha kuridhika kwa wateja kuhusu yetu. Uboreshaji huu wote una manufaa kwa kurejeshwa kwa umeme kuliimarika kutoka operesheni zetu za ndani na kutoa nafasi zaidi asilimia 54.2 hadi asilimia 61. za kibiashara ili kukodisha faiba kwa wateja.n 7. Teknolojia kwa mabadiliko ya kibiashara Kampuni ilianzisha mfumo wa kushughulikia wateja kwa pamoja Integrated Customer Management System (InCMS) katika mwaka Page 58 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Last Mile Connectivity Project As part of our “Universal Access to electricity by 2020” agenda we’ve joined hands with the Government and development partners in the implementation of the Last Mile Connectivity Project. The Project provides subsidised connection costs for customers in rural and peri-urban areas thereby improving livelihoods. Align. Grow. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited AnnualTransform. Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Business sustainability is increasingly becoming an The Company is working towards adopting integral part of corporate strategy that guarantees sustainability reporting and entrenching a company’s long-term viability. A sustainable sustainability pillars in our business strategy business effectively manages its financial, and processes according to international best social and environmental risks, obligations and practice. In this regard, we are developing opportunities. Sustainability reporting, therefore, a comprehensive sustainability framework which will entails measurement, disclosure and accountability provide guidelines for the introduction, development to both internal and external stakeholders towards and maintenance of proactive financial, social sustainable development objectives. and environmental management processes and procedures. Our inaugural sustainability report will Sustainability reporting builds a company’s trust be published in the current financial year. by enhancing transparency about non-financial performance that can help to reduce reputational Our sustainability reporting framework will be risks, opens dialogue with all stakeholders anchored in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and demonstrate leadership, openness and guidelines which identifies three thematic factors accountability. In addition, internal management for electric companies: economic, environmental and decision-making processes can be examined and social. The framework will spell out overarching and improved, leading to cost reductions by issues to the sector which include electric utility measuring and monitoring key identified issues. regulation and market structure, stakeholder It also offers comprehensive analysis of strengths engagements and contracting and supply chain and weaknesses leading to more robust and practices. We will adopt a comprehensive materiality wide-ranging organisational visions and strategies. assessment in each sustainability factors to identify priority issues and their importance to stakeholders and impact on our business. Some of the material issues to be considered in the sustainability framework are included in the matrix below: Sustainability Highlights Measures Economic/Financial (i) Investments in expansion and maintenance of network infrastructure (ii) P rocurement of power generation capacity (iii) System efficiency (iv) Electricity pricing (v) Electricity demand management (vi) Technology and innovations (vii) Supply quality and reliability (viii) Sector regulation and market structure (ix) Legal and regulatory compliance (x) Contracting and supply chain practices Environmental (i) Environmental emissions from generation plants (ii) Infrastructure impact on flora and fauna (iii) Network aesthetics/visual impact (iv) Contribution to climate change (v) Demand side management Social (i) Availability and reliability of power supply (ii) Access to and affordability of electricity (iii) Employee and public safety/health (iv) Corporate Social Investment (v) Employee development (vi) Employee practices/ethics (vii) Consistency with community goals and values (vii) Stakeholder engagement Page 60 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Our goal is to elevate sustainability in the Company’s corporate governance by embedding it in our operational processes going forward, sustained by open reporting on sustainability strategies, goals and accomplishments. The report will inform us on areas of performance improvements as identified in the sustainability goals across the entire value chain including power generation, transmission, distribution and retail of electricity.n Sustainability Reporting The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 61 RIPOTI KUHUSU UENDELEVU WA KIBIASHARA Uendelevu wa kibiashara unazidi kuwa sehemu Kenya Power inalenga kukumbatia ripoti kuhusu muhimu ya mkakati wa kampuni kuhakikisha uendelevu na kudumisha nguzo za uendelezaji hali ya baadaye ya Kampuni. Biashara endelevu katika mkakati wetu wa biashara na taratibu kwa husimamia fedha zake vizuri, hudhibiti hatari za mujibu wa viwango vya kimataifa vya ubora. Kufuatia kijamii na kimazingira pamoja na kutimiza malengo hali hii. Kampuni inaunda mfumo mahususi kuhus yake na matarajio ya kibiashara. Hivyo, ripoti uendelezaji ambao utatoa mwongozo kwa uzinduzi, kuhusu uendelevu wa biashara hujumuisha kupima, ustawi na utunzaji wa kanuni za usimamizi wa fedha, kutangaza na uwajibikaji kwa washikadau wote kijamii na kimazingira. Ripoti yetu ya kwanza kuhusu nje na ndani ya kampuni ili kuunda malengo ya uendelevu itachapishwa katika kipindi cha sasa cha maendeleo ya kudumishwa. matumizi ya fedha. Ripoti kuhusu uendelevu wa kibiashara hukuza imani Mfumo wetu wa kuripoti uendelevu utajikita katika ya Kampuni kwa kuimarisha uwazi kuhusu matokeo miongozo ya Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) yasiyohusisha fedha na hivyo kuiwezesha kusaidia ambayo inatambua mada tatu kuu kwa kampuni kupunguza kuchafuka kwa sifa zake, kufungua za umeme: Uchumi, mazingira na jamii. Mfumo huo milango ya mazungumzo na wahusika wote na utaangazia maswala muhimu yanayoathiri sekta kudhihirisha uongozi, uwazi na uwajibikaji. Isitoshe, ikiwa ni pamoja na sheria za uzalishaji umeme na tararibu za usimamizi wa ndani na za kufanya muundo wa soko, mikataba na wahusika na taratibu maamuzi zinaweza kuchunguzwa na kuboreshwa, za kupeana kandarasi na ununuzi. Tutakumbatia na hivyo kupunguza gharama kwa kupima na tathmini kabambe katika fani zote kuhusu uendelevu kufuatilia masuala muhimu yaliyotambuliwa. kutambua masuala ya kupewa kipaumbele na Pia inatoa uchanganuzi wa uwezo na udhaifu na umuhimu wao kwa washikadau na athari zao kwa hivyo kuwezesha uundaji wa mikakati kabambe biashara zetu.. katika usimamizi. Baadhi ya masuala muhimu yatakayotiliwa maanani kwenye mfumo huo yamo kwenye jedwali ifuatayo: Maelezo kuhusu uendelevu Hatua Uchumi/Kifedha (i) Uwekezaji katika upanuzi na utunzaji wa mtandao wetu (ii) Ununuzi wa mitambo ya kuongeza uzalishaji umeme (iii) Ufanisi wa mitambo (iv) Bei ya umeme (iv) Usimamizi wa mahitaji ya umeme (vi) Teknolojia na ubunifu (vii) Ubora wa usambazaji na utegemeaji (viii) Usimamizi wa sekta na muundo wa soko (xi) Uzingatiaji wa sheria na kanuni (x) Taratibu za utoaji tenda na uagizaji Mazingira (i) Uchafuzi wa mazingira kutoka kwa viwanda vyetu (ii) Athari ya muundomsingi kwa mimea na wanyama (iii) Mvuto wa mtandao/athari ya mvuto (iv) Mchango wetu kwa mabadiliko ya hali ya anga Jamii (i) Uwepo wa umeme na wa kutegemewa (ii) Usambazaji wa umeme nafuu (iii) Wafanyikazi na usalama wa umma/afya (iv) Uwekezaji katika uwajibikaji kwa jamii (v) Ustawi wa wafanyikazi (vi) Utendakazi wa wafanyikazi na maadili (vii) Kuzingatia kwa dhati malengo na maadili ya jamii (viii) Kushirikisha washikadau Lengo letu ni kukuza uendelevu katika maongozi kuimarishwa kama ilivyotambuliwa kwenye malengo ya Kampuni kwa kuishirikisha katika taratibu zetu ya uendelevu ikiwa ni pamoja na uzalishaji wa za utendakazi siku za usoni, kwa kuweka wazi umeme, usambazaji na ugavi wa umeme na uuzaji mikakati yetu ya uendelevu, malengo na mafanikio. wa umeme kwa wateja wadogo pamoja na nyanja Ripoti itatufafanulia kuhusu nyanja ambazo zinapasa zingine za kibiashara. Page 62 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Report of the Auditor-General Diversified Generation Mix We have diversified the generation mix to mitigate the overdependence on one source of energy, thus improving reliability, reducing generation costs and improve our bottom line in the long-term. Align. Grow. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Transform. Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Commitment to good corporate governance is 1.1 The Board Charter and Manual fundamental in ensuring sustainable shareholder  The charter defines the Board’s roles and value and meeting stakeholder expectations. Our responsibilities as well as functions and structures, procedures and processes are anchored structures in a way that supports the on accountability, transparency, responsibility and members in carrying out their strategic fairness which are the tenets of good corporate oversight functions. It helps the Board in governance. Through the Board of Directors, directing the Company to maximise the the Company’s stewardship remains steadfast in long-term value of service provided for complying with statutory requirements as outlined in all stakeholders. The Board manual spells the Companies Act 2015, Capital Markets Authority out important governance arrangements Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Code including the following: of Governance for State Corporations (Mwongozo Code 2015) among others. (i)  A ppointment, skills requirement, gender mix and capacity development 1. The Board of Directors for Directors;  The Company’s Board is constituted in accordance with the provisions of our Articles (ii) Articulation of, and commitment to, of Association which provide for a maximum respect of the rights of the shareholders; of ten directors. However, in line with the (iii)  Functions and responsibilities of guidelines of the Code of Governance for State the Board, the Chairman, Managing Corporations which we ascribe to, the Board Director and Chief Executive Officer, is composed of nine members of which six are and the Company Secretary; Independent NonExecutive Directors including the Chairman, two are Non-Independent (iv) Conduct of Board and Committee Directors and one an Executive Director who is meetings; also the Managing Director and Chief Executive (v) Directors’ Code of Conduct; and Officer. Constitution of the Board considers diversity in gender, age, ethnicity and culture. (vi) Terms of reference for all Board In addition, the current Board of Directors has Committees. diverse skills and experience in the fields of law, engineering, economics, investment advisory, 1.2 Responsibilities of the Board finance, community development as well as   The responsibility of driving good business management. governance and stewardship of the Company is vested in the Board of Directors The Directors’ biographies are shown on pages supported by Board committees and the 7 to 10. Company Secretary. The Board, through its committees provides strategic direction while the Managing Director and Chief At every Annual General Meeting (AGM), at Executive Officer assisted by the Executive least one third of the Board members retire Management Committee is accountable to by rotation and are eligible for re-election. The the Board for implementing the strategy. Directors to retire in each occasion shall be The Chairman is responsible for providing those who have served longest since their last leadership to the Board as well as ensuring election. If for any reason a vacancy occurs in that the Board is supplied with timely and the Board, the Directors may appoint a person sufficient information to enable it discharge to fill in the vacancy temporarily until the next its duties effectively. AGM when he or she is expected to stand down but is eligible for election. Page 64 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017    Board members are expected to be (iv) Safeguarding our Company assets by responsible, prudent and skilful while instituting appropriate internal control carrying out their fiduciary duties on behalf systems. of the Company. (v)  Reviewing succession planning for the management and making senior The roles and responsibilities of the Board executive appointments, organisational as set out in the Board Charter include: changes and remuneration issues. (vi)  Overseeing business affairs of the (i) Establishing the Company’s strategic Company in light of emerging risks and direction and priorities, and adopting opportunities. business plans proposed by management for the achievement of (vii) Ensuring the Company complies with the strategic objectives. all relevant laws, regulations and codes of best business practices. (ii)  Monitoring and evaluating the implementation of strategies, policies, The Board provides oversight to management performance criteria and Management and ensures that the staff business plans. operate within the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Public Officers and Ethics (iii) Providing oversight in financial reporting Act, and the Mwongozo Code for State to shareholders and communication to Corporations. stakeholders. (iv)  Ensuring availability of adequate resources for the achievement of the Company’s objectives. Corporate Governance Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 65 1.3 Governance Framework Page 66 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 1.4 Board work plan and meetings In the year under review, the Board held a A work plan that contains an annual total of 15 meetings to consider pertinent schedule of meetings of the Board and its issues relating to strategy, business committees is prepared in advance. The performance and sustainability of the Chairman, in conjunction with the Managing Company. Director and Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for each Board meeting which is circulated at least ten days prior to meeting. Board and committee membership Board Committees Name of the Board Human Procurement ICT & Audit Director Position Strategy Resource Oversight PPA & Risk Hon. Kenneth Marende Chairman Mr. Henry CS, The Rotich National Treasury √ √ √ Dr. Eng. PS, Ministry Joseph of Energy Njoroge and Petroleum √ √ √ Dr. Kenneth Managing Tarus Director & CEO √ √ √ √ Mr. Wilson Member Mugung’ei √ √(Chair) √ Mr. Adil Member Khawaja √ (Chair) √(Chair) Mr. Kairo Member Thuo √ √ √(Chair) Mrs. Brenda Member Eng’omo √ √ (Chair) √ Eng. Isaac Alternate Kiva to Dr. Eng. Joseph Njoroge Corporate Governance Report Mrs. Alternate to Beatrice Mr. Henry Gathirwa Rotich Note: There are no inter-se relationships between our Board Members. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 67 Board and committee meetings attendance Board Committee Meetings Board Human Procurement ICT & Audit meetings Strategy Resource Oversight PPA & Risk Total No. of meetings 15 2 6 14 6 8 Hon. Kenneth 15/15 1/1 2/2 Marende (By invitation) (By invitation) Dr. Ken Tarus 8/8 2/2 3/3 7/7 3/3 4/4 Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei 15/15 2/2 3/3 14/14 8/8 Mr. Adil Khawaja 14/15 2/2 4/6 Mr. Kairo Thuo 8/8 3/3 7/7 4/4 Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo 8/8 2/2 3/3 4/4 Eng. Isaac Kiva 14/15 2/2 6/6 5/6 Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa 2/2 Dr. Ben Chumo 7/7 3/3 7/7 3/3 4/4 Mr. Macharia Kariuki 7/7 7/7 3/3 4/4 Mrs Susan Chesiyna 7/7 3/3 10/10 2/2 6/6 Mrs. Jane Nashida 7/7 7/7 3/3 4/4 Mr. Joseph Kariuki 13/13 3/3 8/8 5/5 Notes: 1.5 Board Evaluation Mrs Brenda Eng’omo and Mr. Kairo Thuo were  The Board undertakes an annual selfelected as directors during the Annual General assessment to improve its members’ individual Meeting held on 23rd December 2016 to replace and collective performance for continuous Mr. Macharia Kariuki and Mrs. Jane Nashida growth and sustainability of the Company. The respectively. Mrs. Susan Chesiyna resigned as a evaluation covers the Board as a whole, its director on 5th May 2017. committees, individual members, the Chairman, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa replaced Mr. Joseph Kariuki Officer, and the Company Secretary. as alternate Director to Mr. Henry Rotich on 5th May 2017.  During the year, the Board carried out a self evaluation exercise assisted by the State Dr. Ben Chumo retired as Managing Director and Corporations Advisory Committee. An action CEO on 7 th January 2017 and was replaced by plan was developed from the evaluation Dr. Kenneth Tarus on the same date. focusing on areas that require improvement. Page 68 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 1.6 Key Board decisions 1.7 Board capacity development In the course of the financial year, the To ensure that all directors remain informed, Board made key decisions relating to the continual training and updates based on following: skills and competency requirements are conducted. A detailed induction programme Succession planning by appointing (i)  is conducted for newly appointed the Company’s senior management Directors to enhance their understanding including the Managing Director and of the nature of our Company’s business Chief Executive officer. operations, performance and strategy. Each year the Board prepares a training calendar (ii) Reviewed and approved the Five-Year where specific training needs are identified Corporate Strategic Plan to refocus on and scheduled. During the year, Directors our strategic objectives and priorities attended various capacity building in line with the changing business programmes focusing on leadership, environment. governance, finance and other relevant areas. (iii)  Sustainable asset creation through approval of capital budget for infrastructure development worth 1.8 Board Committees Shs 52 billion.  To enhance efficiency and effectiveness, the Board constituted 5 standing committees (iv)  Approval of new power purchase with clearly defined terms of reference agreements to secure adequacy of relating to key areas of our business. The supply. committees operate on delegated authority (v)  E nsuring financial sustainability by without diluting the Board’s accountability. approving the Company’s financing Members to the committees are appointed requirements, budget and procurement taking into consideration the necessary skills plan for the next financial year and the and experience. annual accounts results. (vi) Reviewed and approved the Collective  All Board Committees are chaired by an Bargaining Agreement for the Company’s independent non-executive director. When unionisable employees for the period deemed necessary, the Board can constitute 2017-2021. an ad hoc committee to consider specific issues which are not under the mandate of existing committees. The Company Secretary is the secretary to all the Board committees except the Audit and Risk Committee where the General Manager, Internal Audit performs this function. Corporate Governance Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 69 The roles of the various Board committees are as below: Committee Roles Audit and Risk (i) Reviewing quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial The Committee comprises statements before submission to the Board, four non-executive Directors (ii) A  ssessing the qualifications and recommending and regularly invites the engagement of external auditors and their audit fees, Managing Director and CEO, (iii) R eviewing the performance, objectivity, and and General Manager Finance independence of external auditors, to its meetings. When (iv) C  onsideration of audit findings by the external auditors, necessary, external auditors (v) M  onitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Company’s are invited to attend the internal audit function, meetings. (vi) R  eviewing the Company’s internal control and risk management systems, and (vii) E  nsuring adherence to the code of ethics and integrity in financial transactions of the Company. Strategy (i) A  dvising the Board on strategies to enhance The Committee regulary performance of the Company. invites General Managers in (ii) R  eviewing the Five-Year Corporate Strategic Plan, charge of Finance, Business corporate budget and oversees the annual Strategy and Customer implementation of the Company’s strategy. Service to their meetings. (iii) M onitoring major projects under implementation and directing strategies for improving customer service vi) Overseeing the Company’s financial management. Human Resource (i) A  ppointment of and setting up terms and conditions of service The General Manager in for the Managing Director, charge of Human Resource (ii) E  stablishing human resource policies and corporate and Administration is invited organisational structure; to the Committee’s meetings. (iii) A ppointment, promotion and disciplinary issues of senior staff; (iv) Establishing remuneration structure for the staff; (v) D  eveloping succession plan for senior staf, and (vi) R  eviewing performance of the staff pension scheme. Procurement Oversight (i) O  verseeing the Company’s procurement processes on behalf The General Manager, Supply of the Board to ensure compliance with the law and the Chain is regularly invited to Company’s annual procurement plan. the Committee meetings. (ii) R  eviewing and recommending the annual procurement plan to the Board. (iii) O verseeing procurement of goods and services with a value of Shs 50 million and above. ICT and Power Purchase (i) Providing oversight in the negotiation of power purchase Agreement (PPA) agreements between the Company and bulk power producers, Management is invited to (ii) E  nsuring PPAs safeguard the interest of shareholders and Committee meetings to customers and achieve cost-effective power purchase costs, provide information and (iii) R eviewing the Company’s Information Communication and make clarifications. Technology (ICT) policy, (iv) E  valuating ICT security issues and internal controls, (v) Ensuring adoption of ICT systems that support Company business, minimise risks and achieve maximum benefits from the investments. 1.9 Accountability and audit that financial statements for each trading  The Board prepares annual financial year are audited. statements which reflect a true and fair view of the Company’s financial position as During the year, the Board ensured that the at the end of each fiscal year. The Board of Company maintained proper, reasonable Directors ensures that suitable accounting and accurate accounting records showing policies supported by reasonable and and explaining the transactions and financial prudent judgments and estimates are position of the Company in compliance with consistently applied. Directors also ensure the Companies Act 2015 and the prescribed accounting standards. Page 70 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 1.10 Directors’ Remuneration 2.  Enterprise Risk Management and Internal   During every Board meeting, Directors Controls are entitled to a sitting allowance, Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) is an integral lunch allowance (in lieu of lunch being part of our business process. The concept is provided), accommodation allowance embedded in our Company’s strategy setting and mileage reimbursement where and integrated in its operations. The ERM applicable within government set limits framework communicates the importance of risk for state corporations. The Chairman management to all members of staff and their receives a monthly honorarium. Directors’ key roles in managing risks with Management fees are paid annually upon approval by and the Board laying out their mandate within shareholders during the Annual General the policy. Meeting in accordance with Government’s guidelines for all state corporations. The Board exercises oversight on ERM through its Audit and Risk Committee which receives It is proposed that in the financial year and considers the Quarterly ERM reports. The ended 30th June 2017, each non-executive reports give a status update of the corporate Director be paid a total of Shs 600,000 risks the Company faces at the point in time or on pro rata basis for the period served. and the risk mitigation measures that have been During the year, there were no Directors’ implemented by Management. loans.  During the year under review, the ERM Details of Directors’ emoluments during the framework and the Business Continuity and year are shown on pages 101 to 103 in the Crisis Management (BCCM) framework was financial statements. reviewed by an external consultant. The aim of the review was to update both ERM and 1.11 Directors’ Shareholding BCCM frameworks in line with industry best During the year, none of the Directors owned practices on risk management and Mwongozo, more than one percent of shareholding. the Code of Governance for State Corporations. The directors shareholding is as shown in Within the ERM framework, the Company’s the table below: risk appetite statement was prepared and quantification ongoing as at end of the financial year. Director Shares Dr. Eng. J. Njoroge 68,333 Mr. W. Mugung’ei 1,537 Total 69,870 Corporate Governance Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 71 The Company’s key risks and mitigation strategies in the foregoing period as per the ERM framework and Section 2.7 of the Mwongozo code, are: Risk Treatment Risk Category Description measures (Mitigations) 1 Cost of electricity and The risk that operations are (i) T  imely review of retail tariffs to employee relations inefficient and ineffective ensure they are cost reflective. in realizing the goals of the (ii) Implementation of an optimized Company’s business model generation, transmission and in satisfying customers and distribution expansion. achieving the organisation’s (iii) E  ncourage regular engagements quality, cost and with staff at all levels. time performance objectives. (iv) M  aintaining effective labor relations through communication. (v) Ensuring collective bargaining agreements are negotiated as per agreed timelines. (vi) R  egular training for customer service staff on communication, presentation, culture, leadership at all corporate levels. 2 Demand and The risk that the Company (i) E  nhancing system reliability competition will make inappropriate through improved network strategic choices, unable infrastructure. to successfully implement (ii) Enhancing customer connectivity. selected strategies, or changes (iii) L  east cost based generation will arise which invalidate capacity expansion. strategies e.g. competitors, (iv) Improving service delivery to changes in resource retain customers. costs (human, material, (v) Imposing wheeling charges on financial), demographic producers. change, macro-economic (vi) Enhancing  supervision of change, economic policy, outsourced parties and technological innovations contractors. (actual/prospective), cultural (vii) P  rescribing punitive measures change, industry consolidation for unlawful activities for or fragmentation, changes deterrence. in marketing practices and channels and consumer behavior. 3 Legal and regulatory The risk of material loss, (i) A  dhering to legal and regulatory reputational damage or liability guidelines and developing proper arising from failure to comply compliance policies. with the requirements of the (ii) A dvocating for appropriate regulators or related codes of policies. best practice that oversee the (iii) Enhancing communication with conduct of regulated regulatory bodies. businesses in the sector that (iv) Adopting alternative dispute the Company operates. resolution mechanisms. 4 Financial The risk that cash flows (i) M  aintaining optimal cash reserve and financial risks are not at all times. managed cost-effectively to (ii) E  ndeavouring to obtain financing maximize cash availability, at lowest possible cost. reduce uncertainty of currency, (iii) U  sing of float to fixed interest interest rate, credit and other rate swaps (where applicable) financial risks, or move cash (iv) Using of financial instruments funds quickly and without loss such as collateral. of value to wherever they are (v) Enhancing revenue collection needed most. and protection initiatives. Page 72 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Risk Treatment Risk Category Description measures (Mitigations) 5 Reputational The risk arising from negative (i) Improving service delivery to perception on the part of enhance customer satisfaction. customers, counterparties, (ii) Instituting preventive and shareholders, investors, corrective measures on staff debt-holders, market analysts, misconduct, upholding ethical other relevant parties or standards. regulators that can adversely (iii) M anaging both internal affect the Company’s ability to and external information to maintain existing, or establish safeguard the Company’s image. new, business relationships and (iv) P  ublic campaigns to enhance continued access to sources public image. of funding. 6 Business interruption/ Business interruptions (i) C  ontinuous improvement and continuity stemming from network failure, maintenance of the network incapacitation of staff, the infrastructure. unavailability of raw materials, (ii) F  ull implementation of the information technologies, BCCM policy. skilled labor, facilities or other resources, that may threaten the Company’s capacity to continue operations over a period of time. 7 Political The risk of losses occurring as (i) E  nsuring adherence to the a result of political events. strategic plan of the Company. (ii) E  nsuring the use of marginal costing as the basis for power planning (Generation, Transmission and Distribution. (iii) U  sing risk management instruments. Corporate Governance Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 73 Some of the emerging risks the Company is facing among staff and key stakeholders in both are possible cyber-attacks on our ICT infrastructure operations and decision making. and terrorism activities which pose considerable threats to our installations. Some provisions of  Our employees are guided by the Code of the 2015 Energy Bill pose a risk to the Company Conduct and Ethics which is a reference point and could have an impact on the overall corporate for value-based decision making which guides risks mainly on strategy, regulation and business employees on expected behaviour. The Code of operation. Conduct and Ethics is the main tool that enables us to consolidate and strengthen a culture of The Board of Directors will continually work integrity and openness so as to achieve our towards improving integration of our Enterprise vision and facilitate a sustainable business. Risk Management Framework to the Company’s overall governance, strategy, management, values In the period under review, the Code of Conduct and culture. In addition, the Board is obligated to and Ethics was revised in accordance with the maintain a sound system of internal controls to Leadership and Integrity Act, 2012 and The safeguard shareholders’ investments and provide Mwongozo Code for State Corporations. The reasonable assurance that risks to the achievement reviewed document was approved by the Ethics of our objectives remain at acceptable levels. and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). We continued to implement activities as required 3. Ethical Standards under the Performance Contracting Guidelines  The Company’s Board and Management on Corruption Eradication indicator issued recognise that a strong ethical culture is by the EACC. The EACC guidelines require paramount in the realisation of the Company’s all institutions to maintain a high standard of corporate Vision. In this regard, we have in place ethical culture by combating and eradicating all an Integrity and Ethics programme to entrench forms of corruption and unethical conduct. a strong ethical culture of doing the right thing Page 74 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017  In addition, we carried out training and 5. Organisational Structure sensitisation programmes to embed the The Company’s management is structured into right ethical culture among staff and other 13 functional Divisions for optimal business stakeholders. A leadership forum was organised operations and effective delivery of service to for all Senior Management Staff in all regions our customers. Each division is headed by a to discuss issues on ethics and integrity in the General Manager who reports to the Managing Company and identify sustainable ways of Director and Chief Executive Officer. The combating all forms of corruption and unethical divisions have various departments headed by behaviour. The Company has also identified, Managers who coordinate diverse corporate trained and certified 61 Integrity Assurance business functions. The business is further Officers who have taken up their active roles organised into 10 administrative regions under in championing ethics and integrity in their Regional Managers. Further, the Company has various divisions and regions and report devolved its crucial functions to 46 county quarterly to EACC. business units each headed by a County Business Manager.  We encourage whistle blowing through mechanisms such as our hotline number 6. Executive Management Committee 0718999000 or through the online The Management Committee is the Company’s corruption reporting platform on our website executive body headed by the Managing www.kplc.co.ke. This is intended to address Director and Chief Executive Officer. The organisational accountability, transparency and committee, which comprises all divisional individual responsibility. Individuals who report heads, assists the Managing Director and Chief items in good faith are protected. Executive Officer in guiding the overall direction of the business and exercising executive control 4. Shareholder Relations of the Company’s day to day operations. The Company maintains active communication Further, the committee considers policies with shareholders and engagements with and strategic measures for optimal business investors to enhance investor relations. In this performance, monitors performance and makes regard, we broadcast our half-year and full recommendations to the Board. The Managing year trading results through the media, publish Director and CEO provides the pivotal link annual reports and financial statements as well between the Executive Management and the as hold regular investor briefings. In addition, Board. we convene an Annual General Meeting (AGM) where shareholders engage the Company 7. Shareholding Profiles Directors and Management on matters relating We are committed to the adherence of rules to the Company’s operations, performance and and regulations of the Capital Market Authority strategies. Our shareholders are notified at and complied with the principles of disclosure least 21 days before the AGM to enable them and transparency provided under Capital review the proposed agenda and prepare to Markets (Securities) (Public Offers, Listing and Corporate Governance Report attend. An absent shareholder may appoint a Disclosures) Regulations, Nairobi Securities proxy to attend and vote on his or her behalf Exchange Listing Rules and the Companies during the AGM. An investor relations online Act 2015. tab is available on the Company’s website at www.kplc.co.ke to provide business information to shareholders. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 75 The top 20 shareholders of the company as well the breakdown of shareholding structure are provided in the tables below. The top 20 major shareholders as at 31st August 2017 were as follows: Ordinary 4 percent 7 percent Name of (KShs. 2.50 Pref. (KShs. Pref. (KShs. No. Shareholder each) 20 each) 20 each) Total Percentage 1 PERMANENT SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY 977,641,695 656,808 193,531 978,492,034 50.086 2 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LTD A/C KE20510 36,233,521 36,233,521 1.855 3 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES RESD A/C KE11450 32,518,589 32,518,589 1.665 4 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LTD A/C KE002012 30,616,600 30,616,600 1.567 5 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES NON-RESD. A/C KE9053 24,848,575 24,848,575 1.272 6 KENYA COMMERCIAL BANK NOMINEES LIMITED A/C 915B 22,887,288 22,887,288 1.172 7 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES RESD A/C KE11401 21,296,581 21,296,581 1.090 8 KENYA COMMERCIAL BANK NOMINEES LIMITED A/C 915A 20,370,288 3,550 750 20,374,588 1.043 9 THE JUBILEE INSURANCE COMPANY OF KENYA LIMITED 20,255,753 59,828 17,160 20,332,741 1.041 Page 76 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Ordinary 4 percent 7 percent Name of (KShs. 2.50 Pref. (KShs. Pref. (KShs. No. Shareholder each) 20 each) 20 each) Total Percentage 10 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES NON-RESD A/C KE11794 19,281,800 19,281,800 0.987 11 STANBIC NOMINEES LTD A/C R57601 12,601,082 12,601,082 0.645 12 CO-OP CUSTODY A/C 4003 12,400,226 12,400,226 0.635 13 STANBIC NOMINEES LTD A/C NR1030682 10,954,012 10,954,012 0.561 14 OLD MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD 10,261,291 10,261,291 0.525 15 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES A/C 9098AP 10,154,106 10,154,106 0.520 16 EQUITY NOMINEES LIMITED A/C 00078 8,951,061 8,951,061 0.458 17 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LIMITED, KE18492 8,750,000 8,750,000 0.448 18 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LTD A/C KE002333 8,420,415 8,420,415 0.431 Corporate Governance Report 19 NIC CUSTODIAL SERVICES A/C 077 7,874,999 7,874,999 0.403 20 JOHN NJUGUNA NGUGI 7,737,800 7,737,800 0.396 Sub – Totals 1,304,055,682 720,186 211,441 1,304,987,309 66.799 Other Shareholders 647,411,363 1,079,814 138,559 648,629,736 33.201 Total Issued Shares 1,951,467,045 1,800,000 350,000 1,953,617,045 100.00 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 77 Shares distribution of Ordinary Shareholders as at 31st August 2017 Range No. of Shareholders Shares <1,000 12,974 4,111,249 1001–10,000 10,752 33,895,847 10,001–50,000 2,506 52,905,622 50,001–100,000 462 32,677,044 Over 100,000 809 1,827,877,283 Totals 27,503 1,951,467,045 Shares distribution of 4 percent Preference Shareholders as at 31st August 2017 Range No. of Shareholders Shares <1,000 362 65,475 1001–10,000 55 152,792 10,001–50,000 13 325,918 50,001–100,000 2 133,564 Over 100,000 3 1,122,251 Totals 435 1,800,000 Shares distribution of 7 percent Preference Shareholders as at 31st August 2017 Range No. of Shareholders Shares <1,000 82 21,927 1001–10,000 15 44,076 10,001–50,000 3 86,432 50,001–100,000 1 57,617 Over 100,000 1 139,948 Totals 102 350,000 Hon. Kenneth Marende, EGH Chairman, Board of Directors 19th October 2017 Page 78 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 RIPOTI YA MAONGOZI YA KAMPUNI Kujitolea kwa maongozi bora ya kampuni ni katika kuelekeza Kampuni kupata thamani muhimu katika kuhakikisha thamani kwa wenyehisa kubwa kwa huduma zinazotolewa kwa na kutekeleza matarajio ya wenyehisa. Mipangilio, wahusika wote. Mwongozo wa Bodi taratibu na michakato yetu imejikita katika unafafanua mipangilio muhimu ya usimamizi uwajibikaji, uwazi na haki ambazo ni nguzo kuu ikiwemo: katika maongozi bora ya Kampuni. Kupitia kwa (i) teuzi, vipaji vinavyohitajika, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi, usimamizi wa Kampuni bado mchanganyiko wa kijinsia na mafunzo ni imara katika kuzingatia mahitaji yote ya kisheria kwa Wakurugenzi; kama yalivyofafanuliwa kwenye Sheria ya Kampuni 2015, miongozo ya Mamlaka ya Soko la Mtaji kuhusu (ii) Kutetea na kujitolea kuheshimu haki za Maongozi Bora (Mwongozo Code 2015) miongoni wenyehisa; mwa nyingine.. (iii) Kazi na majukumu ya Bodi, Mwenyekiti, Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu 1. Bodi ya Wakurugenzi Mtendaji, na Katibu wa Kampuni;  Bodi ya Kampuni imeundwa kwa mujibu wa Katiba yetu ambayo inaruhusu jumla ya (iv) Uendeshaji wa Mikutano ya Bodi na ya Wakurugenzi wasiozidi kumi. Hata hivyo, Kamati mbalimbali; sambamba na miongozo kuhusu Kanuni za (v) Mwongozo wa Utendakazi wa Usimamizi kwa Mashirika ya Umma ambayo Wakurugenzi; na tunakumbatia, Bodi ina jumla ya wanachama tisa ambapo sita kati yao ni Wakurugenzi Huru (vi) Majukumu mbalimbali ya Kamati zote akiwemo Mwenyekiti, Wakurugenzi wawili wasio za Bodi. na Mamlaka wasio huru na Mkurugenzi mmoja 1.2 Majukumu ya Bodi mwenye mamlaka ambaye pia ni Mkurugenzi Jukumu la kuhakikisha usimamizi bora wa Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji. Uundaji wa Kampuni limetwikwa Bodi ya Wakurugenzi Bodi huzingatia utofauti katika jinsia, umri, kwa ushirikiano na kamati za Bodi na Katibu makabila na utamaduni. Isitoshe, Bodi ya sasa wa Kampuni. Bodi kupitia kwa kamati ya Wakurugenzi ina mkusanyiko wa vipawa na zake hutoa mwongozo kabambe huku tajiriba katika nyanja za sheria, uhandisi, uchumi, Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji ushauri kuhusu uwekezaji, fedha, ustawi wa akisaidiwa na Kamati Kuu ya Wasimamizi kijamii pamoja na usimamizi wa biashara. inawajibika kwa Bodi katika utekelezaji wa Wasifu wa Wakurugenzi umo kwenye kurasa mkakati huo. Mwenyekiti anawajibika kutoa 7 hadi 10. mwelekeo kwa Bodi pamoja na kuhakikisha kuwa Bodi ina maelezo ya kutosha na Katika kila Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka (AGM) kwa wakati ufaao kuiwezesha kutekeleza angalau theluthi moja ya wanachama wa Bodi majukumu yake ipasavyo. hustaafu kwa mzunguko na hujitokeza kwa uchaguzi. Wakurugenzi wa kustaafu kwa wakati  Wanachama wa Bodi wanatarajiwa mmoja ni wale waliohudumu kwa muda mrefu kuwajibika, kuwa na busara na weledi huku Corporate Governance Report tangu uchaguzi wa mwisho. Iwapo kwa sababu wakitekeleza majukumu yao kwa niaba ya yoyote ile kutakuwa na nafasi katika Bodi, Kampuni. Wakurugenzi wanawza kuteua mtu kujaza nafasi Majukumu na wajibu wa Bodi kama hiyo kwa muda hadi AGM nyingine ambapo yalivyofafanuliwa kwenye Mkataba wa Bodi ataweza kujitokeza kwa uchaguzi. ni pamoja na: 1.1 Mkataba na Mwongozo wa Bodi (i) Kutoa mwelekeo ufaao kuhusu malengo  Mkataba wa hufafanua majukumu na wajibu ya Kampuni na kukumbatia mipango pamoja na kazi na muundo wao kwa namna ya kibiashara inayopendekezwa na ambayo inasaidia wanachama kutekeleza wasimamizi kufanikisha malengo kazi yao kuu ya usimamizi. Inasaidia Bodi muhimu. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 79 (ii) Kufuatilia na kutathmini utekelezaji wa Bodi inatoa mwongozo kwa wasimamizi na mikakati, sera, vigezo vya utendakazi wa kuhakikisha wafanyikazi wanahudumu chini wasimamizi na mipango ya kibiashara ya Mwongozo wa Utendakazi na Maadili; Sheria ya Maadili ya Maafisa wa Umma, na (iii) Kusimamia uandalizi wa ripoti ya kifedha Mwongozo Code kwa Mashirika ya Serikali. kwa wenyehisa na mawasiliano na washikadau. 1.3 Mpangilio wa Kazi ya Bodi na Mikutano (iv)  Kuhakikisha raslimali za kutosha Mpangilio wa kazi ambao unajumuisha ratiba kufanikisha malengo ya Kampuni. ya kila mwaka ya mikutano ya Bodi na kamati (v)  Kulinda vifaa vya Kampuni yetu kwa zake inaandaliwa mapema. Mwenyekiti, kwa kuweka vidhibiti vya kutosha vya ndani. ushirikiano na Mkurugenzi Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji na Katibu wa Kampuni huandaa (vi)  Kutathmini mpangilio wa urithi kwa ajenda ya kila mkutano wa Bod ambayo wasimamizi na kufanya uteuzi wa maafisa husambazwa angalau siku kumi kabla ya wa ngazi za juu, mabadiliko katika shirika mkutano huo. na masuala ya mishahara. (vii) Kusimamia masuala ya kibiashara  Katika mwaka uliomalizika, Bodi iliandaa ya Kampuni kwa kuzingatia hatari jumla ya mikutano 15 kushughulikia maswala zinazoibuka na nafasi zilizopo za muhimu kuhusiana na mikakati, matokeo ya kibiashara. kibiashara na uendelevu wa kibiashara. (viii) Kuhakikisha Kampuni inazingatia sheria zote, kanuni na miongoo ifaayo ya kibiashara. Uanachama wa Bodi na Kamati Mikutano ya Bodi Jina la Cheo Masuala ya Mkurugenzi katika Bodi Mikakati wafanyikazi Ununuzi ICT na PPA Uhasibu Mhe. Kenneth Mwenyekiti Marende Bw. Henry Waziri, Rotich Hazina Kuu √ √ √ Dkt. Mha. Katibu, Joseph Wizara ya Njoroge Kawi na Mafuta √ √ √ Dkt. Kenneth Mkurugenzi Tarus Mkuu na Afisa Mkuu Mtendaji √ √ √ √ Bw. Wilson √ Mugung’ei Mwanachama √ (Mwenyekiti) √ Bw. Adil √ √ Khawaja Mwanachama (Mwenyekiti) (Mwenyekiti) Bw. Kairo √ Thuo Mwanachama √ √ (Mwenyekiti) Page 80 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Mikutano ya Bodi Mkakati na Masuala ya Jina la Cheo Huduma za wafanyiUnunuzi na Mkurugenzi katika Bodi Wateja kazi usimamizi ICT na PPA Uhasibu Bi. Brenda √ Eng’omo Mwanachama √ (Mwenyekiti) √ Mha. Isaac Mbadala Kiva kwa Mha Dkt Joseph Njoroge Bi. Beatrice Mbadala kwa Gathirwa Bw Henry Rotich Maelezo Hakuna uhusiano baina ya Wanachama wa Bodi yetu. Mahudhurio ya Mikutano ya Bodi na Kamati Masuala ya wafanyICT na Bodi Mikakati ikazi Ununuzi PPA Uhasibu Jumla ya mikutano 15 2 6 14 6 8 Mhe. Kenneth Marende 15/15 1/1 2/2 (Kwa mwaliko) (Kwa mwaliko) Dkt.Ken Tarus 8/8 2/2 3/3 7/7 3/3 4/4 Bw. Wilson Mugung’ei 15/15 2/2 3/3 14/14 8/8 Bw. Adil Khawaja 14/15 2/2 4/6 Bw. Kairo Thuo 8/8 3/3 7/7 4/4 Bi. Brenda Eng’omo 8/8 2/2 3/3 4/4 Mha. Isaac Kiva 14/15 2/2 6/6 5/6 Bi. Beatrice Gathirwa 2/2 Dkt. Ben Chumo 7/7 3/3 7/7 3/3 4/4 Bw. Macharia Kariuki 7/7 7/7 3/3 4/4 Bi. Susan Chesiyna 7/7 3/3 10/10 2/2 6/6 Bi. Jane Nashida 7/7 7/7 3/3 4/4 Corporate Governance Report Mr. Joseph Kariuki 13/13 3/3 8/8 5/5 Maelezo: Bi. Beatrice Gathirwa alichukua mahali pa Bi. Brenda Eng’omo na Bw. Kairo Thuo walichaguliwa Bw. Joseph Kariuki kama Mkurugenzi mbadala wa kama Wakurugenzi kwenye mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Bw. Henry Rotich mnamo Mei 5, 2017. Mwaka ulioandaliwa Desemba 23, 2016 kuchukua mahali pa Bw. Macharia Kariuki na Bi. Jane Nashida Dkt. Ben Chumo alistaafu kutoka wadhifa wa mtawalia. Bi. Susan Chesiyna alistaafu kwa Bodi Mkurugenzi Mtendaji mnamo Januari 7, 2017 na nafasi mnamo Mei 5, 2017. yake ilitwaliwa na Dkt. Kenneth Tarus siku hiyo hiyo. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 81 1.4 Utathmini wa Bodi (vi) Kutathmini na kuidhinisha mkataba wa  Bodi hujifanyia utathmini kwa lengo maelewano na chama cha wafanyakazi la kuboresha utendakazi na ustawi wa wa Kampuni katika kipindi cha Kampuni. 2017-2021.   Utathmini huo huhusisha Bodi nzima, 1.6 Uendelezaji wa mafunzo kwa Bodi kamati zake, wajumbe wake, Mwenyekiti,  Kuhakikisha kuwa wakurugenzi wote Mkurugenzi Mtendaji, Mkurugenzi Mkuu na wanakuwa na ufahamu, kutakuwa na Katibu wa Kampuni. mafunzo kuhusiana na ujuzi unaohitajika. Kuna utaratibu mwafaka wa mafunzo Mwaka huu, shughuli ya kutathmini ilifanywa wanayopitia Wakurugenzi wapya ili na Kamati ya Ushauri kwa Mashirika ya kuwawezesha kuelewa kwa kina mazingira Serikali (SCAC) ambapo bodi ilifanye ya biashara, shughuli zinazofanywa, vyema. Ratiba ya mipango iliandaliwa kwa utendakazi na mpango wa kibiashara wa kuzingatia maeneo yanayohitaji kuboreshwa Kampuni. zaidi.  Kila mwaka, Bodi huandaa ratiba ya 1.5 Maamuzi Muhimu ya Bodi mafunzo kwa kuzingatia ujuzi na ufahamu   Katika kipindi hicho cha mwaka wa unaohitajika. matumizi ya fedha, Bodi ilifanya maamuzi kwa kuzingatia yafuatayo:  Mwaka huu, Wakurugenzi walihudhuria (i) Mpango wa upokezanaji wa mamlaka mafunzo mbalimbali kuhusu uongozi, kwa kwa kuteua wasiamizi wakuu utawala, kifedha na masuala mengineyo ambao ni Mkurugenzi Mtendaji na muhimu. Mkurugenzi Mkuu. 1.7 Kamati za Bodi (ii) Bodi ilitathmini na kuidhinisha Mpango  Kuhakikisha utendakazi mwafaka, bodi wa Miaka Mitano wa Kampuni kwa iliunda kamati 5 zinazohusika na vitengo kuzingatia mabadiliko ya mazingira ya mbalimbali vya kibiashara. Kamati kibiashara. zinahudumu kulingana na mamlaka zilizopewa na Bodi. Wajumbe wa kamati (iii)  Kuanzisha rasilimali za kudumu kwa hizo wanateuliwa kwa kuzingatia kufuzu kuidhinisha ya bajeti KShs.52 bilioni kwa kwao, ujuzi na tajriba. ajili ya miundomsingi.  Kamati zote za Bodi zinaongozwa na (iv) Kuidhinisha mikataba ya uzalishaji mkurugenzi wa huru wa kujitegemea. umeme kuhakikisha kuna umeme wa Inapobidi, Bodi inaweza kubuni kamati kutosha. ya muda kushughulikia suala la dharura ambalo halishughulikiwi na kamati zilizopo. Katibu wa Kampuni ndiye katibu wa kamati (v)  Kuhakikisha kuna fedha za kutosha zote za Bodi isipokuwa Kamati ya Ukaguzi kwa kuidhinisha mahitaji ya kifedha ya wa Fedha, Mkurugenzi Mtendaji wa Ukaguzi kampuni, bajeti na mpango wa uagizaji wa Fedha hutekeleza jukumu hilo. bidhaa kwa ajili ya mwaka ujao wa matumizi ya fedha. Page 82 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Kamati za Bodi hutekeleza majukumu kama ifuatavyo: Kamati Majukumu Kamati ya Ukaguzi wa Fedha. Kamati (i) Kutathmini ripoti za kifedha za robo na nusu ya mwaka hii inajumuisha Wakurugenzi wannne na kabla ya kuziwasilisha kwa Bodi, kila mara hualika Mkurugenzi Mkuu na (ii)  Kutathmini kuhitimu na kupendekeza kuhusishwa Mkurugenzi Mtendaji wa Fedha katika kwa wakaguzi wa hesabu kutoka nje na kiasi cha ada vikao vyake inapolazimu inayohitajika, (iii)  Kuchunguza utendakazi, ujuzi na kujitegemea kwa wakaguzi wa hesabu wa kampuni za kibinafsi, (iv) Kutekeleza mapendekezo ya wakaguzi wa nje, (v) Kuchunguza na kutathmini kitengo cha ndani cha ukaguzi wa hesabu za kifedha, (vi)  Kutathmini mifumo ya ukaguzi wa hesabu na kuzuia hasara (vii) Kuhakikisha fedha zinatumika kwa uwazi na kuzingatia maadili. Kamati ya Mipango. Kamati hii (i)  Kushauri Bodi kuhusu jinsi ya kuboresha bisahara ya hujumuisha wajumbe watano na Kampuni. Wakurugenzi Watendaji wa Fedha, (ii) Kutathmini na kurekebisha Mipango ya Miaka Mitano ya Mipango ya Kibiashara, na Huduma kwa Kampuni, bajeti na kusimamia utekelezwaji wa mipango Wateja hualikwa katika vikao vya kamati ya Kampuni. hii (iii) Kusimamia miradi inayotekelezwa na kuboresha huduma kwa wateja (iv) Kusimamia matumizi ya fedha za Kampuni Kamati ya Usimamizi wa Wafanyakazi. (i) Kuteua na kutoa masharti ya kazi kwa Mkurugenzi Mtendaji, Wakurugenzi Watendaji wa Uajiri wa (ii) Sera za uajiri wa wafanyakazi; Wafanyakazi na Usimamizi hualikwa (iii) Uteuzi, kupandisha vyeo na kuadhibu wafanyakazi; katika vikao. (iv) Mpangilio wa Mishahara kwa wafanyakazi; (v) Mpango wa upokezanaji mamlaka kwa maafisa wakuu (vi) Kutathmini utendakazi na pensheni. Kamati ya Kandarasi. Mkurugenzi (i)  Kusimamia uagizaji wa bidhaa kwa niaba ya Bodi na Mtendaji wa Uagizaji na Usambazaji wa kuhakikisha kuwa sheria inazingatiwa. Bidhaa na Huduma hualikwa katika vikao (ii) Kutathmini na kupendekeza mipango ya uagizaji kwa Bodi. (iii) Kusimamia uagizaji wa bidhaa na huduma za thamani ya KSh50 milioni na zaidi. Kamati ya (Teknolojia na Mawasiliano (i) Kutoa ushauri kuhusiana na mikataba ya ununuzi wa (ICT) na Mikataba ya Ununuzi wa umeme baina ya Kampuni na kampuni za kuzalisha kawi, Corporate Governance Report Umeme (PPA). Usimamizi unaalikwa (ii)  Kuhakikisha mikataba ya PPA inazingatia masilahi ya katika vikao kutoa taarifa na ufafanuzi washkadau na wateja na kupunguza gharama ya umeme, kuhusu yenye utata (iii) Kutathmini sera ya kampuni kuhusiana na Teknolojia ya Mawasiliano (ICT), (iv) Kutathmini usalama wa ICT, (v)  Kuhakikisha kuwa mitambo ya ICT inayotumiwa na Kampuni inasaidia kuboresha biashara, kupunguza hasara na kuleta faida. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 83 1.8 Uwazi na Ukaguzi 1.10 Wakurugenzi wenye hisa Bodi huandaa taarifa za kifedha kila mwaka.  Mwaka uliopita, hakuna Mkurugenzi Taarifa hizo huenyesha hali halisi ya kifedha aliyemiliki hisa zaidi ya asilimia 1. Hisa za ya Kampuni kila mwisho wa mwaka wa wakurugenzi ni kama ifuatavyo: matumizi ya fedha. Mkurugenzi Hisa Bodi ya Wakurugenzi inahakikisha kuwa sera Dr. Eng. J. Njoroge 68,333 kuhusiana na matumizi ya fedha zinatumika. Wakurugenzi pia wanahakikisha taarifa Mr. W. Mugung’ei 1,537 za kifedha zinakaguliwa na wataalamu Jumla 69,870 kila mwaka 2. Udhibiti wa Hasara na Masuala ya Ndani Katika mwaka huu, Bodi ilihakikisha kwamba  Udhibiti wa Hasara katika Biashara (ERM) rekodi za kifedha ni sahihi, zinaonyesha ni suala muhimu katika biashara. ERM hali halisi ya kifedha ya Kampuni na ilijumuishwa katika mipango ya Kampuni na zinaambatana na Sheria kuhusu Kampuni kutekelezwa katika shughuli za kila siku. ERM ya 2015. husaidia katika mawasiliano ya umuhimu wa kudhibiti hasara kwa wafanayakazi na kuwaelezea majukumu yao katika kuepuka 1.9 Mishahara, Marupurupu ya Wakurugenzi hasara au hatari zinazoweza kutokea.  Baada ya kila kikao cha Bodi, Wakurugenzi hulipwa marupurupu ya kuhudhuria kikao, mlo, malazi na mafuta kulingana na Bodi inasimamia utekelezwaji wa ERM kupitia utaratibu uliowekwa na serikali. Kamati ya Ukaguziambayo hupokea na kutathmini ripoti ya ERM kila baada ya miezi mitatu. Ripoti hiyo hutoa taarifa kuhusu hasara Mwenyekiti hulipwa marupurupu kila mwezi. au changamoto zinazokumba Kampuni na Ada ya Wakurugenzi hulipwa kila mwaka mikakati iliyowekwa kuziepuka. baada ya kuidhinishwa na washikadau katika Kikao Kikuu cha Kila Mwaka (AGM) kwa mujibu wa utaratibu wa serikali. Mwaka uliopita, ERM na Mpango wa Ustawishaji wa Biashara na Udhibiti wa Mizozo (BCCM) ilitathminiwa na wataalamu wa nje. Lengo la  Inapendekezwa kuwa katika kipindi cha utathmini wa mipango ya ERM na BCCM ilikuwa mwaka wa matumizi ya fedha uliomalizika kuhakikisha kuwa inaambatana na Mwongozo Juni 30,2017, kila mkurugenzi wa wa serikali kuhusiana na usimamizi wa Mashirika kujitegemea alipwe kiasi cha KSh. 600,000 ya Umma. kwa kipindi alichohudumu. Katika mwaka uliopita, hakuna Mkurugenzi aliyekuwa Changamoto na mikakati iliyowekwa ya utatuzi na mkopo. katika mwaka wa mataumizi ya fedha uliopita kwa mujibu wa Kifungu cha 2.7 cha Mwongozo Maelezo ya kina kuhusiana na mishahara na wa serikali, ni: marupurupu ya Wakurugenzi katika mwaka uliopita yameonyeshwa katika ukurasa wa 101 hadi 103 katika taarifa ya kifedha. Page 84 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017  itengo cha Hatari/ K Mikakati ya Utatuzi Changamoto Maelezo (Suluhisho) 1 UtendakaziHatari ya  atari kuhusiana na H (i) K utathmini mara kwa mara ada Gharama ya umeme utendakazi kutoafikia inayotozwa wateja & Uhusiano wa wa malengo ya kampuni, mpango (ii) K  utekeleza mipango ya upanuzi Wafanyakazi wa biashara, huduma duni wa uzalishaji na usambazaji wa kwa wateja na viwango vya umeme. Kuhimiza mawasiliano ubora, gharama ya juu na na wafanyakazi mara kwa mara. muda uliowekwa na Kampuni. (iii) K  uweka mikakati ya mawasiliano ifaayo ya wafanyakazi kuwasilisha malalamishi au mapendekezo yao (iv) K uhakikisha mikataba na vyama vya wafanyakazi inatiwa saini na kutekelezwa bila kucheleweshwa. (v) Mafunzo ya mara kwa mara kwa wafanyakazi wanaohudumia wateja. Wafanyakazi wanastahili kuwa na ujuzi kuhusu mawasiliano na uongozi kulingana na viwango vya mashirika ya umma. 2 Changamoto ya Mikakati Kuna hatari ya kampuni (i) Kuboresha miundomsingi. kutoweka mipango ifaayo (ii) K uhakikisha wateja wanapewa hivyo kushindwa kuitekeleza huduma za kuaminika. vyema. Kwa mfano, (iii) K upunguza gharama na washindani wakibadili mbinu kupanua uzalishaji umeme. na kupunguza gharama, (iv) U  boreshaji wa huduma bila kubadili maeneo ya kufanya kupoteza wateja. biashara, sera za kiuchumi, (v) Kuhakikisha gharama za ziada ubunifu wa teknolojia, zinalipwa na wazalishaji na wala mabadiliko katika tabia si wateja. za wateja, usambazaji wa (vi) K  usimamia watoaji wa huduma na bidhaa huduma kutoka nje na wanakandarasiwateja (vii) K  uweka adhabu kali dhidi ya wanaokiuka sheria kwa kutatiza utoaji wa huduma 3 Sheria na Kanuni Hatari ya kupotea kwa vifaa, (i) K  uzingatia sheria na kubuni sera kuharibu sifa ya Kampuni kuhusu jinsi ya kuzitekeleza au hasara inayotokana na (ii) K  ubuni sera zifaazo za uzembe wa kuzingatia sheria kuhakikisha sheria na masharti na kanuni za kudhibiti sekta (iii) K  uboresha mawasiliano na na bodi za kudhibiti sekta. Kuweka njia mbadala za kusuluhisha mizozo. Corporate Governance Report 4 Kifedha Hatari kuwa matumizi ya (i) H  akikisha hifadhi ina fedha za fedha: yanaongeza gharama kutosha wakati wote. Kupata ya biashara, Yanapunguza ufadhili kwa riba za chini, fedha zilizopo, ongezeko la (ii) K  uweka mikakati kabambe ya riba, kupungua kwa thamani. kukusanya mapato 5 Sifa Hasara zinazotokana (i) B  oresha huduma ili na zinazotokana na kuwaridhisha wateja. sifa mbovu ya kundi (ii) Kuweka mikakati ya la wateja, washikadau, kurekebisha makosa wawekezaji, kampuni, yanayofanywa na wafanyakazi wafanyakazi,kutatizika mara wanaokiuka maadili. kwa mara kwa huduma (iii) K  udhibiti taarifa za nje na ndani kwa lengo la kulinda sifa ya kampuni. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 85  itengo cha Hatari/ K Mikakati ya Utatuzi Changamoto Maelezo (Suluhisho) 6 Kutatizika kwa Biashara Kutatizika mara kwa mara (i) K ukarabati miundomsingi mara kwa biashara kutokana na kwa mara uharibifu wa miundomsingi, (ii) K  utekeleza kikamilifu sera ya kukwama kwa mitandao, BCCM. uzembe wa wafanyakazi, ukosefu wa malighafi, kukwama kwa mitambo ya teknolojia na mambo mengineyo yanayoweza kukwamisha utoaji wa huduma kwa kipindi fulani 7 Kisiasa Hasara zinazotokana na (i) H  akikisha Mipango ya Kampuni matukio ya kisiasa inafuatwa na kutekelezwa kikamilifu. (ii) K uhakikisha kuwa gharama ya uzalishaji na usambazaji wa umeme inazingatia maeneo. (iii)M  atumizi ya mbinu za kukabiliana na hasara Page 86 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Baadhi ya hatari zinazokabili Kampuni ni udukuzi Tulitoa mafunzo na programu za kuhamaisha wa mitambo ya ICT na ugaidi ambao unaweza wafanyakazi na washikadau kuzingatia nidhamu kusababisha uharibifu wa mitambo na nyaya za na maadili. kusambaza umeme. Mafunzo kuhusu uongozi bora yalitolewa kwa Baadhi ya vifungu vya mswada wa Kawi wa 2015 pia Maafisa wa Ngazi ya Juu ambapo suala la huenda vikaathiri vibaya mipango una operesheni nidhamu na maadili yalijadiliwa kwa kina na za kibiashara. kubainisha mbinu za kukabiliana na ufisadi na tabia zinazokiuka maadili. Bodi ya Wakurugenzi itahakikisha kuwa Mipango ya Kupunguza Hasara inajumuishwa kikamilifu Kampuni pia imebainisha maafsa 61 waliohitimu katika utawala, usimamizi na operesheni za kila katika utathmini wa maadili. Maafisa hao tayari siku. Bodi ina jukumu la kuweka miundomsingi ya wameanza kutekeleza majukumu katika maeneo ndani kuhakikisha kuwa rasilimali za wenye hisa ziko yao na wanaandaa ripoti kila baada ya miezi salama katika viwango vyote mitatu na kuipeleka kwa tume ya EACC. 3. Maadili Tunahimiza utoaji wa taarifa kuhusiana na Bodi ya Usimamizi inatambua kuwa maadili ni utovu wa maadili kupitia nambari 0718999000 muhimu kwa kampuni kuafikia malengo yake. au kuripoti ufisadi kupitia tovuti ya www.kplc. co.ke. Hii inalenga kuhakikisha kuwa uwazi na Tuko na programu mwafaka ya kuhakikisha uwajibikaji unazingatiwa. kuwa maadili yanazingatiwa miongoni mwa wafanyakazi na washikadau wengineo muhimu 4. Wenyehisa katika maeneo ya operesheni na kufanya Kampuni imekuwa ikifanya mawasiliano ya maamuzi. mara kwa mara na wenyehisa na wawekezaji Wafanyakazi wetu wanaongozwa na Mfumo wengineo. Mawasiliano hayo yanalenga kuleta wa Nidhamu na Maadili ambao hutumiwa uhusiano mwema. katika kufanya maamuzi. Maadili hayo pia ndiyo yanatoa mwongozo kwa tabia ya wafanyakazi. Tunatangaza taarifa za kifedha ya baada ya miezi sita na mwaka mmoja kupitia vyombo Maadili hayo ndiyo yanatuwezesha kuboresha vya habari. Kadhalika, tunafanya vikao vya kila utamaduni wa uadilifu na uwazi. mara pamoja na Kikao Kikuu cha kila Mwaka (AGM) ambapo wawekezaji wanatangamana na Kipindi kilichopita, Mfumo wa Nidhamu na Wakurugenzi wa Kampuni na kujadili masuala Maadili ulitathminiwa upya ili kuhakikisha yanayohusiana na operesheni na mipango ya kuwa unaambatana ba Sheria kuhusu Maadili kampuni. ya Uongozi ya 2012 na Mwongozo wa serikali kuhusu Maadili ya Mashirika ya Umma. Wenyehisa wanafahamishwa siku 21 kabla ya Corporate Governance Report  Mwongozo huo wa Nidhamu na Maadili mkutano wa AGM ili kuwapa muda wa kutosha uliotathminiwa, uliidhinishwa na Tume ya Maadili kukagua ajanda zinazotarajiwa kujadiliwa. na Kupambana na Ufisadi (EACC). Tulitekeleza shughuli zetu kwa kuzingatia Mwongozo Mwenyehisa ambaye hawezi kuhudhuria kikao wa Utendakazi na Utoaji wa Kandarasi ili hicho anaweza kuteua mwakilishi ambaye Kuangamiza Ufisadi uliotolewa na Tume ya atampigia kura wakati wa kufanya maamuzi. Maadili na Kukabiliana na (EACC). Mwongozo huo wa EACC unahitaji kuwa taasisi za umma Taarifa kwa wenyehisa pia zinapatika katika kuweka mfumo thabiti wa nidhamu na maadili tovuti ya www.kplc.co.ke ili kukabiliana na ufisadi. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 87 5. Mfumo wa Kampuni Kamati Kuu ya Usimamizi inayojumuisha wakuu  Kampuni imegawanywa katika idara 13 ili wote wa idara, inasaidia Mkurugenzi Mtendaji kurahisisha utendakazi na utoaji wa huduma na Mkurugenzi Mkuu kuendesha shughuli za kwa wateja wetu. into Kila idara inaongozwa kila siku za Kampuni. Kamati Kuu ya Usimamizi na Meneja anayeripoti kwa Mkurugenzi Mtendaji inatathmini sera na mipango ya kampuni na na Mkurugenzi Mkuu. Idara hizo pia zina vitengo kutoa mapendekezo kwa Bodi. mbalimbali vinavyosimamiwa na mameneja. Biashara pia imegawanywa katika maeneo 10  Mkurugenzi Mtendaji na Mkurugenzi Mkuu nchini ambayo yanasimamiwa na Mameneja wa wanaunganisha Kamati Kuu ya Usimamizi na Kanda. Kadhalika, Kampuni imegatua huduma Bodi. zake kwa kaunti 46 ambazo zinasimamiwa na Mameneja wa Kaunti. 7. Taarifa za Wenyehisa Tumezingatia sheria na kanuni za Mamlaka ya 6. Kamati Kuu ya Usimamizi Ubadilishanaji Hisa (CMA) na tumetimiza kanuni  Kamati Kuu ya Usimamizi inaongozwa na za uwazi na ufichuzi kwa mujibu wa Sheria ya Mkurugenzi Mtendaji na Mkurugenzi Mkuu. Ubadilishanaji wa Hisa katika Soko la Nairobi, Kanuni za Kujisajili na Kampuni ya 2015. Wawekezaji 20 walio na idadi ya juu ya hisa kufikia August 31, 2017 ni kama ifuatavyo: Asilimia Asilimia 4 ya 7 ya Kawaida ya upendeleo upendeleo Jina la (KShs 2.50 (KShs. 20 (KShs. 20 Nambari mwenyehisa kwa hisa) kwa hisa) kwa hisa) Jumla Asilimia 1 KATIBU WIZARA YA FEDHA 977,641,695 656,808 193,531 978,492,034 50.086 2 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LTD A/C KE20510 36,233,521 36,233,521 1.855 3 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES RESD A/C KE11450 32,518,589 32,518,589 1.665 4 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LTD A/C KE002012 30,616,600 30,616,600 1.567 5 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES NON-RESD. A/C KE9053 24,848,575 24,848,575 1.272 Page 88 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Asilimia Asilimia 4 ya 7 ya Kawaida ya upendeleo upendeleo Jina la (KShs. 2.50 (KShs. 20 (KShs. 20 Nambari mwenyehisa kwa hisa) kwa hisa) kwa hisa) Jumla Asilimia 6 KENYA COMMERCIAL BANK NOMINEES LIMITED A/C 915B 22,887,288 22,887,288 1.172 7 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES RESD A/C KE11401 21,296,581 21,296,581 1.090 8 KENYA COMMERCIAL BANK NOMINEES LIMITED A/C 915A 20,370,288 3,550 750 20,374,588 1.043 9 THE JUBILEE INSURANCE COMPANY OF KENYA LIMITED 20,255,753 59,828 17,160 20,332,741 1.041 10 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES NON-RESD A/C KE11794 19,281,800 19,281,800 0.987 11 STANBIC NOMINEES LTD A/C R57601 12,601,082 12,601,082 0.645 12 CO-OP CUSTODY A/C 4003 12,400,226 12,400,226 0.635 13 STANBIC NOMINEES LTD A/C NR1030682 10,954,012 10,954,012 0.561 14 OLD MUTUAL LIFE Corporate Governance Report ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD 10,261,291 10,261,291 0.525 15 STANDARD CHARTERED NOMINEES A/C 9098AP 10,154,106 10,154,106 0.520 16 EQUITY NOMINEES LIMITED A/C 00078 8,951,061 8,951,061 0.458 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 89 Asilimia Asilimia 4 ya 7 ya Kawaida ya upendeleo upendeleo Jina la (KShs. 2.50 (KShs. 20 (KShs. 20 Nambari mwenyehisa kwa hisa) kwa hisa) kwa hisa) Jumla Asilimia 17 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LIMITED, KE18492 8,750,000 8,750,000 0.448 18 STANDARD CHARTERED KENYA NOMINEES LTD A/C KE002333 8,420,415 8,420,415 0.431 19 NIC CUSTODIAL SERVICES A/C 077 7,874,999 7,874,999 0.403 20 JOHN NJUGUNA NGUGI 7,737,800 7,737,800 0.396 Jumla 1,304,055,682 720,186 211,441 1,304,987,309 66.799 Wenyehisa wengine 647,411,363 1,079,814 138,559 648,629,736 33.201 Jumla ya hisa zilizotolewa 1,951,467,045 1,800,000 350,000 1,953,617,045 100.00 Mgao wa hisa za Kawaida kufikia Agosti 31, 2017 Kati ya Idadi ya wenyehisa Hisa <1,000 12,974 4,111,249 1001–10,000 10,752 33,895,847 10,001–50,000 2,506 52,905,622 50,001–100,000 462 32,677,044 Over 100,000 809 1,827,877,283 Jumla 27,503 1,951,467,045 Mgao wa wenyehisa za upendeleo za asilimia 4 kufikia Agosti 31, 2017 Kati ya Idadi ya wenyehisa Hisa <1,000 362 65,475 1001–10,000 55 152,792 10,001–50,000 13 325,918 50,001–100,000 2 133,564 Over 100,000 3 1,122,251 Jumla 435 1,800,000 Page 90 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Mgao wa wenyehisa za upendeleo za asilimia 7 kufikia Agosti 31, 2017 Kati ya Idadi ya Wenyehisa Hisa <1,000 82 21,927 1001–10,000 15 44,076 10,001–50,000 3 86,432 50,001–100,000 1 57,617 Zaidi ya 100,000 1 139,948 Jumla 102 350,000 Mhe. Kenneth Marende, EGH Mwenyekiti, Bodi ya Wakurugenzi Oktoba 19, 2017 Corporate Governance Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 91 CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT REPORT We appreciate that our ability as a Company to Pursuant to this understanding on the significance of accomplish corporate sustainability is directly CSI, we have a policy that aims at guiding our social proportional to the utmost goodwill and the investment initiatives towards success. Through this steadfast support of all our stakeholders. Central policy, the Company dedicates 1% of its after-tax in that compendium of diverse stakeholders are the profits towards CSI programmes and activities. communities in whose environment we operate our These programmes are further delineated to focus business. Our ultimate aspiration and goal is to be an on key support areas of education, environment, organisation that cares and demonstrates value for sports and other general social welfare activities. what is important to society and to the environment, in addition to meeting our financial and economic 1. Prioritising education responsibilities to all stakeholders. During the year under review, we implemented various infrastructure projects that concentrated We understand that a strategic, successful, and on creating an environment conducive holistic approach to CSI will eventually enhance to teaching and learning in schools. The our corporate reputation, promote a positive image reconstruction of two primary schools in of the Company as an ideal corporate citizen, and Machakos County and the construction of an provide an enduring opportunity for us to keep our Early Childhood Development (ECD) school in employees engaged – all important ingredients for Uasin Gishu County are the three major projects improved performance and our ability to attract and the Company supported in the year. retain talent. Page 92 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 The reconstruction projects were carried out two standard classrooms; purchase of desks in Katulu and Muvwana Primary Schools, both for the classrooms; and construction of toilets in Machakos County. The projects included for the pupils. Prior to that, the entire school development of additional classrooms in the population, including the teachers, was using schools and the electrification of the schools one semi-permanent toilet. through the Last Mile Conectivity Project. A total of Shs 8.9 million was spent on reconstruction In support of our effort to promote education, work, a contribution that bore immediate during the year under review, bilateral and results since the schools’ progress reports after multi-lateral development agencies such completion of the projects registered improved as United States Agency for International grades and increased in pupil population. Development (USAID) and United Nations Development Program (UNDP) expressed The ECD project, to which the Company interest in supporting a scholarship programme contributed Shs 1.4 million, was implemented in in conjunction with the Company. Endowment partnership with St. Mary’s Tachasis ECD school funds are a sustainable way to maintain such a in Moiben, Uasin Gishu County. The funds went scholarship and mentorship programmes. The towards the expansion of the school into a donor support will be used as a revolving fund pre-primary institution through construction of with the yield utilised to support the programme. As part of the mentorship programme, the 2. Protecting the environment Corporate Social Investment Company organised the inaugural ‘Bring-YourDuring the year, we supported various activities Daughter-to-Work’ day that involved employees aimed at protecting the environment. One of exposing their school-going daughters to the environmental causes that we supported the workplace. The programme is aimed at was the sponsorship of the Maasai Mara promoting interest in engineering as a career Marathon, held in partnership with Green Africa amongst young girls. The programme will also Foundation, in which the Company donated support the creation of initiatives such as Energy Shs 1 million. The aim of the marathon is to raise Clubs, open days, and innovation competitions fund for conservation of the Mara ecosystem in in high schools where winners are sponsored Narok County while, at the same time, harnessing for academic trips among other eye-opening sporting talent and athletic potential in experiences. The programme will also include the region. mentorship for young women engineers. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 93 Similarly, the Company contributed Shs 1 million Cerebral Palsy Unit, which will enable the school to support the 2017 edition of the Rhino Charge, to accommodate more children. The school a motorsport event that is organised annually to was the first in Nairobi to enroll children with raise funds for the conservation and protection cerebral palsy. of Kenya’s mountain range ecosystems and water towers. 4. Supporting sports Sporting activities are not just for recreation 3. Promoting health but also form an integral part towards our The general physical and mental wellbeing general wellbeing. By supporting sports, we of individual members of the society is a contribute to our communities directly. Sports fundamental aspect of every community. activities make profound and positive impact The Company promotes programmes that on individuals, communities, and the society support needy members of the community at large. in which we operate. During the year under review, the Company partnered with Gundua Western Stima Football Club, which plays in Foundation, a non-governmental organisation the Kenya Premier League, is sponsored by the which focuses on fighting cancer by raising Company. Majority of the club players are not public awareness on the disease for early employees of the Company but through the club, diagnosis and treatment. The Company they earn income and develop their sporting contributed Shs 1 million towards the cancer careers. The Company also supports other clubs awareness public campaign. We will dedicate and sporting activities countrywide. This include additional resources to support similar initiatives sponsorship of corporate golf tournaments in in future to help save lives from the scourge in Nairobi’s Muthaiga and Karen golf clubs, and various parts of the country. Nyali and Vipingo Ridge in Coast Region. In the year, the Company also supported various  Further, the Company partnered with athletic events which include the Tegla Lorupe Dr. Ribeiro Primary School in marking the World Peace Race which took place in Kapenguria, Cerebral Palsy Day. The school is located near West Pokot County. The race, themed “Run for our Company Head Office in Parklands, Nairobi Peace”, was organised to open opportunities and accommodates more than one hundred for different communities to interact with each children who suffer from cerebral palsy, a other and build mutual relations. The race neurological condition marked by impaired is held to encourage peaceful coexistence muscle coordination or other disabilities that and voluntary surrender of illicit weapons typically affect the brain before or after birth. among the Karamajong, Pokot, Marakwet, and Towards this, the Company contributed Shs Turkana communities. 500,000 towards expansion of the school’s Page 94 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 5. Social welfare for communities 6. Reviewed CSI Policy In addition to our programmes focusing In the year under review, we reviewed our CSI on education, health, environment and policy to align and implement programmes sports, we also support numerous general that will support corporate objectives, endear programmes within the communities. These ourselves to the community in which we operate, welfare programmes often focus on social and and ensure sustainability. Going forward, we humanitarian causes across our different areas will devote significant CSI resources towards of operation. During the year, for example, we providing education sponsorships to the supported Joyful Women Organisation (JoyWo), less privileged students in secondary and a transformative organisation dedicated to the tertiary institutions, support electrification of holistic empowerment of women. JoyWo is a community boreholes in arid and semi-arid micro-finance institution with presence in all areas to grow energy demand, and ensure counties whose aim is to advance loans to women employee participation in general social welfare with little or no education and assist them start programmes.n off and sustain suitable business enterprises to improve their lives. We contributed Shs 5 million to the JoyWo fundraiser which was held during the period under review. Corporate Social Investment The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 95 RIPOTI KUHUSU UWEKEZAJI WA KAMPUNI KATIKA JAMII Tunashuruku kwamba uwezo wetu kama Kampuni kuwa ripoti kuhusu matokeo ya mitihani katika kutimiza uendelezaji wa shirika hili ni sambamba shule hizo yaliimarika na idadi ya wanafunzi na uungwaji mkono wa wetu na washikadau wetu. kuongezeka. Muhimu katika mkusanyiko huu wa washikadau ni jamii ambapo tunaendesha biashara yetu. Azima  Mradi wa ECD ambao Kampuni ilichangia na shabaha yetu kuu ni kuwa shirika linalojali na Sh1.4milioni, ulitekelezwa kwa ushirikiano na kudhihirisha thamani yake kwa kile kilicho muhimu shule ya chekechea ya St. Mary’s Tachasis, kwa jamii na mazingira, pamoja na kutosheleza Moiben, katika kaunti ya Uasin Gishu. Fedha majukumu yake ya kifedha na kiuchumi kwa zilitumika katika upanuzi wa shule kupokea washikadau wote. wanafunzi wa shule ya malezi kupitia ujenzi wa madarasa mawili ya kisasa; ununuzi wa Katika moyo huu tunasisitiza umuhimu wa kuweka madawati kwa madarasa hayo; na ujenzi wa mipango yetu ya Uwekezaji wa Kampuni katika vioo vine vya wavulana na vine vya wasichana. Jamii (CSI) chini ya uangalizi mkubwa na kudumisha Kabla ya hapo, shule nzima, wakiwemo walimu, mahitaji ya jamii katika mikakati yetu. Tunafahamu walikuwa wanatumia choo kimoja cha mawe kwamba, mbinu ya kimkakati, iliyofaulu ya ujumla na udongo. kuhusu CSI hatimaye itainua sifa yetu kama shirika na kukuza mvuto wa Kampuni kama raia anayewajibika Katika juhudi zetu za kuinua elimu, katika mwaka , na kutoa fursa ya kudumu kuwezesha wafanyikazi uliomalizika, mashirika ya kitaifa na ya kimataifa wetu kujishughulisha na jamiivyote ambavyo ni ya kutoa misaada kama vile United States viungo muhimu kwa matokeo bora na uwezo wetu Agency for International Development (USAID) kuvutia na kudumisha wafanyikazi wenye vipawa. na United Nations Development Program (UNDP) yalielezea nia yao ya kusaidia mpango Kufuatia uelewa huu kuhusu umuhimuwa CSI, wa kutoa msaada wa masomo kwa ushirikiano tuna sera ambayo inalenga kutoa mwongozo kwa na Kampuni. Mfuko majaliwa ni njia ya kudumu mipango yetu ya uwekezaji na kufanikisha miradi ya kuendeleza msaada kama huo na mpango wa hiyo. Kupitia sera hii, Kampuni hutenga asilimia 1 ya ushauri. Msaada wa wafadhili utatumika kama faida yake baada ya ushuru kwa mipango na shughuli hazina inayozunguka huku mavuno yakitumika za CSI. Miradi hii pia imegawanywa kuangazia fani kusaidia mpango huo. muhimu za elimu, mazingira, michezo na shughuli zingine za ujumla za maslahi ya kijami.  Kama sehemu ya mpango huu, Kampuni iliandaa ‘Sikuya KumletaBinti YakoKazini’ 1. Kupea elimu kipaumbele ambapo wafanyikazi waliwaonyesha mabinti Katika mwaka uliokamilika, tulitekeleza miradi zao wanaosoma mazingira ya kazi. Mpango tofauti ya muundomsingi ambayo ilijikita katika huo unalenga kuchochea hamu ya wasichana kubuni mazingira yafaayo kwa mafunzo na hao kusomea uhandisi kama taaluma. elimu shuleni. Miradi mitatu muhimu ambayo Kampuni ilifadhili katika mwaka uliomalizika ni  Mpango huo pia unalenga kusaidia vikundi ukarabati wa shule mbili za msingi katika kaunti shuleni kama vile Vilabu vya Kawi, siku za ya Machakos na ujenzi wa shule ya mafunzo ya kutangamano, na mashindano ya uvumbuzi chekechea (ECD) katika kaunti ya Uasin Gishu. katika shule za upili ambapo washindi wanafadhiliwa kwa ziara nje ya nchi miongoni Ukarabati huo wa miradi ulifanywa katika Shule mwa shughuli nyingine za kujielimisha zaidi. za Msingi za Katulu na Muvwana, zote katika Mpango huo pia utahusisha utoaji ushauri kwa kaunti ya Machakos. Miradi hiyo ilihusisha wahandisi wanawake chipukizi. ujenzi wa madarasa zaidi katika shule hizo na usambazaji wa umeme katika shule hizo chini 2. Kutunza mazingira ya mpango wa Last Mile Project. Sh 8.9 milioni Katika mwaka uliomalizika, shughuli zinazonuia zilitumika katika ujenzi huo, mchango ambao kutunza mazingira zilifadhiliwa kupitia ulizalisha matunda ya moja kwa moja kwa mashindano ya marathoni na mbio fupi. Page 96 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Mojawapo ya miradi ambayo tulisaidia kwa ya kuanza Nairobi kuchukua watoto waliopooza mchango wa Sh1milioni, ni mbio za Maasai Mara akili. Marathon. Lengo kuu la mbio hizo, pamoja na kuchangisha fedha za kutunza mazingira katika 4. Kusaidia Michezo mbuga ya Mara katika kaunti ya Narok, ni Shughuli za michezo sio tu za burudani lakini kuimarisha uhamasishaji wa washikadau kuhusu pia ni kiungo muhimu kwa afya na ubora wa mazingira hayo, wakati huo huo kukuza talanta mtu. Kwa kusaidia michezo, tunachangia moja za wanariadha katika eneo hilo. kwa moja kwa jamii zetu; michezo hutoa nafasi kwa washiriki kujenga nguvu za kimwili na Vile vile, Kampuni ilitoa Sh1milioni kusaidia kuongeza uwezo wa kiakili. Michezo huwa na mashindano ya The Rhino Charge 2017, ahari kubwa kwa watu binafsi, jumuia na jamii mashindano ya magari yanayoandaliwa kila pana kwa jumla. mwaka kuchangisha pesa za kuhifadhi na kutunza mazingira katika maeneo ya milima Klabu cha Soka cha Western Stima, kinachoshiriki Kenya. Katika mwaka uliokamilika, Kampuni pia katika Ligi Kuu ya Premia Kenya, kinafadhiliwa ilishirikiana na Green Africa Foundation kusaidia kiasi na Kampuni. Wengi wa wachezaji wa klabu mradi wa kukuza miche ya miti. hicho si wafanyikazi wa Kampuni, lakini kupitia kwa klabu hicho, hujipatia riziki na kustawisha 3. Kuinua afya taaluma zao kama wanamichezo. Kampuni Afya, ustawi wa jumla wa kimwili na kiakili wa pia inasaidia vilabu vingine na shughuli za watu binafsi katika jamii, ni nguzo muhimu michezo nchini. katika jamii. Kampuni inasaidia miradi inayosaidia watu wenye mahitaji karibu na  Katika mwaka uliomalizika, Kampuni pia maeneo tunakoendesha biashara. Katika ilisaidia mashindano mbalimbali ya mbio. Hasa, mwaka uliokamilika, Kampuni ilishirikiana na Kampuni ilisaidia mbio za Tegla Lorupe Peace Gundua Foundation, shirika lisilo la kiserikali Race zilizofanyika Kapenguria, kaunti ya West linalojishughulisha na kupambana na saratani Pokot. Mbio hizo zenye mada “Kimbia kwa kwa kuhamasisha umma kuhusu ugonjwa huo. Amani,” ziliandaliwa kutoa nafasi kwa jamii Utafiti unaonyesha kuwa ni Wakenya wachache tofauti kujumuika pamoja na kukuza mahusiano wanafahamu kuwa utambuzi wa mapema na baina ya pande zote. Mbio hizo zinaandaliwa matibabu ya saratani huzuia kuenea kwake na kuhamasisha wakazi kuhusu umuhimu wa hivyo, kunaweza kuokoa maisha. kuishi pamoja kwa Amani na kusalimisha kwa hiari silaha haramu miongoni mwa jamii za Kampuni ilichangia Sh1milioni kwa kampeni hii ya Karamajong, Pokot, Marakwet, na Turkana. umma. Kampuni inajitolea kusaidia kampeni za kila mwaka za uhamasisho kwa kuwa utambuzi 5. Miradi ya kustawisha jamii wa mapema wa ugonjwa huo unafanikisha tiba. Pamoja na miradi yetu inayolenga elimu, afya, mazingira, na spoti, pia tunafadhili miradi kadha  Kampuni pia ilishirikiana na Dr. Riberio kwa jumla katika jamii hizo. Miradi hii hasa Corporate Social Investment Parklands School, Nairobi, katika kuadhimisha hulenga maslahi ya kijamii katika maeneo tofauti Siku ya Kupooza Ubongo Duniani. Shule hiyo tunakohudumu. Katika mwaka uliomalizika, kwa inahudumia zaidi ya watoto 100 walio na mfano, tulisaidia Joyful Women Organisation matatizo ua kupooza akili, hali ya kiakili ambapo (JoyWo), shirika lililojitolea kuinua wanawake. neva haziambatani na upungufu mwingine JoyWo ni shirika la kifedha linalohudumu unaoathiri akili kabla na baada ya kuzaliwa. katika kaunti zote 47 ambalo hulenga kutoa Katika mwaka uliomalizika, Kampuni pia mikopo kwa wanawake walio na elimu ya ilichangia Sh500,000 kwa upanuzi wa kitengo chini na kuwasaidia kuanzisha biashara cha Cerebral Palsy Unit, shuleni humo, na hivyo zifaazo kuboresha maisha yao. Kampuni kuwezesha shule hiyo kuhudumia watoto zaidi. ilitoa Sh5,000,000 kwa mchango wa JoyWo Shule ya Msingi ya Dr. Ribeiro Parklands ndiyo ulioandaliwa katika kipindi tunachoangazia. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 97 6. Sera mpya ya CSI Katika mwaka uliomalizika, tulipitia upya sera yetu ya CSI kuianisha na kutekeleza mipango yetu ambayo itaendeleza malengo yetu kama shirika, kutufanya tukumbatiwe katika jamii tunaohudumu, na kuhakikisha uendelezaji wa biashara. Kuendelea mbele, tutatenga kiasi kikubwa cha fedha za CSI kutoa ufadhili wa elimu kwa wanafunzi kutoka familia maskini katika shule za upili na vyuo, kusaidia kusambaza umeme kwa visima vya kijamii katika maeneo kame nay ale yasiyotumika kikamilifu kuongeza mahitaji ya umeme, na kushiriki kwa ujumla miradi ya ustawi wa kijamii.n Page 98 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Sustainable Business Operations We are building on the successes in our core business areas to align, grow and transform our business for long-term sustainability, creating value for our customers, shareholders and all stakeholders. Align. Grow. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited AnnualTransform. Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 99 DIRECTORS’ REPORT The directors submit their report together with the The core business of the Company continues to be audited financial statements of the Kenya Power and the transmission, distribution and retail of electricity Lighting Company Limited (the “Company”) for the purchased in bulk from Kenya Electricity Generating year ended 30 June 2017, which disclose the state Company Limited (KenGen), Independent Power of affairs of the Company. Producers (IPPs), Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL) and Tanzania Electric BUSINESS REVIEW Supply Company Limited (TANESCO). RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 2017 2016 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Profit before income tax 10,912,442 12,082,397 Income tax expense (3,646,311) (4,885,834) Profit for the year transferred to retained earnings 7,266,131 7,196,563 DIVIDEND A dividend of Shs 1.93 million (2016: Shs 1.93 million) Mrs. Susan Chesiyna resigned as a director on is payable on the cumulative preference shares and 5th May 2017. While Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa has been recognised in the statement of profit or replaced Mr. Joseph Kariuki as alternate Director to loss and other comprehensive income under finance the Cabinet Secretary, National Treasury on costs (Note 10(b)). 5th May 2017. No interim dividend was paid in 2017 (2016: Shs AUDITORS 390,293,000). Subject to the approval of the The Auditor General is responsible for the statutory shareholders, the directors recommend the payment audit of the Company’s financial statements in of final dividend of Shs 976 million (2016: Shs 976 accordance with Section 35 of the Public Audit million) for the year representing a full dividend of Act, 2015. Section 23(1) of the Act empowers Shs 0.50 (2016: Shs 0.50) per issued ordinary share. the Auditor General to appoint other auditors to carry out the audit on his behalf. Accordingly, DIRECTORS PricewaterhouseCoopers were appointed to carry The current Board of Directors are as shown on out the audit for the year ended 30 June 2017 and page 6. report to the Auditor-General. Mr. Kairo Thuo and Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo were BY ORDER OF THE BOARD elected as directors of the Company on 23rd December 2016 to replace Mrs. Jane Nashida and Mr. Macharia Kariuki who retired as directors. Dr. Ben Chumo ceased to be the Managing Director & CEO of the Company on 7th January 2017 and was replaced by Dr. Kenneth Tarus who served in acting capacity until confirmation of his appointment as Beatrice Meso Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer on Company Secretary 1st August 2017. 19 October 2017 Page 100 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT Summary of the remuneration policy The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited The following are highlights of the Board Board remuneration is set within the Government remuneration policy for the Company: limits for state corporations. 1. During every Board or Committee meeting, Statement of company’s policy on directors’ Directors are entitled to a sitting allowance, remuneration lunch allowance (in lieu of lunch being provided), accommodation allowance and During the year, there was no decision made on Board mileage reimbursement at Automobile remuneration nor any change to the previous terms. Association of Kenya rates. The current policy as guided by the Government 2. The Chairman receives a monthly honorarium. through the State Corporations Advisory Committee (SCAC) will apply in subsequent years until the 3. Directors’ fees are paid annually upon approval same is revised. The Company does not run any by shareholders during the Annual General share options or long term incentives. There was no Meeting in accordance with Government’s compensation for past directors or any sum paid guidelines for all state corporations. to third parties in respect of a director’s services. 4. Non-executive directors are paid a total of Shs 600,000 or on pro rata basis for period served. The only executive director is the Managing Director 5. The remuneration for executive directors is as and Chief Executive Officer. He has performance per the negotiated employment contracts. targets for the year which apply to the Board. Nonexecutive directors’ remuneration is not pegged on 6. The Company will not propose to make any performance and is fixed by SCAC. changes in the remuneration level during the current financial year. Contract of service 7. There are no directors’ loans in the Company’s The non-executive directors are not under contract loans. but are subject to retirement by rotation in Annual General Meeting (AGM). The Managing Director and 8. There are no directors’ shares schemes in the Chief Executive Officer is on a three years renewable Company’s loans. contract from 1 August 2017 to 1 August 2020. st st 9. A sitting allowance is paid to each non-executive Director for attending a duly convened and Statement of voting at general meeting constituted meeting of the Board or of any of During the AGM held on 23rd December 2016, the the committees. shareholders unanimously approved the directors’ 10. An allowance is paid to non-executive directors remuneration of Shs 600,000 per year per director for any day of travel away from his regular on a pro-rata basis. station in order to attend to duties of the Company. 11. Medical insurance cover is provided to all nonexecutive directors for their individual medical requirements covering both out-patient and inpatient services. Directors’ Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 101 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT Directors’ remuneration Below is a summary of entitlement per Board Member: Type of payment Chairman Member Honoraria Shs 80,000 N/A Sitting allowance (per sitting) Shs 20,000 Shs 20,000 Telephone – airtime for mobile phone per month Shs 20,000 N/A Transport allowance/mileage N/A AA rates Lunch allowance Shs 2,000 Shs 2,000 Director’s fees per annum on prorata basis Shs 600,000 Shs 600,000 Director’s bonus N/A N/A Accommodation allowance outside Nairobi Shs 18,200 Shs 18,200 INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT For the financial years ended 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016, the directors’ fees and remuneration are as below: Expense Salary Fees allowances Total Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Year ended 30 June 2017 Executive Director Ben Chumo 4,857 2,020 6,877 Kenneth Tarus 4,536 1,485 6,021 Non-executive directors Kenneth Marende – (Chairman) 960 600 1,514 3,074 Adil Khawaja 600 355 955 Beatrice Gathirwa 98 98 Brenda Eng’omo 934 934 CS Treasury 600 600 Isaac Kiva 1,448 1,448 Joseph Kariuki 1,716 1,716 Jane Nashida 889 1,767 2,656 Kairo Thuo 931 931 Macharia Kariuki 889 1,437 2,326 PS Joseph Njoroge 600 130 730 Susan Chesiyna 316 4,542 4,677 Wilson Mugung’ei 600 1,390 1,990 10,353 5,094 19,767 35,214 Page 102 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION REPORT Directors’ remuneration (continued) Expense Salary Fees allowances Total Shs‘000 Shs‘000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Year ended 30 June 2016 Executive Director Ben Chumo 8,593 3,713 12,306 Non-executive directors Kenneth Marende (Chairman) 960 400 2,011 3,371 Adil Khawaja 400 1,036 1,436 PS Treasury 600 600 Isaac Kiva 1,300 1,300 Joseph Kariuki 1,592 1,592 Jane Nashida 600 3,569 4,169 Macharia Kariuki 600 2,864 3,464 Joseph Njoroge 600 162 762 Susan Chesiyna 2,645 2,645 Wilson Mugung’ei 400 2,026 2,426 Theodorah Kilukumi 888 1,674 2,562 9,553 4,488 22,592 36,633 BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Beatrice Meso Company Secretary 19 October 2017 Directors’ Report The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 103 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES The Kenyan Companies Act 2015 requires the required by the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They directors to prepare financial statements for each also accept responsibility for: financial year that give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at the end of i. Designing, implementing and maintaining the financial year and of its profit or loss for that internal control as they determine necessary to year. The directors are responsible for ensuring that enable the preparation of financial statements the Company keeps proper accounting records that that are free from material misstatements, are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of whether due to fraud or error; the Company; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company; and ii. Selecting suitable accounting policies and then that enables them to prepare financial statements applying them consistently; and of the Company that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements iii. Making judgements and accounting estimates of the Kenyan Companies Act 2015. They are also that are reasonable in the circumstances. responsible for safeguarding the assets of the In preparing the financial statements, the directors Company and for taking reasonable steps for have assessed the Company’s ability to continue the prevention and detection of fraud and other as a going concern and disclosed, as applicable, irregularities matters relating to the use of going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements. Nothing has The directors accept responsibility for the come to the attention of the directors to indicate preparation and presentation of these financial that the Company will not remain a going concern statements in accordance with International for at least the next twelve months from the date of Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner this statement. The directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the board of directors on 19 October 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Mr. Adil Khawaja Mr. Kairo Thuo Kenneth Tarus, PhD Director Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Managing Director and CEO Page 104 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 REPORT OF THE AUDITOR-GENERAL ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the Auditor-General The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 105 Page 106 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 107 Page 108 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Report of the Auditor-General The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 109 Page 110 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2017 2016 Note Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue Electricity sales 6(a) 91,951,629 87,080,812 Foreign exchange adjustment 6,682,693 8,782,073 Fuel cost charge 7(b) 22,107,948 12,511,727 120,742,270 108,374,612 Power purchase cost Non-fuel costs 7(a) (50,615,823) (51,399,414) Foreign exchange cost (6,199,227) (6,175,191) Fuel costs 7(b) (22,123,712) (12,690,427) (78,938,762) (70,265,032) Gross profit 41,803,508 38,109,580 Net operating expenses Network management 8(a) (11,160,746) (9,496,734) Commercial services 8(b) (4,745,831) (4,324,176) Administration 8(c) (17,510,093) (14,829,842) (33,416,670) (28,650,752) Operating income 8,386,838 9,458,828 Other operating income 6(b) 8,130,398 7,469,887 Operating profit 16,517,236 16,928,715 Interest income 10(a) 46,004 964,957 Finance costs 10(b) (5,650,798) (5,811,275) Profit before income tax 10,912,442 12,082,397 Statement of Profit or Loss Income tax expense 12(a) (3,646,311) (4,885,834) Profit for the year 7,266,131 7,196,563 Basic and diluted earnings per share (Shs) 13 3.72 3.69 Profit for the year 7,266,131 7,196,563 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement of the retirement benefit asset 30 (1,058,356) (240,962) Deferred income tax relating to remeasurement of the retirement benefit asset 26 317,507 72,289 Other comprehensive loss (740,849) (168,673) Total comprehensive income for the year 6,525,282 7,027,890 The notes on page 115 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 111 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2017 2016 2015 Restated Restated ASSETS Note Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Non-current assets Property and equipment 15 264,589,481 235,467,263 196,301,330 Operating lease prepayment 16 131,438 131,494 131,543 Intangible assets 17 2,593,483 2,602,033 1,418,599 Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment 18(c) 6,520,949 6,068,423 5,165,067 Retirement benefit asset 30 2,531,782 3,263,150 3,207,068 276,367,133 247,532,363 206,223,607 Current assets Inventories 19 9,626,293 11,895,271 11,660,097 Trade and other receivables 20(a) 51,278,804 32,566,951 25,823,284 Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment 18(c) 798,716 23,123 348,432 Current income tax 12(c) 44,358 21,419 Short term deposits 21(a) 596,169 3,842,355 4,272,357 Bank and cash balances 21(b) 2,941,754 1,660,698 23,958,305 65,286,094 50,009,817 66,062,475 TOTAL ASSETS 341,653,227 297,542,180 272,286,082 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to owners Ordinary share capital 22 4,878,667 4,878,667 4,878,667 Share premium 23 22,021,219 22,021,219 22,021,219 Reserves 24 43,061,769 37,121,927 31,069,770 TOTAL EQUITY 69,961,655 64,021,813 57,969,656 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax 26 32,472,173 29,217,030 24,699,789 Deferred income 25 19,562,051 18,154,796 16,612,332 Trade and other payables 27(a) 33,281,165 30,172,855 28,072,720 Borrowings 28 111,075,216 105,017,783 99,289,403 Preference shares 29 43,000 43,000 43,000 196,433,605 182,605,464 168,717,244 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 27(b) 53,974,414 35,298,171 26,328,349 Current income tax 12(c) 180,432 Deferred income 25 4,944,572 5,953,273 5,401,248 Leave pay provision 31 346,903 544,369 1,098,003 Borrowings 28 10,940,906 8,850,929 12,310,981 Dividends payable 32 362,839 268,161 280,169 Overdraft 21(b) 4,688,333 75,257,967 50,914,903 45,599,182 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 341,653,227 297,542,180 272,286,082 The financial statements on pages 111 to 175 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 October 2017 and were signed on its behalf by: Mr. Adil Khawaja Mr. Kairo Thuo Kenneth Tarus, PhD Director Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Managing Director and CEO Page 112 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Ordinary share Share Retained capital premium earnings Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 At 1 July 2014 – as previously reported 4,878,667 22,021,219 32,304,194 59,204,080 Restatement of deferred income tax (Note 39) (1,234,424) (1,234,424) As restated 30 June 2015 4,878,667 22,021,219 31,069,770 57,969,656 At 1 July 2015 4,878,667 22,021,219 31,069,770 57,969,656 Profit for the year as previously reported 7,556,163 7,556,163 Restatement of deferred income tax (Note 39) (359,600) (359,600) As restated 7,196,563 7,196,563 Other comprehensive income (168,673) (168,673) Total comprehensive income for the year 7,027,890 7,027,890 Final dividend paid 2015 (585,440) (585,440) Interim dividend paid 2016 (390,293) (390,293) Statement of Changes in Equity As restated 30 June 2016 4,878,667 22,021,219 37,121,927 64,021,813 At 1 July 2016 4,878,667 22,021,219 37,121,927 64,021,813 Profit for the year 7,266,131 7,266,131 Other comprehensive income (740,849) (740,849) Total comprehensive income for the year 6,525,282 6,525,282 Final dividend paid – 2016 (585,440) (585,440) At 30 June 2017 4,878,667 22,021,219 43,061,769 69,961,655 The prior year adjustment relates to correction of an error in the deferred income tax liability computation (Note 26). The notes on page 115 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 113 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 2017 2016 Note Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 33(a) 34,333,258 32,208,462 Income tax paid 12(c) (96,600) (498,155) Interest received 33(g) 33,811 965,491 Interest paid 33(d) (6,910,645) (6,998,756) Net cash generated by operating activities 27,359,824 25,677,042 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property and equipment 33(h) (38,838,985) (47,363,482) Purchase of intangible assets 17 (729,705) (1,614,474) Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 33(e) 48,727 135,087 Net cash used in investing activities (39,519,963) (48,842,869) Cash flows from financing activities Repayment of borrowings 33(b) (4,680,019) (53,567,980) Proceeds from borrowings 33(b) 10,672,294 54,995,870 Dividends paid to owners of the company 33(f) (492,692) (989,671) Net cash generated from financing activities 5,499,583 438,219 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (6,660,556) (22,727,608) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 5,503,054 28,230,662 Effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on deposits 7,092 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 33(c) (1,150,410) 5,503,054 The notes on page 115 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements. Page 114 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES 1. General information The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited, a public company domiciled in the Republic of Kenya, was incorporated on 6 January 1922, as East Africa Power & Lighting Limited. The Company changed its name on 11 October 1983. The core business of the Company continues to be the transmission, distribution and retail of electricity purchased in bulk from Kenya Electricity Generating Company Limited (KenGen), Independent Power Producers (IPPs), Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL) and Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO). The shares of the Company are listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange. The Government of Kenya is the principal shareholder in the Company holding a 50.1% equity interest. The address of the Company’s registered office is as follows: Stima Plaza Kolobot Road, Parklands P.O. Box 30099 – 00100, Nairobi 2. Significant accounting policies (a) Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires the directors to exercise judgement in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in Note 3. For the Kenyan Companies Act reporting purposes, the balance sheet is represented by the statement of financial position and the profit and loss account is presented by the statement of Notes profit or loss and other comprehensive income in these financial statements Changes in accounting policy and disclosures New and amended standards adopted by the Company Standard Effective date Executive summary Amendments to IAS 1 January 2016 In December 2014 the IASB issued amendments 1,’Presentation of financial to clarify guidance in IAS 1 on materiality and statements’ disclosure aggregation, the presentation of subtotals, initiative the structure of financial statements and the disclosure of accounting policies. Amendment to IAS 16, 1 January 2016 In this amendment the IASB has clarified that the use of revenue based methods to calculate ‘Property, plant and the depreciation of an asset is not appropriate equipment’ and IAS because revenue generated by an activity that 38,’Intangible assets’, includes the use of an asset generally reflects on depreciation and factors other than the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in the asset. The amortisation. IASB has also clarified that revenue is generally presumed to be an inappropriate basis for measuring the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in an intangible asset. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 115 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company Standard Effective date Executive summary IFRS 9 – Financial Annual periods This standard replaces the guidance in IAS 39. Instruments (2009 &2010) beginning on or It includes requirements on the classification after and measurement of financial assets and • Financial liabilities liabilities; it also includes an expected credit • Derecognition of 1 January 2018 losses model that replaces the current incurred financial instruments loss impairment model. • Financial assets (published July • General hedge 2014) accounting Amendment to IFRS 9 Annual periods The IASB has amended IFRS 9 to align hedge -’Financial instruments’, beginning on or accounting more closely with an entity’s after risk management. The revised standard also establishes a more principles-based 1 January 2018 approach to hedge accounting and addresses on general hedge accounting inconsistencies and weaknesses in the current model in IAS 39. Early adoption of the above requirements has specific transitional rules that need to be followed. Entities can elect to apply IFRS 9 for any of the following: The own credit risk requirements for financial liabilities. Classification and measurement (C&M) requirements for financial assets. C&M requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities. The full current version of IFRS 9 (that is, C&M requirements for financial assets and financial liabilities and hedge accounting). The transitional provisions described above are likely to change once the IASB completes all phases of IFRS 9. IFRS 15 – Revenue from Annual periods The FASB and IASB issued their long awaited contracts with customers. beginning on or converged standard on revenue recognition after on 29 May 2014. It is a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts 1 January 2018 with customers to achieve greater consistency in the recognition and presentation of revenue. Revenue is recognised based on (published May the satisfaction of performance obligations, 2014) which occurs when control of good or service transfers to a customer. Page 116 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company (continued) Standard Effective date Executive summary Amendment to IFRS 15 – Annual periods The IASB has amended IFRS 15 to clarify the Revenue from contracts beginning on or guidance, but there were no major changes to with customers. after the standard itself. The amendments comprise clarifications of the guidance on identifying 1 January 2018 performance obligations, accounting for licences of intellectual property and the principal versus agent assessment (gross versus net revenue (published April presentation). New and amended illustrative 2016) examples have been added for each of these areas of guidance. The IASB has also included additional practical expedients related to transition to the new revenue standard. IFRS 16 – Leases Annual periods This standard replaces the current guidance in beginning on or IAS 17 and is a far reaching change in accounting after 1 January by lessees in particular. Under IAS 17, lessees were 2019 – earlier required to make a distinction between a finance application lease (on balance sheet) and an operating lease permitted if IFRS (off balance sheet). IFRS 16 now requires lessees 15 is also applied. to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a ‘right-of-use asset’ for virtually all lease contracts. The IASB has included an (published optional exemption for certain short-term leases January 2016) and leases of low-value assets; however, this exemption can only be applied by lessees. Notes For lessors, the accounting stays almost the same. However, as the IASB has updated the guidance on the definition of a lease (as well as the guidance on the combination and separation of contracts), lessors will also be affected by the new standard. At the very least, the new accounting model for lessees is expected to impact negotiations between lessors and lessees. Under IFRS 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17, ‘Leases’, IFRIC 4, ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’, SIC 15, ‘Operating Leases – Incentives’ and SIC 27, ‘Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease’. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 117 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued) New and amended standards not yet adopted by the Company (continued) Standard Effective date Executive summary Amendment to IAS 12 Annual periods The amendment was issued to clarify the – Income taxes beginning on or requirements for recognising deferred tax assets after on unrealised losses. The amendment clarifies the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is 1 January 2017 measured at fair value and that fair value is below Recognition of deferred tax assets the asset’s tax base. It also clarifies certain other for unrealised losses. aspects of accounting for deferred tax assets. (published Feb 2016) The amendment clarifies the existing guidance under IAS 12. It does not change the underlying principles for the recognition of deferred tax assets. Amendment to Annual periods In January 2016, the International Accounting IAS 7 – Cash flow beginning on or Standards Board (IASB) issued an amendment statements after to IAS 7 introducing an additional disclosure that will enable users of financial statements to 1 January 2017 evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing Statement of cash activities. flows on disclosure The amendment responds to requests from initiative (published Feb 2016) investors for information that helps them better understand changes in an entity’s debt. The amendment will affect every entity preparing IFRS financial statements. However, the information required should be readily available. Preparers should consider how best to present the additional information to explain the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. IFRIC 23, ‘Uncertainty Annual periods IFRIC 23 provides a framework to consider, over income tax beginning on or recognise and measure the accounting impact treatments’ after 1 January of tax uncertainties. The Interpretation provides 2019 specific guidance in several areas where previously IAS 12 was silent. The Interpretation also explains when to reconsider the accounting for a tax Published 7 June uncertainty. Most entities will have developed 2017) a model to account for tax uncertainties in the absence of specific guidance in IAS 12. These models might, in some circumstances, be inconsistent with IFRIC 23 and the impact on tax accounting could be material. Management should assess the existing models against the specific guidance in the Interpretation and consider the impact on income tax accounting. Page 118 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (a) Basis of preparation (continued) Changes in accounting policy and disclosures (continued)  There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC (ii) Dividends interpretations that are not yet effective Dividend income is recognised when that would be expected to have a material the Company’s right to receive dividend impact on the Company. as a shareholder is established. (iii) Rental income (b) Revenue Rental income is recognised on the Revenue is recognised to the extent that straight line basis over the lease term.2 it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue (iv) Deferred income can be reliably measured. Revenue is This represents capital contributions recognised at the fair value of consideration received from customers. Contributions received or receivable taking into account paid by electricity customers relating to contractually defined terms of payment the construction of regular distribution and excluding taxes or duty. The following assets and funding for electrification specific recognition criteria must be met are credited to profit or loss as part of before revenue is recognised: other income on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the (i) Electricity sales related assets. Items included in the Electricity revenue is recognised when financial statements are measured using electricity is consumed by the user and the currency of the primary economic is stated net of Value Added Tax and environment in which the entity Notes other Government levies. operates (‘the Functional Currency’). The financial statements are presented in Kenya Shillings in thousands (Shs) (ii) Fuel cost charge which is the Company’s Functional Fuel costs are recognised at the actual Currency. amounts charged to the Company by the suppliers of power. Correspondingly, fuel costs recoveries are recognised as (v) Fibre optic income the actual amounts consumed by the This represents income from the lease customers and billable to recover the of Company fibre optic cable lines to fuel cost. third parties. The revenue from leasing the transmission lines is recognised on a straight line basis over the lease (iii) Foreign exchange adjustment term. Foreign exchange payments, arising from exchange rate differences not factored in the retail tariffs, (c) Inventories are recognised and charged to the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost consumers of power to recover the and net realisable value after due regard losses in the foreign exchange rates. for obsolete and slow moving stocks. The cost of inventories comprises purchase Other income price, import duties, transport and handling (i) Finance revenue charges and is determined on a weighted Finance revenue comprises interest average price. Net realisable value is the receivable from bank deposits and price at which the inventory can be realised other deposits. Finance revenue is in the normal course of business after recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, allowing for the costs of realisation. using the effective interest method. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 119 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (d) Property and equipment recognition criteria are satisfied. All  All property and equipment is stated at other repair and maintenance costs are cost less accumulated depreciation and recognised in profit or loss as incurred. accumulated impairment losses. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the No depreciation is charged on freehold land. property and equipment when that cost Depreciation on other assets is calculated is incurred, if the recognition criteria are to write down their cost to their residual met. Likewise, when a major inspection values, on a straight-line basis, over their is performed, its cost is recognised in expected useful lives. The depreciation the carrying amount of the property rates used are as follows: and equipment as a replacement if the Buildings The greater of 2% and 1/the unexpired period of the lease Transmission and distribution lines 2.5 – 20% Machinery 2.85 – 6.66% Motor vehicles 25% Furniture, equipment and fittings 6.66 – 20% Computers and photocopiers 30%  The asset’s residual values, estimated basis as other property assets, commences useful lives and methods of depreciation when the assets are ready for their are reviewed at the end of each reporting intended use. period with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for prospectively. At the end of each accounting period, the An item of property and equipment is Company conducts impairment tests where derecognised upon disposal or when no there are indications of impairment of an future economic benefits are expected from asset. its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising from the recognition of an item of property Capital work in progress and equipment (calculated as the difference Capital work-in-progress is included under between the net disposal proceeds and the property and equipment and comprises carrying amount of the asset at the disposal costs incurred on ongoing capital works date) is included in profit or loss for the relating to both customer and internal year. This does not apply to assets acquired works. These costs include material, by the Company on sale and leaseback transport and labour cost incurred. transactions. (e) Intangible assets Properties in the course of construction  Intangible assets acquired separately for production, supply or administrative are measured on initial recognition purposes are carried at cost less any at cost. Following initial recognition, recognised impairment loss. Cost includes intangible assets are carried at cost less professional fees and for qualifying assets, any accumulated amortisation and any borrowing costs capitalised in accordance accumulated impairment losses. Intangible with the Company’s accounting policy. Such assets with finite lives are amortised over properties are classified to the appropriate the useful economic life and assessed for categories of property and equipment when impairment whenever there is an indication completed and ready for intended use. that the intangible asset may be impaired. Depreciation of these assets, on the same Page 120 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (e) Intangible assets (continued)  The amortisation period and the tax bases used in the computation of amortisation method for the Company’s taxable profit. Deferred income tax intangible assets are reviewed at least at liabilities are generally recognised for all each financial year end. Changes in the taxable temporary differences. Deferred expected useful life or the expected pattern income tax assets are generally recognised of consumption of future economic benefits for all deductible temporary differences to embodied in the asset is accounted for the extent that it is probable that taxable by changing the amortisation period or profits will be available against which those method, as appropriate, and are treated deductible temporary differences can be as changes in accounting estimates. The utilised. Such deferred income tax assets amortisation expense on intangible assets and liabilities are not recognised if the with finite lives is recognised in the profit temporary difference arises from goodwill or loss in the expense category consistent or from the initial recognition (other than in with the function of the intangible asset. a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither An intangible asset is derecognised on the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. disposal, or when no future economic The carrying amounts of deferred income benefits are expected from use or disposal. tax assets are reviewed at the end of each Gains or losses arising from unforeseeable reporting period and reduced to the extent changes of such intangible assets are that it is no longer probable that sufficient measured as the difference between the net taxable profits will be available to allow all disposal proceeds and the carrying amount or part of the asset to be recovered. of the asset and are recognised in profit Notes or loss when the asset is derecognised. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities Currently, intangible assets comprise are measured at the tax rates that are software and have an estimated useful life expected to apply in the period in which of five years. the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have (f) Income tax expense been enacted or substantively enacted Income tax expense represents the sum by the end of the reporting period. The of the tax currently payable and deferred measurement of deferred income tax income tax. liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Company expects, at The tax currently payable is based on the end of the reporting period, to recover taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit or settle the carrying amount of its assets differs from profit as reported in the profit and liabilities. or loss because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in Current and deferred income tax are other years and items that are never taxable recognised in profit or loss, except when or deductible. The Company’s liability for they relate to items that are recognised in current tax is calculated using tax rates that other comprehensive income or directly have been enacted or substantively enacted in equity, in which case, the current and by the end of the reporting period. deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity Deferred income tax respectively. Where current income tax or Deferred income tax is recognised on deferred income tax arises from the initial temporary differences between the carrying accounting for a business combination, the amounts of assets and liabilities in the tax effect is included in the accounting for financial statements and the corresponding the business combination. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 121 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (g) Leases income. Contingent rents are recognised  The determination of whether an as revenue in the period in which they are arrangement is, or contains a lease is based earned. on the substance of the arrangement at inception date on whether the fulfilment of (h) Foreign currencies the arrangement is dependent on the use of The financial statements are presented in a specific asset or assets or the arrangement Kenya shillings, which is the Company’s conveys a right to use the asset. Functional and Presentation currency. Transactions in foreign currencies are  For arrangements entered into prior to initially recorded at the Functional currency 1 January 2005, the date of inception is rate ruling at the date of the transaction. deemed to be 1 January 2005 in accordance Monetary assets and liabilities denominated with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4. in foreign currencies are retranslated at the Functional currency rate of exchange ruling Company as a lessee at the reporting date. Transactions during  Finance leases, which transfer to the the year are translated at the rates ruling Company substantially all the risks and at the dates of the transactions. Gains and benefits incidental to ownership of the losses on exchange are dealt with in the leased item, are capitalised at the inception profit or loss. of the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value Non-monetary items that are measured in of the minimum lease payments. Lease terms of historical cost in a foreign currency payments are apportioned between the are translated using the exchange rates as finance charges and reduction of the lease at the dates of the initial transactions. Nonliability so as to achieve a constant rate of monetary items measured at fair value in interest on the remaining balance of the a foreign currency are translated using the liability. Finance charges are reflected in exchange rates at the date when the fair profit or loss. value is determined. Capitalised leased assets are depreciated (i) Financial instruments over the shorter of the estimated useful life Financial assets and financial liabilities are of the asset and the lease term, if there is recognised when the Company becomes a no reasonable certainty that the Company party to the contractual provisions of the will obtain ownership by the end of the instrument. lease term. Financial assets and financial liabilities are Operating lease payments are recognised initially measured at fair value. Transaction as an expense in profit or loss on a straight costs that are directly attributable to the line basis over the lease term. acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial Company as a lessor assets and financial liabilities at fair value  Leases where the Company does not through profit or loss) are added to or transfer substantially all the risks and deducted from the fair value of the financial benefits of ownership of the asset are assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, classified as operating leases. Initial direct on initial recognition. Transaction costs costs incurred in negotiating an operating directly attributable to the acquisition of lease are added to the carrying amount financial assets or financial liabilities at fair of the leased asset and recognised over value through profit or loss are recognised the lease term on the same basis as rental immediately in profit or loss. Page 122 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (i) Financial instruments (continued) • the disappearance of an active Financial assets market for that financial asset Financial assets are classified into the because of financial difficulties. following specified categories: financial For certain categories of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, assets, such as trade receivables, assets ‘held-to-maturity’ investments, ‘availablethat are assessed not to be impaired for-sale’ (AFS) financial assets and ‘loans individually are, in addition, assessed and receivables’. The classification depends for impairment on a collective basis. on the nature and purpose of the financial Objective evidence of impairment for assets and is determined at the time of initial a portfolio of receivables could include recognition. The Company’s financial assets the Company’s past experience of all fall under the ‘loans and receivables’ collecting payments, an increase in category. the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit (a) Loans and receivables period of 30 days, as well as observable  Loans and receivables are nonchanges in national or local economic derivative financial assets with fixed conditions that correlate with default or determinable payments that are not on receivables. quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables (including trade and other For financial assets carried at amortised receivables, bank balances and cash) cost, the amount of the impairment loss are measured at amortised cost using recognised is the difference between the effective interest method, less any the asset’s carrying amount and the impairment. present value of estimated future cash Notes flows, discounted at the financial asset’s Impairment of financial assets original effective interest rate. Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial  The carrying amount of the financial assets are considered to be impaired asset is reduced by the impairment loss when there is objective evidence that, directly for all financial assets with the as a result of one or more events that exception of trade receivables, where occurred after the initial recognition of the carrying amount is reduced through the financial asset, the estimated future the use of an allowance account. cash flows of the investment have been When a trade receivable is considered affected. uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously Objective evidence of impairment could written off are credited against the include: allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance • significant financial difficulty of account are recognised in profit or loss. the issuer or counterparty; or • breach of contract, such as a When an available-for-sale financial default or delinquency in interest asset is considered to be impaired, or principal payments; or cumulative gains or losses previously • it becoming probable that the recognised in other comprehensive borrower will enter bankruptcy or income are reclassified to profit or loss financial re-organisation; or in the period. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 123 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (i) Financial instruments (continued) Financial assets (continued) For financial assets measured at amortised  On derecognition of a financial asset cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount other than in its entirety (e.g. when the of the impairment loss decreases and the Company retains an option to repurchase decrease can be related objectively to an part of a transferred asset or retains a event occurring after the impairment was residual interest that does not result in the recognised, the previously recognised retention of substantially all the risks and impairment loss is reversed through profit rewards of ownership and the company or loss to the extent that the carrying retains control), the Company allocates the amount of the investment at the date the previous carrying amount of the financial impairment is reversed does not exceed asset between the part it continues to what the amortised cost would have been recognise under continuing involvement, had the impairment not been recognised. and the part it no longer recognises on the basis of the relative fair values of those  In respect of available-for-sale debt parts on the date of the transfer. income is securities, impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. A cumulative subsequently reversed through profit or gain or loss that had been recognised in loss if an increase in the fair value of the other comprehensive income is allocated investment can be objectively related to an between the part that continues to be event occurring after the recognition of the recognised. impairment loss. Financial liabilities Derecognition of financial assets Classification as debt or equity  The Company derecognises a financial Debt and equity instruments issued by the asset only when the contractual rights to Company are classified as either financial the cash flows from the asset expire, or liabilities or as equity in accordance with the when it transfers the financial asset and substance of the contractual arrangements substantially all the risks and rewards of and the definitions of a financial liability ownership of the asset to another entity. If and an equity instrument. The assessment the Company neither transfers nor retains is done from the issuer’s perspective. substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the Equity instruments transferred asset, the Company recognises An equity instrument is any contract that its retained interest in the asset and an evidences a residual interest in the assets of associated liability for amounts it may have an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. to pay. If the Company retains substantially Equity instruments issued by the Company all the risks and rewards of ownership of are recognised at the proceeds received, a transferred financial asset, the Company net of direct issue costs. continues to recognise the financial Repurchase of the Company’s own equity asset and also recognises a collateralised instruments is recognised and deducted borrowing for the proceeds received. directly in equity. No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase,  On derecognition of a financial asset in sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s its entirety, the difference between the own equity instruments. asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and Other financial liabilities the cumulative gain or loss that had been  Other financial liabilities (including recognised in other comprehensive income borrowings) are subsequently measured at and accumulated in equity is recognised in amortised cost using the effective interest profit or loss. method. Page 124 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (i) Financial instruments (continued) Financial liabilities (continued) Derecognition of financial liabilities All other borrowing costs are recognised in The Company derecognises financial liabilities profit or loss in the period in which they are when, and only when, the Company’s incurred. obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying (k) Leave provision amount of the financial liability derecognised Employees’ entitlements to annual leave are and the consideration paid and payable is recognised when they accrue to employees. recognised in profit or loss. A provision is made for the estimated liability for annual leave at the reporting Onerous contracts date. Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured (l) Impairment of assets as provisions. An onerous contract is  The Company reviews the carrying considered to exist where the Company amounts of its tangible and intangible has a contract under which the unavoidable assets, to determine whether there is any costs of meeting the obligations under the indication that those assets have suffered contract exceed the economic benefits an impairment loss at reporting date, or expected to be received from the contract. when there are indications of impairment. If any such indication exists, the recoverable Offsetting of financial instruments amount of the asset is estimated and an Financial assets and financial liabilities are impairment loss is recognised in profit offset and the net amount reported in the or loss whenever the carrying amount of statement of financial position if, and only the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. if, there is a currently enforceable legal right Notes An asset’s recoverable amount is the to offset the recognised amounts and there higher of the asset’s or cash-generating is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to unit’s (CGU’s) fair value less costs to sell realise the assets and settle the liabilities and its value in use. In assessing value in simultaneously. use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a (j) Borrowing costs pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Borrowing costs directly attributable to market assessments of the time value of the acquisition, construction or production money and the risks specific to the asset. of qualifying assets, which are assets that In determining fair value less costs to sell, an necessarily take a substantial period of time appropriate valuation model is used. Where to get ready for their intended use or sale, it is not possible to estimate the recoverable are added to the cost of those assets, until amount of an individual asset, the directors such time as the assets are substantially estimate the recoverable amount of ready for their intended use or sale. the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending Impairment of transmission and their expenditure on qualifying assets is distribution lines deducted from the borrowing costs eligible A decline in the value of the transmission and for capitalisation. distribution lines could have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Capitalised costs include interest charges financial statements. Management assesses and foreign currency exchange differences the impairment of the lines whenever events on borrowings for projects under or changes in circumstances indicate that construction to the extent that they are the carrying value may not be recoverable. regarded as adjustments to interest rates. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 125 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (l) Impairment of assets (continued) Impairment of transmission and distribution lines (continued)  Factors that are considered important (ii) Company’s defined benefit scheme which could make an impairment review  Pensioners and deferred pensioners necessary include the following: (those who have left the employment of the Company but have not attained (i) Significant decline in the market value retirement age to qualify as pensioners) beyond that which would be expected existing at 30 June 2006 are eligible from the passage of time and normal for retirement benefits under a defined use. benefit scheme. (ii) Evidence from internal reporting which For defined benefit plans, the cost of indicates that the performance of the providing benefits is determined using asset is, or will be, worse than expected. the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out (iii) Significant changes with adverse effect at the end of each annual reporting on the Company have taken place period. Remeasurement, comprising during the period, or will take place actuarial gains and losses, the effect in the near future, in the technology of the changes to the asset ceiling and or market environment in which the the return on plan assets (excluding Company operates, or in the market to interest), is reflected immediately in which an asset is dedicated. the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognised in other (iv) Evidence is available of the obsolescence comprehensive income in the period or physical damage of an asset. in which they occur. Remeasurement (v) Significant changes with an adverse recognised in other comprehensive effect on the Company have taken income is reflected immediately in place during the period, or are retained earnings and will not be expected to take place in the near reclassified to profit or loss. Past future, which impact the manner or the service cost is recognised in profit or extent to which an asset is used. These loss in the period of a plan amendment. changes include plans to discontinue or Net interest is calculated by applying restructure the operation to which an the discount rate at the beginning of asset belongs or to dispose of an asset the period to the net defined benefit before the previously expected date. liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are categorised as service costs  In management’s judgment, the (including current service cost, past impaired carrying values of the lines service cost, as well as gains and losses and substations are reinforced, replaced on curtailments and settlements), or upgraded under the Energy Sector net interest expense or income and Recovery Project, after considering the remeasurement. above key indicators of impairment. The Company presents the first two (m) Retirement benefits components of defined benefit costs in (i)  C ompany’s defined contribution profit or loss in the line item of pension scheme cost-defined benefit scheme (included The Company employees are eligible in staff costs). Curtailment gains and for retirement benefits under a defined losses are accounted for as past service contribution scheme from 1 July 2006. costs. Payments to the defined contribution scheme are charged to profit or loss The retirement benefit asset recognised as incurred. in the Company’s statement of financial Page 126 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (m)Retirement benefits (continued) (ii) Company’s defined benefit scheme (continued)   position represents the actual surplus (o) Earnings per share in the Company’s defined benefit Basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) plans. Any surplus resulting from this data for ordinary shares are presented calculation is limited to the present in the financial statements. Basic EPS is value of any economic benefits available calculated by dividing the profit for the year in the form of refunds from the plans attributable to ordinary shareholders of the or reductions in future contributions to Company by the weighted average number the plans. of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by A liability for a termination benefit is adjusting the profit or loss attributable to recognised at the earlier of when the ordinary shareholders and the weighted entity can no longer withdraw the average number of ordinary shares offer of the termination benefit and outstanding for the effects of all potentially when the entity recognises any related dilutive ordinary shares, if any. restructuring costs. (p) Dividends (iii) S  tatutory defined contribution pension Dividends on ordinary shares are charged scheme to reserves in the period in which they The employees and the Company are declared. Proposed dividends are also contribute to the National Social not accrued for until ratified in an Annual Security Fund, a national defined General Meeting. contribution scheme. Contributions are (q) Government grants determined by the country’s statutes Government grants are not recognised Notes and the Company’s contributions are until there is reasonable assurance that the charged to profit or loss as incurred. Company will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will (n) Operating segments be received. The Company’s business is organised by regions (reporting segments) comprising Government grants are recognised in profit Nairobi, Mount Kenya, Coast and Western. or loss on a systematic basis over the Business administration is by geographic periods in which the Company recognises region as the Company deals in only supply as expenses the related costs for which of electricity. There are no inter-region sales. the grants are intended to compensate. The Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) Specifically, government grants whose is the Executive Management Committee. primary condition is that the Company should purchase, construct or otherwise Regions derive their revenues from the acquire non-current assets are recognised distribution and retail of electricity purchased as deferred revenue in the statement of in bulk by the head office. Region assets and financial position and transferred to profit liabilities comprise those operating assets or loss on a systematic and rational basis and liabilities that are directly attributable to over the useful lives of the related assets. the region or can be allocated to the region on a reasonable basis. Government grants that are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses Capital expenditure represents the total already incurred or for the purpose of cost incurred during the year to acquire giving immediate financial support to the assets for the regions that are expected Company with no future related costs are to be used during more than one period recognised in profit or loss in the period in (property and equipment). which they become receivable. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 127 NOTES (CONTINUED) 2. Significant accounting policies (continued) (r) Recharge of costs to Rural Electrification that are considered to be relevant. Actual results Scheme may differ from these estimates. Recharge of costs to the Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) is based on a formula  The estimates and underlying assumptions determined by the Government of Kenya are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions following an agreement between it and East to accounting estimates are recognised in the African Power & Lighting Company Limited, period in which the estimates are revised if the predecessor to The Kenya Power & the revision affects only that period or in the Lighting Company Limited in 1973. periods of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.  The power purchase costs recharge is (a) C ritical judgements in applying calculated as a proportion of RES electricity accounting policies unit sales (excluding off-grid sales) to gross In the process of applying the Company’s electricity unit sales. accounting policies, management has made the following judgments, apart from The distribution costs recharge is calculated those involving estimations, which have based on 2% and 4% of the total high the most significant effect on the amounts voltage and low voltage assets respectively recognised in the financial statements: in the books of RES at the close of the financial year. Lease commitments – Company as lessor  Customer service costs recharge is  The Company has entered into commercial calculated as a proportion of RES metered property leases on some of its properties. customers to total number of metered The Company has determined, based on customers. an evaluation of the terms and conditions of the arrangements, that it retains all the Administration costs recharge are calculated significant risks and rewards of ownership based on the proportion of RES electricity of these properties and so accounts for the unit sales to gross electricity unit sales. contracts as operating leases. (s) Cash and cash equivalents Lease commitments Classification of leases Cash and cash equivalents comprises bank of land as finance or operating leases and cash balances and short term deposits maturing within three months from the date At the inception of each lease of land or building, of issue. the Company considers the substance rather than the form of the lease contract. Examples (t) Comparatives of situations that individually or in combination Where necessary, comparative figures have would normally lead to a lease being classified been adjusted to conform to changes in as a finance lease are: presentation in the current year. • The lease transfers ownership of the asset to 3. Critical accounting judgements and key the lessee by the end of the lease term; the sources of estimation uncertainty lessee has the option to purchase the asset In the application of the Company’s accounting at a price that is expected to be sufficiently policies, which are described in note 2 above, lower than the fair value at the date the option management is required to make judgements, becomes exercisable for it to be reasonably estimates and assumptions about the carrying certain, at the inception of the lease, that the amounts of assets and liabilities that are not option will be exercised; readily apparent from other sources. The •  The lease term is for the major part of the estimates and associated assumptions are economic life of the asset even if title is not based on historical experience and other factors transferred; Page 128 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued) (a) Critical judgements in applying accounting policies (continued) • At the inception of the lease the present value the defined benefit asset at 30 June 2017 are of the minimum lease payments amounts to provided in Note 30. at least substantially all of the fair value of the Electricity deposits leased asset; and Money received from electricity customers The leased assets are of such a specialised nature as deposit is split between current and nonthat only the lessee can use them without major current liabilities based on the expected pattern modifications. of refund to customers. A significant portion of the deposit is considered to be non-current as The Company also considers indicators of situations the Company will continue to offer services to that individually or in combination could also lead to the customers for the foreseeable future and the a lease being classified as a finance lease. Examples customers are not expected to discontinue their of such indicators include: use of electricity in the short run. The current portion of the customer deposits liability has • If the lessee can cancel the lease, the lessor’s been arrived at based on the historical average losses associated with the cancellation are of refunds made in the past 3 years. In addition, borne by the lessee; the customer deposits also serve as security for the electric meters supplied to the customer for • gains or losses from the fluctuation in the fair long term electricity supply. value of the residual accrue to the lessee (for example, in the form of a rent rebate equalling Revenue recognition most of the sales proceeds at the end of the  Prepaid electricity revenue includes an lease); and assessment of electricity supplied to customers •  the lessee has the ability to continue the between the date of the last meter reading lease for a secondary period at a rent that is and the year end. Electricity sales revenue Notes substantially lower than market rent. attributable to units consumed but not billed to customers at the end of the reporting period is Deferred income tax assets estimated using historical consumption patterns Deferred income tax assets are recognised taking into account the total electricity usage by for all unused tax losses to the extent that it the customers. is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. (b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty Significant management judgment is required The following are the key assumptions to determine the amount of deferred tax concerning the future, and other key assets that can be recognised, based upon the sources of estimation uncertainty at the end likely timing and level of future taxable profits of the reporting period, that have significant together with future tax planning strategies. risk of causing a material adjustment to the Details of the carrying value of recognised tax carrying amounts of assets and liabilities losses at 30 June 2017 are provided in Note 26. within the next financial year: Pension and other post-employment benefits Pensions The cost of defined benefit pension plans and Actuarial assumptions are made in valuing other post-employment medical benefits is future defined benefit obligation and determined using actuarial valuations. The are updated periodically. The principal actuarial valuation involves making assumptions assumption relates to the discount rate, the about discount rates, expected rates of return expected rates of return on assets, future on assets, future salary increases, mortality salary increases, mortality rates and future rates and future pension increases. Due to the pension increase. Due to the long term long term nature of these plans, such estimates nature of these plans, such estimates are are subject to significant uncertainty. Details of subject to significant uncertainty. See note 30 for further details. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 129 NOTES (CONTINUED) Page 130 4. Operating segments I For management purposes, the Company is currently organised into four administrative regions (reporting segments). These regions are the basis on which the Company reports its primary information. The four regions comprise Nairobi, Coast, Western and Mount Kenya. The table below shows the Company’s revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities per region. The table also shows capital expenditure and depreciation by region for the year. There are no inter-segment sales and all revenue is from external customers. Energy purchase and head office expenses are apportioned to various regions based on percentage unit sales. Nairobi West Kenya Coast Mount Kenya 2017 Region Region Region Region Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue 60,161,334 20,956,628 20,984,964 18,639,344 120,742,270 Other operating income 3,315,122 2,371,413 785,512 1,658,351 8,130,398 Energy purchases (43,416,319) (14,208,977) (14,208,977) (7,104,489) (78,938,762) Operating expenses (15,060,084) (8,412,268) (4,440,209) (5,504,109) (33,416,670) Operating profit 5,000,053 706,796 3,121,290 7,689,097 16,517,236 Interest income 46,004 Finance costs (5,650,798) Income tax expense (3,646,311) Profit for the year 7,266,131 Assets 139,569,828 102,000,604 41,407,353 58,675,442 341,653,227 Liabilities 149,370,850 51,344,440 45,547,035 25,446,874 271,709,199 Capital expenditure (including intangible assets) 17,584,490 11,789,655 4,679,309 7,462,678 41,516,132 Depreciation/amortisation 5,587,068 3,216,875 1,490,938 1,671,007 11,965,888 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 4. Operating segments (continued) There were no revenues deriving from transactions with a single external customer that amounted to 10% or more of the Company’s revenue. Finance income, finance costs and tax expenses are not segment specific and are largely head office items and therefore have not been apportioned to the operating segments. Nairobi West Kenya Coast Mount Kenya 2016 Region Region Region Region Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Revenue 55,014,835 18,626,527 18,801,373 15,931,877 108,374,612 Other income 3,389,599 2,008,653 700,949 1,370,686 7,469,887 Energy purchases (37,079,351) (12,881,460) (12,637,797) (7,666,424) (70,265,032) Operating expenses (13,225,028) (6,381,262) (3,919,166) (5,125,296) (28,650,752) Operating profit 8,100,055 1,372,458 2,945,359 4,510,843 16,928,715 Interest income 964,957 Finance costs (5,811,275) Income tax expense (restated) (4,885,834) Profit for the year (restated) 7,196,563 Assets 108,458,594 93,768,407 39,981,862 55,333,317 297,542,180 Liabilities 127,742,909 45,331,852 36,457,840 22,393,742 231,926,343 Capital expenditure (including intangible assets) 19,645,288 16,184,354 5,842,929 8,757,187 50,429,758 Depreciation/amortisation 4,365,955 2,602,789 1,080,216 1,385,600 9,434,560 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 131 Notes NOTES (CONTINUED) Page 132 I 4. Operating segments (continued) The Company’s core business in the four regions (reporting segments) continues to be the transmission, distribution and retail of electricity. There is no distinguishable component of the Company that is engaged in providing an individual service that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.The information on property and equipment details at net book values is shown below: Furniture Land and equipment Intangible 2017 buildings* Lines Machinery Motor vehicles and other assets Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Transmission 458,586 10,812,475 28,323 216,954 11,516,338 Distribution 4,663,527 168,031,726 481,098 1,484,567 16,765,301 2,593,483 194,019,702 Total 5,122,113 178,844,201 509,421 1,484,567 16,982,255 2,593,483 205,536,040 2016 Transmission 615,302 9,767,946 41,365 727,470 11,152,083 Distribution 3,254,020 141,779,112 453,388 1,547,559 11,325,934 2,602,033 160,962,046 Total 3,869,322 151,547,058 494,753 1,547,559 12,053,404 2,602,033 172,114,129 * Includes freehold land and buildings and prepaid leases on leasehold land. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management  Information about the Company’s exposure to The Company’s exposure to risk, its objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk risks, its objectives, policies and processes for and the methods used to measure it have been measuring and managing such risks, as well as consistently applied in the years presented, quantitative disclosure, is discussed in this note. unless otherwise stated. The management of capital is also discussed. The Company has exposure to the following  The Company has an integrated risk risks as a result of its financial instruments: management framework. The Company’s approach to risk management is based on risk governance structures, risk management (a) Credit risk policies, risk identification, measurement and The Company has exposure to credit risk, reporting. Three types of risks are reported which is the risk that a counter party will as part of the risk profile, namely operational, be unable to pay amounts in full when due. strategic and business continuity risks. Credit risk mainly arises from electricity receivables, short term deposits and bank balances. For the Kenya Power and Lighting Company, a strategic risk is a significant unexpected or unpredictable change or outcome beyond what Counterparty risk is the risk that a was factored into the organisation’s strategy counterparty is unable to meet its financial and business model which could have an impact and/or contractual obligations during on the Company’s performance. the period of a transaction. Delivery or settlement risk is the risk that counterparty does not deliver on its contractual Business continuity risks are those events, commitment on maturity date (including hazards, variances and opportunities which Notes the settlement of money and delivery could influence the continuity of the Company. of securities). One of the key risks for the Kenya Power and Credit risk arising from short term deposits Lighting Company, identified both under the and bank balances are low because the operational and strategic risk categories, counter parties are financial institutions is financial sustainability of the Company. with high credit ratings. The financial risks, as defined by IFRS 7, and the management thereof, form part of this key risk area. The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements representing the Company’s maximum The Board of Directors has delegated the exposure to credit risk without taking management of the Companywide risk to the account of the value of any collateral Audit Committee. One of the committee’s obtained is made up as follows: responsibilities is to review risk management strategies in order to ensure business continuity and survival. Most of the financial risks arising from financial instruments are managed in the centralised finance function of the Company. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 133 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued) Neither past Past due but due not impaired Impaired nor impaired <90 days > 90 days Total Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 At 30 June 2017 Electricity receivables 12,013,601 665,736 4,036,472 16,715,809 Stima loan 263,102 79,071 342,173 Other receivables 16,610,747 15,359,151 971,339 32,941,237 Less provisions (5,086,882) (5,086,882) Net trade and other receivables 28,887,450 16,024,887 44,912,337 Short term deposits 596,169 596,169 Bank balances 2,925,817 2,925,817 32,409,436 16,024,887 48,434,323 At 30 June 2016 Electricity receivables 11,702,218 702,866 3,754,000 16,159,084 Stima loan 65,884 407,752 79,071 552,707 Other receivables 3,394,418 12,238,451 413,384 16,046,253 Less provisions (4,246,455) (4,246,455) Net trade and other receivables 15,162,520 13,349,069 28,511,589 Short term deposits 3,842,355 3,842,355 Bank balances 1,640,245 1,640,245 20,645,120 13,349,069 33,994,189 The customers under the fully performing Management of electricity receivables category are paying their debts as they fall  The Company supplies electricity to due. Past due amounts are those beyond customers in its licensed areas of supply. the maximum established credit period A large proportion comprises small and represents slow but paying customers. commercial and domestic customers who The receivable balance continues to be settle their accounts within twenty one serviced even though this is not done on days after receipt of the bill. The Company’s the contractual dates. Treasury and finance exposure to credit risk is influenced by the departments are actively following up on individual characteristics of each customer. these receivables. In addition, the Company holds deposits or a bank guarantee,  In monitoring credit risk, customersare depending on the electricity load supplied grouped according to their credit which acts as collateral. The fair value of the characteristics, including whether they are collateral held by the Company as security large, small or domestic electricity users, and other credit enhancements amounted profile, security (deposits and guarantees) to Shs 7,418 million (2016: Shs 7,494 million) held and payment history. Note 27(a). The main classes of electricity receivables Management of credit risk are industrial, government ministries, local Financial instruments are managed by the authorities, parastatals, commercial and finance and commercial services functions. Page 134 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued) Management of electricity receivables (continued)  domestic customers. Electricity supply amount will not be recovered, it is recommended agreements are entered into with all customers. for write-off in terms of the Company’s policy. All customers are required to deposit an The process of recovery continues unless it is amount equivalent to two times their monthly confirmed that there is no prospect of recovery consumption being security in the form of a cash or the costs of such action will exceed the deposit depending on the load supplied, subject benefits to be derived. Amounts written off are to a minimum of two thousand five hundred determined after taking into account the value shillings. Industrial and large commercial of the security held. customers have the option of providing a bank guarantee in lieu of a cash deposit. Payment The Company evaluates the concentration of risk is enforced by way of disconnection of the with respect to electricity receivables as low, as supply if bills are not paid within twenty one its customers are located in all regions in Kenya days after billing. No interest is charged on and electricity is supplied to different classes balances in arrears. of customers including individual households, private industries, companies and Government institutions. The total cumulative provision for  The Company has well-established credit impairment of electricity receivables at 30 June control procedures that monitor activity on 2017 was Shs 4,036 million (2016: Shs 3,754 customer accounts and allow for remedial action million). Refer to Note 20(d). should the customer not comply with payment terms. These procedures include the issue of a The Company continues to install prepaid and notice for disconnection of supply, an internal automatic meters as strategies to minimise the collection process; follow up of the customer risk of non-collection. In addition, the following Notes by telephone or in person, negotiations of strategies are currently in operation and are mutually acceptable payment arrangements largely successful in other high risk areas of and letters of demand. Non-payment will result non-paying customers. These include: in disconnection of supply and the account’s closure if the disconnection is done and there • disconnections is no payment within three months. The legal • increased internal debt management collection process is pursued thereafter. The capacity decision to impair overdue amounts is assessed • use of debt collectors on the probability of recovery based on the • f ocus on early identification and letters customer’s credit risk profile. of demand • higher security deposits Progress on the collection process is reviewed on a regular basis and if it is evident that the  The following table represents an analysis of the maximum exposure to credit risk for electricity receivables by customer category: 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 Electricity receivables Shs’000 Shs’000 Large power users 6,801,218 7,686,125 Ordinary customers 4,522,089 3,181,427 Parastatals 1,042,206 1,243,834 Local authorities 121,603 27,541 Ministries 105,995 86,314 Exports 86,226 179,843 12,679,337 12,405,084 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 135 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (a) Credit risk (continued)  Management of Stima Loan receivables Non – performing loans are assessed on Shs 342,173,000 (2016: Shs 552,707,000) the probability of recovery based on the The Kenya Power Stima Loan Revolving customers’ delinquency level. A provision Fund was established in the year 2010. of Shs 79 million has been recognised for The objective of the Fund is to facilitate loans which have been outstanding for credit access to the low income segments more than 24 months as at 30 June 2017. of the market for the purpose of electricity Refer to Note 20 (d). connection. It is funded by Agence Francaise de Development (AFD) through credit and (b) Liquidity risk grant to the Government of Kenya (GOK) Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company which is then on lent and on grant to the will not have sufficient financial resources Company. Electricity supply agreements to meet its obligations when they fall due, are entered into with all customers and or will have to do so at excessive cost. This Stima Loan contracts signed. All customers risk can arise from mismatches in the timing are required to deposit 20% of the loaned of cash flows from revenue and capital and amount and administration fee of 5% and operational outflows. are advanced a loan valid for 24 months with no interest charges. Repayment of the loan commences one month after The objective of the Company’s liquidity connection. management is to ensure that all foreseeable operational, capital expansion and loan commitment expenditure can Monthly follow ups are done to monitor be met under both normal and stressed these customers. These procedures include conditions. The Company has adopted the issue of a notice for disconnection of an overall balance sheet approach, supply, an internal collection process; which consolidates all sources and uses follow up of the customer by telephone of liquidity, while aiming to maintain a or in person, negotiations of mutually balance between liquidity, profitability and acceptable payment arrangements and interest rate considerations. The Company’s letters of demand. A short text message is liquidity management process includes: sent reminding them of their monthly bill with a loan balance on the same. • projecting cash flows and considering the cash required by the Company and Stima Loan customers are grouped into optimising the short-term requirements as well as the long-term funding; delinquency levels, according to their credit profiles to help in monitoring customer • m onitoring statement of financial position liquidity ratios; repayment performance. Delinquency level one have balances that are one • m aintaining a diverse range of funding sources with adequate back-up facilities; month in arrears, delinquency level two are two months in arrears, delinquency level • m anaging the concentration and profile three being customers in three months of debt maturities; and arrears and subsequently delinquency • maintaining liquidity contingency plans. level four and five are customers that are in arrears from four months on to twenty four months respectively. Page 136 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (c) Liquidity risk (continued)  The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on the remaining period using 30 June 2017 as a base period to the contractual maturity date: Less than 3 On demand months 3 -12 months 1-5 years >5 years Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 At 30 June 2017 Borrowings 23,481,422 73,425,238 55,241,387 152,148,047 Trade and other payables 302,499 52,042,906 6,779,341 2,702,122 30,466,730 92,293,598 Dividends 362,839 362,839 665,338 52,042,906 30,260,763 76,127,360 85,708,117 244,804,484 At 30 June 2016 Borrowings 1,061,433 14,251,480 76,209,981 55,434,560 146,957,454 Trade and other payables 969,231 28,381,967 7,131,571 1,291,954 27,379,241 65,153,964 Dividends 268,161 268,161 1,237,392 29,443,400 21,383,051 77,501,935 82,813,801 212,379,579 The Company has an established corporate governance structure and process for managing the risks regarding guarantees and contingent liabilities. All significant guarantees issued by the Company are approved by the board of directors and are administratively managed by the treasury department. Updated guarantee schedules are compiled every month. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 137 Notes NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (d) Market risk services directly from overseas or Market risk is the risk that the fair value or indirectly via local suppliers and foreign future cash flow of financial instruments borrowings. The Company is exposed will fluctuate because of changes in foreign to foreign exchange risk arising from exchange rates, commodity prices and future commercial transactions and interest rates. The objective of market recognised assets and liabilities that risk management policy is to protect and are denominated in a currency other enhance the statement of financial position than the functional currency of the and statement of comprehensive income Company. by managing and controlling market risk exposures within acceptable parameters and The following table demonstrates the to optimise the funding of business operations sensitivity to a reasonably possible and facilitate capital expansion. The Company change in the respective foreign is exposed to the following risks: currency/Shs exchange rate, with all other variables held constant, on the (i) Currency risk Company’s profit before income tax  Currency risk arises primarily from (due to changes in the fair value of purchasing imported goods and monetary assets and liabilities). Appreciation/ Effect on profit before (depreciation) of exchange tax and equity Currency rate Shs million Year 2017 US$ 5%(-5%) +/-4,480 Euro 5%(-5%) +/437 JPY 5%(-5%) +/54 Chinese ¥ 5%(-5%) +/-118 Year 2016 US$ 5%(-5%) +/-4,240 Euro 5%(-5%) +/379 JPY 5%(-5%) +/59 Chinese ¥ 5%(-5%) +/-122 Management of currency risk used in generation to customers.    Exposure due to foreign currency In addition the Company has wellrisk is managed by recovering from established credit control procedures customers the realised fluctuations in that monitor activity on customer the exchange rates not factored in the accounts and allow for remedial action retail tariffs. should the customer not comply with payment terms. These procedures (ii) Commodity or price risk include the issue of a notice of   The Company is exposed to price disconnection of supply, an internal risk on the fuel that is used for the collection process; follow up of the generation of electricity to the extent customer by telephone or in person, that the customers are not able to pay negotiations of mutually acceptable for the additional costs passed on to payment arrangements and letters them or if efficiency declines below the of demand. Non-payment will result rate factored in the tariff. in disconnection of supply and the Management of commodity risk customer’s account being closed. The legal collection process is pursued  Exposure due to commodity risk is thereafter. managed by passing the cost of fuel Page 138 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (c) Market risk (continued) (ii) Commodity or price risk (continued) Management of commodity risk (continued)   The decision to impair overdue policy. The analysis has been performed amounts is assessed on the probability on the same basis as the prior year. of recovery based on the customer’s credit risk profile. At 30 June 2017, an increase/decrease of 5 basis points (2016: 5 basis points) would (iii) Interest rate risk have resulted in a decrease/increase in a Interest rate risk is the risk that the profit before tax of Shs 5,090 million (2016: Company’s financial condition may Shs 4,801 million). be adversely affected as a result of changes in interest rate levels. The Change in Effect on Company’s interest rate risk arises from currency profit before short-term borrowings. Borrowings rate tax and equity issued at variable rates expose the 2017 Shs’ 000 Company to cash flow interest rate risk. 1% 1,018,000 Long-term borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Company to fair value 5% 5,090,000 interest rate risk. 2016 1% 960,000 The interest rate risk exposure arises 5% 4,801,000 mainly from interest rate movements Notes on the Company’s borrowings. (e) Capital management Capital managed by the Company is the Management of interest rate risk equity attributable to the equity holders. To manage the interest rate risk, The primary objective of the Company’s management has endeavoured to capital management is to ensure that it only sign and obtain borrowings from maintains healthy capital ratios in order institutions that offer contracts with to support its business and maximise fixed interest rates. Based on the shareholder value. various scenarios, the Company also manages its fair value interest rate risk The Company manages its capital structure by using floating –tofixed interest rate and makes adjustments to it, in light swaps, where applicable. of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Sensitivity analysis Company may adjust the dividend payment The Company analyses its interest to shareholders or issue new shares. No rate exposure on a dynamic basis by changes were made in the objectives, conducting a sensitivity analysis. This policies or processes during the years involves determining the impact on ended 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016. profit or loss of defined rate shifts. The sensitivity analysis for interest rate The Company monitors capital using a risk assumes that all other variables, gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as in particular foreign exchange rates, net debt divided by capital. Net debt is remain constant. The calculation calculated as total of interest bearing excludes borrowing costs capitalised loans and borrowings, less cash and cash in terms of the Company’s accounting equivalents. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 139 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (d) Capital management (continued) 2017 2016 Shs million Shs million Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (Note 28) 122,016 113,869 Less cash and cash equivalents (Note 33(c)) 1,151 (5,503) Net debt 123,167 108,366 Equity 69,962 64,022 Gearing ratio 176% 169% The major factors that impact on the equity of the Company include the following: • revenue received from electricity that the Company requires in order to be sales (which is a function of price and sustainable over the medium and long term. sales volume) Adjustment of the tariffs for the electricity • power purchase cost business is regulated and is subject to the process laid down by the Energy Regulatory • cost of funding the business Commission (ERC). • cost of operating the electricity business The electricity business is currently in a • cost of expanding the business to major expansion phase driven by a rise ensure that capacity growth is in line in demand and Government policy. The with electricity sales demand (funding funding of additional transmission and and additional depreciation) other distribution capacity is to be obtained • taxation from cash generated by the business, • dividends Government support and funds borrowed from local and international lending  The Company uses Power System institutions. The adequacy of electricity Development Planning process, which tariffs allowed by ERC and the level of forecasts long-term growth in electricity Government support are key factors in the demand; evaluates the alternative means to sustainability of the Company. The debt meet and manage that demand and comes to equity ratio plays an important role in up with a Least Cost Power Development the credit ratings given to the Company Plan. The planning process determines a which in turn influence the cost of funding. forward electricity cost curve (the Long The Company’s policy is to fund capital Run Marginal Cost), which will give an expansion programme jointly through its indication of the size of the price increases own resources and long-term borrowings. Page 140 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 5. Financial risk and capital management (continued) (f) Fair values of financial assets and liabilities Comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair values of the financial instruments is as set out below; Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2016 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Financial assets Trade and other receivables 44,301,842 25,149,004 44,301,842 25,149,004 Short term deposits 596,169 3,842,355 596,169 3,842,355 Bank and cash balances 2,941,754 1,660,698 2,941,754 1,660,698 Financial liabilities Borrowings 122,016,122 113,868,712 122,016,122 113,868,712 Trade and other payables 87,422,905 65,471,026 87,422,905 65,471,026 Bank overdraft 4,688,333 4,688,333 Trade and other receivables are evaluated value of financial instruments by valuation regularly to assess the likelihood of technique: impairment. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken to account for the Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active expected losses on these receivables. As markets for identical assets or liabilities; Notes at 30 June 2017, the carrying amounts of such receivables, net of allowances, Level 2: other techniques for which all approximates their fair value. inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either The fair values of term deposits, bank and directly or indirectly; cash balances and trade and other payables approximates their carrying amounts Level 3: techniques which use inputs which largely due to the short term maturities of have a significant effect on the recorded these instruments. fair value that are not based on observable market data. Fair value hierarchy The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair None of the financial assets is carried at fair value. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 141 NOTES (CONTINUED) 6. (a) Electricity sales 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Large commercial and industrial customers 43,200,695 46,069,593 Small commercial customers 26,529,030 15,892,772 Domestic customers 21,879,400 24,382,041 Export and others 342,504 736,406 91,951,629 87,080,812 (b) Other operating income Capital contribution amortised to profit or loss (Note 25) 6,773,396 5,401,248 Miscellaneous sales 866,264 1,614,851 Fibre optic leases 336,308 276,122 Reconnection charges 154,430 177,666 8,130,398 7,469,887 7. Power purchase costs (a) Non-fuel costs The basic power purchase costs according to source/ power producer were as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 KenGen 33,990,062 35,726,121 OrPower 4 Inc. 11,343,617 9,976,615 Iberafrica Power (E.A.) Company Limited 3,342,529 3,136,432 Triumph Power Generating Company Limited 2,384,967 2,084,368 Rabai Power Limited 2,306,222 2,816,491 Gulf Power Limited 2,046,992 1,866,852 Tsavo Power Company Limited 2,035,340 2,131,186 Thika Power Limited 1,621,244 2,023,828 Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 1,268,119 681,460 Regen-Terem 24,474 Ethiopia Electricity Power Company 18,363 18,897 Aggreko 12,977 542,596 Power Technology Solutions Limited 9,743 19,171 Biojoule Kenya Limited 7,353 3,144 Mumias Sugar Company Limited 3,911 Imenti Tea Factory 1,706 4,879 Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited 1,229 58 60,418,848 61,032,098 Less foreign exchange surcharge (separately presented in profit or loss) (6,199,227) (6,175,191) Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (3,603,798) (3,457,493) 50,615,823 51,399,414 Page 142 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 7. Power purchase costs (continued) (b) Fuel costs 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 KenGen 9,073,983 3,486,836 Rabai Power Limited 5,078,615 4,045,895 Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 2,639,322 436,789 Iberafrica Power (E.A.) Company Limited 2,332,081 1,466,620 Thika Power Limited 1,750,973 1,280,080 Off grid power stations 1,472,798 909,455 Tsavo Power Company Limited 1,256,243 608,331 Triumph Power Generating Company Limited 897,062 1,142,318 Gulf Power Limited 586,794 182,361 Aggreko 83,826 894,846 25,171,697 14,453,531 Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (3,047,985) (1,763,104) 22,123,712 12,690,427 A recovery of Shs 22,107,948,000 (2016: Shs 12,511,727,000) was made. Units purchased Analysis of interconnected power purchases by utility source in gigawatt-hours (GWh) is as follows: 2017 2016 GWh GWh Notes KenGen 7,513 7,724 OrPower 4 Inc 1,172 1,067 Rabai Power Limited 607 536 Iberafrica Power (E.A.) Company Limited 252 128 Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited 180 65 Thika Power 168 70 Tsavo Power Company Limited 121 39 Triumph Power Generating Company Limited 83 82 Gulf Power Limited 61 8 Off grid power stations 41 41 Ethiopia Electricity Power Company 3 3 Aggreko 1 50 Power Technology Solutions Limited 1 2 Biojoule Biogas Power Plant 1 Regen-Terem 1 Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited* Imenti Tea Factory** 1 10,205 9,816 Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (683) (657) 9,522 9,159 *Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited supplied KWh 3,353 during the year (2016: KWh 2,029). **Imenti Tea Factory Company Limited supplied KWh 271,370 during the year (2016: KWh 744,063). The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 143 NOTES (CONTINUED) 7. Power purchase costs (continued) Type of interconnected power sources Analysis of interconnected power purchases by utility source in gigawatt-hours (GWh) is as follows: 2017 2016 GWh GWh Hydro 3,341 3,787 Geothermal 4,451 4,608 Thermal 2,165 1,297 Net imports 184 67 Others 64 57 10,205 9,816 Less recharged to Rural Electrification Scheme (683) (657) 9,522 9,159 The Company transmits excess units generated by Aggreko Limited to Uganda Electricity Transmission Company Limited (UETCL) and Tanzania Electricity Supply Company Limited (TANESCO), whereas UETCL and TANESCO transmit back their excess power to the Company at the same charge rate as that billed to them. The two transactions have been effected in the accounts to give net quantity. 8. Net operating expenses (a) Network management 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 4,554,499 2,010,141 Depreciation 4,720,065 4,788,842 Wheeling charges – Ketraco* 2,011,000 2,011,000 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 625,570 510,794 Transport and travelling 545,026 207,070 Consumable goods 380,068 762,283 Staff welfare 105,919 63,597 Advertising and public relations 50,444 76,626 Office expenses 3,017 5,245 Other costs 535,994 1,010,248 Net recharge of distribution and transmission costs to Rural Electrification Scheme (2,370,856) (1,949,112) 11,160,746 9,496,734 * These are fees levied by Ketraco for the use of their transmission lines to transport electricity from the generators. The amount is determined by Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC). Page 144 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 8. Net operating expenses (Continued) (b) Commercial services 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 3,290,802 4,123,416 Depreciation 2,442,417 1,637,063 Provision for non-vending customers 289,940 Provision for electricity debtors (Note 20(d)) 282,472 Transport and travelling 236,786 398,130 Office expenses 85,175 168,513 Staff welfare 74,316 41,441 Advertising and public relations 63,472 33,921 Consumable goods 29,722 37,873 Electrical materials 3,116 3,892 Repairs and maintenance 125,891 Other costs 7,000 Net recharge of customer service costs to Rural Electrification Scheme (2,059,387) (2,245,964) 4,745,831 4,324,176 Notes The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 145 NOTES (CONTINUED) 8. Net operating expense (continued) (c) Administration 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 4,791,114 4,949,440 Depreciation 4,065,095 2,577,566 Repairs and maintenance 1,286,538 1,039,566 Staff welfare 1,234,597 1,290,290 Realised foreign exchange differences (Note 18(c)) 798,716 842,691 Amortisation of intangible assets and operating lease prepayment 738,311 431,089 Office expenses 637,045 512,110 Security and surveillance 608,196 545,982 Inventories provision (Note 19) 497,733 107,504 Transport and travelling 478,831 209,436 Training expenses and consumer services 446,645 175,260 Rents 438,804 351,106 Licenses 429,836 186,540 Insurance 374,998 343,919 Bank charges 357,593 389,705 Public relations 329,127 358,981 Provision for other receivables 209,258 Other consumable goods 189,688 197,077 Company electricity expenses 181,226 169,175 Consultancy fees 136,758 7,006 Directors’ emoluments 35,214 36,633 Other directors’ expenses 62,774 15,753 Insurance claims provision 58,756 Auditor remuneration 15,270 17,660 Retirement benefit credits (Note 30) (326,988) (297,044) Decrease in leave pay provision (Note 31) (197,466) (553,634) Imperial Bank deposits (write-back)/ provision* (34,154) 322,438 Ex-staff balances provision 40,488 Other costs 724,258 1,691,645 Recharge of administration costs to Rural Electrification Scheme** (1,057,680) (1,128,540) 17,510,093 14,829,842 * A full provision of Shs 322,438,000 was made in the year ended 30 June 2016 for the amount deposited with Imperial Bank Limited. A recovery of Shs 34,154,000 was made in the year. Imperial Bank was placed under receivership in 2015. ** Recharges to Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) relate to operating costs apportioned to RES based on the predetermined formula developed by the Government of Kenya. Page 146 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 9. Employee benefits 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Salaries and wages 14,941,112 12,754,068 Recharge of recurrent expenditure to capital jobs* (3,157,191) (2,440,566) NSSF employer contributions 27,137 26,648 Pension costs – defined contribution 825,364 742,847 Salaries and wages 12,636,422 11,082,997 Pension credit defined benefit scheme (Note 30) (326,988) (297,044) 12,309,434 10,785,953 Decrease in leave pay provision (Note 31) (197,466) (553,634) 12,111,968 10,232,319 * Recharge of recurrent expenditure to capital jobs relates to the labour and transport costs incurred by staff on capital jobs. 10. Net finance costs 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 (a) Interest income Interest income on bank and other deposits 46,004 964,957 (b) Finance costs Notes Interest incurred on: Loans (5,140,349) (5,746,607) Bank overdrafts (508,519) (62,738) Dividends on cumulative preference shares (1,930) (1,930) (5,650,798) (5,811,275) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 147 NOTES (CONTINUED) 11. Expenses by nature The profit before income tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting): 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Employee benefits (Note 9) 12,111,968 10,232,319 Depreciation (Note 15) 11,227,577 9,003,471 Amortisation of intangible assets (Note17) 738,255 431,040 Amortisation of operating lease prepayments (Note 16) 56 49 Directors’ emoluments: Fees 5,094 4,488 Other 30,120 32,145 Other directors’ expenses 62,774 15,753 Auditor remuneration 15,270 17,660 Loss on disposal of property and equipment (Note 33 (e)) 625,370 510,794 Rent expense 438,804 351,106 Provision for electricity debtors (Note 20 (d)) 282,472 Provision for inventories (Note 19) 497,733 (Write back)/ provision for cash deposits held in Imperial Bank (34,154) 322,438 Write back for leave provision (197,466) (553,634) Provision for other debtors (Note 20 (d)) 557,955 40,488 Retirement benefit credit (Note 30) (326,988) (297,044) Interest expense 5,650,798 5,811,275 Interest income (46,004) (964,957) Rent income (63,007) (47,877) 12. (a) Income tax expense 2017 2016 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Current income tax 78,232 263,284 Prior year current income tax (over)/under provision (4,571) 33,020 Deferred income tax 3,572,650 4,589,530 3,646,311 4,885,834 Page 148 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 12. (b) Income tax expense (continued) The tax on the Company’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory income tax rate as follows: 2017 2016 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Profit before income tax 10,912,442 12,082,397 Tax calculated at the statutory income tax rate of 30% (2016: 30%) 3,273,733 3,624,719 Tax effect of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 298,917 605,211 Prior year current income tax under provision (4,571) 33,020 Current income tax on separate sources of income 78,232 263,284 Prior year under provision of deferred income tax (Note 26) 359,600 Income tax expense 3,646,311 4,885,834 Income tax expense had been restated as a result of a prior year error in deferred income tax (Note 39). 2016 2015 Shs’000 Shs’000 As previously reported 4,526,234 4,821,817 Restatement prior period error in deferred income tax (Note 39) 359,600 1,234,424 Notes As restated 4,885,834 6,056,241 (c) Current income tax recoverable reconciliation At beginning of year 21,419 (180,432) Paid during the year 96,600 498,155 Current income tax over provision (previous years) 4,571 Income tax paid (previous years) (33,020) Corporation tax on separate sources of income – current year (78,232) (263,284) At end of year 44,358 21,419 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 149 NOTES (CONTINUED) 13. Earnings per share The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share is based on continuing operations attributable to the ordinary equity holders of the Company. There were no discontinued operations during the year. There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares as at 30 June 2017 and 2016. Diluted earnings per share is therefore the same as basic earnings per share. The earnings and weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: 2017 2016 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 7,266,131 7,196,563 The total number of shares and the weighted average number of shares for the purpose of calculating the basic and diluted earnings are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic and diluted earnings per share 1,951,467,045 1,951,467,045 Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the number of ordinary shares. 2017 2016 Restated Basic earnings per share (Shs) 3.72 3.69 Diluted earnings per share (Shs) 3.72 3.69 14. Dividends per share Proposed dividends are accrued after they have been ratified at an Annual General Meeting. At the Annual General Meeting to be held before the end of 2017, a final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 June 2017 of Shs 0.50 (2016: Shs 0.30) for every ordinary share of Shs 2.50 par value is to be proposed. There was no interim dividend paid in the year (2016: Shs 0.20). This will bring the total dividend for the year to Shs 0.50 (2016: Shs 0.50). Page 150 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 15. Property and equipment Freehold land and Transmission Distribution Motor Furniture Work in buildings lines lines Machinery vehicles equipment progress Total 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At 1 July 2016 4,708,940 18,187,534 164,940,451 620,045 6,112,960 28,314,850 66,086,661 288,971,441 Work in progress additions 41,023,892 41,023,892 Transfers from work in progress 1,360,689 1,663,982 33,269,916 42,447 465,515 8,529,642 (45,332,191) Disposals (906,714) (15,919) (922,633) At 30 June 2017 6,069,629 19,851,516 197,303,653 662,492 6,562,556 36,844,492 61,778,362 329,072,700 Depreciation At 1 July 2016 971,112 8,419,588 23,161,339 125,292 4,565,401 16,261,446 53,504,178 Charge for the year 107,842 619,453 6,344,797 27,779 526,915 3,600,791 11,227,577 Disposals (234,209) (14,327) (248,536) At 30 June 2017 1,078,954 9,039,041 29,271,927 153,071 5,077,989 19,862,237 64,483,219 Net book value 4,990,675 10,812,475 168,031,726 509,421 1,484,567 16,982,255 61,778,362 264,589,481 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 151 Notes NOTES (CONTINUED) Page 152 15. Property and equipment (continued) I Freehold land and Transmission Distribution Motor Furniture Work in buildings lines lines Machinery vehicles equipment progress Total 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At 1 July 2015 3,537,874 16,609,859 138,662,056 588,007 6,111,228 21,544,771 54,345,236 241,399,031 Work in progress additions 48,815,284 48,815,284 Transfers from work in progress 1,171,066 1,577,675 27,148,746 32,038 374,255 6,770,079 (37,073,859) Disposals (870,351) (372,523) (1,242,874) At 30 June 2016 4,708,940 18,187,534 164,940,451 620,045 6,112,960 28,314,850 66,086,661 288,971,441 Depreciation At 1 July 2015 894,505 7,891,945 18,201,134 96,016 4,293,832 13,720,269 45,097,701 Charge for the year 76,607 527,643 5,221,928 29,276 606,840 2,541,177 9,003,471 Disposals (261,723) (335,271) (596,994) At 30 June 2016 971,112 8,419,588 23,161,339 125,292 4,565,401 16,261,446 53,504,178 Net book value At 30 June 2016 3,737,828 9,767,946 141,779,112 494,753 1,547,559 12,053,404 66,086,661 235,467,263 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 16. Operating lease prepayment 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cost At 1 July 133,693 133,693 Amortisation At 1 July (2,199) (2,150) Charge for the year (56) (49) At 30 June (2,255) (2,199) Net book value 131,438 131,494 17. Intangible assets Cost At 1 July 3,600,872 1,986,398 Additions 729,705 1,614,474 At 30 June 4,330,577 3,600,872 Amortisation At 1 July (998,839) (567,799) Charge for the year (738,255) (431,040) At 30 June (1,737,094) (998,839) Notes Net book value 2,593,483 2,602,033 Intangible assets comprise comprise software and have an estimated useful life of five years. 18. Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment (a) Recoverable foreign currency exchange adjustment relates to unrealised currency exchange differences on foreign currency denominated borrowings. The electricity tariff allows the Company to bill and recover all realised foreign exchange losses relative to the base rates approved by the Energy Regulatory Commission. The amount in the statement of financial position relates to unrealised exchange differences arising on retranslation of foreign currency borrowings at the reporting date which are recoverable from electricity customers. (b) Unrealised foreign exchange losses 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Exchange losses on loans (2,581,269) (2,318,642) Exchange losses on loans for on-going projects capitalised 550,417 242,202 Exchange losses on loans for completed projects (2,030,852) (2,076,440) Exchange gains on deposits 4,017 655,702 Net unrealised foreign exchange losses (2,026,835) (1,420,738) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 153 NOTES (CONTINUED) 18. Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment (Continued) (c) The movement in recoverable foreign exchange adjustment is as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 At beginning of year 6,091,546 5,513,499 Net movement in the unrealised exchange loss 2,026,835 1,420,738 Realised exchange loss (Note 8(c)) (798,716) (842,691) At end of year 7,319,665 6,091,546 Recoverable foreign exchange adjustment is further analysed as follows: Current recoverable within 12 months 798,716 23,123 Non-current recoverable after 12 months 6,520,949 6,068,423 7,319,665 6,091,546 19. Inventories 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 General stores 5,321,960 5,901,878 Transformers 2,049,688 2,837,888 Conductors and cables 1,696,835 2,061,142 Poles 867,961 884,359 Meters and accessories 302,240 391,798 Fuel and oil 229,750 278,641 Motor vehicle spares 100,651 129,101 Engineering spares 17,437 13,357 10,586,522 12,498,164 Provision for impairment (960,229) (602,893) 9,626,293 11,895,271 Movements in the provisions for inventories were as follows: At 1 July (602,893) (439,508) Inventories write off 140,397 Additional provision (Note 8(c)) (497,733) (163,385) At 30 June (960,229) (602,893) General stores, engineering spares, fuel and oil, transformers and motor vehicle spares are stated at weighted average cost. Page 154 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 20. (a) Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity receivables (Note 20(b)) 16,715,809 16,159,084 Prepayments 2,089,680 2,153,709 Recoverable fuel costs* 10,155,749 802,762 VAT recoverable 4,276,787 1,901,651 Rural Electrification Scheme current account 759,429 Rural Electrification Authority current account 167,110 60,294 Staff receivables (Note 20(c) (i)) 705,197 672,496 Stima loan deferred payment customers (Note 20(c)(ii)) ** 342,173 552,707 Due from Ketraco*** 8,593,104 5,204,858 GPOBA prepaid debtors**** 610,495 1,114,756 Receivable from Government of Kenya***** 3,362,487 3,362,587 Capital contribution receivable 1,939,813 Rural electrification schemesintercompany 3,554,521 238,115 Other receivables (Note 20(c) (iii)) 3,852,761 3,830,958 Gross trade and other receivables 56,365,686 36,813,406 Provision for credit losses (Note 20(d)) (5,086,882) (4,246,455) Net trade and other receivables 51,278,804 32,566,951 Notes Trade and other receivables are non – interest bearing and are generally due within 30 days. * Recoverable fuel costs relate to fuel construction of Sondu Miriu transmission costs for the month of June passed on and distribution line which is to be to customers to be recovered in July and transferred to Ketraco after the agreement unrecovered fuel cost from customers to transfer the loan to Ketraco is executed currently in a mitigation fund set up by the between the relevant parties and the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) to be construction 132 KV transmission lines and passed on a later date upon approval. substations. ** Deferred payment customers balances ****GPOBA prepaid debtors relate to represent debts outstanding under the the Global Partnership on Output Based Stima Loan Revolving Fund Programme Assistance (GPOBA) project for customers which was established in 2010 to facilitate on prepaid meters. This project aims to credit access to the low income segments provide safe, legal and affordable electricity of the market for the purpose of electricity to informal settlements. In 2015, the connection. It is funded by Agence Company entered into an arrangement Francaise de Development (AFD) through with the World Bank’s International credit and grant to Government of Kenya Development Association (IDA), which which is then on lent and further on grant acts as an administrator of GPOBA. Under to KPLC. the agreement, the Company pre-invests its own resources to provide electricity *** This represents amounts due from to informal settlements after which Ketraco relating to the 0.75% Japan Bank IDA reimburses the Company for every for International Cooperation debt for the connection done under this project. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 155 NOTES (CONTINUED) 20. (a) Trade and other receivables (Continued) The facility comprised a USD 10 million IDA due to the Company to enhance loan and USD 5.15 million grant to be used as universal access to electricity through a subsidy for eligible electricity connections, connectivity to the national grid. allowing low income households to pay Shs The Shs 3.3 billion (2016: Shs 3.3 billion) 1,160 per connection. The receivable amount receivable from the GoK is part of a larger of Shs 610,495,000 is due from customers commitment by the GoK, to be financed who received electricity connection under partly through support from the World this project. The Company automatically Bank and the African Development Bank recovers Shs 100 from these customers to enhance universal access to electricity. every month to recover the Shs 1,160 During the year, the Company received Shs awarded to each customer. 2,465,267,000 as disbursements and the amount was fully utilized to connect new  *****Receivable from Government customers. of Kenya (GoK) relates to subsidies (b) Electricity receivables At 30 June, the aged analysis of electricity receivables was as follows: 30-60 60-90 Total <30 days days days >90 days Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 2017 Gross 16,715,809 7,912,550 1,432,842 698,471 6,671,946 Impairment (4,036,472) (4,036,472) Net 12,679,337 7,912,550 1,432,842 698,471 2,635,474 2016 Gross 16,159,084 8,428,793 1,379,944 402,866 5,947,481 Impairment (3,754,000) (3,754,000) Net 12,405,084 8,428,793 1,379,944 402,866 2,193,481 (c) Other receivables analysis Other receivables comprise debtors’ balances that have been impaired as follows; 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 (i) Staff receivables (Note 20(a)) 705,197 672,496 Allowance for doubtful staff receivables (127,165) (127,165) Net staff receivables 578,032 545,331 (ii) Stima loans deferred payment customers 342,173 552,707 (Note 20(a)) Allowance for doubtful Stima loans (79,071) (79,071) Net Stima loans 263,102 473,636 (iii) Other receivables (Note 20(a)) 3,852,743 3,830,940 Allowance for doubtful receivables (844,174) (286,219) Net other receivables 3,008,569 3,544,721 All provisions for credit losses are specific. Page 156 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 20. Trade and other receivables (Continued) (d) Provisions for credit losses Electricity Staff Other receivables Stima loans receivables receivables Total Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 2017 At 1 July (3,754,000) (79,071) (127,165) (286,219) (4,246,455) Additional provision (282,472) (557,955) (840,427) At 30 June (Note 20(a)) (4,036,472) (79,071) (127,165) (844,174) (5,086,882) 2016 At 1 July (3,754,000) (79,071) (86,677) (286,219) (4,205,967) Additional provision (40,488) (40,488) At 30 June (Note 20(a)) (3,754,000) (79,071) (127,165) (286,219) (4,246,455) 21. Short term deposits, bank and cash balances (a) Short term deposits 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Housing Finance Company of Kenya Limited 371,089 14,388 Notes The Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited 225,080 1,801,300 Kenya Commercial Bank Limited 2,026,667 596,169 3,842,355 The average effective interest rate on the short-term deposits for the year ended 30 June 2017 was 6.68% (2016: 6.16%). (b) Bank and cash balances 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Cash at bank 2,925,817 1,640,245 Cash on hand 15,937 20,453 2,941,754 1,660,698 Overdraft (4,688,333) (1,746,579) 1,660,698 Included in cash and bank is an amount of Shs 288,283,947 (2016: Shs 322,437,639) deposited in Imperial Bank Limited which was placed under receivership in 2015. During the year, a recovery of Shs 34,153,692 was made (Note 8(c)). The rest of the balance is fully provided for. No balances were held with Chase Bank Limited. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 157 NOTES (CONTINUED) 22. Share capital Ordinary share capital 2017 2016 Authorised: 2,592,812,000 ordinary shares of Shs 2.50 each 6,482,030 6,482,030 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Issued and fully paid: 1,951,467,045 ordinary shares of Shs 2.50 each 4,878,667 4,878,667 23. Share premium The share premium arose from the redemption of the 7.85% redeemable non-cumulative preference shares and a rights issue in the year 2011 at a price of Shs 207.50 giving rise to a share premium of Shs 14,367 million. A further premium was received from the rights issue of 488,630,245 ordinary shares of Shs 2.50 each at a price of Shs 19.50, hence resulting to a share premium of Shs 17.00 per share or a total share premium of Shs 8,307 million. The transaction costs amounting to Shs 653 million were netted off against the share premium. 24. Reserves The retained earnings balance represents the amount available for distribution to the shareholders of the Company. 25. Deferred income 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at beginning of the year 24,108,069 22,013,580 Additions: Contributions from customers 5,267,029 4,647,897 Grant from Government of Kenya 1,904,921 2,847,840 Recognised as income (Note 6(b)) (6,773,396) (5,401,248) Balance at end of the year 24,506,623 24,108,069 Maturity Analysis Non-current 19,562,051 18,154,796 Current 4,944,572 5,953,273 Balance at end of the year 24,506,623 24,108,069 Deferred income relates to capital contributions received from electricity customers for the construction of electricity assets. The amounts are amortised through profit or loss on a straight line basis over the useful life of the related asset used to provide the ongoing service. Included in the additions for the current year is an amount of Shs 1.9 billion (2016: Shs 2.8 billion) disbursed by the Government of Kenya as a grant to the Company to enhance universal access to electricity through connectivity to the national grid. Page 158 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 26. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is calculated using the enacted income tax rate of 30% (2016: 30%). The movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2017 2016 Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 At start of year 29,217,030 24,699,789 Credit to other comprehensive income (317,507) (72,289) Charge to income statement (Note 12 (a)) 3,572,650 4,589,530 At end of year 32,472,174 29,217,030 Charged/ Charged/ (credited) (credited) 01.07.2016 to SCI to OCI 30.06.2017 Year ended 30 June 2017 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property and equipment 43,543,918 8,461,752 52,005,670 Retirement benefit asset 978,945 98,096 (317,507) 759,534 44,522,863 8,559,848 (317,507) 52,765,204 Deferred income tax assets Provisions (1,714,847) (289,842) (2,004,689) Tax losses (13,590,986) (4,697,356) (18,288,342) (15,305,833) (4,987,198) (20,293,031) Net deferred income tax liabilities 29,217,030 3,572,650 (317,507) 32,472,173 Notes Charged/ Charged/ 01.07.2015 (credited) to (credited) to 30.06.2016 Restated SCI OCI Restated Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Shs’000 Year ended 30 June 2016 Deferred income tax liabilities Property and equipment 36,270,746 7,273,172 43,543,918 Retirement benefit asset 962,120 89,114 (72,289) 978,945 37,232,866 7,362,286 (72,289) 44,522,863 Deferred income tax assets Provisions (1,723,043) 8,196 (1,714,847) Tax losses (10,810,035) (2,780,951) (13,590,986) (12,533,078) 2,772,755 (15,305,833) Net deferred income tax liabilities 24,699,789 4,589,531 (72,289) 29,217,030 As at 30 June 2016 the Company had accumulated tax losses amounting to Shs 60,961 million (2016: Shs 45,303 million) available for future relief. The deferred income tax has been restated due to a prior period error. 2016 2015 Shs’000 Shs’000 As previously reported 27,623,006 23,465,365 Restatement due to prior period error (Note 39) 1,594,024 1,234,424 As restated 29,217,030 24,699,789 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 159 NOTES (CONTINUED) 27. Trade and other payables 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 (a) Non-current liabilities Customer deposits* 7,417,883 7,493,862 Capital contributions 1,542,274 2,149,329 Capital contribution on-going projects** 13,426,192 13,001,040 Rural Electrification Scheme current account Last Mile Project 3,570,618 817,598 Deferred creditor (Fibre optic) 524,460 494,230 Donor funded revolving fund 4,509,763 3,917,412 Rural Electrification Scheme current account capital 172,498 Ministry of Finance 328,141 656,281 Other payables 1,789,336 1,643,103 33,281,165 30,172,855 *Customer deposits are held as a non-current liability because the Company will continue to offer services to the customers for the foreseeable future and the customers are not expected to discontinue their use of electricity in the short run. In addition, the customer deposits are a security for the electric meters supplied to the customer for long term electricity supply. ** Capital contributions for on-going projects relate to customer contributions for capital works not completed. (b) Current liabilities 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 KenGen 15,429,222 8,303,647 Aggreko 193,934 490,544 Other electricity suppliers 12,695,623 6,876,601 Other suppliers’ accounts 13,773,775 9,218,396 Rural Electrification Authority Levy* 1,634,371 755,114 Energy Regulatory Commission Levy 83,892 82,544 Ketraco wheeling charge 1,119,457 388,793 Deferred creditor (Fibre optic) 60,185 141,442 Prepaid revenue** 302,499 265,819 Street lighting project 2,875,319 4,250,939 Ministry of Finance 546,900 328,140 Other payables 5,259,237 3,492,780 Customer refunds (capacity for uncommissioned plants) 703,412 53,974,414 35,298,171 *The Rural Electrification Authority Levy under current liabilities relates to levy charge for May and June 2017 to be remitted to Rural Electrification Authority on collection. Trade payables under current liabilities are non-interest bearing and are normally settled within 60 days. **Prepaid revenue represents unearned income on prepaid meters. Based on historical trends, management derives an estimate of the value of prepaid power units not consumed as at the end of the financial year. Page 160 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 28. Borrowings (a) Balances 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Commercial borrowings Standard Chartered Bank Loan (USD 350,000,000) 36,299,095 35,385,770 Standard Chartered Bank Loan 15,180,000 15,180,000 5.75% + Libor First Rand Bank Long Term Loan (USD 94,999,999) 2014-2020 10,889,728 12,974,782 4.5% + Libor Equity Bank USD Medium Term Loan (USD 71,380,535) 2014-2015 7,380,535 8,041,283 5.25% + Libor Stanbic Medium Term Loan (USD 20,501,840) 2015-2018 2,051,972 2,898,960 11% Stanbic Loan 2,000,000 73,801,330 74,480,795 On-lent borrowings 3.0% GOK/IDA Kenya Electricity Expansion Project 12,282,733 9,761,720 (USD 118,431,511) 4.5% GOK/IDA 3958& 4572 KE ESRP 10,886,288 10,996,649 (USD 104,966,826) 2004-2024 GOK/ IDA 5587 Grant (USD 4,195,177) 2015-2052 430,173 123,271 7.7% Kenya Government/IDA 2966 KE loan 1997-2017 188,349 188,349 2% GOK/IDA 5587 KE LOAN (USD 1,219,000) 2015-2052 126,528 123,345 3% GOK/CHINA EXIM BANK (USD 87,498,024) 2014-2034 9,074,569 4,302,913 2.5% GOK/EXIMBANK Loan (¥154,835,394) 2,367,077 2,449,747 3.97% GOK/EIB 23324 KE ESRP (Euro 28,531,686) 3,375,607 3,513,210 Notes 2006 – 2025 4% Kenya Government/European Investment Bank – Olkaria 556,859 740,340 Loan (Euro 4,708,917) 2005 2020 3% GOK/NORDEA (Euro 20,642,782) 2015-2026 2,405,717 758,178 4.5% GOK/Agence Francaise de Development 3008 ESRP 1,704,923 1,834,265 (Euro 14,410,542) 2006 – 2024 4.5 % GOK/ Nordic Development Fund 435 ESRP (Euro 702,470 736,973 5,937,500) 2006 – 2024 0.75% Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JPY 1,072,494 1,190,665 1,166,011,721) KPLC/AFD Revolving Fund Loan (Euro 4,000,000) 448,800 448,800 Accrued interest 2,592,205 2,219,492 48,214,792 39,387,917 Total borrowings 122,016,122 113,868,712 Less: amounts repayable within 12 months (10,940,906) (8,850,929) Non-current 111,075,216 105,017,783 Standard Chartered Bank, Equity Bank, First Rand Bank and Stanbic loans are secured by letters of negative pledge. All other loans are guaranteed by the Government of Kenya. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 161 NOTES (CONTINUED) 28. Borrowings (Continued) (b) Analysis of borrowings by currency Chinese Shs US$ Yuan JPY Euros Total Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 Shs’ 000 2017 Loans 20,221,005 89,609,971 2,367,077 1,072,494 8,745,576 122,016,122 2016 Loans 17,848,292 84,797,042 2,449,747 1,190,665 7,582,966 113,868,712 (c) Maturity of borrowings 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Due within 1 year 10,940,906 8,850,929 Due between 1 and 2 years 6,348,701 6,631,438 Due between 2 and 5 years 53,671,120 47,495,755 Due after 5 years 51,055,395 50,890,590 122,016,122 113,868,712 29. Preference shares Authorised, issued and fully paid: 350,000 7% cumulative preference shares of Shs 20 each 7,000 7,000 1,800,000 4% cumulative preference shares of Shs 20 each 36,000 36,000 43,000 43,000 The preference shares are treated as financial liabilities because the Company has a contractual obligation to pay preference dividends on the shares. 30. Retirement benefit asset based on a formula taking into account years and complete months of service with the The Company operates a funded defined benefit employer since joining the scheme to the closing plan (the “DB Scheme”) for its employees that date. Under the DB Scheme, the employees are is established under irrevocable trust. The entitled to retirement benefits varying between DB Scheme was closed to new members and 3 and 5 percent of final pensionable emoluments future accrual of service as from 1 July 2006. on attainment of the retirement age. Currently no contributions are payable by employees to the DB Scheme and the Company is on a contribution holiday. DB Scheme The DB Scheme is governed by the Retirement assets are invested in a variety of asset classes Benefits Act, 1997. This requires that an actuarial comprising of government securities, fixed valuation be carried out at least every three years and time deposits, corporate bonds, equities for the DB Scheme. The most recent actuarial and offshore investments. A separate defined valuation of the DB Scheme was carried out at contribution scheme (the “DC Scheme”) was 31 December 2016, using the Projected Credit setup in respect of service from 1 July 2006. The Method, by an independent qualified actuary, contributions to the DC Scheme are accounted Actuarial Services (E.A.) Limited. The actuary separately in the Company’s statement of profit carried out a high level actuarial estimate of or loss. the DB Scheme financial position at 30 June 2017 taking into account changes in the period The benefits provided by the DB Scheme are then ended. Page 162 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 30. Retirement benefit asset (Continued) (ii) Interest risk A decrease in bond interest rate will The Company is exposed to the following increase the plan liability; however, this actuarial risks: will be partially offset by an increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments. (i) Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit (iii) Longevity risk plan liability is calculated using a discount Benefits in the DB Scheme are payable on rate determined by reference to high quality retirement, resignation, death or ill-health corporate bond yields; if the return on plan retirement. The actual cost to the Company assets is below this rate, it will create a plan of the benefits is therefore subject to the deficit. Currently, the plan has a relatively demographic movements of employees. balanced investment in investment properties, government securities, equity investments, corporate bonds and short (iv)  The benefits are linked to salary and term deposits. Due to the long-term nature consequently have an associated risk to of the DB Scheme liabilities, management increases in salary. considers it appropriate that a reasonable portion of the plan assets should be invested in equity securities and in real estate to leverage the return generated by the DB Scheme. The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as follows: 2017 2016 Notes Discount rate 12.52% 14.25% Expected rate of return on assets 12.52% 14.25% Future salary increases 5.00% 5.00% Retirement age 60 years 60 years The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 163 NOTES (CONTINUED) 30. Retirement benefit asset (Continued) The updated position arising from the Company’s obligation in respect of its defined benefits plan is as follows: The current service costs and the net interest expense for the year are included in administration expenses in the statement of profit or loss (Note 8(c)). The measurement of the defined benefit liability is included in other comprehensive income. The amounts recognised in the profit or loss and other comprehensive income in respect of the defined benefit plan are as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Current service cost 128,832 119,946 Interest cost on defined benefit obligation 1,561,142 1,433,038 Interest income on plan assets (2,481,960) (2,274,965) Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling 464,998 424,937 Recognised in profit or loss (Note 9) (326,988) (297,044) Net actuarial losses/(gains) 1,867,090 (437,962) Return on plan assets (excluding amount in interest cost) 387,634 1,047,778 Changes in effect of asset ceiling (excluding amounts in interest cost) (1,196,368) (368,854) Recognised in other comprehensive income 1,058,356 240,962 Total 731,368 (56,082) The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Company’s obligation in respect of its defined benefit retirement plan is as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Fair value of plan assets 19,003,066 17,925,793 Present value of funded defined benefit obligation (13,939,502) (11,399,492) 5,063,564 6,526,301 Limit on defined benefit asset (2,531,782) (3,263,151) Present value of funded defined benefit asset 2,531,782 3,263,150 The reconciliation of the amount included in the statement of financial position is as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Net asset at the start of the year 3,263,150 3,207,068 Net income recognised in profit or loss (Note 8(c)) 326,988 297,044 Amount recognised in other comprehensive income (1,058,356) (240,962) Present value of funded defined benefit asset 2,531,782 3,263,150 Page 164 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 30. Retirement benefit asset (continued) Movement in the present value of defined benefit funded obligations in the current year was as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Defined benefit obligation – 1 July 11,399,492 11,226,348 Current service cost 128,832 119,946 Interest cost on obligation 1,561,142 1,433,038 Actuarial loss/ (gain) 1,867,090 (437,962) Benefits paid (1,017,054) (941,878) Defined benefit obligation – 30 June 13,939,502 11,399,492 Movement in the fair value of defined benefit scheme assets: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Fair value of scheme assets – 1 July (17,925,793) (17,640,484) Interest income on plan assets (2,481,960) (2,274,965) Actuarial loss 387,634 1,047,778 Benefits paid 1,017,053 941,878 Fair value of scheme assets – 30 June (19,003,066) (17,925,793) The fair value of the plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category, are as follows: Notes 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Equity instruments 3,030,885 3,465,870 Debt instruments 6,280,783 6,104,949 Property 7,676,282 8,620,300 Others 2,015,116 (265,326) Total scheme (assets) 19,003,066 17,925,793 The fair values of the above equity and debt instruments are determined based on quoted market prices in active markets whereas the fair values of properties are not based on quoted market prices in active markets. This treatment has been implemented during the current and prior years. The Company also contributes to the statutory National Social Security Fund (NSSF). This is a defined contribution scheme registered under the National Social Security Act. The Company’s obligations under the scheme are limited to specific contributions legislated from time to time and are currently at Shs 200 per employee per month. Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis was performed on the model and if all other key assumptions remained unchanged while the discount rate increased by 1% this would have resulted in an increase in the retirement benefit asset by Shs 371 million. If the discount rate had decreased by 1% the result would have been Shs 459 million decrease in the retirement benefit asset. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 165 NOTES (CONTINUED) 31. Provision for leave pay 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 At 1 July 544,369 1,098,003 Write back of provisions (Note 9) (197,466) (553,634) At 30 June 346,903 544,369 Provision for annual leave is based on services rendered by employees up to the end of the year. 32. Dividends payable 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Dividends payable on ordinary shares 362,839 268,161 These relate to unclaimed dividends payable to different ordinary shareholders. The movement in the dividend payable account is as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 At 1 July 268,161 280,169 Declared during the year 587,370 977,663 Paid during the year (492,692) (989,671) At 30 June 362,839 268,161 33. Notes to the statement of cash flows (a) Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Operating profit 16,517,236 16,928,715 Depreciation of property and equipment (Note 15) 11,227,577 9,003,471 Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 17) 738,255 431,040 Amortisation of prepaid leases on land (Note 16) 56 49 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 625,370 510,794 Increase in deferred income 398,554 2,094,489 Decrease in provision for leave pay obligation (Note 31) (197,466) (553,634) Increase in provision for electricity receivables (Note 20(d)) 282,472 Increase in provision for other receivables 557,955 Increased provision for inventories 497,733 163,385 Retirement plan income (Note 8(c)) (326,988) (297,044) Working capital adjustments Decrease/ (increase) in inventories (Note 19) 2,268,978 (398,559) Increase in trade and other receivables (18,812,908) (6,744,201) Increase in recoverable foreign exchange asset (1,228,119) Increase in trade and other payables 21,784,553 11,069,957 Cash generated from operations 34,333,258 32,208,462 Page 166 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 33. Notes to the statement of cash flows (continued) (b) Analysis of changes in loans 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 At the beginning of the year 113,868,712 111,600,384 Receipts 10,672,294 54,995,870 Repayments (4,680,019) (53,567,980) Repayment of previous year’s accrued interest (2,219,492) (2,199,303) Realised foreign exchange losses on repayment (Note 18) (798,716) (842,691) Foreign exchange losses (Note 28 (a)) 2,581,138 1,662,940 Accrued interest (Note 28 (a)) 2,592,205 2,219,492 At the end of the year 122,016,122 113,868,712 (c) Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Short term deposits (Note 21(a)) 596,169 3,842,356 Bank and cash balances (Note 21(b)) 2,941,754 1,660,698 Bank overdraft (Note 21(b)) (4,688,333) (1,150,410) 5,503,054 For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include short term liquid investments which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which were within three months to maturity when acquired; less advances from banks repayable within three months from date of disbursement or date of confirmation of the advance. Notes (d) Analysis of interest paid 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Interest on loans (Note 10(b)) 5,140,349 5,746,607 Overdraft interest (Note 10(b)) 508,519 62,738 5,648,868 5,809,345 Interest on loans capitalised 1,634,490 1,209,600 Accrued interest brought forward (Note 28(a)) 2,219,492 2,199,303 Accrued interest carried forward (Note 28(a)) (2,592,205) (2,219,492) Interest paid 6,910,645 6,998,756 (e) Proceeds of disposal of property and equipment 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 48,727 135,087 Less: disposed assets at net book value (674,097) (645,881) Loss on disposal of property and equipment (625,370) (510,794) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 167 NOTES (CONTINUED) 33. Notes to the statement of cash flows (continued) (f) Analysis of dividends paid 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Dividends payable 1 July 268,161 280,169 Preference dividends 4% and 7% cumulative preference shares 1,930 1,930 2016 dividends declared 585,440 585,440 2017 interim dividends declared 390,293 Dividends payable 30 June (362,839) (268,161) Dividends paid 492,692 989,671 (g) Analysis of interest received Interest received on bank and other deposits 46,004 964,957 Accrued interest brought forward 112,142 112,676 Reversal of previous years’ accrued interest (113,248) Accrued interest carried forward (11,087) (112,142) Interest received 33,811 965,491 (h) Purchase of property and equipment Additions to property and equipment (Note 15) 45,332,191 37,073,859 (Decrease)/additions to work in progress (Note 15) (4,308,299) 11,741,425 41,023,892 48,815,284 Exchange losses on loans for on-going projects capitalised (Note 10(c)) (550,417) (242,202) Interest expense on loans capitalised (Note 33 (d))* (1,634,490) (1,209,600) Property and equipment purchased 38,838,985 47,363,482 *The Company capitalises interest on qualifying projects quarterly at the average cost of debt of 7.91% (2016: 8.09%). 34. Related party transactions The Government of Kenya is the principal shareholder in The Kenya Power & Lighting Company Limited (KPLC) holding a 50.1% equity interest. The Government also holds 70% of the equity interest in Kenya Electricity Generating Company Limited (KenGen). The Company is related to KenGen and Ketraco through common control. During the year, the following transactions were carried out with related parties: (a) The Company had no individually significant transactions carried out on non-market terms. (b) Other transactions that are collectively significant are detailed as follows: (i) Ministries 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity sales to Government Ministries 3,272,231 3,421,738 Electricity sales to strategic parastatals 1,693,812 3,068,981 Page 168 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 34. Related party transactions (continued) (ii) Outstanding balances at the year-end included in trade and other receivables: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Ministries 171,797 97,485 Strategic parastatals 207,952 171,248 VAT recoverable 4,276,787 1,901,651 Receivable from Government of Kenya 3,362,487 3,362,587 Rural Electrification Scheme’s current account 759,429 Rural Electrification Authority current account 167,110 60,294 Rural Electrification Schemeinter-company 3,554,521 238,115 Ministry of Energy and other sector entities 154,766 154,766 11,895,420 6,745,575 (iii) Outstanding balances at the year-end included in trade and other payables: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Rural Electrification Scheme levy 1,634,371 755,114 Electricity Regulatory Commission levy 83,892 82,544 Ministry of Finance 875,041 984,421 Government of Kenya Street lighting project 2,875,319 4,250,939 Rural Electrification Scheme capital 172,498 Notes Rural Electrification Scheme current accountLast Mile 3,570,618 817,598 9,211,739 6,890,616 Net amount owed by Government of Kenya 2,683,681 (145,041) The tariffs applicable to Government institutions are the same as those charged to other ordinary customers. (c) Staff 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity sales to staff 87,145 91,151 Outstanding balances included in electricity receivables 2,435 2,456 The tariff applicable to staff is the same as that charged to other ordinary customers. 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 (ii) Advances to staff included in trade and other receivables 578,032 545,331 (iii) Key management compensation Short-term employee benefits 6,470 6,230 Termination benefits 27,176 26,165 33,646 32,395  The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 169 NOTES (CONTINUED) 34. Related party transactions (continued) Short-term employee benefits include those relating to the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer who is also a director which are disclosed in note 11 and also below: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 (iv)Fees for services as director Non-executive directors 5,094 4,488 Other emoluments Salaries and other short term employment benefits: Executive directors and key management staff 33,646 32,395 Non-executive directors 97,988 52,386 131,634 84,781 136,728 89,269 (d) Rural Electrification Scheme The Company has entered into a Mutual The Company continued to manage the Co-operation and Provision of Services Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) under Agreement with REA to operate and the Rural Electrification Programme (REP), maintain lines owned by REA. In return, the on behalf of the Government of Kenya. Company will retain revenues generated from RES customers to cover maintenance  The Rural Electrification Programme (REP) costs incurred by the Company. However, was established in 1973 by the Government the Company continues to invoice the of Kenya following an agreement between Government for the expenditure incurred the Government and East African Power & to complete on-going projects. Lighting Company Limited, the predecessor to The Kenya Power & Lighting Company  The REP is funded by the Government Limited. The programme was established of Kenya. Any property acquired by REP with the specific objective to extend remains the property of the Government of electricity to the sub-economic rural areas. Kenya. KPLC only acts as a management In order to intensify the expansion of these agent on behalf of the Government. The sub-economic regions, the Government balances due to RES are disclosed in note has established the Rural Electrification 34(b) (ii) and (iii). Authority (REA). However, KPLC continues to operate and maintain the whole network, in addition to implementing projects for the Authority on contract basis. (e) KenGen 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Electricity purchases 39,552,628 39,772,016 Amounts due to KenGen on account of electricity purchases (Note 27 (b)) 15,429,222 8,303,647 Electricity sales 208,939 267,286 Loan due to KenGen 0.75% JICA Loan (Note 28 (a)) 1,072,494 1,190,665 Amounts due from KenGen on account of electricity sales 74,006 45,459 The Company is related to KenGen through common control. Page 170 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 34. Related party disclosures (continued) (f) Kenya Electricity Transmission Company Limited (Ketraco) 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Wheeling charge due to Ketraco 1,119,457 388,793 Funding for assets KEEP/KETRACO 132KV Transmission lines 2,173,192 2,015,236 KEEP/KETRACO 132/33KV substations 2,539,768 2,095,916 2.5% Exim Bank Loan for the construction of Kamburu-Meru line 2,226,953 2,449,747 Interest paid on repayment of 2.5% Exim Bank Loan 27,695 Amount due from Ketraco on account of local costs* 567,642 567,642 Amount due from Ketraco for 0.75% JICA loan (inclusive of interest) 1,249,249 1,323,523 *These are local costs incurred by KPLC in the construction of Kisii Chemosit and KamburuMeru lines. The Company is related to Ketraco through common control. (g) KPLC Staff Retirement Benefits Scheme The Company rents property owned by the staff retirement benefits scheme for office accommodation. Rent paid to the scheme in the year amounted to Shs 124 million (2016: Shs 104 million). The Company had no outstanding balance to the retirement benefit scheme as at 30 June 2017 (2016: none). The year-end outstanding balances with related parties are interest free and settlement occurs in cash. Notes 35. Government grant The Company received grants from the Government of Kenya to subsidize electricity connectivity and to finance street lighting projects. The grants amounted to Shs 6,465,267,000. The movement in the grant accounts in the current year was as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Connectivity At 1 July (862,163) Disbursements received during the year 2,465,267 1,138,002 Utilised during the year (2,465,267) (2,000,165) At 30 June (862,163) (862,163) Street lighting At 1 July 4,250,939 535,220 Disbursements received during the year 4,000,000 4,500,000 Utilised during the year (5,375,620) (784,281) At 30 June 2,875,319 4,250,939 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 171 NOTES (CONTINUED) 35. Government grant (Continued) The amount of Shs 862 million receivable for connectivity projects has been disclosed under trade and other receivables, while the amount of Shs 2,875 million is accounted for under trade and other payables. The Company also received an amount of Shs 1,298,920,000 on behalf of Rural Electrification Scheme (RES) for system losses. This grant for system losses has been accounted for in the RES financial statements. 36. Capital commitments 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Authorised and contracted for 144,712,340 149,264,096 Less: amount incurred and included in work-in-progress (59,457,304) (59,966,511) 85,255,036 89,297,585 37. Contingent liabilities Bank guarantees 1,787,296 1,762,972 Claims on the Company 6,803,130 6,127,811 8,590,426 7,890,783 Included in the claims on the Company are: (vi)  Other claims on the Company relate to civil suits lodged against the Company (i) Christopher Lebo & 331 Others vs KPLC by various parties in the normal course of (2003). This case relates to termination business with an estimated amount of Shs of services by KPLC. The damages sought 4,792 million. Included in these claims are total to Shs 500 million. cases by Nucon Switchgears PVT Ltd and (ii)  David Mirara Gathii & Other KPLC. This Muwa Ltd for the termination of contracts is a claim by the plaintiff for way leave for supply of transformers. amounting to Shs 175 million. The case is yet to be scheduled for hearing. The likely outcome of these suits could not be determined at the date of signing these (iii) County Government of Nairobi vs. KPLC. financial statements. This is a claim by the County Government of Nairobi for poles and wayleaves charges. Based on the information currently available, The estimated contingent liability is Shs legal advice from KPLC’s in-house legal 630 million. team and legal advice by the Company’s (iv) Nasir Maalim Arte vs. KPLC. This is a claim contracted lawyers, the Directors believe for wayleave & trespass to land against that the ultimate resolution of these legal KPLC. The estimated contingent Liability is proceedings is not expected to result Shs 600 million. into a material effect on the results of the Company’s operations, financial position (v)  Municipal Council of Kisumu vs. KPLC. or liquidity. This is a claim by the Municipal Council of Kisumu for poles and wayleaves charges for a period between 01/04/2001 to 26th October 2006. The estimated contingent liability is Shs 106 million. Page 172 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 38. Future rental commitments under operating leases As lessee: The total future minimum lease payments due to third parties under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Not later than 1 year 218,814 356,912 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 554,108 769,654 More than 5 years 419,374 395,841 1,192,296 1,522,407 As lessor: The future minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Not later than 1 year 63,901 68,401 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 126,281 100,263 More than 5 years 71,646 261,828 168,664 Operating leases relate to premises with lease terms of up to 10 years and are subject to rent escalations. Notes The Company does not have an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period. Similarly, as a lessor, the Company has entered into commercial property leases on its property and it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties and therefore accounts for the contracts as operating leases. 39. Prior year adjustments The prior year restatement relates to correction of errors in deferred income tax liability for 2015 and 2016. The errors arose from the omission of the intangible assets net book value for the years ended 30 June 2015 and 30 June 2016, deferred income tax on incorrect tax losses and the inclusion of unsupported unrealised foreign exchange gains in the computation. The impact on the changes on the total comprehensive income for the year, assets, liabilities and equity is as follows: On the income statement for the year ended 30 June 2016: Shs ‘000 Profit for 2016 as previously reported 7,556,163 Adjustment in 2016 financial statements to restate income tax expense (359,600) Profit/earnings as restated 7,196,563 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 173 NOTES (CONTINUED) 39. Prior year adjustments (Continued) The impact on the entity’s earnings per share is as follows: 2016 2016 As previously Restated reported Basic earnings per share (Shs) 3.69 3.87 Diluted earnings per share (Shs) 3.69 3.87 On the statement of financial position at 30 June 2016: Total equity Shs ‘000 As previously reported 65,615,837 Adjustment in 2015 financial statements to restate deferred income tax (1,234,424) Adjustment in 2016 financial statements to restate deferred income tax (359,600) As restated 64,021,813 Total liabilities As previously reported 231,926,343 Adjustment in 2015 financial statements to restate deferred income tax 1,234,424 Adjustment in 2016 financial statements to restate deferred income tax 359,600 As restated 233,520,367 40. World Bank Financing (a) World Bank Credits No. 3958 and 4752-KE The Company received financial support from the World Bank through Credit No. 3958 and 4572 – KE dated 4 August 2004 to support implementation of the Energy Sector Recovery Project. Summary information on transactions during the year are as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 456 438 Net interest income 18 Expenditure during the year (456) Balance at the end of the year 456 The closing balances shown above are included in cash and cash equivalents and represent balances on the World Bank funded Special Account No. 024/00/800521/01 held at Stanbic Bank of Kenya Limited. Included in the long term borrowings is also an amount of Shs 10,886,287,977 (US$ 104,966,826) in respect of the amounts disbursed under the loan to date. The proceeds of the World Bank loan have been expended in accordance with the intended purpose as specified in the loan agreement. Page 174 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 NOTES (CONTINUED) 40. World Bank Financing (Continued) (b) KEEP Loan (IDA Credit No. 4743-KE) The Company received funding from the World Bank through Credit No.4743-KE to support electricity expansion projects. Summary information on transactions under KEEP Loan during the two years ended 30 June 2017 and 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 17,312 181,093 Amounts received during the year 170,285 646,508 Net interest income 786 8,972 Expenditure during the year (154,194) (819,261) Balance at the end of the year 34,189 17,312 The closing balances shown above are included in cash and cash equivalents and represent balances on the balances in the World Bank funded Special Account No. 0550297294000 held at Equity Bank Limited. Included in the long term borrowings is an amount of Shs 12,282,733,398 (US$ 118,431,511) in respect of the amounts disbursed under the loan to date. The proceeds of the World Bank through Credit No.4743-KE have been expended in accordance with the intended purpose as specified in the loan agreement. 41. European Investment Bank (EIB) Financing Notes The Company received financial support from EIB for Grid development. The Company has set aside Shs 72,945,894 Revolving Credit Fund (RCF) as per clause 6.14 of the finance contract. The proceeds of this fund will be used to facilitate new connections to the electricity network for low income customers. Summary information on special account transactions during the year are as follows: 2017 2016 Shs’000 Shs’000 Balance at the beginning of the year 227,567 221,441 Net interest income 8,001 6,126 Balance at the end of the year 235,568 227,567 The closing balances shown above are included in cash and cash equivalents and represent balances on the European Investment Bank funded Special Account No.0100000443683 held at Stanbic Bank of Kenya Limited. Included in the long term borrowings is an amount of Shs 3,375,606,731 (Euro 28,531,686) in respect of the amounts disbursed under the loan to date. The proceeds of the European Investment Bank loan have been expended in accordance with the intended purpose as specified in the loan agreement. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 175 TEN YEAR FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL RECORDS Page 176 30th 30th 30th 30th 30th I June June June 30th 30th 30th 30th June 2015 June 2016 30th For year ended 2008 2009 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 June 2014 (Restated) (Restated) June 2017 UNITS SOLD (GWh) 5,082 5,182 5,345 5,816 6,001 6,175 6,790 7,130 7,385 7,723 Average yield of units sold (cents) 802.85 1,258.37 1,368.88 1,257.81 1,596.77 1,437.74 1552.45 1497.38 1467.50 1564.63 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Shs ‘000 Revenue from sale of electricity 40,801,040 65,208,529 73,166,794 73,154,021 95,662,427 88,909,626 105,395,714 106,763,525 108,374,612 120,742,270 Operating Profit 3,523,970 5,676,542 5,951,392 7,084,377 7,810,450 8,941,540 14,922,404 15,839,478 16,930,645 16,519,166 TAXATION (CHARGE)/ CREDIT (973,439) (1,557,339) (1,916,587) (2,035,185) (3,889,577) (3,124,780) (4,021,363) (4,821,617) (4,885,834) (3,646,311) NET PROFIT AFTER TAXATION BEFORE FINANCE INCOME/ COSTS 2,550,531 4,119,203 4,034,805 5,049,192 3,920,873 5,816,760 10,901,041 11,017,861 12,044,811 12,872,855 Finance Income 88,929 153,343 177,380 171,477 489,182 111,546 104,208 1,380,968 964,957 46,004 Finance Costs (872,660) (1,045,522) (493,885) (999,173) 208,991 (4,008,832) (4,964,942) (5,811,275) (5,650,798) (2,480,659) Preference (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) (1,930) dividends (gross) NET PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS 1,764,870 3,225,094 3,716,370 4,219,566 4,617,116 3,445,717 6,994,487 7,431,957 7,196,563 7,266,131 ORDINARY DIVIDENDS (gross) (316,512) (633,024) (633,024) (1,002,763) (563,757) (390,293) (975,733) (975,733) (585,440) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (127,397) 1,266,758 989,821 (1,995,966) (168,673) (740,849) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 RETAINED PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,448,358 2,592,070 3,083,346 3,216,803 3,925,962 4,712,475 7,594,015 4,460,258 6,052,157 5,939,842 FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 30th 30th 30th 30th 30th June June June 30th 30th 30th 30th June 2015 June 2016 30th For year ended 2008 2009 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 June 2014 (Restated) (Restated) June 2017 Profit/(Loss) for the year after dividends 1,448,358 2,592,070 3,083,346 3,216,803 3,925,962 4,712,475 7,594,015 4,460,258 6,052,157 5,939,842 Depreciation 1,749,764 2,154,357 2,807,111 3,847,007 4,563,658 5,632,642 6,797,745 7,943,421 9,434,511 11,965,832 3,198,122 4,746,427 5,890,457 7,063,810 8,489,620 10,345,117 14,391,760 12,403,679 15,486,668 17,905,674 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Fixed Assets less depreciation 38,925,317 49,974,859 64,310,486 84,590,569 107,548,274 146,094,184 168,155,851 196,301,330 235,467,263 264,589,481 Intangible assets 169,520 258,716 1,410,044 1,418,599 2,602,033 2,593,483 Prepaid leases on 131,926 131,874 131,819 131,764 131,709 131,653 131,598 131,543 131,494 131,438 land Investment 200,000 1,298,506 1,171,109 Other non current assets 817,423 8,372,135 9,331,573 9,052,731 Net current assets/ (Liabilities) 2,237,136 2,702,009 1,736,355 7,020,165 (3,223,754) (1,147,158) 1,563,870 20,463,293 (905,086) (9,971,873) 41,294,379 53,008,742 66,178,660 93,041,004 105,796,858 145,337,395 172,078,786 226,686,900 246,627,277 266,395,260 FINANCED BY: Ordinary shareholders’ equity 7,982,672 9,700,722 11,593,536 39,606,376 43,022,772 47,149,807 54,743,822 57,969,656 64,021,813 69,961,655 Non cumulative preference shares 15,899,250 17,147,341 17,147,341 Cumulative The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 preference shares 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 43,000 I Deferred Income 7,472,912 12,362,327 16,087,747 18,680,714 16,612,332 18,154,796 19,562,051 Page 177 Statistical Data Page 178 30th 30th 30th 30th 30th I June June June 30th 30th 30th 30th June 2015 June 2016 30th For year ended 2008 2009 2010 June 2011 June 2012 June 2013 June 2014 (Restated) (Restated) June 2017 Loan capital 11,368,208 11,545,014 13,113,434 19,757,132 21,512,025 42,886,311 53,141,442 99,289,403 105,017,783 111,075,216 Deferred taxation 1,395,837 2,701,965 4,481,865 6,500,449 11,862,140 15,442,569 19,848,236 24,699,789 29,217,030 32,472,173 Non current liability 4,605,412 11,870,700 19,799,484 19,661,135 15,823,485 23,727,961 25,621,572 28,072,720 30,172,855 33,281,165 41,294,379 53,008,742 66,178,660 93,041,004 104,625,749 145,337,395 172,078,786 226,686,900 246,627,277 266,395,260 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 12,642,311 12,734,937 17,526,909 24,713,898 25,949,832 40,578,337 27,208,068 41,567,840 48,815,284 41,023,892 Average cost of units sold (cents) 754.88 1,171.13 1,287.63 1,160.33 1,496.28 1,347.16 1,450.92 1,365.10 1,339.41 1,455.95 Profit for the year before taxation as a percentage of average capital employed 8.53% 10.71% 8.99% 7.61% 7.38% 6.40% 8.67% 6.99% 6.86% 6.20% ORDINARY DIVIDENDS RATES 20% 40% 40% 18% 20% 0% 20% 20% 20% 20% Earnings per share 22.30 40.76 3.00 2.16 2.36 1.76 3.58 3.81 3.69 3.72 Customers/ employees ratio 159.03 180.64 201.08 205.24 198.85 223.00 260.00 333.05 439.27 547.01 Sales (KWh) per employee 762,148 738,703 734,300 680,774 584,374 590,922 641,076 657,446 663,343 678,552 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 STATISTICAL TABLES TABLE 1: POWER SYSTEM OPERATION STATISTICS FOR 5 YEARS Capacity (MW) as at 30.06.2017 Energy Purchased (GWh) COMPANY Installed Effective1 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 KenGen Hydro: Tana 20.0 20.0 108 69 108 109 71 Kamburu 94.2 90.0 520 421 358 434 384 Gitaru 225.0 216.0 1,036 830 710 862 775 Kindaruma 72.0 70.5 252 201 165 208 183 Masinga 40.0 40.0 148 206 138 127 169 Kiambere 168.0 164.0 1,129 979 718 996 938 Turkwel 106.0 105.0 545 719 551 426 402 Sondu Miriu 60.0 60.0 393 351 376 419 282 Sangóro 21.0 20.0 110 109 125 140 90 Small Hydros 11.7 11.2 57 59 60 63 44 Hydro Total 818 797 4,298 3,944 3,308 3,784 3,339 Thermal: Kipevu I Diesel 73.5 52.3 185.2 219.9 156.5 128.6 211.3 Kipevu III Diesel 120.0 115.0 320.7 524.2 299.0 181.4 512.1 Embakasi Gas Turbine(s) 30.0 28.0 27.3 41.3 4.1 0.6 0.2 Muhoroni Gas Turbine 30.0 27.0 108 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Garissa & Lamu 26.9 27.6 11.7 12.4 Garissa Temporary Plant (Aggreko) 21.0 18.6 Thermal Total 254 222 560 813 492 342 832 Page 179 Statistical Data Page 180 Capacity (MW) I as at 30.06.2017 Energy Purchased (GWh) COMPANY Installed Effective1 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Geothermal: Olkaria I 45.0 44.0 369 352 333 331 195 Olkaria II 105.0 101.0 696 712 756 814 791 Eburru Hill 2.5 2.2 9 7 11 10 0 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads OW37, OW 37 kwg 12, OW 37 kwg 13 and OW 392 20.0 17.2 23 17 9 16 89 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads OW43 12.8 12.8 0 29 78 75 74 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads OW905,OW914 ,OW915 and OW 9193 47.8 47.8 0 7 109 266 309 Olkaria IV 140.0 140.0 0 32 1064 976 852 Olkaria I Units 4 & 5 140.0 140.0 744 1055 968 Geothermal Total 513 505 1,096 1,156 3,104 3,542 3,279 Wind Ngong 25.5 25.5 13.9 17.6 37.7 56.7 63.2 KenGen Total 1,610 1,550 5,968 5,931 6,943 7,725 7,513 Government of Kenya (Rural Electrification Programme) Thermal 26.2 17.0 26.0 29.8 35.1 39.9 40.8 Solar 0.550 0.520 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.5 Wind 0.660 0.494 0.7 0.4 0.0 0.000 0.003 Total Offgrid 27 18 27 31 36 41 41 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Capacity (MW) as at 30.06.2017 Energy Purchased (GWh) 1 COMPANY Installed Effective 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Independent Power Producers (IPP) Thermal & Geothermal Iberafrica Power I&II 108.5 108.5 592 550 198 128 252 Tsavo Power 74.0 74.0 178 152 83 39 121 Thika Power 87.0 87.0 454 233 70 168 Biojuole Kenya Limited 2.0 2.0 0 0.7 Mumias Cogeneration 26.0 21.5 71 57 14 0 0 OrPower 4 -Geothermal I,II&III 110.0 110.0 503 851 955 937 925 OrPower 4 -Geothermal (4th plant) 29.0 29.0 129 247 Rabai Power 90.0 90.0 443 633 609 536 606 Imenti Tea Factory Hydro 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.1 0.5 0.7 0.3 Gikira Hydro 0.514 0.514 0.4 1.6 1.9 0.9 Triumph Power 83.0 83.0 4.8 81.8 83 Gulf Power 80.32 80.32 60 8 61 Regen-Terem Hydro 5.00 5.00 0.7 IPP Total 696 691 1,788 2,698 2,160 1,934 2,466 Emergency Power Producers (EPP) Aggreko Power 0 0.0 261 94 63 50 0.8 EPP Total 0 0 261 94 63 50 0.8 Imports UETCL 41 83 76 65 180 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I TANESCO 1.2 1.3 0.6 0.0 0.0 EEP 2.1 2.8 2.6 3.4 Total Imports 42 87 79 67 184 Page 181 SYSTEM TOTAL 2,333 2,259 8,087 8,840 9,280 9,817 10,205 Statistical Data Installed Effective1 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Page 182 SUMMARY OF KEY STATISTICS I SALES KPLC System (GWh) 6,144 6,751 7,090 7,330 7,701 REP System (GWh) 406 454 525 537 549 Export to Uganda (GWh) 30 37 38 43 20 Export to Tanesco (GWh) 1 2 2 2 2 TOTAL SALES (GWh) 6,581 7,244 7,655 7,912 8,272 System Losses (GWh)4 1,507 1,596 1,624 1,905 1,933 System Peak Demand (MW)5 1,354 1,468 1,512 1,586 1,656 System Load Factor 68.2% 68.7% 70.1% 70.6% 70.3% Sales % of Energy Purchased 81.4% 81.9% 82.5% 80.6% 81.1% Losses as % of Energy Purchased 18.6% 18.1% 17.5% 19.4% 18.9% Annual Growth: Energy Purchased 5.4% 9.3% 5.0% 5.8% 4.0% KPLC Sales 4.1% 9.9% 5.0% 3.4% 5.1% REP Sales 1.6% 11.8% 15.6% 2.3% 2.2% Notes: 1) Capacity from the plant under normal operating conditions or contracted capacity. 2) OW37, OW 37 kwg 12, OW 37 kwg 13 and OW 39 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads are centrally metered at OW 37 3) OW905,OW914 ,OW915 and OW 919 Olkaria Mobile Wellheads are metered at OW 914 and OW 915 4) System losses comprise of technical and non-technical losses. 5) The peak demand shown includes export to Uganda. The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 TABLE 2: REGIONAL MAXIMUM DEMAND(MW) REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi 716 768 811 842 831 Coast 261 267 249 315 323 West 273 298 309 364 391 Mt. Kenya 125 159 148 177 171 TOTAL SYSTEM (SIMULTANEOUS) 1,354 1,468 1,512 1,586 1,656 % INCREASE P.A. 9.5% 8.4% 3.0% 4.9% 4.4% TABLE 3: KPLC SALES IN GWh BY CUSTOMER CATEGORY TYPES OF CUSTOMERS COVERED TARIFF BY THIS TARIFF 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 DC Domestic 1,670 1,803 1,866 2,007 2,138 SC Small Commercial 998 1,109 1,143 1,153 1,201 CI Commercial and Industrial 3,440 3,818 4,030 4,104 4,266 IT Off-peak (Interruptible) 18 1 15 26 41 SL Street lighting 18 20 35 40 55 TOTAL 6,144 6,751 7,090 7,330 7,701 Statistical Data % INCREASE P.A. 2.6% 9.9% 5.0% 3.4% 5.1% TABLE 4: TOTAL UNIT SALES BY REGION IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 1,032 1,187 1,301 Nairobi South 1,667 1,696 1,759 Nairobi West 1,059 808 853 Nairobi 3,507 3,776 Coast 1,134 1,256 1,312 1,338 1,389 Central Rift 456 569 596 North Rift 269 280 269 South Nyanza 0 48 86 Western 525 320 313 West 1,056 1,121 Mt Kenya 309 413 431 North Eastern 461 671 704 Mt Kenya 539 598 KPLC Sales 6,236 6,751 7,090 7,330 7,701 R.E.P. Schemes 313 454 525 537 549 Export Sales 32 39 40 45 22 TOTAL 6,581 7,244 7,655 7,912 8,272 %INCREASE P.A. 3.8% 10.1% 5.7% 3.4% 4.5% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 183 TABLE 5: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “DC” DOMESTIC LOAD IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 413 395 418 Nairobi South 290 289 291 Nairobi West 404 380 405 Nairobi 1,010 1,177 Coast 272 301 306 328 338 Central Rift 139 168 218 Western 169 163 136 North Rift 101 105 116 South Nyanza 31 51 West 239 359 Mt Kenya 141 178 203 North Eastern 212 315 328 Mt Kenya 146 220 TOTAL 1,667 2,057 2,176 2,352 2,504 % INCREASE P.A. 9.7% 23.4% 5.8% 8.1% 6.5% TABLE 6: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “SC” SMALL COMMERCIAL LOAD IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 159 214 216 Nairobi South 164 153 157 Nairobi West 225 146 154 Nairobi 501 567 Coast 145 164 167 171 182 Central Rift 153 163 182 Western 163 114 99 North Rift 85 77 79 south Nyanza 0 19 34 West 270 373 Mt Kenya 123 151 161 North Eastern 107 131 132 Mt Kenya 142 191 TOTAL 1,059 1,295 1,346 1,339 1,395 % INCREASE P.A. 6.6% 22.3% 4.0% (0.6%) 4.2% Page 184 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 TABLE 7: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “CI1” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (415V) IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 175 236 240 Nairobi South 328 331 335 Nairobi West 301 200 212 Nairobi 727 790 Coast 211 214 208 216 219 Central Rift 154 203 221 Western 149 82 68 North Rift 80 88 81 South Nyanza 0 21 35 West 367 393 Mt Kenya 116 161 154 North Eastern 94 122 126 Mt Kenya 188 202 TOTAL 1,492 1,599 1,606 1,660 1,693 % INCREASE P.A. 0.0% 7.1% 0.5% 3.3% 2.0% TABLE 8: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI2” Statistical Data LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD(11kV) IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 196 238 244 Nairobi South 515 514 500 Nairobi West 113 65 72 Nairobi 764 819 Coast 209 212 228 230 230 Central Rift 40 46 53 Western 45 45 42 North Rift 20 19 20 South Nyanza 0 2 6 West 103 107 Mt Kenya 8 17 20 North Eastern 85 131 140 Mt Kenya 66 78 TOTAL 1,142 1,216 1,251 1,307 1,328 % INCREASE P.A. 4.5% 6.5% 2.9% 4.5% 1.6% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 185 TABLE 9: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI3” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (33kV) IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 10.9 0.0 0.0 Nairobi South 2.0 0.0 5.7 Nairobi West 5.0 4.0 11.9 Nairobi 5 5 Coast 176 168 152.2 140.0 158.2 Central Rift 37 65 75 Western 34 11 16 North Rift 43 40 29 South Nyanza 0 0 0 West 85 93 Mt Kenya 0 0 0 North Eastern 0 0 0 Mt Kenya 0 0 TOTAL 266 266 284 260 295 % INCREASE P.A. (0.3%) (0.1%) 6.9% (8.6%) 13.5% TABLE 10: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI4” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (66kV) IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 78 83 88 Nairobi South 341 379 419 Nairobi West 34 32 34 Nairobi 408 453 Coast 0 0 0 0 0 Central Rift 3 3 7 Western 0 0 0 North Rift 0 0 0 South Nyanza 0 0 0 West 0 2 Mt Kenya 0 0 0 North Eastern 2 29 32 Mt Kenya 0 5 TOTAL 408 460 458 526 580 % INCREASE P.A. 6.2% 12.7% (0.4%) 14.8% 10.2% Page 186 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 TABLE 11: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY CATEGORY “CI5” LARGE COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL LOAD (132kV) IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 0 0 0 Nairobi South 69 72 82 Nairobi West 0 0 0 Nairobi Total 43 60 Coast 134 217 274 278 287 Central Rift 2 2 1 Western 84 0 6 North Rift 0 0 0 South Nyanza 0 0 0 West 1 9 Mt Kenya 0 0 0 North Eastern 12 3 0 Mt Kenya Total 0 5 TOTAL 178 291 441 355 376 % INCREASE P.A. 8.4% 63.7% 51.5% (19.5%) 5.8% TABLE 12: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “IT” Statistical Data OFFPEAK LOAD IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 0.2 10.7 2.4 Nairobi South 0.4 0.5 2.3 Nairobi West 12.8 11.8 3.2 Nairobi 16.0 1.0 Coast 0.4 0.0 0.4 0.4 2.2 Central Rift 0.1 0.3 2.7 Western 0.3 0.5 2.5 North Rift 0.0 0.2 1.2 South Nyanza 0.0 0.1 1.2 West 1.1 0.0 Mt Kenya 0.3 0.4 2.2 North Eastern 0.9 1.5 3.2 Mt Kenya 0.5 TOTAL 18.0 1.0 15.4 26.4 23.1 % INCREASE P.A. (58.2%) (94.2%) 1388.4% 71.0% (12.7%) The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 187 TABLE 13: R  EGIONAL SALE OF ELECTRICITY FOR CATEGORY “SL” STREET LIGHTING IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 6.7 9.2 13 Nairobi South 10.0 6.7 6 Nairobi West 7.5 8.3 10 Nairobi 15 13 Coast 5 4 3.8 4.0 5 Central Rift 1.6 2.4 5 Western 0.2 0.9 4 North Rift 1.1 1.2 2 South Nyanza 0.0 0.1 0 West 1 1 Mt Kenya 2.2 4.3 7 North Eastern 2.7 2.9 6 Mt Kenya 2 2 TOTAL 23.9 20.0 35.7 40.0 56.5 % Increase P.A. 49.6% (16.5%) 78.7% 11.6% 41.6% TABLE 14: REGIONAL SALES OF ELECTRICITY FOR R.E.P. SCHEMES IN GWh REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 7.3 0.0 0.0 Nairobi South 53.2 49.0 38.5 Nairobi West 43.4 39.8 49.0 Nairobi 66 109 Coast 22 24 27.3 29.4 32.0 Central Rift 74.9 82.8 88.2 Western 118.9 96.1 59.0 North Rift 62.1 50.1 49.0 Soutn Nyanza 0.0 25.1 61.4 West 152 216 Mt Kenya 82.3 100.4 117.1 North Eastern 55.7 64.2 62.6 Mt Kenya 73 105 TOTAL 313 454 525 537 549 % Increase P.A. 1.5% 45.2% 15.6% 2.3% 2.2% Page 188 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 TABLE 15: NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS BY REGION AS AT 30TH JUNE 2017 REGION 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Nairobi North 514,003 626,662 720,180 Nairobi South 462,108 590,731 746,961 Nairobi West 358,279 482,759 632,433 Nairobi 1,042,216 1,258,555 Coast 221,410 248,058 297,985 400,679 490,290 Central Rift 235,729 340,165 434,163 Western 215,237 265,700 396,691 North Rift 156,858 242,328 287,296 South Nyanza 0 104,161 146,580 West 368,800 438,998 Mt Kenya 244,936 320,137 412,605 North Eastern 423,579 545,033 645,573 Mt. Kenya 244,992 293,820 KPLC Customers 1,877,418 2,239,431 2,908,714 3,918,355 4,912,772 R.E.P. Customers 453,544 528,552 703,190 972,018 1,269,510 TOTAL 2,330,962 2,767,983 3,611,904 4,890,373 6,182,282 Statistical Data % Increase P.A. 14.3% 18.7% 30.5% 35.4% 26.4% TABLE 16: NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS BY TARIFF CATEGORY MAIN TYPE OF CUSTOMERS COVERED BY TARIFF THIS TARIFF 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Domestic 1,633,773 1,987,330 2,646,965 3,665,216 4,628,435 DC only KPLC REP 367,017 435,749 600,244 861,110 1,153,031 Domestic DC & IT KPLC 57,709 57,958 57,827 38,816 57,442 REP 841 819 898 765 957 Small Commercial 177,664 185,529 193,327 202,477 211,655 SC only KPLC REP 85,399 91,647 101,608 109,588 114,893 Small Commercial SC & IT 1,431 1,542 1,548 1,470 1,741 KPLC REP 197 211 252 229 287 2,550 2,695 2,930 3,068 3,126 C11 KPLC REP 22 33 10 19 24 Large Commercial and CI2 Industrial KPLC 320 333 348 378 405 The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 189 TABLE 16: NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS BY TARIFF CATEGORY (CONTINUED) MAIN TYPE OF CUSTOMERS COVERED BY TARIFF THIS TARIFF 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 CI3 Large Commercial and Industrial KPLC 33 36 43 43 57 CI4 Large Commercial and Industrial KPLC 23 24 31 35 41 CI5 Large Commercial and Industrial KPLC 22 27 32 32 33 IT only Off-peak (Interruptible) KPLC 826 785 794 796 791 REP 7 4 8 13 8 SL Street lighting KPLC 3,067 3,172 4,869 6,024 9,046 REP 61 89 170 294 310 TOTAL (KPLC) 1,877,418 2,239,431 2,908,714 3,918,355 4,912,772 TOTAL (R.E.P.) 453,544 528,552 703,190 972,018 1,269,510 GROSS TOTAL 2,330,962 2,767,983 3,611,904 4,890,373 6,182,282 % INCREASE P.A. 14.3% 18.7% 30.5% 35.4% 26.4% TABLE 17: REVENUE (Kshs ‘Mllion) BY CUSTOMER CATEGORY MAIN TYPE OF 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 CUSTOMERS COVERED (Restated) TARIFF BY THIS TARIFF DC Domestic 26,595 31,029 30,897 32,726 38,064 SC Small commercial 21,582 23,864 23,490 23,639 25,590 small industrial CI Commercial Industrial 39,627 49,269 51,097 50,862 55,706 IT Off-peak (Interruptible) 6 23 26 70 625 SL Street Lighting 412 392 447 342 414 TOTAL 88,222 104,577 105,957 107,638 120,399 Export 687 819 806 736 343 TOTAL KPLC 88,909 105,396 106,763 108,374 120,742 R.E.P. 6,012 7,229 8,051 9,812 10,376 TOTAL REVENUE 94,921 112,625 114,814 118,186 131,118 %INCREASE P.A. (6.5%) 18.7% 1.9% 2.9% 10.9% Page 190 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 TABLE 18: STAFF ANALYSIS AT 30TH JUNE Number of Staff in Each Region 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 Central Office 1,495 1,563 1,863 2,049 2,093 Nairobi North 3,355 3,396 930 851 838 Nairobi West 1,075 922 913 Nairobi South 951 845 853 Coast 1,114 1,088 1,067 1,139 1,144 Western 2,914 2,927 1,103 949 960 South Nyanza 364 418 Central Rift 1,079 1,051 1,079 North Rift 801 790 803 Mt Kenya 1,587 1,616 1,120 1,216 1,227 North Eastern 856 957 967 Total Number of Staff* 10,465 10,590 10,845 11,133 11,295 % INCREASE P.A. 2.1% 1.2% 2.4% 2.7% 1.5% Gender: Male 8,410 8,532 8,691 8,913 8,996 Female 2,055 2,058 2,154 2,220 2,299 Statistical Data RatioMale/Female 4.1 4.1 4.0 4.0 3.9 TABLE 19: TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION LINES, CIRCUIT LENGTH IN KILOMETERS VOLTAGE 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 220 kV 1,331 1,434 1,527 1,527 1,527 132 kV 2,436 2,513 2,527 2,874 3,239 66 kV 1,097 1,212 1,212 1,212 1,212 33 kV 16,136 20,778 21,370 27,497 30,846 11 kV 28,818 30,860 32,823 35,383 37,234 Total HV and MV 49,818 56,797 59,459 68,493 74,058 415/240V or 433/250V 110,778 139,642 TOTAL 49,818 56,797 59,459 179,271 213,700 % INCREASE P.A. 5.9% 14.0% 4.7% 15.2% 19.2% The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 191 TABLE 20: TRANSFORMERS IN SERVICE, TOTAL INSTALLED CAPACITY IN MVA1 Generation Substations 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 11/220kV 544 844 1,292 1,352 1,352 11/132kV 889 889 1,067 1,067 1,112 11/66kV 171 171 291 411 411 11/33kV 238 238 238 238 238 3.3/33kV 4 4 4 4 4 TOTAL 1,846 2,146 2,891 3,071 3,116 Transmission Substations 132/220kV 620 620 620 620 620 220/132kV 730 835 1,266 1,266 1,266 220/66kV 450 450 450 720 720 220/33kV 46 69 69 69 132/66kV 360 360 420 420 600 132/33kV 916 916 939 1,229 1,512 TOTAL 3,076 3,227 3,764 4,324 4,787 Distribution Substations 66/11kV 1,608 1,332 1,446 1,768 2,067 66/33kV 113 138 148 231 231 40/11kV 11 0 0 0 0 33/11kV 1,068 1,841 1,841 2,054 2,118 TOTAL 2,800 3,311 3,425 4,053 4,416 Distribution Transformers 11/0.415kV and 33/0.415kV 6,195 6,317 6,384 7,088 7,276 Notes: 1) Data for 2013/14 to 2015/16 restated. Page 192 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Notes The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 193 Notes Page 194 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 PROXY FORM THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED P.O. BOX 30099-00100, NAIROBI ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE COMPANY TO BE HELD ON FRIDAY 1ST DECEMBER 2017 I/We ____________________________ CDSC/Mem. No. ___________________of P.O. Box _____________ being (a) Member(s) of the above-named Company, HEREBY APPOINT ______________________________ as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company to be held on Friday, 1st December 2017 and at any adjournment thereof. My/our proxy is to vote in favour of/against the resolutions as indicated here below: Item Business For Against 1 Adoption of audited financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2017 2 Approve payment of dividend 3 Election of Directors: i) Mr. Adil Khawaja ii) Hon. Kenneth Marende 4 Election of Board Audit and Risk Committee Members: i) Mr. Kairo Thuo ii) Mrs. Brenda Eng’omo iii) Mr. Wilson Mugung’ei iv) Mrs. Beatrice Gathirwa 5 Approve payment of fees to non-executive Directors 6 Remuneration of Auditors Signature __________________________ Dated ______ this day of __________________________ 2017 NOTES: 1. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him/her. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be duly completed and lodged at the office of the Company Secretary, Stima Plaza, Nairobi or posted in time to be received not less than forty-eight hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting. 2. If the appointer is a corporation or a Government office, the Proxy must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of an Officer or Attorney duly authorised in writing. Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote as he/she deems fit. 3. A scanned copy of the Proxy Form and a copy of shareholder’s ID/Passport can be emailed to shares@kplc.co.ke.  Note that the duly signed proxy form should be returned with a copy of the shareholder’s ID/Passport. FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY Class No. of Shares No. of Votes 7% 4% Ordinary Total The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 I Page 195 FOMU YA UWAKILISHI THE KENYA POWER AND LIGHTING COMPANY LIMITED P.O. BOX 3009900100, NAIROBI FOMU YA UWAKILISHI KWA MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA WA KAMPUNI UTAKAOFANYIKA IJUMAA, DESEMBA 1, 2017 Mimi/Sisi _______________________ CDSC/Mwanachama. No.__________________wa S.L.P ________ Nikiwa Mwanachama wa Kampuni iliyotajwa hapo juu, HII HAPA NAMTEUA _______________________ Kama mwakilishi wangu/wetu kunipigia kura na kwa niaba yangu/yetu kwenye MKUTANO MKUU WA KILA MWAKA wa Kampuni utakaofanyika Ijumaa, Desemba 1, 2017 na endapo utaahirishwa hapo baadaye. Mwakilishi wangu/Wetu atapiga kura kuunga/kupiga Maazimio kama inavyoonyeshwa hapa chini: Nambari Shughuli Kuunga Kupinga 1 Kuidhinisha taarifa za kifedha zilizokaguliwa kwa mwaka uliomalizika Juni 30, 2017 2 Kuidhinisha malipo ya mgao wa faida 3 Uchaguzi wa Wakurugenzi: i) Bw. Adil Khawaja ii) Mhe. Kenneth Marende 4 Uchaguzi wa Wanachama wa Kamati ya Bodi ya Uhasibu na Hatari za Kibiashara: i) Bw. Kairo Thuo ii) Bi. Brenda Eng’omo iii) Bw. Wilson Mugung’ei iv) Bi. Beatrice Gathirwa 5 Kuidhinisha malipo ya Wakurugenzi wasio na Mamlaka 6 Malipo ya Wahasibu Sahihi _______________________________ Tarehe ______ siku ya_________________________2017 MAELEZO: 1. Mwanachama aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura kwenye mkutano anaweza kuteua mwakilishi mmoja au zaidi kuhudhuria, na endapo kutakuwa na upigaji kura, kupiga kwa niaba yake. Si lazima mwakilishi awe mwanachama wa Kampuni. Ili kuwa halali, Fomu ya Uwakilishi inapasa kujazwa kikamilifu na kuwasilishwa kwa afisi ya Katibu wa Kampuni, Stima Plaza, Nairobi au kutumwa kwa posta ili kupokelewa saa 48 kabla ya kuanza kwa mkutano. 2. Ikiwa anayeteua ni shirika au afisi ya Serikali, Fomu hiyo ni lazima iwe na muhuri au ijazwe mbele ya wakili aliyeidhinishwa kwa maandishi. Isipokuwa ifafanuliwe wazi mwakilishi anaweza kupiga kura apendavyo. 3. Nakala ya Fomu ya Uwakilishi na Kitambulisho au paspoti zinaweza kutumwa kwa njia ya baruapepe shares@kplc.co.ke  Muhimu:Tafadhali kumbuka kuwa fomu ya uwakilishi iliyojazwa ni lazima irejeshwe na nakala ya kitambulisho/paspoti ya mwenyehisa. KWA MATUMIZI RASMI PEKEE AINA Idadi ya Hisa Idadi ya Kura 7% 4% Kawaida Jumla Page 196 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017 Page 198 I The Kenya Power and Lighting Company Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016/2017
