06.21.2017 Secretary-General of the United Nations António Guterres United Nations, New York, NY 10017 USA Communication on Progress (COP) Our Communication on Progress (SDP) during 2016 2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUING SUPPORT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL (THE PRESIDENT USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ®) Dear, Mr.Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® reaffirms its commitment to supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the field of human rights, labor relations, environmental protection and combating corruption. In this annual progress report, we describe our efforts to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day activities. We also commit ourselves to providing this information to our stakeholders through the main communication channels. Sincerely Vladimir Gil, President USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® 2. DESCRIPTION OF MEASURES Human rights • We provide workers with safe, workable and sanitary workplaces in our offices located in Florida State and California State, • We interview our employees to identify harassment and harassment in the workplace, including physical harassment, verbal abuse, sexual harassment, psychological pressure, violence or threats on any basis. • We use design components and technologies to eliminate defects or side effects that could harm or pose a threat to human life and health during the production, use or disposal of our products or products in our units. Labor relations Measures taken by our company in the field of labor relations: • We do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor. USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® Closely follows the absence of age-related violations of the use of labor. • USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® minimum wage rates comply with the US Labor Code. (U.S. Department of Labor # 29 CFR 37.4 under Title I of WIA January 1, 2017) • We pay careful attention to pay based on the qualifications of our employees of their experience and take into account their aspirations, tasks and directions of professional growth in the areas chosen by our employees. Environment The company USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® takes steps in the field of environmental protection: • We regularly check the technological processes of production of the material and equipment that we use in our production facilities, as well as the applied production technologies at the enterprises of our partners. p. 1 of 3 • USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® checks the branch of environmental protection systems (prevention of air pollution, waste emissions, water treatment, etc.) • USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® introduces emergency procedures to prevent and eliminate potential accidents that are harmful to the environment and human health • USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® refuses to use chemical and other hazardous substances. If it is necessary to use such substances from our partners, our company USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® requires ensuring the safe handling and safe storage thereof Anti-corruption We take all measures to counter corruption and dishonesty of business and administrative relations. We carefully study the prospective market for the work ahead, assessing the risk of corruption in the region where we plan to conduct business or an upcoming business project. • We establish legally all business relations with our employees and potential partners. Including the rules of anticorruption and / or ethical conduct in contracts and memoranda of agreements. • Internal rules of the company always included obligations to counteract corruption 3. EVALUATION OF THE RESULTS In the paragraph below, our company USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® • The demographic and gender equality of management and employees of USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® by the factors: gender, age categories ethnicity, The level of occupational diseases, injuries absenteeism at work p. 2 of 3 • The percentage of recycled materials used and the proportion in the construction of real estate offered by the investment company USA CAPITAL EURO LLC ® 06/21/2017 p. 3 of 3
