How We Implement The Global Compact Principles Principles What we do Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of international Our stakeholder principles and Group policies fully human rights within their sphere of influence. support human rights, and ensure that we follow a leading international standard in relation to employment, Principle 2: Make sure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights, and core labour standards. human rights abuses. Labour standards Principle 3: Freedom of association and the effective recognition of As above, our Group policies cover core labour the right to collective bargaining. standards. Membership of trade unions is not common within the consumer credit industry; however some of Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory our office personnel are members of unions in Mexico labour. and Poland. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Forced, compulsory, or child labour is not a direct issue for the business as we are office-based, and employ Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of mainly skilled staff. employment and occupation. Agents need to be over 18 (21 in some markets). Indirectly, we are taking steps to reduce as far as possible, any indirect impacts through our responsible supply chain management policy. We have good policies covering equal opportunities across the group. Environmental protection Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental Environment challenges. Climate change Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Waste Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Stewardship environmentally friendly technologies. Suppliers Corruption Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including Group Policies Code of Ethics. extortion and bribery. During 2011, we developed a stand alone Anti Bribery and Corruption policy to strengthen management of this issue in emerging markets. To support implementation, we also ran dedicated training across the whole business, and it is now covered more comprehensively within induction programmes. www.ipfin.co.uk How We Implement The Global Compact Principles
