2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Scope This Communication on progress report covers the operations of Eastern Produce Kenya Limited. It covers the company’s activities in the year 2016 with a purpose of providing information about our ethical, social and environmental work. It also plays an important role in helping us monitor results step by step as they are achieved, thus, helps us shape our future social, ethical and environmental activities. It sets out the standards that our business strives to achieve, in the interests of all of our stakeholders, in the areas of: o Business Integrity EASTERN PRODUCE KENYA LTD Scope This Communication on progress report covers the operations of Eastern Produce Kenya Limited in Kenya. It covers the company’s activities in the year 2016 with a purpose of providing information about our ethical, social and environmental work. It also plays an important role in helping us monitor results step by step as they are achieved, thus, helps us shape our future social, ethical and environmental activities. It sets out the standards that our business strives to achieve, in the interests of all of our stakeholders, in the areas of:  Business Integrity  Workplace  Environment  Consumer  Community 1 Statement of Continued Support Eastern Produce Kenya Limited is committed to implement the United Nations Global Compact as part of our continued belief in sustainable development, responsibility and accountability in our business. We ensure that our operating standards are of a consistently high level, and that our policies are translated into practical actions. Through this report on our progress, Eastern Produce Kenya Limited expresses its willingness to support and advance the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact through our policies, processes, actions and products. Christopher Flowers Group Managing Director 2 ABOUT EPK nursery practices and fertilizer regimes. The Eastern Produce Kenya Limited (EPK) is part of department is also active in providing Technical Camellia Plc., (www.camellia.plc.uk), one of the advice on Environmental, Ethical, Food Safety and world’s largest private producers of tea. The Occupational Health and Safety aspects of the Camellia Group owns tea gardens in India, Kenya, business. Malawi, and Bangladesh producing around 80 Linton Park Regional office situated in Nairobi million kg of tea annually. performs the company’s marketing and promotional Eastern Produce Kenya Ltd (EPK) engages in tea functions. A team of experienced and dedicated growing and manufacture in Kenya, with tea estates individuals are based at these premises, providing a Photo1: Employee housing units in one of our centered in the beautiful Nandi Hills area, west of solid marketing foundation for the operations. estates the Great Rift Valley. It employs over 9,000 We believe that good management of employment employees at any one given time. The equatorial STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS and environmental issues is essential in ensuring the climate, good soil conditions and fairly consistent Our Approach long-term success of our business. We are therefore rainfall means that tea is produced throughout the The board of Camellia Plc. is responsible for committed to devoting the resources necessary to year and is of a very high quality with well-rounded establishing the group's policy on Corporate Social continually improve our performance with the same flavor. Through continuous investment in the land, Responsibility and has given the Executive vigor that we apply to other aspects of managing our factories and human resources, EPK produces some Committee responsibility for ensuring that the policy business. of the highest quality teas Kenya has to offer. is implemented across the group in a manner EPK tea estates comprise of; Kibabet, appropriate to those countries and sectors in which Development 2016 Kapsumbeiwa, Kipkoimet, Kepchomo, Kaboswa our businesses operate. 2016 was a good year for our operations. Thanks to (Managed)*, Kipkeibon (Managed)*, Siret In 2009, the board adopted a new Corporate Social all the employees, management and all other (Managed)*, Kaprachoge (Managed), Kibwari Responsibility Policy to replace the Statement of stakeholders that made the year a success. Due to (Managed)*, Chemomi, Savani and Sitoi. Good Business Principles that had been in place since sustainability measures taken in previous years, we agricultural and manufacturing practices and the 2005. The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is have remained fit to tackle the challenges and methodology behind production and quality also available on the Camellia plc’s website. respond very effectively, whilst remaining focused play an important part in the gradual progression of on our business philosophy. A key theme in our the company. Technical, strategic research and business is the drive for environmental stewardship development teams have been set up under the and waste water management. We upgraded the Technical Department is dedicated to improving all factory machinery in a bid to improve on quality and aspects of tea production, soil and leaf analysis, catch up with technological advancement. Food level of awareness of sustainability issues by structure at the estate level. Corporate Affairs Safety Management Systems worked well in all the actively using the data as part of our regular Manager coordinates and advises on all CSR issues, units with excellent results from the ISO 22000 management review process. senior management is responsible for the social and external auditors. Housing improvement in all the EPK will in 2016 continue to implement and audit environmental performance of the company. First units was also given priority. CSR requirements for supply chain as part of total line management is aware of sustainability We fine-tuned our marketing operations focusing on quality management. This will be done by sending requirements and is encouraged to integrate and customer service, “customer intimacy”, and cost out supplier questionnaires and visiting selected implement the sustainability initiatives in the day to efficiency. Best practice and knowledge sharing was suppliers premises for verification. day operations, while living our core values. enhanced by creating teams, focused on finding solutions to specific issues at the estate level. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk Management and Organizational Engagement The responsibility for managing the Company at the Sustainability for us means assurance of long-term Outlook 2016 top level rests with the Board of directors, which success within a stable economic, social and natural EPK is committed to consistently deliver meets every quarter of the year. We have defined environment. We believe that, with the values we incremental improvements in the areas that drive our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure the have established, and the policies and business sustainability goals. We aim to maintain our leading impact of sustainability actions on our operations. practices developed from these, we are well prepared market position, both in terms of quality products Through the board, the Regional Director, for the move towards sustainability. and improved service by anticipating consumer and Operations Director, Production and Technical Our success is greatly dependent on climatic industry trends, and remain focused on ethical Directors determine the detailed actions to be taken conditions, plant disease, the cost of labor and the business, environmental management and product in order to: market price for the produce. In addition, exports improvement using innovative programs. • Act with integrity, adhering to high standards of from Kenya are subject to foreign exchange We will continue tracking sustainability indicators behavior, encouraging leadership by senior fluctuations as products are priced in US dollars. monthly and report to the Board quarterly. This will management, responsible decision making and Developing countries such as Kenya tend to be not only improve the reliability and transparency of dialogue with stakeholders politically less stable, and there are also long-term the data, but will also enhance the link to the more • Be proactive in our focus areas of business issues concerning land ownership over which the frequently tracked operational performance integrity, social responsibility, product and consumer company has little control but monitors closely. indicators. safety, community involvement and environmental Our aim is to manage these risks and control our We aim to integrate all performance indicators, management activities cost-effectively. Our precautionary financial and non-financial, into one set of data that • Measure, report and communicate approach enables us to take up profitable business will allow us to monitor and manage performance to The responsibilities for sustainability issues are opportunities, avoid or reduce risks that can cause set targets continuously. We expect to enter the next aligned with our organizational and hierarchical loss, reputational damage or business failure, support 1 operational effectiveness and enhance resilience to local climactic conditions and infrastructure external events. development. We apply the principle that where there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental or social Working with Suppliers damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be While focused on the commercial need to procure used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent goods and services of the required specification and environmental degradation or negative social impact quality on the most favorable terms, we work collaboratively with our suppliers to ensure that ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE availability is sustainable in the long term and that Photo 2: Aerial view of employees housing units OUR ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT 2016 contracts are fair and business relationships are in our estates in Nandi Hills Through the taxes we paid, the jobs we provided and mutually beneficial. the supply and distribution businesses we supported, Paying Taxes we were a significant contributor to the economy of In 2016, we paid duty and taxes to the government the country. The sum total of these positive impacts as required by the countries legislation. The comprises our economic footprint. company is recognized as a distinguished taxpayer In the last year we invested capital in factories and by the Kenya Revenue Authority. equipment to ensure the consistent quality of our products and sustainability of our businesses. Impact on Small Holders Another significant financial impact of our Supporting Employment Photo3: One of the 15 primary schools operations on the economy is support to the EPK directly supports over 9,000 jobs in a wide constructed by the company for employees and smallholders that supply green leaf and other raw variety of positions involving tea plucking and tea surrounding communities children of school material required by the Company. bush management, specialist skills, different crafts going age to prevent child labor Assistance is provided in the form of training in and the full range of business activities and good farming practice, extension service provision, machinery operation in the tea factories. However, As part of good governance, we encouraged our roads and other infrastructure improvement and the people depending on our business for their suppliers to work towards the same corporate maintenance. We continue to invest in increasing livelihood are much more than listed above. citizenship standards as our own business. All major farmers’ skills and knowledge in the use of suppliers confirmed that they operated fertilizers, pesticides and tea varieties best suited to environmental, business ethics and health and safety policies and operated a system of performance 2 monitoring to ensure continuous improvement. In saving energy and water, as well as minimizing functioning of our social and the coming years we will be working with smaller environmental impact from transportation. environmental management system. The suppliers to ensure a similar commitment to The operations progressively introduce tougher results of these processes are recorded and corporate citizenship principles. demands in the area of environmental management, incorporated into the policies through a such as energy consumption and waste management. continual improvement plan and program. They also demonstrate that they have effective and Furthermore: ENVIRONMENT reliable methods for monitoring progress. There are o We ensure that the environmental effects We recognize that our activities have the potential to monthly reviews, focusing on issues related to of our investments are assessed and affect the environment either positively or negatively environmental management set-up and evaluation of monitored in the planning, implementation hence aim to improve all environmental aspects of actual performance. and operational stages. our business. In addition to using resources wisely, o The business is designed and operated to we strive to minimize any negative environmental Description of our Processes or Systems comply with national and international effects that could be caused by our business We support the principle of “wise-use” through legislation. activities. hands on management and see this as key to o We do not knowingly support businesses We focus our environmental efforts on activities that sustainability and the long term preservation of our and practices which contravene any we believe have the greatest impact. Today we work natural resources. relevant international conventions to which on an overall level in major areas such as reducing As part of our business objectives we therefore: the country is a signatory. carbon dioxide emissions, using alternative energy o Seek the efficient use of natural resources; o We assess the environmental standards and sources, managing waste water, and reducing energy o Seek investment opportunities where practices for planned projects and achieved consumption. sound economic development is coupled by operational projects with reference to with the protection and improvement of local regulations. This is to enhance Environmental Activities Co-ordination the environment; sustainability and encourage a long term Each business unit has a senior manager in charge of o Avoid investments where impacts on perspective in the way we conduct our planning and implementation of measures to ensure communities and the environment have not business. that stores, factories, living quarters and engineering been properly considered and mitigated in o All existing natural ecosystems, both workshops take environmental responsibility their design aquatic and terrestrial, have been seriously. Each unit has its own action plan detailing o The Company has the necessary processes identified, protected and are being restored the work towards achieving the goals set for social for follow up, measurement and analysis, through a conservation program. The and environmental training, waste management, including that of claims by workers or program includes the reforestation of areas other persons or groups, to evaluate the 3 within the farms that are unsuitable for generate. This is based on the concepts of refusing or recycling where possible. Solid factory waste agriculture. reducing the use of products that have actual or consists mainly of tealeaves, plastics, paper, textiles, o EPK maintains the integrity of aquatic or potential negative impacts on the environment or cotton wool, glass, pieces of wood etc. Litterbins are terrestrial ecosystems inside the farms and human health waste as well as reusing and recycling provided at each factory for collection of waste with do not permit their destruction or alteration waste. As part of this program, the sources and types separation at source. as a result of management or production of waste have been identified and the quantity The hospital waste is handled with the due care. activities. (weight or volume) estimated. The activities of the Incinerators are available to dispose of tissues and o Production areas are located in places that integrated waste management program are in contaminated combustible material. The ash from cannot provoke negative effects on accordance with the types and quantities of waste the incinerator is buried accordingly. The company national parks, wildlife refuges, biological generated. has a License to operate a waste treatment plant corridors, forestry reserves, buffer zones or We have appropriate treatment systems for all of namely an incinerator. other public or private biological wastewaters we generate. The treatment systems Waste oils and greases from the factories are conservation areas. comply with applicable national and local laws and collected and returned to Group Central Workshops o The farms implement a training and have the respective operating permits. There are for disposal by Shell Oil Company (on contract) and education program in order to guarantee operating procedures for industrial wastewater greases from the wash down are handled by a system the effective execution of the social and treatment systems. of oil and grease traps. environmental management system and its Our Factory waste water is handled through Human waste from management houses and programs. The training topics are Constructed wetlands. These are currently working factories are collected in septic tanks. The human identified according to the position and well with biological indicators such as fauna and waste from the village is handled by use of the pit type of work carried out. flora showing good growth and diversification in latrines, which are properly decommissioned when o Records are kept that include the species proving that it is effective. Ashes and full. The ‘VIP’ pit latrine types are well ventilated participants’ signatures, topics covered and clinkers generated from the combustion of firewood for reduction of bad odor and flies. the instructor’s name for each training or are placed on the compost heap. Solid factory waste The compost heaps for biodegradable rubbish educational event. The employees i.e. tea leaves are placed on compost heap for generated in the estate villages are built according to attending the trainings are as part of the recycling i.e. used as manure, an alternative fertilizer a very specific design from our social/ normal workday. source. environmental consultant. Office refuse is sorted and the combustible materials As a further waste management strategy a waste Waste Management are burnt in boilers and other material disposed of in classification report has been compiled and the Our operations have an integrated waste a pit. The metal scraps are collected and sold to a analysis conducted. management program for the waste products we scrap dealer. Paper and plastic is disposed of by 4 Energy Consumption undertaken to see how much more efficient jikos are Monthly water quality analysis is carried out and the The tea production consumes both thermal, electrical than open fire cooking. verification of the parameters done by External energy and energy derived from fuel oils. Although energy efficient jikos have been installed laboratories. The parameters analyzed for include Our goal is to reduce the energy consumption in across the estates, we are looking at the best way of chemical, physical, Microbiological and nutrient relation to the quantity of products produced at each maintaining them, as the clay used in the original composition. A possible source of contamination of unit. Energy use is continuously monitored at each design has not lasted as hoped. New designs are the surface water is the factory wash-down effluents, factory and estate. Action plans based on these under review. runoff and the nutrients in the form of the fertilizers results are made in order to improve efficiency and Water Management applied in the fields. Fertilizer runoff has been raise awareness among workers. We have instituted a water conservation program monitored in recent years. No pollution of water that ensures the rational use of water resources. The courses or swamps has been detected. The other Transport program activities make use of the best available possible sources of contamination of the surface The impact exerted on the environment as a result of technology and resources. water are incorrectly established pit latrines and transport activities related to our operations cannot We consider water re-circulation and reuse, spillage or leakages from the underground petrol and be overlooked. We invested in acquiring a greater maintenance of the water distribution network and diesel storage tanks. Regular audits, of fuel pumps insight into this relationship, not least to stipulate the minimizing of water use. We keep an inventory are conducted to determine deviations and enquiries environmental criteria when negotiating the future and indicate on a map the surface and underground done to ascertain whether the storage tanks are provision of transport and goods forwarding water sources found on our farms. The operations leaking. No extension or upgrading of current water services. A plucked leafs route from field to Factory record the annual water volume provided by these resources is planned in the near future. can be long. Smart route planning, full utilization of sources and the amount of water consumed. We have the volume capacity in a trailer as well as the filling obtained the relevant permits for the abstraction of Air Quality Management with the right weight of goods is the most effective water for all extraction points. The estates emissions into the air include smoke weapon to reduce the environmental impact and cost We have maintained riparian vegetation along the from the boilers, gases from maceration, dust from of transport. rivers and streams in its estates. Areas previously tractors, vehicle emissions, as well as smoke from under Eucalyptus within these areas have been within the households (Charcoal stoves) and Households rehabilitated with indigenous. The wetland sections firewood across the estates. The point sources of Within the households the main sources of energy within the estates are conserved accordingly. No emissions are the generators and the boilers. are Fuel Wood, Kerosene, Liquefied Petroleum Gas negative impacts have been reported regarding the Air pollution may be caused by emission from the (LPG) and Coal. The conversion to energy efficient alteration of ground water movement from combustion of fuel wood. The main pollutants of stoves is reducing the village’s requirements for surrounding communities due to the agricultural concern are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, cooking fuel material. Trials have just been activities. Sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, 5 dust, fly ash, and particulate matter, which are No 74 of 13 October 2006 legal notice 131 Fossil cohesion and fertility. Vegetative protection to produced during combustion. Indoor pollution may fuel emission controls. Vehicles are serviced prevent soil erosion at the edges includes Lemon lead to negative impact to occupants and exposed regularly as per Manufacturers guidelines and the grass, Agapanthus and vetiver grass. Sediment traps, workers. fuel usage monitored on a monthly basis. spillways and barriers are dug in the gutters to Common effects are respiratory disease including reduce the velocity of water and prevent erosion allergies and bronchitis. Mitigation measures Soil Management and Conservation from the roadways into the tea fields. including proper ventilations, tall stacks, provision High rainfall and undulating hills favor erosion. Comprehensive soil fertility databases are available of chimneys in kitchens, and fuel efficient Jikos are Isolated areas are prone to erosion but these are on request for each field, which is used to monitor practiced on the estates. No evidence of any identified by conducting soil profile analysis prior to changes in soil fertility significant air pollution from the factories or fields being uprooted and replanted. vehicles is apparent and no complaints have been The Company implemented erosion control Natural Resources received. measures to combat the problem in all fields that Factories use dried eucalyptus wood as a fuel source were replanted which included, contours, soak pits, in their operation. The calorific value of the wood is vetiver grass, oats etc. The operating policy of the high and smoke emissions are reduced. Moisture management is to leave 30 m from water content of the eucalyptus is monitored on weekly bodies/courses uncultivated, to retain its natural basis to ensure conversion ratio is optimal. vegetation. This policy has been continued with Households within the villages are using improved felled areas in riverine areas being rehabilitated. cooking stoves for energy conservation efficiency Erosion control measures have been put in place to and ventilation. The use of improved jikos’ has secure areas that are unstable and on steep slopes. reduced fuel consumption and ensured that there is The management has continually carried out Photo 4: Aerial view of the tea field intertwined less smoke in workers homes. rehabilitation of riparian vegetation river catchments with forestry cover in a bid to enhance The total quantity of the different pollutants emitted as a way of conserving the environments while biodiversity. from the factories depends on the production protecting the riverbanks and hence controlling Apart from the indigenous forests there are no other capacity and operational efficiency of the factory. erosion and flooding incidences downstream. No natural resources of significance in the area. No This can be expressed in terms of specific pollution flooding or landslides have been reported on the mineral resources have been found on any of the load i.e. the total quantity of a typical pollutant estates since the inception of the tea plantation estates. Due to our environmental requirements generated per quantity of tea produced. project. certification by Rainforest Alliance was obtained in Due to the publication of Kenya gazette supplement All pruning are left in the field as in previous years 2007 and recertified in 2012 to ensure sustainable to improve organic matter, water retention, soil agricultural practice and sound environmental 6 practices. To prevent any chemical degradation due As we aspire to be the leading player in the tea In 2016 we employed an average of 12,000 to the use of pesticide the necessary precautions are growing and production arena, we continued to Employees, up by 12% compared to 2015. taken as per the Premier foods pesticide audit. invest significantly in our people in 2016. To retain Murram is mined for construction and repair of roads this leadership position it was critical for us to Absenteeism which is done mostly by contractors. Most of our develop our people by means of formal and on the In 2016 we remained focused on health and safety estates have quarries on their land, from which job training. programs and increased our communication around stones are collected. Blasting for new stones has not Our managers learnt how to lead and not just these issues. Examples include safety training for been done for some time but when needed; the manage. In 2016 we will continue to expand our employees, focusing on physical safety and services of a licensed explosives operator are leadership development and training programs. This, employees’ wellbeing and welfare, and procedures utilized. we hope, will make us a more attractive employer, to maintain a healthy and safe working environment creating a sustainable competitive edge. etc. Audits We also focused on absenteeism, casual leave and Annual Environmental audits are done within our EMPLOYMENT sick leave monitoring. The figures were monitored operation and environmental management and In 2016 our farms continued to directly hire the on a monthly basis and discussed at the various integration plans developed. The plans have workforce, except when a contractor was able to board meetings on a quarterly basis. indicators and clear implementation timelines. provide specialized or temporary services. We Any new developments with anticipated major strongly discouraged use of mechanisms to avoid the Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate impacts are only implemented after Environmental direct hiring of workers and the obligations normally A reduction of the lost time incidents frequency rate Impact Assessment has been done and an elaborate associated with labor contracts. Employment of (LTIFR) by paying attention to and preventing environmental management plan put in place. foreign workers in our operations is subject to a accidents remains an important item on our agenda. In addition, we work closely with certification work permit issued by the responsible government We have taken several initiatives including bodies to develop standards and implementing agency. rejuvenating the Joint health and safety committees, baseline and pilot studies. We do not ask for money from workers in return for building their capacities, conducting accident LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK employment. All our employees, apart from investigations and instituting recommendations Our core value in relation to labor practice and members of management, are unionisable and are among other measures. We will continue our efforts decent work is to respect the dignity and well-being free to join a union of their choice. and focus in occupational safety and health in 2016. of all those people who work for us. Looking after the people who work in our businesses, wherever Total workforce by employment type, Employee Development they may be based, is our priority. employment contract, and region Developing our employees is key for us: we want our employees to continuously grow in their current 7 roles and responsibilities and develop their potential, legal provisions and other players in the field we Our Employment Principles make clear that, where skills and competences. This is reflected in many remain a generous benefit provider. In 2016, the restructuring is necessary, we are committed to different initiatives and aspects of our business. We salaries and wages paid to all categories of our doing so in a responsible manner. Where such have invested in our employees’ capacity building employees exceeded the national legal minima for situations do occur, our companies adopt responsible and training. In 2014 we rolled out our new the various territories. local approaches and procedures to address each corporate values through training programs across instance, including severance pay and any other the operations. Another theme that remains LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS measures as may be appropriate to the situation and important is the continuous development of our Percentage of employees covered by collective location, including extensive outplacement support leadership capabilities, within departments and bargaining agreements to help displaced employees to find alternative across the group. In all our businesses, all workers have the right to employment. freely organize and voluntarily negotiate their Benefits provided to full-time employees that are working conditions in a collective manner as OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY not provided to temporary or part-time established in ILO Conventions 87 and 98 and local All our farms have an occupational health and safety employees, by major operations. legislation. We have and continuously divulge a program to reduce or prevent the risk of accidents in Temporary and part-time workers (both national and policy guaranteeing this right and we do not impede the workplace. foreign) have the same rights and benefits as workers from forming or joining unions, collective permanent workers. They have been informed of and bargaining or organizing for ideological, religious, are familiar with their rights, responsibilities, salaries political, economic, social, cultural or any other or pay, work schedule and other subjects normally reasons. We periodically provide opportunities for forming part of a legal work contract. All our workers to make decisions regarding their rights and operations do not maintain relations or contracts alternatives to form any type of organization for with third parties in order to avoid directly hiring negotiating their working conditions. workers or related obligations, such as social Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational security payments, accident and injury insurance and changes, including whether it is specified in medical services that normally are the responsibility collective agreements Photos 5: Inside one of the factories. of the employer. As a practice, we formally and regularly consult and All workers receive training on how to do their work Our Employment Principles make clear our strategy inform workers and general community regarding safely, especially regarding the application of of ensuring that our reward levels are highly any planned technical and organizational changes agrochemicals and carrying out any hazardous work. competitive within the local area. We are confident and their potential social, environmental and that through regular external benchmarking with economic impacts. 8 We provide the necessary equipment to protect any policy or capital expenditure issues are surrounding communities, neighbors and interest workers and guarantee that the tools, infrastructure, forwarded to the Top management who gives a groups about our activities and plans, and consult machinery and all equipment used on the farms is in response within Twenty One working days. Our with interested parties about changes that could have good condition and does not pose a danger to human employees confirm that they participate, either by potential impacts on the social and environmental health or the environment. direct communication with the administration or well-being of surrounding communities. We Measures are taken on our farms to avoid the effects through the occupational health and safety contribute to local economic development through of agrochemicals on workers, neighbors and visitors. committee, in verifying that policies, procedures and training and employment and try to prevent negative We also conduct risk assessments and identify other activities indicated in the occupational health impacts on the areas, activities or services that are potential emergencies and are prepared with plans and safety program are being complied with. important for local populations. and equipment to respond to any event or incident, as well as to minimize the possible impacts on Education, training, counseling, prevention, and TRAINING AND EDUCATION workers and the environment. risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Our Principles specifically cover Learning and members, their families, or community members Development and the provision of opportunities. We Percentage of total workforce represented in regarding serious diseases also emphasize the importance of personal formal joint management–worker health and We have a permanent and continuous training responsibility for growth. safety committees that help monitor and advise program to educate our workers on how to carry out Our training and learning strategy is to build on occupational health and safety programs their work correctly and safely, especially regarding capabilities through a focus on coaching and by On our farms all the Joint Health and safety the handling of machinery and agricultural enhancing our ability to connect, collaborate and committees meet on a quarterly basis as a guarantee equipment. share. We do not limit learning to ‘off the job’ that we complies with our occupational health and Our employees are familiar with the training education activities but we provide comprehensive safety program objectives. The members of these requirements for their job, and must be trained frameworks for development planning as well as committees are elected according to an established before starting work on the farms (induction performance management. procedure. The employees elect their representatives, program). We also maintain written records of each We place considerable emphasis on creating a while the management representatives are appointed training session, including its objectives, subjects coaching culture throughout our operations, as we by the Top Management. The representation to the covered, workers required to attend, materials used, believe that training and development should take committee is on a fifty-fifty basis and is dependent frequency and duration, and a list of those who place as close as possible to the work being done and on the number of employees at each workplace and participated. that coaching is the right way to develop leaders at national guidelines on Occupational safety and We are also good neighbors and relate in positive all levels, to share knowledge and to build better Health Committees. Issues raised in the meetings are ways with our neighbors, surrounding communities business solutions. dealt with by the Management representatives and and local interest groups. We periodically inform the 9 We expect any restructuring to be carried out in a We have a social policy that declares our salaries, benefits or any rights acquired or stipulated responsible manner. Any of our companies commitment to complying with labor laws and by law, or any of the workers’ documents, in order to implementing closure or downsizing are encouraged international agreements that Kenya is a signatory to. force them to work or stay on the farm, or as a to make a social assessment and to consider ways of The policy summarizes the rights and responsibilities disciplinary action. The units do not use extortion, mitigating the impact. We expect them to be as of the management and workers, with emphasis on debt, threats or sexual abuse or harassment, or any considerate as possible with severance pay and human rights, labor aspects, living conditions, basic other physical or psychological measure to force redundancy support and, wherever possible, to services, occupational health and safety, training workers to work or stay on the farm, or as a support employees in gaining alternative opportunities and community relations. The social disciplinary measure. employment through a mix of counseling, policy has been approved by the top management We prohibit direct or indirect employment of fullor outplacement services and skills retraining. and divulged and made available to the Company’s part-time workers under the age of 18 within our All management employees are expected to workforce. This policy is clearly displayed on every business units. A Register is maintained of any complete the performance appraisal process. The estates main entrance. person on attachment. Students on attachment are approach to performance and career development for All our employees have the right to freely organize guided by the following: employees in our companies is managed locally. For and voluntarily negotiate their working conditions in o There must be a confirmation from a other employees, careers are stipulated in the a collective manner as established in ILO recognized institution that the person in Collective bargaining agreements. These systems Conventions 87 and 98. We have in place and question is a student. Procedures are in enable objectives to be set for each employee for the divulge our policy guaranteeing this right and do not place to be followed before attachment is coming year and record achievement against those impede workers from forming or joining unions, confirmed. objectives. The systems also contain development collective bargaining or organizing for ideological, o The students have the right to one rest day and career planning information which feeds through religious, political, economic, social, and cultural or for every six days worked and rest breaks to our training and administration department. any other reasons. during the workday the same as or more We periodically provide opportunities for workers to frequently than contracted workers. HUMAN RIGHTS make decisions regarding their rights and o They do not form part of the farm’s The Company respects the ILO Convention and the alternatives to form any type of organization for contracted workforce. UN Global Compact Principle on Human Rights. negotiating their working conditions. o They must not work at night. (Eastern Produce Kenya is among the pioneer Global Any type of forced labor is prohibited, including o They must not handle or apply Compact signatories in Kenya having signed on in working under the regimen of imprisonment, in agrochemicals or be in areas where agro 2005). Our business units do not tolerate human agreement with International Labor Organization chemicals are being applied. rights abuses, and are not engaged or party to any (ILO) Conventions 29 and 105 and national labor activity that encourages human rights abuse. laws. We do not withhold any part or all of workers’ 10 o They must not carry heavy loads nor do image, but will certainly increase the company’s and capacity building for employees on human rights work that requires physical exertion potential. Our goal is to increase and take advantage issues were conducted and refresher trainings will be unsuitable for their age. of the potential, which is a result of the differences conducted in the coming year. Security personnel o They must be under the supervision of a and similarities within the workforce. were trained on conducting body searches to responsible adult in order to guarantee that enhance humane treatment of colleagues. they understand how to do their work Awareness creation to the general community and safely. our suppliers was done through trainings, field days Our business units do not discriminate in labor and Trainings and Awareness creation and community outreach programs through the hiring policies and procedures along the lines of Managed Clients Department. Suppliers were sent race, color, gender, age, religion, social class, questionnaires to assess their human rights practices political tendencies, nationality, syndicate and conformance to national and international membership, sexual orientation, civil status or any regulations. Contracts were also reviewed to capture other motive as indicated by applicable laws, ILO aspect of human rights and environmental Conventions 100 and 111, and Global Compact. We responsibility. offer equal pay, training and promotion opportunities and benefits to all workers for the same type of Human Rights Risk assessment work. We do not influence the political, religious, A general human rights risk analysis was conducted social or cultural convictions of workers. and areas within our operations with high risk Photo 6: Managers talking to farmers and identified and mitigation measures put in place. The neighboring communities during one of the field Cultural Diversity internal audit department and Technical Departments days organized by the company Cultural diversity has proven to be a great carry out scheduled and ad hoc inspections and In all our businesses, employees were trained on advantage, despite the challenge in terms of report to senior management on positive and various aspects of Human rights and their rights as language, behavior and integration. This has resulted negative findings. As a result of freedom of employees. This included communication on their to synergies, which have led to a strengthening of the association policy, the workers unions remained right to join a recognized workers union, right to a entire company. vibrant, with new employees being informed of their safe work environment and right to be considered for We employ workers of different tribes and right to join a union. Meetings between union and employment without discrimination. EPK enhanced nationalities. The cultural diversity in relation to employees and union and management were held this communication by erecting notice boards at gender, age, ethnicity/origin, sexual orientation, with issues raised by both parties sorted out. The strategic points for communicating policies related to disability/illness, religion, ideology, career, lifestyle company continued to honor the current Collective social, environmental and safety issues. Trainings and performance not only improves our company’s bargaining Agreements and relevant labor laws. 11 Employment continued to be freely chosen in the Grievance Mechanisms and Whistle Blower Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value year, with employees leaving and joining at will. We System added for our company continued to be the leading employer in the regions, Eastern Produce Kenya Limited has a grievance o Employees’ knowledge on their rights with good remuneration and benefits to employees. procedure in place. The policies established stipulate increased. Sexual harassment policy was reviewed in the year how grievances are to be raised and handled with the o Improved relationship between and communicated to all employees. Copies of the company representatives. The procedures cover both management and employees and between policies were displayed on the notice boards and internal and external grievances including from all the employees themselves sessions held with employees to discuss its contents our stakeholders. A whistle blower system has been o Closely working with suppliers to improve and implementation. established where any human rights abuses are their human rights and socioWe continued the verification of National Identity raised through a secure and confidential way to the environmental practices Card as a confirmation of someone being over the top management who then conduct investigations o Generally improving the company image age of 18 years before engagement into the and disciplinary procedures instituted. and transferring responsible business company. The same was applied to all our We are working with Typhoo foods on piloting a practices throughout our supply chain. contractors and service providers and their Gold Standard with a strong focus on whistle There is good working relationship employees. Employees with children of school going blowing and reporting. between union and the company and the age encouraged to take their children to schools. employees. Improved wages and salaries These schools are constructed and equipped by the Monitoring and Evaluation to employees, which is well above the Company but open to both company employee’s All human rights aspects are monitored on a daily national recommended wage for the children and children from the surrounding basis and reported by the businesses on a Monthly industry. community. Bursaries were given to bright students basis. The Technical departments and Internal audit o No complaints on forced labor or sexual from the surrounding community and employees departments carry out impromptu visits, checks and harassment received in the year. children to support their education. audits and raise any issues of concern with the Monitoring continued. Education and training of the employees on need to concerned and reports to the Top management. o All the employees and contractors engaged co-exist and why we need each other were conducted Every year external auditors both financial and by the company have national identity in collaboration with Non-governmental institutions. social auditors carry out audits for our operations. cards. Children of school going age in All of these courses and trainings were free of Corrective Action Requests are raised and measures school charge to the employees and community and the taken to correct and prevent the recurrence of the o There were reduced cross-cultural company even encouraged the staff to go for issues raised. conflicts. The cultural differences and the additional training courses during working hours. effect on collaboration and contact is 12 portrayed in the quality and diversity of Photo 8: Copy of the certificate awarded to the External and Third-Party Auditing the products. Company as a distinguished tax payer in Kenya In order to ensure objectivity and verification, we o An increase of innovational ability. in 2011 use external auditing companies to verify our Different perspectives of creative problem We have internal auditors (Financial, environmental, working methods and results. These are PwC solving are the result of the diversity of the Social and Food Safety Management System) at the (PricewaterhouseCoopers), SGS, Africert, Kenya staff. units. The auditor’s task is to support the operations, Bureau of Standards, government officers etc. o A higher level of tolerance in the entire including agreeing on action plans for improvements business area as well as explaining the requirements, performing Corrective Actions monitoring and consultation visits and offering and When deviations are found, the auditors require – in COMPLIANCE executing training. The auditors have checklists with writing – an action plan from the unit detailing how Business integrity detailed criteria on financial management, working the non-compliance will be rectified. An action plan Our Core value: To act honestly, fairly and with conditions, including child labor, on the environment must be sent to the Audit department or Technical integrity and respect in all business dealings and on other socio-environmental aspects. Departments, within one month following the audit. Acting lawfully and honestly is fundamental to our The action plan includes a description of the business philosophy. The management of each unit The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Office corrective action, the person responsible and is responsible for compliance with the company In order to make sure that the same standards are timelines for each non-compliance issue to be codes, thereby ensuring that social and followed throughout the organization, Linton Park rectified. The Top Management and auditors then environmental issues are integrated into daily Regional Office has a Corporate Affairs Manager. follow up to make sure that the necessary corrective business. The codes are in form of confidential The Manager is responsible for calibrating socioactions have been completed according to the standing instructions referred to as Company Blue, environmental assessments in the region, for training approved action plan and timelines observed. Red, Green, Yellow, white and black books. and support of the auditors and units, and for Supplier assessments have been initiated. Our major conducting own compliance audits. suppliers are issued with a supplier questionnaire Third-party auditors conduct their own audits and which checks on various socio-environmental also verify the results of internal audits by requirements. If one is found to deviate from the interviewing the employees, checking records and requirements, we are willing to work with them to practices to secure that company policies, local law rectify the situation. Only if there is no willingness and standards are followed. The work is done from the suppliers to improve, is the business together with the Technical and internal audit relationship terminated, within the terms of the departments. contract 13 Anti-Corruption All our business operations have a whistle blower We are a British company and as such subjected to procedure in place. The policies established stipulate the new Anti-Bribery and Corruption legislation in how corruption cases are to be raised and handled the UK which is attributable to businesses owned by with the company representatives. The procedures UK companies but not situated in the UK. cover both internal and external cases from all our Various policies and procedures have been rolled out stakeholders. The effectiveness and integrity of the to ensure compliance with this UK legislation. whistle blower system is maintained. Cases of We also participated in the development of the Code corruption are raised through a secure and of Ethics for Business in Kenya and were among the confidential way to the top management who then pioneer companies to have adopted the code. conduct investigations and disciplinary procedures We have developed and adopted a Code of Conduct, instituted. which complies with the highest standards of In the year 2016, No case of fraud were investigated Photo 9: Hygienically packed teas with correct integrity, honesty and ethics in dealing with all our and progressive disciplinary measures taken in all labeling and all relevant information indicated. stakeholders, including directors, managers, the cases that warranted the same. The Marketing and Technical Department represent employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, the Company on all quality and food safety matters. shareholders and society at large. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY They report to the Operations and Regional The Code also stipulates policies and guidelines Overall Product quality and Safety responsibilities Directors respectively, to ensure the promotion of regarding the personal conduct of employees. All Product safety is paramount in all operations from awareness of legal, regulatory and customer new staff receives a copy of the Code and a farm, transportation, processing, packaging and requirements throughout the organization. presentation on the Code as part of the induction freighting to customers destinations. The Operations Senior Management in all our operations are process. They are required to sign a declaration Director has the overall responsibility for ensuring responsible for allocating the necessary resources stating that they have received it, have read and that the objectives on food safety are met. This and infrastructure to ensure the effective understood it, and will comply with it. responsibility has been communicated to the performance of our business and to ensure product A general corruption risk analysis was conducted management in charge of the units. All our tea safety and quality is maintained. and areas within our operations with high risk factories have attained ISO 22000:2005 certification Every individual employee of Eastern Produce identified and mitigation measures put in place. The and currently in the preparation phase for the new Kenya Ltd is responsible for meeting agreed internal audit department and Technical Departments FSSC 22000 certification audits requirements and for conducting themselves in carry out scheduled and ad hoc inspection and report accordance with our principles and the code of to senior management on positive and negative conduct. findings. 14 Quality and Food Safety Management Using an internationally recognized risk assessment END Systems methodology, our products are evaluated and Our programs are designed to reduce and manage prioritized for potential adverse effects, and risk risks, and to promote the safe production, reduction and mitigation practices are implemented distribution, use and disposal of waste. at all stages of production. As a manufacturer and marketer of black tea, we We have documented our product stewardship generally do not provide products to end-users, but process which assesses health and safety impacts of to other players in the industry who later extracts our products and we conduct ongoing analysis and constituents, blends or repackages the products for tests to assure quality and product safety. Through the end user. We therefore base our advertisements the marketing and technical departments, we provide on word of mouth backed by strong evidence of services to process owners and customers. For business integrity, ethical trade, and safety with internal requirements and in association with assured quality. We comply with legal requirements, maintaining FSMS and QMS certification, the sector regulations and customer requirements, Marketing department conducts annual visits to designed to assess product safety and also participate buyers annually, reviews the results of these visits, in voluntary initiatives. and identifies opportunities to improve products and services. All our products are transported in packaging material labeled with product information that follows the legal, regulatory and customer requirements. In 2016, we did not receive any documented noncompliance concerning our products and services or health and safety impacts associated with our products. In this regard, there were no fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of our products. We did not Photos 10: Safety signage within and without the receive any complaints from customers regarding factories promotes awareness and enhances food breach of their privacy or lose of customer data. handling practices. 15
