SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 2 CONTENTS Introduction Priority areas Supplementary IN BRIEF ENERGY & CARBON RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2016 overview .............................................................. 3 Understanding our carbon footprint ..................13 Labour & human rights .......................................... 42 CEO foreword ............................................................... 4 Brewing with tomorrow in mind .........................15 Responsible sourcing ............................................... 44 Partnership: First glass partnership ...................18 Live by our Compass ............................................... 45 Developments in sustainable packaging .........19 Community engagement with purpose ........... 47 STRATEGY Partnership: Growing our community Product quality & safety ....................................... 48 Sustainability and SAIL’22 ....................................... 5 of innovators ...............................................................23 Contribute to a better society ................................ 6 Thinking big about the global goals .................... 9 DATA Training for SAIL’22 .................................................10 WATER Data summary table ............................................... 49 Circular mindset in the Carlsberg Group ..........11 Tackling the water challenge ...............................25 Independent assurance report ............................. 57 Local water stewardship ........................................27 Global Reporting Initiative table ......................... 58 Reporting process and scope ............................... 64 Definitions .................................................................... 66 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING List of reporting sites............................................... 67 Approach to responsible drinking .......................30 Promoting moderate consumption ....................31 Partnership: Having fun and staying safe .......33 Responsible marketing and consumer information ..................................................................34 HEALTH & SAFETY Towards a zero accidents culture .......................37 Increasing safety at work ......................................39 Editor: Carlsberg Group Sustainability Design and production: Operate & SkabelonDesign Sustainability consulting and content: One Stone Advisors Proofreading: Borella projects 2016 overview 42,000 62.6 8.2 90 Number of Net revenue Operating profit Jobs created by every 10 employess DKKbn DKKbn Carlsberg Group employees 20 Partnerships with external organisations to promote 17% 9% responsible drinking Zero These included Night Owls, a Scandinavian volunteer group. Renewable energy Reduction in relative water consumption at our Accidents at over 50% We use a mix of biomass, breweries since 2010 of Group production sites solar power and renewable energy certificates with In 2016, our water efficiency In 2016, more than half of our sites guarantees of origin. improved to 3.2 hl/hl. had an accident-free year. In brief Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 In brief 4 CEO FOREWORD Charting our course Our Dali brewery is putting clean, renewable energy technologies to work with the installation of over 8,000 solar panels. Cees 't Hart, CEO, Carlsberg Group Sustainability is a subject close to Development Goals gained traction, we were Reflecting on the past year, I am especially This report serves as our annual Communicaexcited to initiate research-led relationships proud of the Cradle-to-Cradle® certification of tion on Progress and underlines our commitmy heart. It is also central to the with expert organisations such as Business for the Kronenbourg 1664 bottle (page 18) and ment to transparency. Carlsberg Group’s purpose “to Social Responsibility, the Carbon Trust and the solar power installation in Dali, China (page brew for a better today and toWWF. Together, we will hone our sustainability 17). We continued to promote responsible The world promises to be quite a different strategy and define new ambitious targets, to drinking, with targeted interventions at the place in 2022, the end year for our SAIL’22 morrow”. In 2016, we embedded be announced later in the year. heart of our approach. In connection with strategy. Much can happen between now and sustainability in our new Group Global Beer Responsibility Day, I joined the then. However, I am confident that the course strategy, SAIL’22, as part of our Our materiality process highlighted the four Danish volunteer group Night Owls and was we have set puts us in a strong position to conaim to create a winning culture priority areas with the greatest impact on our impressed by their dedication (page 33). We tinue brewing probably the best beers in the business and society. These are Energy & caralso launched a Group-wide training proworld, and to make the Carlsberg Group an throughout our business. bon, Water, Responsible drinking and Health & gramme to initiate the cultural transformation even more attractive company for shareholdsafety. I am pleased with the progress we have needed to achieve SAIL’22. ers, employees and society. In the year since SAIL’22 was launched, I have made against our 2016 targets in the first three witnessed many examples of the pioneering areas. However, I cannot say the same about We made investments in a range of sustainaCees 't Hart spirit this company was built upon. Our our Health & safety performance. bility programmes in 2016, and I look forward CEO, Carlsberg Group founder, J.C. Jacobsen, was committed to imto seeing these come to fruition in 2017. They proving brewing and society, giving us the I was deeply saddened to learn of the deaths include developments in sustainable packaging foundation for our purpose. Today, we build on of one Carlsberg employee and four employees and in technologies to reduce our use of water his legacy through our sustainability activities at minority joint ventures and contractors in and increase our use of renewable energy. and contribute to a better tomorrow wherever 2016. Our ultimate ambition is to achieve a In the broader context, the Carlsberg Group our brands are brewed and sold. culture of zero accidents and we are detercontinues to support the UN Global Compact mined to pursue this goal with renewed vigour and the implementation of its Ten Principles. This year, as global initiatives such as the Paris in the coming months and years. Climate Accord and the UN’s 17 Sustainable Strategy Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 5 STRATEGY Sustainability and SAIL’22 With the introduction of our new Only by performing strongly in all these areas Targets, old and new will we be able to deliver enhanced value for all Here we report on the commitments made for corporate strategy, SAIL’22, our stakeholders. 2016 and the actions planned for 2017 to 2016 was in many ways a year ensure progress towards our three-year of transition, not least in the area Create a winning culture targets. However, since we are striving to of sustainability. A winning culture is needed to underpin brew for a better today and tomorrow , in everything we do. It is about developing a future we will not settle for just three-year team-based, high-performance approach targets. Instead, we are restructuring and Our ultimate goal is to deliver long-term value, combined with individual accountability. Our honing our approach to sustainability, refining and this means making the Carlsberg Group an sustainability work falls within this main our targets and conducting Group-wide even more successful, professional and category and is entitled Contribute to a better training (page 10) with a longer-term attractive brewer wherever we operate. Our society . It encompasses our four sustainability perspective in mind. Our new sustainability SAIL’22 strategy focuses on how to achieve this priorities (page 6). targets will be announced later in 2017. long-term goal (see below). Strategy Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 6 STRATEGY Contribute to a better society The Carlsberg Group has a new, ability management topics, risks and impacts With the support and input of external partrealisation wherever we have the knowledge for our business. The four priority areas that ners, we are now developing specific targets for and opportunity to do so. restructured approach to emerged as most crucial for our business and each priority to be launched in 2017. sustainability. Underpinning our stakeholders are Energy & carbon, Water, ReAlthough new in many ways, Contribute to a licence to brew and operate, we sponsible drinking and Health & safety. Our determination to contribute harmonises better society also builds on the legacy of our regard this as essential to the with the global drive for prosperity with lower founder, J.C. Jacobsen, in that it applies sciFocusing on these four priorities, we aim to impact set out in the Paris Climate Accord and ence to make brewing more sustainable. successful implementation of the bring about positive change in all the areas the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Group’s strategy. touched by our business: (SDGs). We believe that business has a leading role to • Contributing to the containment of climate play in developing concepts such as the circular Our new approach change We aspire to live up to these global developeconomy or closed-loop practices to drive posIn 2016, we carried out a materiality assess• Ensuring people have access to water ments. Our sustainability priorities will guide itive change. To this end, we will continue to ment with Business for Social Responsibility • Promoting a healthy lifestyle our business actions and how we approach the develop external partnerships that amplify our (BSR) to identify the most important sustain• Improving workplace safety SDGs. We will contribute to their impact. Examples include the development of Four sustainability priorities One of the priorities of SAIL’22 is Contribute to a better society, and within this lie our four sustainability priorities, shown here. Strategy Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 7 the Green Fiber Bottle (page 20) and industry initiatives on responsible drinking such as the Global Beer Responsibility Day (GBRD) on pages 31 and 32. The Carlsberg Group’s Executive Committee (ExCom) has overall responsibility for sustainability and for signing off our targets. Materiality matrix The materiality assessment carried out by our Group sustainability team and BSR in 2016 led to the creation of a new materiality matrix, shown here. To create this, we began by listing a universe of relevant sustainability topics drawn from sources such as BSR’s database, research into global trends and drivers, sector and sustainability reporting requirements, and investor rating agency criteria. A joint working group rated the 24 key issues according to their impact on stakeholders and on the business. Rating decisions were also informed by the views of five external stakeholders, including customers, peers and civil society, and by colleagues from across the Group. The resulting matrix was tested with our internal and external stakeholders and refined by BSR and the Carlsberg Group’s sustainability team. As a company, we want to focus on the areas that are key to our business success, and that our stakeholders deem most important. In this report, we therefore disclose progress on the Read more about our topics in the upper, non-shaded area of the economic contribution to society matrix. These are grouped under the following www.carlsberggroup.com Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 8 is not a priority topic in the materiality matrix Impacts along the value chain but important because in 2016 the Carlsberg Having identified the four areas that are most About this report Group started to develop a new, globally coorimportant for our business and stakeholders, dinated approach that will be further developed the Carlsberg Group’s sustainability team drew in 2017. on their own experience and available data to Reporting scope Methodology and assurance assess the extent of our impacts – large, In 2016, we closed/divested ten breweries and This report contains Standard Disclosures Our separate Economic Contribution Report is medium or small – in each part of the value three malting plants in China, five sites in Mafrom the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) available on the Carlsberg Group website. chain, as shown in the diagram below. This inlawi, two malting plants in Poland and one Sustainability Reporting Guidelines without formation is helping to shape our sustainability malting plant in Denmark. These are therefore meeting the “in accordance” criteria. We refer strategy and targets. excluded from this report. We acquired one to its principles to ensure high standards and brewery in Greece. This and our two malting quality in terms of materiality, stakeholder inplants in Russia are included in the scope of clusive-ness, sustainability context, completethis report. ness, balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability (GRI table included Content on page 58). Our disclosure in this year’s report Our 2016 Sustainability Report reflects the has been developed with a view to reporting to outcome of our materiality assessment and fothe GRI Standards in 2017. cuses on the four priority areas identified. It provides updates on the commitments made As in previous years, we commissioned KPMG for 2016 and the actions planned for 2017 to to assure selected information at a limited level ensure progress towards our 2015-17 targets. of assurance. This information is identified by We show progress against our 2016 committhe note “Within KPMG’s assurance scope”. ments in the following way: KPMG’s conclusions can be found in the independent assurance report on page 57. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved headings: Energy & carbon, Water, Responthe Responsible business section of the report. sible drinking and Health & safety. The Circular These are: Labour & human rights, Antieconomy, and the circular mindset that delivers bribery & corruption, Responsible sourcing and it, underpin our approach to Energy & carbon Product quality & safety. and Water, as illustrated on page 11. In a further article called Community engageAn additional four topics (marked with a tick on ment with purpose (page 47) we provide an the matrix overleaf) are grouped together in update on community investment. This Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 9 STRATEGY Thinking big about the global goals Companies can use the We also address two further goals – SDG 12, Responsible consumption and production, and Sustainable Development Goals SDG 17, Partnerships for the goals – through (SDGs) in a variety of ways: from our activities to develop more sustainable shaping their own sustainability packaging and build partnerships within the programmes to understanding Carlsberg Circular Community (CCC). Read more on page 23. We are identifying ways in the contribution their business which Group activities covered in the Responsiactivities make. We want to ble business section of this report impact on demonstrate the private sector’s SDGs 5, 9, 10 and 16. central role as agents of change Indirectly, Carlsberg influences the remaining in overcoming these global SDGs through our impacts on society via busichallenges. ness operations along the value chain. Concrete actions, specific targets We will elaborate on our contribution to Our four priority areas correlate most closely to achieving the SDGs when we launch our new SDGs 3, 6, 7 and 8, which means we can have sustainability targets later this year. At that the greatest influence on these Goals. As time, we will make our intention to think big shown here, we focus our attention on the about the global goals even clearer. most relevant target for each SDG. Our activities will contribute to the SDG targets to double the global rate of energy efficiency by 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency, strengthen the prevention and treatment of harmful use of alcohol, protect labour rights, and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 10 STRATEGY Training for SAIL’22 To bring our ambitious new corIntegrating sustainability Reaching the whole organisation the end of 2016. In 2017, we are rolling out a Training around the second enabler focuses on To begin with, ten train-the-trainer workshops shorter version of the training programme to all porate strategy, SAIL’22, to life, the important role sustainability plays in sociwere run in three locations – Copenhagen, St remaining 37,000+ Group employees. Obviwe require new ways of working. ety and provides insight into our four sustainPetersburg and Hong Kong. The 200 particiously, deep change takes time and consistent Our answer is to build knowledge ability priorities. It includes casework, discuspants then cascaded their learning via workwork. This Group-wide training is proving an and understanding through a sions and games that involve real-life scenarshops for leaders in their own markets. Apexcellent way to inform and involve all ios. Since participants recognise these as releproximately 4,500 leaders were trained by employees and empower them to lead by worldwide training programme. vant to their daily work, they actively engage example. Designed to deliver nothing less with and experience the learning on a deep than cultural transformation, the level. training strongly promotes the behaviours needed to create what we call a winning culture . Three enablers for a winning culture Our strategy is represented by a sailing boat. • The values underlying our For any boat to reach its destination, the crew behaviour are a very big part needs to work as one team – with purpose and of why I go that extra mile for the company. 42,000 integrity. The same applies to our company. We have chosen to focus on three enablers: • Now we are talking the 1. Foster team-based performance through same language. alignment, accountability and action. 2. Contribute to a better society by driving • Replacing I with we. our four sustainability priorities. 3. Live by our Compass by applying our codes and policies. All 42,000 employees will be trained using the new condensed version of the programme by the end of 2017. Strategy Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy 11 STRATEGY Circular mindset in the Carlsberg Group Designing waste out of the system and using resources in continuous loops help minimise environmental impacts. To grow our business and further reduce impacts, we must do even more. In the Carlsberg Group, we call this rethink and place it at the core of our 4Rs approach, which includes the familiar 3Rs – reduce, reuse and recycle. Rethink Challenge linear approaches to energy, packaging and water use. Channel waste into other products. Focus on biomaterials. Reduce Minimise weight or change to less impactful packaging materials. Reuse Promote reuse of e.g. packaging materials, byproducts and water. Recycle Encourage consumer recycling and increase the recycled content of packaging materials. Energy & carbon 39% 28% 2015-2017 targets Impact reduction of our packaging Reduction in CO² 5-10% reduction in relative energy is refillable emissions since 2010 use and CO² emissions compared with 2014. We focus on raising return We reduce our carbon footrates and reducing breakages. print through efficient use of Circularity energy and by transitioning 17 partners in the Carlsberg Circular from coal to more renewable Community. energy sources. Certifications 3 Cradle-to-Cradle® product certifications. Consumer activities Annual consumer-facing sustainable packaging activity by all Group companies. 19 Returnable packaging Improve returnable packaging performance in production and in Sites have plants trade in markets where returnable that recover biogas packaging is part of the long-term from wastewater packaging strategy. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 13 ENERGY & CARBON Understanding our carbon footprint For any company to thrive in a • Set global standards. • Implement innovative solutions. low-carbon world, the starting • Drive local improvements. points are a robust carbon strategy based on solid information Breweries look to the Group's Environmental and leadership from the top. In Policy for guidance. In addition, our utilities management team works with local staff to 2016, our carbon footprint laid develop tailored approaches to energy manthe foundation for building our agement and target-setting for all our sites. new carbon strategy and setting Our brewery managers are responsible for delivering improvements and meeting targets. ambitious targets in 2017. Discussions with external stakeholders provide Management approach valuable insights into environmental themes, Our Executive Committee (ExCom) assumes ulincluding energy and climate change. We timate responsibility for the Carlsberg Group’s therefore communicate regularly with external carbon strategy and performance, while the stakeholders such as our peers at the Beverage Group's Environmental Policy sets standards, Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER). provides guidelines on implementing them and lays out reporting requirements for all Group Baseline carbon footprint companies. To ensure informed decision-makTo ensure that our understanding of our carbon ing, for instance, the policy stipulates that all impact is both complete and up to date, in new packaging must undergo a life cycle as2016 we worked with climate change experts sessment or Cradle-to-Cradle® Certification. from the Carbon Trust to develop a new baseOversight of packaging lies with the Carlsberg’s line carbon footprint of our operations and Group’s supply chain, which continuously value chain based on 2015 data. strives to reduce packaging impacts. The Carbon Trust acts as an independent partOur approach to carbon management at brewner to leading organisations around the world, eries is threefold: helping them to contribute to a more Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 14 sustainable future through carbon reduction, Developing our roadmap resource efficiency and low-carbon technoloGroup-wide, we are continuing to lower our gies. impacts. One way we do this is by focusing on returnable packaging (page 21). Another is To compile the dataset for our baseline carbon through the Carlsberg Circular Community footprint, we collected information on direct (CCC), which employs radical innovation to emissions from sources that we own or control rethink waste streams. Throughout our oper(Scope 1) and indirect emissions from purations, we are also continuously reducing, chased electricity, heat and steam (Scope 2). reusing and recycling. We also collated figures about emissions resulting from our activities, although they are At all our sites, we are continuing to invest in not controlled by us (Scope 3). The resulting technology to increase our efficiency and introfootprint, illustrated on the left, differs slightly ducing renewable energy. The case story about from the one we developed in 2009 for two our new PV system in Dali, China, on page 17 key reasons: firstly, the methodology has provides the details of one such project. evolved and, secondly, this time we took additional Scope 3 categories such as customer reIn 2017, we will undertake research and defrigeration into account. velop new targets for our own operations as well as activities along the value chain. For inOur baseline footprint shows that, at 40%, stance, we will continue to investigate the impackaging materials make up the majority of pact of different ingredient types in our beer to our carbon footprint. Agriculture accounts for reduce the carbon footprint of agriculture. Lev17%, while distribution and breweries account eraging our partnership experience, we also aim for 14% each. to increase cooperation with farmers and other value chain partners to catalyse improvements. Relative CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)* Relative energy consumption (kWh/hl)* 10 34 9 32 8 30 27.7 7 28 6.3 6 26 5 24 2010 2014 2015 2016 2010 2014 2015 2016 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 15 ENERGY & CARBON Brewing with tomorrow in mind Brewing makes up 14% of our year on year and 14% versus 2010. Emissions demand. In 2017, we will assess their perform374, 810 MWh of renewable energy certififell to 6.3 kg CO2/hl* from 7.0 kg CO2/hl in ance and subsequently design a solar procates with guarantees of origin, corresponding carbon footprint. Across the 2015, representing a reduction of 10% year on gramme across India based on our findings. to the electricity consumption of every CarlsGroup, we are continuously strivyear and 28% versus 2010. Together with preThe case story on page 17 gives details of our berg brewery in Western Europe. ing to improve our energy effivious years’ performance, these results contribrooftop installation at Dali, China. ciency. At site level, this involves ute to our three-year target to 2017, which we In total, 8.3% of our thermal energy intake is are on track to achieve. Later this year, we will To stimulate the market for renewable energy from renewable sources, and 45% of our elecdeploying innovative technoloset new, ambitious long-term targets. and contribute to SDG 13, we bought a total of tricity is generated on site and from renewable gies, such as renewable energy and heat recovery. A number of factors account for our improved efficiency and reduced emissions in 2016. For Integrated utilities management example, in China and Russia we moved away Managing energy well is the first step in using from coal power to natural gas and cleaner it more efficiently. This year, we succeeded in district heating. As well as cutting our carbon WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 preparing our breweries in Russia, Finland and footprint, this helped combat air pollution. In Bulgaria for ISO 50001 certification, which will China, we shifted our brewing activity away Certification bring our total of certified sites to four. Our from smaller, inefficient breweries to larger, Pilot a new ISO 50001 energy management system ISO 50001 certification in Finland confirmed; other work with ISO 50001 provides useful input for more efficient ones such as Dali, Ningxia Xixia (EnMS) in selected plants; certifications in 2016/sites in Western and Eastern European countries our integrated utilities management standard – and Dazhulin. 2017 as part of the Integrated Management System prepared for certification in 2017 coordinated approach to energy and water efIntegrated management ficiency. We develop requirements, measure Our refrigeration systems are being upgraded Implement a new revised standard for utilities manUtilities management standard finalised and sent for our performance against them and devise proto industry best practice level at several brewagement (including energy, water and wastewater) self-audits and planning grammes for improvement. A Group-wide eries, which will reduce electricity consumption with coordinated action plans in key plants audit of the utilities management standard is at these sites by more than 10%. These projects Efficiency planned for 2017 and 2018 to assess progress. will be completed in 2017. Continue energy efficiency programmes across the Ongoing: progress tracked monthly; best practices in Group energy efficiency shared Efficiency Commitment to renewables With energy efficiency at 27.7 kWh/hl* comIn India, we installed three rooftop solar sysInnovations tems with a combined peak capacity of over Continue the search for innovations in process, packInnovations investigated: refrigeration (several sites), pared to 29 Kwh/hl in 2015, overall efficiency aging and utility facilities with key suppliers heat recovery (Finland) performance across the Group improved 4% 0.2 MW to supply 10% of the site’s total power Fully Partially Not * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 16 energy certificates. Renewable energy in the form of biogas, biomass and renewable elecCASE STORY tricity provides as much as 70% of the power needs of five sites in India and two in China. Recovering heat The case story on the left gives details of our at Sinebrychoff new heat recovery investment at Sinebrychoff in Finland. Thanks to a combination of sophisticated technology Reducing impacts and innovative thinking, from distribution Sinebrychoff recovers energy Distributing Carlsberg Group products using our from a surprising range of own vehicles and those of suppliers accounts for 14% of our carbon footprint. Though small processes – from beer cooling compared to our packaging impacts, we are systems to compressors and working hard to drive down logistics emissions 15,000 wastewater. and costs by becoming more efficient. Investments in heat recovery are making a Continuous improvement Training, better planning, measurement and major impact on the energy efficiency amcontrol, switching to more efficient trucks and bitions of Sinebrychoff at our Kerava site in using rail transport where possible all contribFinland. Heat from refrigerating beer, comThe total amount of heat recovered for use in buildings, offices ute to a decrease in impacts. pressed air and from process wastewater is recovered and then used in production, and and production processes is 15,000 MWh per year. In 2016, the route planning tool used in Westto keep buildings and offices warm during ern Europe was updated to make it more reliFinland’s cold winters. The main energy rebiggest part in Sinebrychoff’s on-site enare underway at Sinebrychoff to further able, and a similar tool is currently being rolled covery technology is heat pumps, which are ergy efficiency agenda, and the energy improve energy and carbon emission perout in Eastern Europe. We continued using the used to extract energy and make it availsavings achieved meet Finland’s national formance. It has also decided to join Fintransportation management process in Russia, able for the purposes mentioned above. 2005-2016 Energy Efficiency Agreement. land’s 2017-2025 voluntary Energy EffiIndia and across Europe. Our Control Tower in ciency Agreement. Poland provides an overview of cross-border The total amount of heat recovered annuA further accomplishment is the site’s certideliveries and helped increase our load factor ally is around 15,000 MWh, making a mafication to the ISO 50001 energy manage(how full our trucks are) from 85% to 95% in jor contribution to reducing Sinebrychoff’s ment system in 2016. Not content with the 2016, saving the equivalent of 114 full truckenergy consumption by 9% since 2005. The successes already under its belt, initiatives loads during the year. heat recovery project currently plays the Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 17 Centres of excellence In 2016, we established three centres of excelCASE STORY lence in route planning, transportation management and telematics. The purpose is to share best practice and encourage behavioural change. Additionally, all function heads in disDali taps into tribution were asked to hold one-to-one sessions with their drivers to discuss outputs from solar big time! the telematics system. Giving us a glimpse of the enImproving technology ergy supply of the future, the In 2016, to further leverage the advantages of Dali brewery in China is using low carbon and nitrogen oxide emissions, we solar panels to meet around increased our fleet of EURO 6 trucks by 51 ve20% of its electricity needs. hicles. This brought the total number to 205. In > 8,000 Sweden, we continued to use three hydrogenCompleted in June 2016, the Dali brewery’s ated vegetable oil (HVO) trucks, two electric rooftop installation provides renew-able hybrid trucks and one truck that runs on comenergy to help mitigate the brewery’s anpressed natural gas (CNG). In Switzerland, we nual CO2 emissions of more than 1,800 continued to use one fully electric truck. tonnes. Around 20% of Dali’s electricity needs can now be met by a clean, costLooking forward Dali brewery now has the largest rooftop installation in the Group, effective and infinitely renewable power Our activities to improve efficiency in brewing and is the fourth largest brewery installation in the world. source. and distribution support our commitment to SDG 7.3: to double the global rate of energy In a world where climate change can cause efficiency by 2030. In the next few years, we What is more, tapping into the sun’s energy Facts and figures disruption to energy supply, the use of reintend to certify all our large European breweris becoming more economically viable as • Location: Dali brewery in Yunnan, China. silient and renewable technologies such as ies to ISO 50001 as part of the utilities manpayback periods get shorter and we start to • Production: Tuborg, Dali Beer and Wind, solar is a smart way to go. Every hour, the agement standard. see real economies of scale. Flower, Snow and Moon (WFSM) Beer. sun is estimated to transmit more energy • Consisting of 8,006 panels, this is our to the earth's surface than the world’s enIn distribution, we will broaden our use of More widespread use of clean energy largest rooftop solar array and the tire population uses in a year. And since the telematics and route planning, and further raise sources such as solar will not only contribworld’s fourth largest brewery installasun’s energy is unlimited, it is also an exload factors. ute to reduced CO2 emissions but also to tion. tremely reliable energy source. cleaner air and the reduction of pollutionAs we develop our carbon strategy and targets related health issues. during the year, we look forward to building new partnerships to promote a circular mindset, support SDG 17 and catalyse positive change. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 18 PARTNERSHIP First glass partnership We are proud to announce that in sense. The raw materials used in the manufacture of glass bottles are safe and abundant. 2016 we and our glass bottle Some bottles can be returned and reused, and, partner O-I obtained Cradle-toin the case of the 1664 bottle, the glass can Cradle® Bronze Certification for also be recycled. the 25 cl Kronenbourg 1664 Drawing on the experience with O-I, we hope bottle, made in France. to obtain further certifications in the coming years. With the cooperation of our partners, we In 2014, recognising that partnerships are abwill continue to drive improvements across the solutely necessary to achieve value chain circusupply chain. Besides innovating in manufaclarity, we established the Carlsberg Circular turing and container design, we are also Community (CCC). This involved teaming up looking to engage with consumers on glass with six major partners, including suppliers of recycling and to work with municipalities on cans, glass bottles and coatings, paperboard developing glass collection infrastructure. packaging and plastics. Together, we set out to address the need for greater resource efficiency, with the ultimate goal of eliminating waste. The CCC now has nine partners. This success has reinforced our Our 2017 goal was to obtain Cradle-to-Crabelief in the sustainable qualities dle® Certification for three different types of of glass packaging. packaging. In 2015, we achieved certification Tim Neil, Director of Environment Health & Safety, of the Rexam (now Ball Corporation) beverage O-I Europe can, which is used for our Somersby and Carlsberg brands. Now there is more good news with the certification of the 25 cl Kronenbourg 1664 bottle. This is especially significant since it is the first time global validation has been given to a glass beverage pack. And it makes Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 19 ENERGY & CARBON Developments in sustainable packaging Packaging protects our products cycle assessment (LCA) tool to calculate its enPackaging innovation Carlsberg Circular Community (CCC) vironmental impact throughout the life of the In 2016, we defined a packaging innovation The Green Fiber Bottle development project is during transport and ensures they package – from extracting resources, manufacinitiative. Unfortunately, this was delayed by only possible thanks to the combined efforts of are in peak condition when our ture and use, all the way to recycling or reuse. development challenges and a launch is now our partners in the CCC. Its members come consumers receive them. At the We want to be sure that any new packaging is scheduled for 2017. from all parts of the packaging value chain, same time, both our business and based on informed decisions that take into acand together we pursue a circular, zero-waste count both our business and the environment. economy. the environment benefit when we minimise packaging impacts. Our Product Environmental Footprint goal is therefore to find the sweet In 2016, we were involved in a pilot project, spot where optimal product procoordinated by the Brewers of Europe, to harmonise approaches to Product Environmental tection and minimal resource use Footprint (PEF). Using LCA, we worked with coincide. partners including brewers, packaging organisations and academia to develop industry Packaging currently accounts for approxistandards for measuring product impacts and WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 mately 40% of our carbon footprint and a sigtest how these could be communicated to connificant proportion of our product costs. That sumers. The objective is to provide input for Carlsberg Circular Community means a CO2 saving on packaging can often be European legislation about environmental imOnboard 4 new partners in CCC 1 new partner – BillerudKorsnäs – onboarded for translated into a cost saving – a win-win oppact at product level. Green Fiber Bottle development portunity for the Group’s bottom line and the Cradle-to-Cradle® Certification environment. The Green Fiber Bottle Obtain 1 more Cradle-to-Cradle® Certification Certification obtained for the Kronenbourg 1664 Perhaps the best-known example of how we glass bottle Circular mindset rethink our packaging is our breakthrough, bioThe principles of the circular economy inform based, low-carbon, Green Fiber Bottle. An Consumer campaigns Increase the number of companies conducting con14 companies conducted campaigns, 4 more than in our approach to sustainable packaging. We early version was revealed to great interest in sumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns 2016 apply the 4Rs model – reduce, reuse, recycle, 2015. It continues to attract attention and rethink – with the emphasis on rethink. For exspark discussion, as described in the case story Innovations ample, whenever we develop a new packaging on page 20. Launch 1 sustainable packaging innovation Projects defined in 2016 and will be launched in idea, we apply a circular mindset and use a life 2017 Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 20 CCC representatives played a vital part in achieving our first two Cradle-to-Cradle® CerCASE STORY tifications for Somersby and Carlsberg cans in 2015 and the Kronenbourg 1664 bottle in Green Fiber 2016, described on page 18. A further certification is anticipated in 2017. Bottle attracts In 2016, the CCC grew again as we onboarded new partner one more partner, BillerudKorsnäs, which will be a key player when it comes to manufacturing the Green Fiber Bottle. This brings the total Good news for the future of CCC membership to nine, lower than the goal the revolutionary Green Fiber of 12 we set ourselves for the year. Quality is Bottle: we have a developmore important than quantity, however, and ment and manufacturing given the CCC’s success, we have decided to leverage our partnership experience and expartner on board to move this pand its remit. In 2017, rather than growing innovation towards commer9 the CCC to 17, as set out in our three-year cial reality, while our contargets, we will include members who share our ambition to innovate along the value chain. sumer research is showing In particular, we will focus on addressing carpositive results. bon, water and responsible drinking challenges, as described on page 23. The formation of the Carlsberg Circular Work is underway to move the Green Fiber Bottle from prototype to Community (CCC) described on page 23, commercial production, thanks to our ninth CCC partner, BillerudKorsnäs. Less is more put rethinking packaging waste streams at Reducing the weight and thickness of packagthe heart of our agenda and led to the desupply of wood pulp with an innovative apdurability of the bottle. We are able to reing is the best way to both minimise impact on velopment of the ground-breaking Green proach and a clear focus on sustainability. assure them that the quality of our beer the environment and keep costs down. In Fiber Bottle. While the work to move from prototype to will be as high as ever and the pulp-based 2016, we continued to roll out light-weighted commercial production goes on, we are exbottle will not spontaneously degrade . caps and started to develop thinner pull-off The CCC’s next step was to explore the ploring consumer reactions to the Green caps across Europe. These will be introduced in bottle’s manufacturing potential. In 2016, Fiber Bottle. At conferences around the We know that packaging with excellent Asia in 2017. we were delighted to welcome the Swedish world, the feedback on its sustainability sustainability performance is essential for a packaging material solutions company credentials has been overwhelmingly posihealthy planet. The Carlsberg Group can The year also saw progress on light-weighting BillerudKorsnäs to the CCC. They are an tive. Naturally, people have questions play a role by offering several packaging aluminium cans, which make up 90% of can ideal partner for this development project, about the effect on product flavour and the options and guiding consumers with clear supply. In six countries, mainly in Western Eucombining access to a responsibly sourced information about their relative impacts. rope, we worked with a manufacturing partner to achieve a 5% weight reduction in the can body and to gain 10% savings in the can end. In Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 21 both Eastern and Western Europe, we reduced the amount of resin used in our PET bottles and caps. CASE STORY Several projects to reduce the weight of our glass bottles were carried out, mainly in EuChina keeps more rope. In France, for example, we worked with our CCC partner O-I to reduce the amount of bottles in the glass in two different types of bottle. We reduced the overall weight by more than 2,000 system tonnes, thereby eliminating 1,500 tonnes of emissions from our carbon footprint. This is the Well-managed returnable equivalent of taking more than 800 cars off the bottle systems are the most road. In 2017, we will continue to work with efficient packaging option, suppliers to lower our CO2 impact and reduce and in China a sharper focus costs. on returnable packaging is Taken individually, each improvement may appaying dividends. A combinapear small, but together they significantly retion of involving stakeholders, duce the carbon footprint of our products. We will continue our efforts to light-weight packaddressing key performance aging in the future. Other stakeholders such as issues and implementing betconsumers also have a crucial role to play, for ter return processes is conexample by recycling more. More importantly, tributing to lower breakage The returnable packaging team looks at how bottles are stored at if they start demanding that waste be reduced, it will send signals right along the packaging rates at our own and customthe Xichang Brewery in China and checks for likely breakage issues. Careful data collection helps identify solutions. value chain, from resource use to marketing ers’ sites. and communications. This could kick-start the next wave of development. Our data collection and tracking system Understanding the value chain is one way Where bottles are returned in sacks, our helps us find out which partners or customReturnable packaging to get more bottles returned; another is to plants in China have implemented two ers are responsible for bottle losses or slow Managed well, returnable packaging, including keep breakage rates low. China has made methods to reduce breakages: using bottle return times. We analyse the results to bottles, kegs, crates and pallets, offers the best great strides in both these areas. They have cages for storage, and standardising the highlight the challenges that deter or preway forward on both economic and environworked with customers and bottle collectpacking process to ensure that each sack is vent our stakeholders from returning botmental grounds. It takes a lot of energy to ors to ensure the bottles are treated with filled with just one type of bottle. tles in a reusable state. These can range make glass bottles, so using them several care in the return process, for example by from deposit value in the value chain, distimes via a returnable system reduces carbon transporting them in crates. And they have Through its many efforts across the value tance between source and consumer, and emissions during their lifetime. worked with suppliers to improve the qualchain, China is successfully leveraging the control over the return process. We offer to ity of bottles to limit breakages. benefits of returnable packaging. support our customers as they learn to manage these issues. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 22 Returnable bottles are particularly widely used Two-in-one! in Asia, while globally we refilled over 5.6 bilVisitors to the 2016 Roskilde Music Festival in lion glass bottles in 2016. This figure was lower Denmark were invited to recycle their empty than in 2015 because, among other things, we bottles and share a responsible drinking mesclosed/divested ten breweries in China that sage at the same time. sold primarily refilled bottles. We also reduced the proportion of refillables in the packaging mix in Eastern Europe. Returnable packaging excellence The case story on page 21 gives further insight Our returnable packaging excellence prointo how we are improving returnable bottle gramme ensures that we use refillable bottles performance in China. efficiently. Its three key objectives are to reduce breakages, improve return rates and minimise Consumer recycling campaigns market loss. To achieve these, our approach is In 2016, 14 companies in the Group carried out to make more effective use of data and KPIs, 16 campaigns* to raise recycling awareness estimate purchasing requirements with greater among consumers and promote higher collecaccuracy and improve performance managetion rates. For example, three companies in ment at every plant. China introduced incentives encouraging consumers to bring back refillable glass bottles. In Lithuania, we offered to clean up the shore of a 2017 COMMITMENTS lake to reward the people in the Utena lake district for returning over 10 million items. EnCertification gaging festival attendees on the issue of recyISO 50001 energy management system (EnMS) in Western and Eastern Europe; certifications in cling continued in several countries, including 2017 as part of the Integrated Management Denmark, featured in the photo on the right. System Efficiency programmes Looking ahead Continue energy efficiency programmes to deliver In 2017, we will focus on developing innovaimprovements across the Group tive, sustainable packaging and revise our apInnovations proach to recycling. This supports our contribuContinue the search for innovations in process, tion to SDG 12.5: to successfully reduce waste packaging and utility facilities with key suppliers generation through prevention, reduction, recyExpanding partners cling and reuse. Expand the Carlsberg Circular Community (CCC) to include partners outside packaging Circularity Obtain 1 more Cradle-to-Cradle® Certification * Within KPMG's assurance scope. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Energy & carbon 23 PARTNERSHIP Growing our community of innovators Partnering through the Carlsberg We plan to leverage the CCC’s unique position, experience and learning to deliver and scale Circular Community (CCC) gives solutions to complex sustainability challenges. us opportunities to innovate around packaging. Its success Partnership is key to all the SDGs, and the spesuggests that the same partnercific focus of SDG17*, because successful collaboration is one of the essential mechanisms ship model could be used to rethat must be mobilised to deliver all the goals. think some of the world’s major Consequently, we have put SDG 17* at the challenges, including climate heart of our approach. change and water efficiency. One of our aims is to encourage our partners to pass on to their other customers the lessons Creating system change – for example along they have learned through CCC partnership an entire value chain or redesigning waste with us. In this way, the ripples of our efforts flows – requires all the relevant players to be will reach a far broader audience than we in involved. That is why we are working collabothe Carlsberg Group can possibly hope to reach ratively to develop the breakthrough Green Fion our own. ber Bottle with our new CCC partner, the packaging company BillerudKorsnäs (page 20). Carlsberg Circular Community members: Arkema, Ball, BillerudKorsnäs, CP+B, EcoXpac, Beyond producing a physical product, the adO-I, Petainer, rkw, WestRock vantages of bringing multiple stakeholders together to tackle difficult problems are that it: • Pools complementary resources. * SDG 17: Strengthen the means • Draws on the specific skills and knowledge of of implementation and revitalize partners. the global partnership for sus• Allows risks to be shared. tainable development. • Creates momentum and economies of scale. • Brings positive reinforcement throughout the value chain. Water 4 9% 2015-2017 targets Impact reduction Sites in India have Reduction in relative water 5-10% reduction in relative water consumption. advanced water recycling consumption since 2010 technology systems More efficient and closed-loop systems In 2016, we also installed evaporators drive improvements. at these sites to remove salts from wastewater. 15 Priority sites identified in water risk assessment with WWF This research will inform our water strategy. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Water 25 WATER Tackling the water challenge As water scarcity becomes a Local knowledge is essential to good water stewardship, and it is primarily the responsibilpressing problem for more ity of brewery leadership to manage permits communities globally, we made it for water extraction and discharge. When seta priority to identify Carlsberg ting efficiency targets, however, brewery manGroup sites in water-scarce areas. agers also draw on the knowledge and experience of our global utilities management team. Our research, carried out with WWF provides a springboard for Water risk assessment deepening the Group’s water To support our global water strategy and approach to water stewardship at breweries, in stewardship commitment in 2017. 2016 we partnered with WWF to carry out a new water risk assessment of all our sites. Management approach Thanks to over ten years’ experience of workIn the Carlsberg Group, we manage water as ing with corporates and water risk, WWF is part of our integrated utilities management well placed to help us reappraise our water standard – a coordinated approach to energy strategy and targets. and water efficiency. In 2016, using WWF’s Water Risk Filter tool, Globally, the Group's Environmental Policy the Carlsberg Group’s sites were assessed for provides guidance, which includes requiring physical risks such as water quantity (scarcity, companies to assess exposure to water scarcity flooding and droughts) and water quality (polregularly at site level, as it is primarily a local lution). Regulatory and reputational risks were issue. also considered. Our joint research will feed into our target-setting during the course of the To deliver against Group requirements in highyear. risk areas, industry-leading water efficiency technology has been employed for a number of years, and this will be rolled out more widely in More information on WWF’s the future (page 27). Water Risk Filter methodology www.waterriskfilter.org Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Water 26 15 Location of the 15 priority sites identified by our water risk assessment 15 priority sites research is required to identify whether its imlocal industry, government, NGOs and peer Out of the 86 majority-owned sites assessed pact is material. brands. by WWF, 15 were identified as high risk and are therefore considered high priority. These Working collaboratively Water strategy are located in India, Nepal, China and Vietnam, We understand that thinking beyond water efOur approach to managing on-site water risk as shown on the map. As well as focusing our ficiency at our own sites is essential for miniand the mitigation measures already in place water stewardship efforts on these priority mising water risks. In the water catchment aracross the Group are described in the following sites, we may broaden our approach to include eas where we operate, all stakeholders share pages. further facilities where local water risks are responsibility for the social and environmental evident in 2017. impact of water use and quality. For this reaIn 2017, we will refresh our water strategy son, collaborating within watersheds to drive based on our research with WWF. We plan to Water in the value chain collective improvements is the best way to set challenging targets to increase water effiBarley is a key commodity in terms of the manage the water on which our high-priority ciency and reduce water risk. In this way, we Carlsberg Group’s water footprint, but as most sites depend. will also contribute to SDG 6.4 and by 2030 of the barley we buy is grown in rain-fed resubstantially increase water efficiency to adgions, where water is plentiful, this is not conDrawing on our Carlsberg Circular Community dress water scarcity. This will also mean ensursidered a risk to the Group or the communities experience, we will work with WWF to explore ing sustainable withdrawals and securing supin these areas. However, some of our barley, the idea of partnering with stakeholders as part plies of freshwater. for instance in India, requires irrigation. Further of our commitment to SDG 17. This includes Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Water 27 WATER Local water stewardship Water is a precious resource. We track to achieve our three-year water efficiency challenge is to ensure continuous production of complaints, issues, and so forth. Based on this, target in 2017, and we will draw on our rebeer at these locations. we create a watch list of locations that may therefore use it efficiently whersearch and experience to develop new targets need support to improve their performance. ever we operate, applying during the year. Wastewater industry-leading technologies at Wastewater compliance is a subject of increasIn addition to the wastewater management the sites where water scarcity is a In 2017, we will make detailed assessments at ing interest to stakeholders and regulators, and programmes in India described above, a further each of the 15 high-priority sites identified by it receives increasing management attention six projects are in preparation: one each in Poconcern. WWF, taking into account evolving legislation from the Carlsberg Group. Every six months, land, Italy and Ukraine, which will come on and engaging with local communities. Our we report internally on the performance of our stream in 2017, and three in Russia, which will Water efficiency findings will form the basis of water efficiency wastewater treatment plants, capital projects, become operational in 2018. Four sites in India already have advanced water projects going forward. In the meantime, our recycling technologies in place, and at least two more are developing these in 2017. Advanced water recycling enables up to 30% of WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 water to be reused as service water, while the Relative water consumption (hl/hl)* remainder is discharged safely to soil to irrigate Revised standard land at our sites. There is zero liquid discharge Implement a new revised standard for utilities Utilities management standard finalised and sent 3.6 management (including energy, water and for self-audits and planning beyond the brewery. wastewater) with coordinated action plans in key plants Reducing salt concentration 3.4 When water is repeatedly recycled, the level of Efficiency programmes salts in closed-loop systems rises. To keep salt Continue energy and water efficiency proOngoing: progress tracked monthly; best prac3.2 concentrations low, in 2016 we invested in grammes across the Group tices on water efficiency shared 3.2 evaporators at four sites in India. They turn Wastewater salts into solid waste so they can be safely reEnhance compliance assurance for wastewater All upgrades and extensions of existing moved from the system. 3.0 disposal, including new and upgraded wastewater wastewater facilities in preparation: 3 in Russia, 1 plants in Ukraine, 1 in Poland, 1 in Italy On track to achieve target 2.8 Innovations In 2016, our water efficiency improved to 3.2 2010 2014 2015 2016 Continue the search for innovations in process, Water recycling investigated in India hl/hl* from 3.4 hl/hl in 2015 – a reduction of packaging and utility facilities with key suppliers 6% over the year and 9% since 2010. We are on * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Water 28 Working with local communities CASE STORY This is an area where we intend to become more active in the coming months and years. As mentioned on page 26, as of 2017 we plan to collaborate with the organisations and local Every drop counts communities in shared water catchment areas. We will begin by focusing on those where waOur Chinese operations are ter is most scarce. Look out for progress upmaking great strides in reducdates on our website and in next year’s Susing water usage through dilitainability Report. gent housekeeping and careful monitoring. Their success demonstrates that improving water efficiency does not always require radical change. 10% In 2016, the amount of water used to brew one hectolitre (hl) of beer was reduced by more than 7% in our Chinese breweries. Around the country, 11 sites reduced their water use by more than 10%. Two stellar performers actually used less than 3 hl/hl: the Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong (HuiAcross China, 11 sites reduced their water use zhou) and the Urumqi No. 2 Brewery. by more than 10% in 2016. 2017 COMMITMENTS Five water-saving strategies Efficiency programmes and maintaining equipment to avoid 4. Using recycled water from production They say that many drops make an ocean Continue water efficiency programmes to deliver leaks. to preclean returned bottles before improvements across the Group and never is that more apt than when it 2. Improving production planning by they enter the regular bottle washer. comes to saving water. Across China, we Wastewater bundling batches and raising line effi5. Reducing water in steam generation by closed some inefficient breweries and emEnhance compliance assurance for wastewater ciency to minimise stoppages and idle returning more condensed water and disposal, including new and upgraded wastewater ployed five key strategies to reduce water water consumption. improving boiler water quality. plants, and zero liquid discharge (soil discharge use at the remaining breweries. after treatment and water recycling) projects in 3. Revising cleaning programmes to reIndia duce unnecessary rinsing water. For In an effort to progressively reduce water 1. Cutting wasted water in packaging example, shortening rinsing time withuse, we will continue to seek out, improve Innovations equipment by limiting bottle-rinsing out compromising on cleanliness. and share approaches such as these. Continue the search for innovations in process, water to the precise amount needed packaging and utility facilities with key suppliers Responsible drinking 20 25 million 2015-2017 targets People reached through Responsibility messages All print communication above A4 and Partnerships with our activities on Global digital and TV commercials to carry external organisations Beer Responsibility Day responsible drinking messages. to promote responsible drinking In September 2016, Carlsberg Responsibility programmes helped organise the second GBRD All Group companies to implement at These included volunteer – a global collaborative effort to least one responsible drinking proorganisations, industry bodies raise awareness. gramme. and private enterprises. Symbols on packaging 100% of consumer-facing primary packaging to carry responsible drinking information to discourage harmful drinking. 50 million eries A/S Carlsberg Brew Vej 100 Ny Carlsberg en V 1799 Copenhag Consumer information 80% of consumer-facing primary 1225 19th People reached with packaging in Western Europe to carry campaigns to discourage Stre Washi et NW, Su information on ingredients and nutringto ite 50 info@ n, DC 0 iard.o 2003 rg 6 E YS.S www. irresponsible drinking iard.o ARR S.SE rg 6 @H INFO .HARR W W Y tional values. AN 1 W GAT ARM ORG RA L B ÖST 7 GÖTE 0 411 We engaged consumers in debate Consumer outreach at sports events such as UEFA Annually reach at least 20 million conEURO 2016™ and music festivals sumers through responsible drinking around the world. messaging and campaigns. NATTERAV NENE OLIVIA HANS S LANDSSEKRETA ENS GADE RIAT, C/O 2 ST TV, FONDEN 1799 KØBE FOR SOCIA NHAVN V LT ANSV AR Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible drinking 30 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Our approach to responsible drinking In the Carlsberg Group, we want Partnerships to tackle misuse Alcohol misuse is a diffuse societal problem not people around the world to enjoy limited to a single socioeconomic group, life our great beers. It is equally imphase or geographical area. This makes tackportant to us that they do so reling it a complex task, and one that requires sponsibly. collaboration between all the relevant stakeholders. Our approach is therefore to consider all the situations in which beer is consumed and Management approach to identify relevant partners and work with Our Group strategy commits us to contributing them to find common solutions. Our partners to a better society (page 6). Among other are drawn from all walks of life, including conthings, that means looking at the impact of our sumer groups, NGOs, retailers, volunteer orproducts on communities and taking proactive ganisations, law enforcement agencies and steps to support consumers in making healthy, other brewers. responsible choices. We do this in three ways: • Promoting moderate consumption. A central element in our approach is to partner • Campaigning to prevent underage drinking with experts when designing consumer-focused and drink driving. initiatives, such as the OK Drinkers campaign • Marketing our products responsibly. described on page 35. In this instance, we reviewed the latest research into behavioural sciThe SDGs set our direction ence and the effects of alcohol together with Our starting point is the Sustainable Developexternal partners in order to devise a campaign ment Goal on health* and WHO's target to that would deliver the maximum impact. achieve a 10% relative reduction in the harmful use of alcohol by 2020. In our efforts to make a difference, we leverage all the tools at our * SDG 3.5: Strengthen the disposal: our products, our advertising and our prevention and treatment of partnerships with the retailers who sell our substance abuse, including products. harmful use of alcohol. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible drinking 31 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Promoting moderate consumption We believe in targeted interThis involved turning a vuvuzela (the horn popThis is a worldwide collaborative effort beThe core purpose of GBRD is to reach as many ular with fans at football matches) into a type tween brewers, retailers, police authorities and consumers as possible, and to onboard new ventions to reduce harmful drinkof breathalyser that would only make a noise if NGOs, and its purpose is to promote responpartners to help promote responsible drinking. ing and continue to partner with the user was below the binge-drinking limit. sible consumption of beer while addressing the In 2016, a total of 17 Carlsberg markets parstakeholders at all levels in the issues around alcohol misuse. ticipated, and our combined activities reached communities in which we Another campaign was our OK Drinkers films, consisting of five humorous animations broadoperate. cast during UEFA EURO 2016 TM (page 35). Meanwhile, in Denmark we continued our Globally, we leverage the unique opportunity WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 Drink with Respect initiative at the Roskilde offered by our brands to communicate directly Music Festival. Fans were invited to recycle with consumers and collaborate with partners their cans and bottles in a special recycling bin, Annual GBRD from the relevant sectors. At market level, our and at the same time label the bin with their Majority of relevant Carlsberg markets to participate 17 markets participated, including the UK, Poland, local Group companies implement initiatives to in Global Beer Responsibility Day (GBRD) Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Russia, China, own responsible drinking message (page 22). Malaysia and Ukraine address the problems that are most prevalent We also made efforts to raise consumer in their own countries. One of our three-year awareness of responsible drinking in Number of consumers reached (GBRD) targets to 2017 was for all Group companies to Vietnam – through our presence at the MonReach 5 million consumers with our activities around Reached approx. 25 million people implement at least one responsible drinking soon Music Festival in October. GBRD programme. We are pleased to report that over Number of consumers reached (other) 75% of our markets implemented programmes One specific ambition we had for 2016 was to Reach 15 million consumers with our activities to Reached over 50 million people in 2016. develop a bespoke responsible drinking propromote responsible drinking and discourage irregramme for the flagship Carlsberg brand. A sponsible drinking (in addition to GBRD) Campaigns that get people talking programme has been developed and is curProgress, global commitments In 2016, we reached over 50 million people rently being fine-tuned in preparation for Drive progress towards reaching the global commitProgress made towards reaching all our commitwith our activities to discourage irresponsible global implementation in 2017. ments set by leading alcohol producers in 2013 to ments, including the introduction of digital guidelines drinking. We did this by taking advantage of reduce harmful drinking in our marketing policies and our efforts to prevent specific occasions to engage consumers in deGlobal Beer Responsibility Day underage selling and drink driving bate. For example, in conjunction with the In September 2016, we ran the Global Beer Sports events UEFA EURO 2016TM football tournament, we Responsibility Day (GBRD) for the second time. Promote responsible drinking around UEFA EURO OK Drinkers in fan zones, consumer engagement ran a campaign to get consumers to share their 2016™ through responsible vuvuzela activation views of what responsible drinking means . Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible drinking 32 nearly 25 million people. We are particularly pleased that so many of these activities were Drinking and Preventing underage Working carried out in partnership with over 20 organdriving drinking together isations, including governments, NGOs and The Carlsberg Group’s stance on beer and drivUnderage drinking is not acceptable under any While most of our responsible drinking activities business partners. ing is clear; they don’t mix. Last year, in an efcircumstances. To help combat this problem, take place at market level, we also believe that fort to combat drink driving, we partnered with we committed to increasing our engagement global collaboration is crucial to address the Thanks to our successful participation in GBRD retailers and taxi companies in several counwith outlets where alcohol is sold in 2016. We wider societal challenge. We are therefore in 2016, we are on track to meet our threetries. We offered to pay consumers’ rides continued to see progress being made through working with companies that are part of the year target to reach at least 20 million conhome, promoting the message: Next time, retargeted initiatives, including educating sales International Alliance for Responsible Drinking sumers through responsible drinking messaging member to leave your car at home! Similar people and placing visual materials in shops in (IARD). This is a not-for-profit organisation and campaigns annually. We will continue parinitiatives are being introduced in Denmark, China, Russia, Ukraine and Poland. dedicated to addressing the global public ticipating in future and are raising our ambition Poland, Bulgaria and Vietnam. health issue of harmful drinking and promoting to reach 30 million people in 2017. In all, we While our focus on preventing sales to minors responsible drinking. are aiming to reach 60 million consumers In Sweden, we ran a dedicated drink driving remains unchanged, we want to play a more globally through our combined responsible campaign with the restaurant chain Harry’s. proactive role in future. This will include the drinking initiatives in 2017. Celebrities became taxi drivers for the night and education of minors on the risks of underage Read more about IARD’s their conversations with passengers were drinking, and informing influencers such as commitments filmed and widely shared on social media. parents and teachers. www.producerscommitments.org/ Multi-stakeholder approach One of the challenges we face as a beer producer is that in order to help combat underage consumption we must work with individuals and groups who are in direct contact with consumers. That is why we support grassroots orWHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 ganisations such as the Night Owls in Denmark (page 33) as they strive to create safer drinking 2017 COMMITMENTS Branded campaign environments for young people. Develop a Group-wide don’t-drink-and-drive camCampaign developed and will be rolled out in local Number of consumers (GBRD) paign for the Carlsberg brand scaled versions in 2017 Reach 30 million consumers during Global Beer Responsibility Day (GBRD) Retailer collaboration Number of consumers (other) Increase the number of market-level collaborations Local initiatives stepped up, especially in Russia, Reach 60 million consumers globally through our with retail partners to specifically address underage France and Ukraine combined responsible drinking initiatives consumption Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible drinking 33 PARTNERSHIP Having fun and staying safe When it comes to responsible Last year, in connection with the worldwide Global Beer Responsibility Day, Night Owls indrinking, our vision is to have all vited Carlsberg employees to join them and our employees acting as ambaswalk the streets of the capital city. A number sadors. To improve our chances of employees, including CEO Cees 't Hart and of successfully communicating on Board Chairman Flemming Besenbacher accepted the invitation, showing their personal this topic, we want to form partcommitment to SDG 17.17: Encourage and nerships with other individuals promote effective public, public-private and and organisations. civil society partnerships. Partnerships with organisations that can supOn two separate occasions, volunteers spent port our efforts in high-risk areas are especially the evening with Night Owls finding out more helpful. The Scandinavian volunteer group about their work and experiencing first hand Night Owls is one such organisation, and we the role they play on our cities’ streets. have been supporting them financially for many years. The purpose of Night Owls is to help create a Engaging with grassroots partsafer environment for young people out having ners is an excellent way to drive fun, and to be on hand to support anyone progress. whose fun night out has turned sour. The Cees 't Hart, CEO, Carlsberg Group mainly parent-led organisation has 40 affiliates in around 160 Danish towns. Together, groups of parents walk the streets wearing distinctive luminous yellow jackets and help young people to enjoy themselves responsibly. It’s so important that we recognise Their approach is not to judge or police those and support the great value of cothey meet, but rather to provide a reassuring operation between the private, presence and offer support when needed. voluntary and public sectors. Kim Hassø, Night Owls leader Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible drinking 34 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Responsible marketing and consumer information Our brands provide us with in our policy and reflect our philosophy of Although our marketing staff are required to about our products available, both on packagmoderation. One type of communication we follow agreed procedures when producing ing and online. We have committed to putting powerful and far-reaching expressly avoid is advertising designed specommunication materials, we occasionally symbols or text that discourage harmful drinkchannels to talk with consumers cifically to appeal to people below the legal have instances of non-compliance. Our central ing on 100% of our alcoholic beverages by the directly. It is therefore crucial that drinking age or intended for use in environmarketing function is informed of any comend of 2017. By the end of 2016, we had we communicate responsibly at ments where young people are prevalent. plaints received, and in 2016 this amounted to achieved 85%* coverage. four complaints, of which one was upheld and all times, and that we diligently Responsible marketing pact three withdrawn. To raise consumer awareness of the natural inapply the relevant standards to With this in mind, the Carlsberg Group, in cogredients and nutritional value of beer, we have our marketing materials. operation with other alcohol producers, has Use of symbols started including this type of information on all created a responsible marketing pact (RMP). To further help consumers make informed our beer brands globally. By the end of 2016, Policy revisions and updates, 2016 Through this, we commit to only placing our choices, we are now making more information Our marketing and consumer information is advertisements in contexts where at least 70% guided by our Marketing Communication Polof the audience is over the legal drinking age. icy, which reflects standards set by industry The RMP is governed by the World Federation WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 bodies. In 2016, we updated this policy in line of Advertisers (WFA) and covers three pillars: with recent changes in industry standards. social media, placement and appeal. Use of symbols However, the launch of the policy was brought Increase the share of volume carrying responsible 31% increase; 85%* of volume now covered forward to 2017 to coincide with the release of Monitoring compliance drinking guiding symbols a complete set of new Group policies. To supTo monitor compliance, the WFA commissions independent national self-regulatory organisaPolicy port implementation and awareness across our Roll out updated Marketing Communication Policy to Postponed until 2017 in line with Compass process organisation, updated e-learning is being made tions (SROs) to carry out spot checks on camall markets mandatory for all the relevant marketing manpaigns run by alcohol producers. Should they agers. This will also be launched in 2017. or any other individual or organisation bring an E-learning issue to our attention, we conduct an immediImplement and run new marketing communication Course ready – will be rolled out along with the ate investigation. If it turns out that we are in training courses policy Global campaigns and compliance Some marketing campaigns are devised and breach of laws, industry regulations or our own Product information run locally, while others are developed at Group policies, the campaign is immediately Introduce new consumer information on primary Commitment to introduce ingredient and nutrition Group level then adapted for local use. In all withdrawn. packaging and online information on our packaging and online implecases, they follow the global standards set out mented across our portfolio * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible drinking 35 83% of our primary packaging carried ingredient information and 57% carried nutritional inCASE STORY formation. Our 2017 goal is to cover 80% of our entire volume in Western Europe by the end of 2017. Have a break: Information about responsible drinking, as well as ingredients and nutritional information, will stay fresh! be made available online for all our brands by the end of 2017. All these changes are being In 2016, the Kronenbourg supported with training material. We will monBrewery launched a lightitor progress half way through 2017 to check hearted campaign to encourthat implementation is proceeding as planned. age moderate consumption. Five films parodying stereoWatch films from the typical drunken behaviour OK Drinkers campaign in French) were broadcast in the fan https://youtu.be/xVJDlXy2CJU zones of the ten host cities during UEFA EURO 2016TM. The OK Drinkers campaign consisted of short animated clips featuring recognisable figures such as Pukey Julie, I’ve-got-this Nick, I-know-how-to-fight Pete, SpaceOK Drinkers was one of five campaigns to tal Pitié Salpétrière in Paris and the Deinvader Steve, and My-round Tom. Tarbe nominated for the ESSEC Business partment of Social Psychology at the Lon2017 COMMITMENTS geting primarily 18-30 year olds, it highSchool Grand Award for Responsible Condon School of Economics. lighted the consequences – for ourselves sumption Industries, chosen from among Product information and others – of overconsumption. 60 applicants. The awards ceremony was 80% of consumer-facing primary packaging in held at the French Ministry of Finance on 1 Western Europe to carry information on ingrediInstead of just saying you should drink February 2017. ents and nutritional values less , the films suggested that drinkers alYoung people are primarily Use of symbols ternate alcoholic with non-alcoholic drinks, Globally, 100% of our consumer-facing primary The campaign insights were developed in looking for social conneceat something in between drinks or cooperation with a group of experts from packaging to carry responsible drinking inforlengthen the time between drinks. That is, tion. Excessive consumption various institutions and disciplines, including mation or text to discourage harmful drinking if they didn’t want to become Pukey Julie, the French Research Centre for the Study of alcohol often has the reE-learning My-round Tom or one of the other comic and Monitoring of Living Standards, the verse effect. All relevant marketing managers to complete the new e-learning module on our Marketing Comfigures. department of endocrinology at the hospiSaadi Lalhou, Professor of Social Psychology, munication Policy Health & safety 4 Topic Communication New policies and procedures 2015-2017 targets LTAR Include Life Saving Rules, Reduce the Group lost-time packages to support our which directly forbid highaccident rate by 40%. zero accidents culture risk activities. Delivered to all Carlsberg Group production sites to highlight health & safety risks (see page 39). PPE Online catalogues now in use across Europe Standardising the quality of personal protective equipment. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Health & Safety 37 HEALTH & SAFETY Towards a zero accidents culture The protection and welfare of our Reporting incidents If an incident occurs, the relevant country diremployees and contractors is ector completes an LTA report and distributes it non-negotiable. However, our within 24 hours to the regional executive vice health & safety performance in presidents and vice presidents, the country 2016 fell below expectations, managing directors, Group EHS and regional EHS. This report describes the event and lists impressing upon us the need for immediate actions, then leads into a root cause a more rigorous approach. analysis (RCA), which results in an action plan and concludes with lessons learned. Management approach The Carlsberg Group's Executive Committee Logistics: (ExCom) is responsible for policy approval and Lost-time accident & days lost rates meeting the obligations to manage health & (rate/1,000 employees)* safety effectively. It is then the job of our Supply Chain management team to endorse the Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) policy and drive its implementation. Leaders in Days lost rate (DLR) the regions and local markets ensure that our policies and standards are followed, and that LTAR DLR our employees know what is required of them. 30 600 25 500 The Group EHS (Environment, Health & Safety) director takes overall responsibility for the EHS 20 400 programme and management system, as well as our performance and direction. Governance 13.8 15 300 is handled by the Group EHS Council, which ensures that the policies and standards we in10 200 troduce reflect the Group’s priorities. 205.1 5 100 0 0 2010 2014 2015 2016 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Health & Safety 38 After a root cause analysis, we make sure any not hesitate to intervene and highlight the porecognise and positively reinforce the safe beComplementary initiatives important learnings are communicated across tential danger. Embedding these behaviours haviour they need to see in the workplace. Two further awareness-raising initiatives due the Group and that all our markets carry out helps us play our part in SDG 8.8: Protect laThey will also learn how to show care and for implementation in 2017 are our Safety the relevant follow-up measures (page 40). bour rights and promote safe and secure workconcern for the people they work with. Walk/Safety Talk and Near Miss programmes. ing environments for all workers. Safety Walk/Safety Talk looks at some of the Visualising our destination 2. Better visibility of communication softer leadership issues, giving managers a In 2016, we talked about achieving zero acciThree steps to get there Communicating our priorities and best practices structured way to engage with employees and dents, the ultimate objective of continuous imReaching our ultimate health & safety destinaopenly and regularly is another key way to foster discussions about how to eliminate risks provement. We are still working towards this tion will require a concerted effort across the raise awareness. Specifically, we are keeping and improve working methods. The Near Miss goal. What does a zero accidents culture look Group, and we are kick-starting that effort health & safety in focus through programmes programme encourages employees to report like? A sure sign is that all employees are obwith a three-step awareness-raising prosuch as Topic Communication, which addresses near misses, thus raising awareness of risks serving the kind of safety procedures that minigramme. themes from traffic safety to cut prevention. and preventing future accidents. mise risks and prevent accidents occurring; for Our markets regularly receive a range of tarexample, wearing personal protective equip1. Leadership behaviour geted materials, including posters and reminder The importance of collaboration ment, respecting the separation of pedestrian A zero accidents culture requires decisive leadcards designed to highlight specific health & While we recognise the need for every emand forklift pathways, and applying lockout/ ership. With information and motivation at its safety topics. ployee to take individual responsibility and act tagout during machinery interventions and heart, our new health & safety leadership kickas a health & safety ambassador, collaboration maintenance. Additionally, employees look out off training programme will be completed by Further examples include harmonising health & also plays a vital role in building a culture of for one another. If someone notices a colthe Leadership Team in 2017, then rolled out safety markings and signage at all Carlsberg safety. league is at risk on the factory floor, they do to all other managers Group-wide. Through Group sites as well the vibrant Zero Accidents the training, managers will learn to understand, branding. In 2016, our global EHS network continued to identify and spread best practices across the 3. Implementing procedures Group. We also engaged the cooperation of the WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 Designed to ensure that major risks are identiEuropean Works Council to help align the Life fied and addressed, our Group policies and Saving Rules and support our behavioural procedures map out how we work with health transformation to ensure that employees priorCertification & safety. itise safety all day every day. Complete plan for Western Europe OHSAS 18001 15 markets certified; implementation postponed in 3 certification by end of 2016 markets As part of our overall Group-wide policy reviAssessments sion and relaunch, in 2017 a new Health & Roll out formal SHAPE assessment programme Formal SHAPE assessments being conducted; proSafety Policy will be launched, including new gramme rolled out and running Life Saving Rules designed to establish zero Training tolerance to high-risk activities. As an example, Continue country and local implementation of EHS Ongoing in Western European markets in 2016; set the lockout/tagout procedures are described on Leadership Training Programme to complete in 2017 page 40. The new policy will also include the EHS Guiding Principles, which will help us build LTAR the health & safety culture to which we aspire. Achieve a Group lost-time accident rate of 5.7 Rate for the year was 7.0, which meant we did not achieve our commitment Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Health & Safety 39 HEALTH & SAFETY Increasing safety at work We want our employees and As planned, we continued to use SHAPE (Safety and Health Assessment Programme contractors to feel safe as they Excellence) as a key tool for enhancing awarego about their daily business in ness and generating continuous improvement. the service of the Carlsberg Training courses were held in China and LithuGroup. Unfortunately, despite ania, and 25-30 internal assessors were accredited in the cross-assessment of each facilimprovements in recent years, we ity. cannot yet say this is always the case. We continued to implement the EHS Leadership Training Programme at a local level in 2016 summary 2016, including a session in Asia for China’s The first months of 2016 showed a solid imsenior management. Dates have been set for provement in our health & safety performance. training to be delivered in all regions in 2017, Accident rates went down, particularly in the including for our Supply Chain headquarters areas of cut prevention and forklift/pedestrian and Executive Committee. interaction. Unfortunately, our performance declined in the second half of the year as a reIn Switzerland, Denmark, Finland, Sweden and sult of accidents at four Carlsberg Group sites. Germany, our site safety coaching programme ensured that thorough accident analyses were Progress on 2016 targets Last year, we continued our efforts to achieve OHSAS 18001 certification in Western Europe. By the end of 2016, 15 markets were certified. Three markets were postponed and are now on Highlighting risks track for certification in 2017 and 2018. In 2016, four different Topic Communication packages were delivered at our production sites around the world, highlighting health & safety risk areas such as traffic, electrical safety, manual handling, chemicals and fire. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Health & Safety 40 carried out. An improvement plan for each Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) Serbia, Bulgaria, Portugal, the UK and DenHaving identified and examined all the root country was developed and is currently being Achieving our Group LTAR target of 5.7 proved mark in 2016. These were caused by traffic accauses and contributing factors, we set about implemented. challenging. In fact, 2016 saw the rate increase cidents, machine malfunctions and breaches of devising and implementing measures to minito 7.0 by the end of the year, in spite of a deprocedure. mise or eliminate future risks. In some cases, Training crease in the overall number of accidents. This this can lead to a simple solution such as addSeveral markets took part in an Annual Safety was due to the fact that we closed certain In the immediate aftermath of these accidents, ing a safety guard to a machine; in others, the Day in 2016. In China, 27 sites carried out a breweries and restructured others where we we urgently reviewed our health & safety proproblem lies deeper, requiring us to address variety of safety-related activities such as had a very low level of accidents. The consecedures and implemented actions to improve systemic failures. Once identified, members of competitions, inspections, first aid training, quent reduction in the number of employees performance across the Group. Several new the EHS network ensure that best practices are presentations and safety drills – all aimed at tipped the accident rate per 1,000 employees measures were introduced, including more exspread to all health & safety managers across changing behaviour and strengthening awarein the wrong direction. tensive use of lockout/tagout (LOTO) prothe Carlsberg Group. ness among employees. grammes. LOTO is a practice that ensures that Incidents and follow-up measures, potentially hazardous machinery and power Looking ahead to 2017 and beyond Previously, we have referred to the ten EHS 2016 sources are shut off before operators perform We are working towards our three-year target Guiding Principles. We are now formally makWe deeply regret the deaths of one Carlsberg any maintenance or service work, and not reof a 40% reduction in the Group lost-time acciing these a part of our Health & Safety Policy, employee and four employees at non-controlstarted until it is safe to do so. During 2016, dent rate. To accelerate progress, we are stepwhich is due for launch in 2017. ling joint venture partners and contractors in we completed a LOTO pilot, which we are now ping up our efforts this year and ensuring that rolling out globally. health & safety issues are addressed more systematically. Production: Carlsberg Group: Other measures are under consideration. For Lost-time accident & days lost rates Lost-time accident & days lost rates example, we are now further scrutinising forkWe feel confident that this will yield results, but (rate/1,000 employees)* (rate/1,000 employees) lift traffic and pedestrian traffic patterns with a we are also aware of the challenges ahead. view to redesigning routing. Furthermore, as Having a robust improvement programme reLost-time accident rate (LTAR) Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) one traffic accident was caused by the unprequires solid data. In an effort to improve the Days lost rate (DLR) Days lost rate (DLR) dictable behaviour of a third party, we are also quality of our data, we are insisting on a more LTAR DLR LTAR DLR assessing the potential value of training in derigorous and diligent approach to accident re30 600 fensive driving. porting in 2017 and beyond. It is important to 30 600 note that the likely result of better reporting is 25 500 25 500 Learning from experience that, at least initially, accident figures will rise. In an effort to improve, we first seek to under20 400 20 400 stand exactly what happened whenever an in2017 COMMITMENTS cident or accident occurs. We conduct detailed 15 300 15 300 Leadership root cause analyses, drawing on the knowledge Roll out health & safety leadership training 10 200 of local employees and using experts from 10 200 7.0 7.0 Group headquarters and third parties. Multiple Communication Roll out EHS Communication Plan globally 5 100 5 100 sources help us extract the best possible learn130.0 85.6 ing in each case. Procedures 0 0 0 0 Deploy new Health & Safety Policy Group-wide, 2010 2014 2015 2016 2010 2014 2015 2016 including our EHS Guiding Principles * Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Responsible business New Code of Ethics & Conduct, presented by Cody the Elephant 2,200 About this section Here we provide an update on several topics that fall outside our four priority areas but beer samples tested were assigned high importance in our 2016 In the new e-learning module, Cody materiality assessment: Labour & human by our sensory panel faces challenging situations and particirights, Anti-bribery & corruption, Responsible pants help him to overcome them. in 2016 sourcing and Product quality & safety. Experts test against common beer onand off-flavours such as It also covers Community engagement, which bitter, sweet, diacetyl (butterscotch) is of special interest since we began to develop and sulphur. a new, globally coordinated approach last year. Triple A Introduction of a new behavioural framework Currently being rolled out to all employees and embedded in our leadership development and recruitment process. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 42 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Labour & human rights We are committed to conducting Updating and implementing our policy of Cambodia (BSIC) to address the issues of approach to assess new recruits at manageThe Group’s Labour & Human Rights Policy beer promoters in Cambodia. Together, we are ment level and ensure that we only hire people our business in a fair, responsible was reviewed in 2016 for launch in 2017 and aiming to set new industry standards and make whose personal characteristics align with our way with integrity and full reapplies to all employees of all Carlsberg Group concrete improvements on the ground. desired culture. spect for the law. Our overarchsubsidiaries. ing labour & human rights (LHR) Training and hiring L&HR is an integral part of Triple A. There is a A central team of L&HR experts is responsible As of 2016, leadership competences have been clear alignment across the Carlsberg Group objective is to provide a safe, for formulating this policy, keeping it up to replaced by triple A – alignment, accountability that we commit to respecting and acting in achealthy working environment in date and ensuring that local management has and action – which applies not only to leaders cordance with L&HR. In line with this commitwhich all our employees can the necessary awareness, knowledge and tools but to all Group employees. ment, we continued to train leaders in L&HR to implement it in the markets in which we matters in 2016. achieve their potential. operate. This is part of the Carlsberg Group’s approach to creating a team-based winning culture If any grievance comes to their attention – (page 5). We are also now using the Triple A through the media, the Carlsberg Speak Up 2015-2017 TARGETS helpline, or any other channel – the central team and local managers work together to reWHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 Leadership solve it. Our global L&HR experts act primarily Anchor integrity in the organisation as one of the leadership competences as advisors to local staff, suggesting how to Leadership competences best respond and making sure that any issues Continue to anchor the leadership competences Leadership competences replaced by Triple A, a new Diversity are satisfactorily resolved. across the Carlsberg Group behavioural framework with 15 attributes setting Increase gender diversity in top and middle manand driving criteria for the culture and behaviour of agement across the Group leaders and all employees Issues and responses 2016 UN Guiding Principles In 2016, we were informed of a grievance Extend competences Understand and demonstrate continuous due diligence in accordance with the UN Guiding Princiconcerning the working hours of female beer Include leadership competences in onboarding proTriple A in process of being rolled out to all employpromoters employed by the Cambrew Brewery gramme for new hires at manager level ees and will be embedded in leadership developples on Business and Human Rights ment, personal development and recruitment process in Cambodia. First raised in 2014, this issue E-Learning Roll out L&HR Policy e-learning module to HR was again brought to our attention by a CamE-learning and line managers across the Group as a pilot for bodian NGO in 2016. Cambrew is working with Continue to roll out the L&HR Policy e-learning L&HR Policy e-learning module rolled out in 3 marother target groups industry partners via the Beer Selling Industry module in different markets kets Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 43 E-learning When recruiting for our high-potential leaderThe e-learning module we developed and piship programme (LLP – Learning Leaders Proloted in Denmark and India in 2015 proved to gramme) each year, we make a point of ensurbe an effective way of enhancing general uning that a third of the participants are women. derstanding and will be rolled out to other This was also the case in 2016. markets during 2017. See more facts and figures about Labour & Gender diversity human rights on page 55-56. During 2016, we continued our efforts to increase gender diversity in top and middle management. This involved, for example, requiring recruitment firms to present at least one qualified female candidate when recruiting for management positions, as stipulated in our Group Recruitment Policy. Nevertheless, reaching our goal of 40% women on the Carlsberg Group Supervisory Board by 2017 proved challenging. Given the substantial 2017 COMMITMENTS changes undergone by the Group over the last Triple A two years (including the development of a new Roll out our new behavioural framework, Triple corporate strategy), we felt it was important to A, to all employees to develop culture and asprioritise continuity on the Supervisory Board. sess/develop our people, aiming to reach all emThis meant that at the end of 2016 we had not ployees by end of Q1 2017 yet met the 2017 target: 30% of members Apply to performance and potential, including inelected at the Annual General Meeting were terview guidelines for all candidates women. Introduce Triple A to Development Centres and implement in People Management Tools, e.g. People Board, 360 feedback and onboarding programmes for new employees 33% Gender diversity Implement initiatives to give priority to the underrepresented gender in top and middle manage-ment. Implement and track throughout 2017 Training future leaders Policy Revise Labour & Human Rights Policy, continue A third of the participants in our annual policy training of managers and roll-out of LHR leadership programme are women. Policy Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 44 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible sourcing We see it as our responsibility to Code sets out the standards that all employees 4. Business ethics Quality audits can expect when working for our suppliers, irWe expect suppliers and licensees to have polOur regular supplier audits focus on key raw understand the sustainability isrespective of the country in which they work. icies in place for dealing with ethical dilemmas and packaging materials such as malt, glass sues within our supply chain and such as anti-corruption, confidentiality and the bottles and cans. We pay particular attention to to ensure that the high standards 2. Health & safety misuse of company assets. companies that operate in high-risk areas such we aspire to are mirrored and The health and safety of all employees and as glass production. Should a serious issue contractors is paramount for the Carlsberg Following our strategy review in 2016, we decome to light, we immediately suspend matesupported by our suppliers. Group. We expect our suppliers and licensees cided to continue using Sedex. This memberrial deliveries. However, in the majority of cases to ensure a healthy and safe working environship organisation is dedicated to driving imit is possible to work closely with suppliers to Covering four key topics, our Supplier and Liment, for example by providing personal proprovements in ethical and responsible business help them achieve compliance and make lasting censee Code of Conduct clearly communicates tective equipment and the training staff need to practices in global supply chains. improvements. the standards we expect from our suppliers and perform their tasks safely. licensees when doing business with us. It is a key part of all our global supplier agreements. 3. Environment We expect our suppliers to proactively ensure 1. Labour & human rights compliance with the Code and all environmenWe set minimum standards on topics such as tal legislation. Cooperation with suppliers and non-discrimination, harassment, working hours licensees is an integral part of our strategy. and rules for the avoidance of child labour. The WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 Strategy review Review responsible sourcing strategy Strategy review finalised by the end of 2016 Quality audits Continue integrated quality audits to monitor CSR 182 supplier quality audits conducted globally, foperformance at selected suppliers cusing on high-risk commodities Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 45 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Live by our Compass In 2016, we introduced Live by the results of a company survey, this simple, Anti-corruption training on-site monitoring of high-risk markets menuser-friendly booklet guides employees on the Anti-corruption training is now an integral part tioned in our 2016 commitments, mainly due our Compass as part of SAIL‘22. ethical issues they may encounter at work. A of the Behaviour training mentioned above and to time and budget constraints. Instead, we are This reaffirms the Group’s stance session on the new Code is included in our new will also be included in our onboarding procenow offering tailor-made face-to-face training on business ethics and our unBehaviour training (page 10). dure for new employees. One challenge we to these markets on request. derstanding of integrity at perfaced in 2016, however, was conducting the The Code is also being supported by an ongosonal, commercial and corporate ing revision of underlying policies and detailed level. manuals to be launched this year. WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 Code of Ethics & Conduct As of 2017, we no longer have a specific BusiAt the core of Live by our Compass is a new ness Ethics Policy. The topics previously covEthics & conduct and anti-corruption Code of Ethics & Conduct (the Code). Based on ered by this policy are now covered by the Issue and roll out Code of Ethics & Conduct and AntiCode of Ethics & Conduct designed and rolled out; Corruption Standard in all markets further implementation in 2017. Issuing and roll-out Code or other policy documents such as the of an Anti-bribery & Corruption Policy is foreseen in Competition Compliance Policy, the Trade the overall implementation plan for all policies deSanction Screening Policy and the Anti-bribery signed under Live by our Compass 2015-2017 TARGETS & Corruption Policy. Training Policy training Roll out e-learning training on Code of Ethics & ConE-learning module for all employees covering both Train all employees on Code of Ethics & Conduct Performance in 2016 duct and Anti-Corruption Standard in all markets topics available in 24 languages as of January 2017 upon hire and subsequently every 3 years During the year, we revised our Compliance Strategy and introduced new procedures for Third-party screening Anti-corruption training assessing risks around ethical issues. In future, Carry out third-party screening in all markets Third-party screening procedure implemented and Train all employees in high-risk markets on antiour performance in this area will form part of carried out in all markets corruption annually the annual risk assessment process. Third-party screening Monitoring Embed third-party screening in contracting proCarry out ongoing monitoring of local market comMonitoring survey carried out across all markets in cess and train relevant business units in all marThird-party screening pliance with third-party screening Q3 2016 and repeated in Q4 kets Third-party screening procedures were introduced in all markets and are now part of the Anti-corruption training Risk assessments Conduct face-to-face anti-corruption training of Compass game provided in Nordics, Vietnam, India, Conduct annual Compliance Risk Assessment Group’s standard procurement process. high-risk employees and on-site monitoring in all China, Russia and Malaysia; also incorporated in across all markets high-risk markets overall behaviour training offered in all markets Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 46 Speak Up helpline In 2016, we launched a new version of the CASE STORY Carlsberg Speak Up helpline, which provides employees with an alternative and more secure way of reporting matters of concern. In 2016, 55 incidents were reCody brings the ported, 32 fewer than in 2015. This is because in 2015 Carlsberg Malawi opened its Code to life own whistleblower system with a reward scheme. This led to 35 cases being reDesigning a programme or inported in Malawi alone, making 2015 an itiative is one thing. Actually exceptional year. To encourage use of the implementing it and getting new Speak Up helpline, we will be promotpeople to take it to heart is ing it globally in 2017. another, especially if you are looking at an audience of over Group Compliance reviewed all the cases reported in 2016 and investigated the key 42,000 employees with issues, where appropriate with the help of widely varying skills and external resources. Other matters were backgrounds. handed over to the relevant local HR department or to local legal counsels, auditCode of Ethics & Conduct ors or external counsels. Developments To help bring the Code of Ethics & Conduct were reported to Group Compliance. to all our people and embed it deep in the organisation, we spent 2016 developing training materials with Cody the Elephant By the end of each case, participants will 2017 COMMITMENTS culture based on the principles of the as the main character and symbol. All the know what it means to Live by our Code.” material is now ready for global roll-out in Compass. They will also understand how Policies 2017. not following the Code can damage our Plan launch and implementation of all (approx. 35) new and revised Group policies developed brands and reputation and even have negduring 2016 and 2017 Illustrated case stories cover 14 subjects, ative effects on their personal situation. from compliance with laws and company Training policies, through responsible drinking, polCody the Elephant may be a Support central functions and local markets to Samantha Boel, Chief Compliance Officer make training in Code of Ethics & Conduct and itical activities and donations. Each case light-hearted figure, but he of the Carlsberg Group, says: “We want new policies available to approx. 42,000 Carlsfinds Cody facing a challenging situation. everyone to understand the importance of carries a very serious and berg Group employees worldwide By helping him resolve the issue, particibehaving and acting in accordance with our important message Communication pants learn what the Carlsberg Group conCompass. And to feel motivated to be part Samantha Boel, Chief Compliance Officer, Support central functions and local markets in siders the right thing to do. Carlsberg Group of one overarching global Carlsberg Group informing all relevant stakeholders about the new and revised Group policies Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 47 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Community engagement with purpose As anticipated in last year’s reworld to find better solutions to climate change During the summer of 2016, our Finnish comand water scarcity. pany Sinebrychoff hired two people to work as 2017 COMMITMENTS port, 2016 saw the beginning of rangers at the Sinebrychoff Park in the heart of a transition for our community Local initiatives in 2016 Helsinki. They kept the park tidy and actively Focused approach With a view to making brewing more sustainable, engagement work. We reviewed Below are a few examples from 2016 showengaged with visitors to make the park more a new, more focused approach to community our approach to align it with our casing the diversity of our local community enenjoyable. engagement will be launched during the year gagement initiatives. new corporate strategy and stakeholders’ expectations. Carlsberg Italia held four open weekends at its brewery, offering visitors tours, tasting sessions Working towards a better tomorrow and education on responsible drinking. The While we continued with local community enmoney raised from beer sales was donated to gagement activities around the world, the bulk local charities. of our efforts during 2016 were channelled into creating a unified global platform for commuCarlsberg Sverige sponsored Nattvandring nity engagement. The new platform is based (Night Walking), an organisation that works to on and driven by our Purpose: To brew for a develop and promote night patrols throughout better today and tomorrow . Our contribution the country. Their goal is similar to that of to a better tomorrow is to make brewing more Night Owls described on page 33: to protect sustainable and to fund science around the young people on their own terms. WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID 2016 Align with corporate strategy Sustainability commitments refreshed with raised Revise our community engagement strategy and ambitions, which also covers our community enalign it with the outcomes of SAIL’22 gagement commitments Despite no longer having a Community Engagement Policy, engagement continued with both local and global communities Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved Responsible business Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 48 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Product quality & safety Our company is ultimately judged own internal quality requirements, as defined in In 2016, we recalled one product in Norway. 2016, we carried out 22 product withdrawals the Carlsberg Operational Manual (COM). This was due to a production fault, as a result globally. by the quality of the beers and The Group’s quality and food safety manageof which cleaning solution found its way into other beverages we deliver. Supment systems are also aligned with ISO 9001 some kegs of beer during filling. The filling/ Thanks to our efficient internal processes, the plying safe, high-quality prodand ISO 22000 principles and requirements. cleaning process has since been changed to overwhelming majority of quality issues are ucts that our consumers like to prevent this happening again. Less serious addressed long before the products reach our Monitoring on-shelf quality (OSQ) quality issues are dealt with through limited consumers. drink is always therefore our top Since 2010, we have been routinely testing withdrawals from customer inventories. In priority. products through our global OSQ programme. Samples of bottles and cans are picked up from Getting it right, every time store shelves in over 40 markets and shipped to Each product we deliver has a unique recipe, a trained tasting panel, which evaluates each which gives it a distinctive taste, appearance sample for flavour and overall taste. Our Leadand consistency. Through our supply chain ership Team closely tracks the results from this quality work, we ensure that recipes always programme. meet the precise specifications defined for each product, and we monitor quality closely Responding to quality issues throughout production. If a quality issue does arise, we follow documented procedures to manage and minimise its Policies and standards effects. Our responses vary depending on the In 2016, we updated our Quality and Food potential impact on customers and consumers. Safety Policy, which sets out the Group’s comIf consumer safety is a concern, we recall mitment to producing high-quality products products from the market. that meet internationally recognised standards 2,200 and our consumers’ quality expectations. It applies to all Carlsberg Group employees and Probably the best job in the world sites. Experts on our central sensory panel test around 2,200 beer samples annually. If we include tastIn addition to this, the beer and other beverings carried out by our 80 local sensory panels, the ages we produce and supply must meet our Group total is approximately 100,000. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 49 SECTION 1: Data summary table 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ENERGY & CARBON, AND WATER General production figures Number of reporting sites 76 75 101 110 92 Beer production (million hl) 100.7 100.3 107.0 105.4 100.9 Soft drinks production (million hl) 12.2 13.0 13.6 13.9 14.3 Beer and soft drinks production (million hl)* 112.9 113.3 120.6 119.3 115.2 Malting (kt) 467 459.9 492.0 547.2 311.5 Environmental performance data (beer, soft drinks and malt production) Total thermal energy (GWh)* 2,808 2,671 2,970 2,943 2,481 Total electricity (GWh)* 966 954 1.012 988 914 Total CO2 emissions (kt)* (market--based) 882 849 982 945 768 Total CO2 emissions (kt) (location-based) 883 Total SO2 emissions (tonnes) 1,44 1,249 1,651 1,695 815 Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 1,483 1,387 1,586 1,562 1.163 Total water consumption (million m³)* 38.7 38.7 42.1 41.2 37.7 Total wastewater discharged (million m³) 25.2 24.4 27.2 26.6 24.2 Total organic load (COD) before treatment (kt) 73.6 74.8 75.5 78.8 79.9 Solid waste & by-products Incinerated (kt) 7.1 7.3 9.3 8.7 5.7 To sanitary landfill (kt) 45.1 73.4 64.6 68.6 56.9 Special waste (kt) 0.32 0.4 0.7 0.7 1.4 Recycled (kt) 147.5 141.3 164.8 189.2 225.5 Disposed of for land applications (kt) 244.5 174.1 173.7 165.9 127.4 Other (kt) 8.3 6.2 21.0 Total solid waste (kt) 452.8 403 434.1 433.1 416.9 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast (kt) 1,317 1,379 1,409.0 1,348.9 1,265.0 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 57). Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Relative figures for beer and soft drinks production Thermal energy (kWh/hl)* 21.0 20 21.4 21.2 20.0 Electricity (kWh/hl)* 8.1 8.0 8.0 7.8 7.7 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)* 29.1 28.0 29.4 29.0 27.7 CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)* 6.7 6.6 7.3 7.0 6.3 Water (hl/hl)* 3.3 3.3 3.4 3.4 3.2 Relative figures for malt production Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 712.1 703.9 694.1 692.2 489.3 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 97.2 94.4 87.1 84.1 73.2 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/tonne) 809.3 798.3 781.1 776.3 562.5 CO2 emissions (tonnes CO2/tonne) 0.22 0.20 0.19 0.18 0.13 Water (m³/tonne) 2.1 2.0 2.3 2.2 1.6 Other figures Complaints 42 38 93 33 36 Number of ISO 14001-certified sites 60 60 69 74 66 Number of ISO 50001-certified sites N/A 1 1 3 4 Water source split Municipal water 51% 50% 49% 48% 46% Own boreholes 43% 43% 43% 42% 47% Surface water 6% 7% 8% 10% 7% Wastewater destination Public sewer with wastewater treatment 68% 68% 66% 67% 66% Public sewer without wastewater treatment 3% 4% 3% 3% 2% On-site treatment, followed by discharge to river/lake 28% 27% 30% 28% 28% Other 1% 1% 1% 2% 4% Thermal energy mix Natural gas 69.7% 71.8% 68.0% 66.1% 71.9% Coal 12.3% 11.0% 14.9% 15.6% 7.0% District heating 7.9% 7.2% 6.8% 6.4% 7.1% Heavy fuel 4.7% 4.4% 3.4% 2.8% 3.1% Renewable energy 3.5% 3.7% 5.2% 6.9% 8,2% Light fuel 1.2% 1.2% 1.1% 1.2% 1,4% Other 0.6% 0.7% 0.6% 1.0% 1.3% * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 57). Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 51 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CO2 emissions from refrigerants HFC-based refrigerants (kt CO2)* N/A 11.3 12.9 14.9 9.8 Sustainable packaging Percentage of companies carrying out consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns N/A 26 28 24 341 Number of consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns* N/A N/A 45 22 16 Packaging mix Cans 24.8% 26.7% 26.1% 26.6% 27.4% RGB 29.2% 29.1% 33.7% 33.7% 31.5% NRGB 8.2% 8.1% 8.2% 9.2% 9.5% R-PET 2.2% 1.5% 1.0% 0.0% 0.0% PET 26.3% 25.7% 22.5% 23.0% 23.0% Kegs 7.4% 7.1% 6.6% 6.4% 7.6% Bulk 1.4% 1.2% 1.3% 1.0% 0.9% Other 0.5% 0.6% 0.4% 0.1% 0.1% * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 57). 1 14 out of 41 companies. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 52 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 HEALTH & SAFETY Figures for Production Number of lost-time accidents* 171 145 156 114 105 Lost-time accident rate* 11.4 10.3 9.1 62 7.0 Number of lost days* 2,306 2,010 2,207 1,911 1.281 Days lost rate* 153 142 129 105 86 Figures for Logistics Number of lost-time accidents* 148 136 150 140 109 Lost-time accident rate* 19.0 16.7 17.4 15.5 13.8 Number of lost days* 2,457 2,087 2,201 2,511 1.619 Days lost rate* 316 256 255 277 205 Figures for Sales & Marketing Number of lost-time accidents 43 39 40 52 78 Lost-time accident rate 4.1 3.6 2.8 3.3 5.1 Number of lost days 635 666 613 565 2,500 Days lost rate 61.0 62.0 43.2 36.2 164.1 Figures for Administration Number of lost-time accidents 5 6 6 6 2 Lost-time accident rate 1.3 1.7 1.3 1.4 0.5 Number of lost days 91 67 97 43 30 Days lost rate 23.0 19.5 21.3 9.7 8.2 Figures for the Group Number of lost-time accidents 367 326 352 312 294 Lost-time accident rate 9.9 8.7 7.9 6.6 7.0 Number of lost days 5,489 4,830 5,118 5,030 5,430 Days lost rate 147 129 115 106 130 Fatalities (Carlsberg Group employees, contractors and non-controlling joint ventures) 11a 41a 61a 51a 5 Lost-time accidents – department split Percentage in Production 47 44 44 37 36 Percentage in Logistics 40 42 43 45 37 Percentage in Sales & Marketing and Administration 13 14 13 19 27 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 57). 1a Restated. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 53 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Total cash and in-kind donations (DKKm) 38 47 35 38 33 Number of cause-related marketing partnerships 16 34 31 18 13 Percentage of companies investing in community engagement initiatives 85 85 82 80 812 Number of community engagement activities 1,731 1,599 987 816 588 Distribution of activities Environment 23% 22% 17% 21% 15% Sports 15% 14% 16% 12% 12% Responsible drinking 11% 12% 12% 14% 8% Research and science 1% Culture 25% 28% 21% 22% 6% Support of vulnerable groups/education 11% 11% 12% 12% 9% Health and care 8% 6% 8% 6% 4% Natural disaster relief 3% 3% 5% 4% 1% Other 4% 4% 9% 9% 44% Number of employees involved in community engagement activities 4,146 7,432 9,232 6,395 5,618 Number of hours spent 20,612 22,220 15,902 25,796 26,033 Number of underage reached through local education and sales restrictions campaigns addressing underage drinking N/A N/A 176,000 7,579,008 42,679,000 2 34 out of 42 companies. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 54 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 MARKETING COMMUNICATION Percentage of companies with a procedure in place to track consumer complaints 97 97 98 95 983 Number of reported incidents of non-compliance with Marketing Communication Policy 5 4 6 4 4 Number of sales, marketing and innovation employees trained through the marketing communication e-learning module 251 251 490 N/A N/A Percentage of companies that have a “moderation” line on all branded communication in all digital marketing and TVCs and in all print communication above A4 N/A N/A 56 65 664 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Percentage of companies implementing responsible drinking initiatives 78 69 62 78 755 Percentage of fermented produced volume carrying responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text* N/A 73 67 54 85 Responsible drinking campaigns N/A N/A 115 239 194 Percentage of companies in markets with self-regulatory bodies N/A N/A N/A 73 786 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 LIVE BY OUR COMPASS Total number of employees trained in the Business Ethics Policy 3,795 5,798 5,674 6,835 NA Total number of employees trained in the Code of Ethics & Conduct 4,336 Percentage of companies that have implemented third-party screening procedures 35 60 68 84 84 Number of incidents reported through our incident management systems 26 26 30 87 55 * Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s Assurance Report, p. 57). 3 39 out of 40 companies. 4 25 out of 40 companies. 5 30 out of 40 companies. 6 31 out of 40 companies. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 55 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS Total workforce (FTE**) 42 38,705 46,832 47,464 42,062 Percentage of employees by employment contract Permanent employees 93 90 82 88 86 Temporary employees 7 10 18 12 14 Percentage of employees by employment type Full-time 93 92 94 98 93 Part-time 7 8 6 2 7 Percentage of employees by employment category Total presidents + top managers 2 2 2.1 1.5 1.5 Total managers 11 11 11.5 12.3 12.6 Total specialists 39 40 40.9 39.9 36.7 Total workers 48 47 45.5 46.3 49.2 Percentage of employees by gender Male 73 74 72 72 69 Female 27 26 28 28 31 Percentage of management level by gender Male 77 76 76 78 77 Female 23 24 24 22 23 Percentage of employees by age Younger than 18 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.19 0.11 19-29 23 23 23 22 23 30-39 35 34 34 33 33 40-49 26 26 27 29 27 50 or older 16 17 16 16 17 ** FTE data from Carlsberg Group Annual Report 2016. Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 56 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employee turnover Employee turnover percentage 14 15 15 19 21 Employee turnover percentage by age Younger than 18 19-29 41 37 36 32 31 30-39 32 31 31 33 34 40-49 15 19 18 20 20 50 or older 12 13 15 15 15 Employee turnover percentage by gender Male 71 70 72 71 69 Female 29 30 28 29 31 Hours of training per employee Average for the Group 13 33 15 15 15 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 71 71 71 73 74 Policy implementation status Percentage of labour & human rights procedures and processes implemented as average for the Group 93 95 94 92 92 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Number of integrated quality audits 121 142 101 171 182 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 57 SECTION 2 Assurance report of the independent auditor To the readers of the 2016 Carlsberg • In section 'Health & Safety': data on 'lostamongst other things, that the assurance team • Visits to three production sites in Switzerland, Group Sustainability Report time accident rate' in Logistics and Producpossesses the specific knowledge, skills and India and Belarus to obtain insight into local We were engaged by the Executive Board of tion respectively, and 'days lost rate' in Loprofessional competences needed to provide sustainability management, review data and Carlsberg A/S (hereafter ‘Carlsberg’), based in gistics and Production respectively (pp 37, pp assurance on sustainability information. assess the robustness of the sustainability Copenhagen, Denmark, to provide assurance 40 and pp 52) data management systems, on selected environmental, health & safety and We are independent of Carlsberg A/S in ac• An analytical review of the data for the sesocial information in the Carlsberg Group the We do not provide any assurance on the cordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de lected indicators within the assurance scope Sustainability Report 2016 (Further: The achievability of Carlsberg's objectives, targets onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assursubmitted by all production sites for consoliReport). The Executive Board is responsible for and expectations. ance-opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Prodation at corporate level, preparing The Report, including identification of fessional Accountants, a regulation with re• Evaluating relevant internal and external material issues. Our responsibility is to issue an Procedures performed to obtain limited level of spect to independence) and other relevant indocumentation, based on sampling, to deassurance report, based on the engagement assurance are aimed at determining the plausidependence regulations in the Netherlands. termine whether the selected information is outlined below. bility of information and are less extensive than Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Versupported by sufficient evidence. those for a reasonable level of assurance. ordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountScope and limitations ants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). Conclusion Our engagement was designed to obtain limReporting criteria and assurance Based on the procedures performed, nothing ited assurance on whether the following inforstandard Work performed has come to our attention to indicate that the mation is presented, in all materials respects, in The reporting criteria are specified in section 4, Our procedures included the following: selected information as described under Scope accordance with the reporting criteria: Reporting process and scope, section 5, Defini• A risk analysis, including a media search to and limitations above is not presented, in all • In the section 'Energy & Carbon': data on tions, and section 6, List of reporting sites. It is identify relevant risk and issues within the material respects, in accordance with the re'energy consumption', 'CO2 emissions', and important to view the assured information in scope of the assurance engagement for porting criteria. related explanations (pp 13-15 and pp 49the context of these criteria. We believe that Carlsberg during the reporting period, 50) and 'HFCs' data presented in the Data these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose • Reviewing the suitability of the reporting criAmsterdam, Copenhagen, summary table (pp 51) of our assurance engagement. teria, 24 February 2017 24 February 2017 • In section 'Water': data on 'water consump• Evaluating the design and implementation of KPMG Sustainability, KPMG Statsautoriseret tion' (pp 27 and pp 49-50) We have performed our review on the Report, the systems, and processing and control of Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. Revisionspartnerselskab • In section 'Responsible drinking': data on in accordance with the Dutch law, International the selected information, ‘percentage of fermented produced volume Standard for Assurance Engagements ISAE • Interviews with relevant policy owners at Wim Bartels Henrik O. Larsen carrying responsible drinking guiding symbols 3000 Assurance Engagement other than Audits corporate levels, who are responsible for colPartner State Authorised Public and/or equivalent text' and 'Number of conor Review of Historical Financial Information, lecting, consolidating and carrying out interAccountant sumer facing sustainable packaging camissued by the International Auditing and Assurnal control procedures on the selected inforpaigns' (pp 34 and 54; pp 22 and 51) ance Standards Board. This Standard requires, mation, Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 58 SECTION 3 Global Reporting Initiative table The following table contains Standard Disclorequirements fully or partially. We have applied indicators for which we provide either full or sures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting the GRI since 2009. partial data. Guidelines without meeting the “in accordance” criteria. The framework provides organisations In addition, every profile or performance indiThe GRI G4 Guidelines encourage disaggregawith principles and indicators to measure and cator we apply is linked to a specific section of tion of information where feasible, but report their economic, environmental and social either our Annual Report 2016 (AR), our comacknowledge that the level of disaggregation performance. pany website (www.carlsberggroup.com), our may vary by indicator. In this report we have Economic Contribution Report 2016 (ECS) or provided data primarily at Group level, with To increase the transparency of the table and the Sustainability Report 2016 (SR). some regional and local data. to make it easier to understand, we indicate whether our level of disclosure covers the GRI In total, we report on 69 indicators. In order to simplify the table, we have included only the GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE PROFILE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND COMMENTS LEVEL OF REPORTING UNGC PRINCIPLE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the CEO and Board of Directors SR 4 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization SR 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services https://carlsberggroup.com/beersyou-love/ G4-5 Location of headquarters Copenhagen G4-6 Countries in which operations are located https://carlsberggroup.com/who-weare/about-the-carlsberggroup/global-presence/ G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 52 G4-8 Markets served https://carlsberggroup.com/who-weare/about-the-carlsberg-group/global-presence/, AR 6, 17-22 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 59 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE PROFILE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND COMMENTS LEVEL OF REPORTING UNGC PRINCIPLE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-9 Scale of the organization AR 4-8 SR 3 G4-10 Workforce breakdown (contract, type, gender) SR 55 G4-11 Coverage of collective bargaining agreements SR 56 G4-12 Description of supply chain SR 8, 14 AR 27-28 https://carlsberggroup.com/who-weare/about-the-carlsberggroup/carlsberg-supply-chain-csc/ G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period SR 64 G4-14 Addressing the precautionary approach or principle SR 6-9 AR 33-35 G4-15 External charters, principles, or other initiatives endorsed SR 4, 42, 44 G4-16 Memberships of associations SR 7, 13, 23, 32, 44 AIM-PROGRESS, Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER), Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), International Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD), Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), The Brewers of Europe (BOE), World Federation of Advertisers (WFA) Local brewers associations INDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Report coverage of the entities in the consolidated financial statements AR 120-122 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries SR 6-9 G4-19 Material aspects identified SR 6-9 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization SR 6-9 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization SR 6-9 G4-22 The effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports SR 52 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and aspect boundaries from previous reports SR 64 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 60 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE PROFILE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND COMMENTS LEVEL OF REPORTING UNGC PRINCIPLE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged SR 6, 7, 13, 18, 23, 25, 32, 33 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders SR 6-9 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SR 6-9, 34 G4-27 Response to key topics and concerns raised SR 19, 34, 42 Local community stakeholders raised concerns in Cambodia, Lao, Malawi (divested) and Nepal. Carlsberg Group responded to each in full. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period The report covers the 2016 calendar year G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2015 published on 24 February 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions csr@carlsberg.com G4-32 “In Accordance” option, the GRI content index and external assurance Use GRI 4 guidelines without meeting the “in accordance” criteria G4-33 Policy and current practice regarding external assurance SR 8, 57 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure AR 33-41 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and committees AR 33-41, 48-50 G4-39 Is the chair of the highest governance body also an executive officer No G4-40 Nomination and selection process AR 37-39 G4-48 Highest committee or position that reviews the sustainability report Supervisory Board G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body AR 42-47 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles, standards, code of conduct and code of ethics SR 45-46 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful SR 45-46 behavior AR 31, 41 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 61 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PROFILE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND COMMENTS LEVEL OF REPORTING UNGC PRINCIPLE GENERIC DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach SR 13, 25, 30, 37 ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ECS 7 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's SR 4-9, 13, 27 7 activities due to climate change Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investment and services supported SR 47, 53 ECS 5-11 ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization SR 12-22, 49-50 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SR 12-22 8-9 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SR 12-22 8-9 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SR 24-28, 50 8 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) SR 12-22, 49-51 8 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) SR 12-22, 49-51 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SR 12-22, 49-51 7-9 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions SR 49 8 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination SR 49-50 8 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SR 49 8 Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services SR 11-22, 51 7-9 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by SR 11, 15-16, 18-22, 51 8-9 category Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 62 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PROFILE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND COMMENTS LEVEL OF REPORTING UNGC PRINCIPLE ENVIRONMENTAL Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Percentages of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria SR 44, 56 LABOR PRACTICE AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age SR 55-56 6 group, gender and region Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenSR 36-40, 52 1 teeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and gender Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee SR 56 1 category Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee SR 42-43, 55 6 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other AR 37-38, 48-51 indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria SR 44 1-6 HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and conSR 44 1-2 tracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human SR 42 1-6 rights reviews or impact assessments Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 63 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES: MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PROFILE DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND COMMENTS LEVEL OF REPORTING UNGC PRINCIPLE SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, imSR 47, 53 pact assessments, and development programs Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 45-46, 54 10 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and SR 37-40, 48 safety impacts are assessed for improvement Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s proceSR 29-35, 54 dures for product and service information and labelling and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Marketing Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary SR 29-35,54 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 64 SECTION 4 Reporting process and scope Reporting approach and criteria more than 50% of the voting rights or that it • Chongqing Beer Group Assets Management The following sites were closed or sold in 2016 Scope of the sustainability reporting otherwise controls. Co., Ltd: Hanshan Co., Ltd, Xuancheng and are partly included in the reporting scope This report contains Standard Disclosures from Guquan Beer Co., Ltd, Huzhou Co., Ltd, Dafor 2016: the GRI Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines Joint ventures and companies over which the liangshan Brewery, Jiuhuashan Brewery, without meeting the “in accordance” criteria. Carlsberg Group does not have the opportunity Jiangsu Jinshan Beer Material Co., Ltd Vietnam: Our disclosure in this year’s report has been to exercise management control are not cov• Carlsberg Vietnam: Vung Tau (production developed with a view to reporting to the GRI ered. However, we work with our partners as a Malawi: data included for Q1 2016, site sold in 2016) Standards in 2017. matter of course to ensure an ongoing focus on • Carlsberg Malawi: Carlsberg Malawi Brewery sustainability issues. If a majority-owned entity Ltd. (CMBL), SOBO Lilongwe, SOBO Mzuzu, China: In this document, we cover the relevant and is acquired during the financial year, that entity Malawi Distillery Ltd., SOBO Blantyre • Chongqing Beer Group Assets Management significant social, ethical and environmental iswill be included in the following year’s report. Co., Ltd: Bozhou Brewery (production data sues for the financial year1 January to 31 DeDenmark: included for Q1 & Q2 2016, site closed cember 2016. Our GRI table includes referComments on boundary setting • Danish Malting Group (1 site) 2016) ences to our Annual Report and Economic The following company changed its name: • Chongqing Beer Group Assets Management Contribution Report, which cover our financial Poland: Co., Ltd: Yancheng Co., Ltd (production data and economic performance. This information Greece: • Danish Malting Group-Poland (2 sites) included for Q1 Q3 2016, site closed end gives our stakeholders an overview of our so• Mythos Brewery to Olympic Brewery S.A. 2016) cial, environmental and economic performance. The following companies have been added The following sites have been closed/sold since since 2015 and are therefore included in the Norway: We receive recommendations on our sustain2015 and have therefore been excluded from 2016 reporting: • E.C. Dahls Trondheim Ringnes: production ability activities and reporting from our assur2016 reporting: data included for Q1 2016, site sold in 2016 ance provider, KPMG, and we also continuGreece: ously analyse competitors’ and industry initiaChina: • Olympic Brewery S.A.: Ritsona brewery Ensuring data quality tives in order to keep ourselves up to date. • Xinjiang Group: Kashi Brewery and Qitai In gathering information about our sustainabilMalting Plant Russia ity performance, we have applied the widely Boundary setting • Chongqing Brewery Co.: Yongchuan Brew• Carlsberg Eastern Europe Grain Co: Malt used principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, Entities included in the performance data inery, Qianjiang Brewery, Gansu Jinshan Plant Yaroslavl and Malt Plant Tula reliability, timeliness and comparability. Please clude majority-owned subsidiaries, which are Malting Plant find additional information on each of the topdefined as companies that the Carlsberg Group • Chongqing Jianiang Beer Co., Ltd: Liuzhou ics below: directly or indirectly owns, in which it controls Brewery and Liupanshui Brewery Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 65 Balance internal data management systems to collect validity of the reported data. Within the enviWe are committed to communicating honestly information such as employee headcounts. ronmental data, any reference to “production and openly about our performance, both when site” or “site” refers to sites where the Carlsberg it has improved and when it has not. Our aim is KPMG has been appointed to provide indeGroup produces beer, soft drinks or malt, as to provide our stakeholders with sufficient inpendent assurance regarding selected ecowell as combinations of these, and the water formation about our company for them to be nomic, environmental and safety indicators. In and energy consumption at these sites. The able to make their own judgements concerning each section of the report, we indicate which term “production site” does not include off-site the Carlsberg Group’s position and role in the data have been assured. For further details, see consumption such as logistics and off-site adsocieties in which we do business. p. 57. ministration. Definitions for environmental indicators and health & safety are available in secClarity Timeliness tion 5, p. 66. We strive to make our sustainability reporting Internally, we report our sustainability data accessible and easy to read, but are always with varying degrees of frequency, depending Targets open to feedback about the way we communion the nature of the data. Where necessary, We communicate two different kinds of plans cate on our material issues. we revise the reporting frequency in order to and targets: strike the right balance between obtaining the • One-year short-term commitments Accuracy and reliability correct data and observing appropriate time in• Three-year targets and objectives Since 2009, our dedicated sustainability retervals for reporting on it. Annual data gatherporting system has helped us collect data from ing and external reporting are aligned with fiThese have been developed by each of the local sites and consolidate this at Group level. nancial data collection, following the calendar function owners of the sustainability themes Every year since 2009, we have improved the year. and may be adjusted following significant definitions of and accounting principles for our changes in the business, such as major acquiperformance indicators in order to help our enComparability sitions and divestments, but only if these tities report accurately and reliably. In the GRI table (section 3, pp. 58-63), we changes are made before the target date. As have listed whether our reporting is fully or far as possible, we include such changes by However, it is a challenge to obtain a complete partially in line with the GRI indicator definiapplying scenario planning to our target-setand fully aligned overview of all our data that tions. ting process. – at the same time – takes into account local procedures for data gathering. For this reason, We include threeor five-year data, as recomwe are continuously working on improving data mended by GRI, in all cases where a comparaaccuracy. We are using an international proble threeor five-year data history is availvider of sustainability software solutions to able. systematise and collect our data. We have used the system since 2009, and it gives us a Definitions higher degree of control over the data-gatherDuring the reporting process, we identified ing process, helps local companies compare some differences in the interpretation of certain data year on year, and enables instant conindicators at site level. However, we do not feel sistency checks during the data-gathering that these differences significantly impact the phase. Besides the system, we use additional Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 66 SECTION 5 Definitions INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT Total thermal energy consumption Total thermal energy consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production GWh Total electricity consumption Total electricity consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production GWh Total water consumption Total water consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production m3 Total production of beer and soft drinks Total fermented and non-fermented products produced hl Total CO2 emissions Total fossil carbon dioxide emissions1 (direct and indirect) emitted from the energy used for beer, soft drinks and malt production kt CO2 Specific thermal energy consumption Thermal energy needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific electricity consumption Electricity needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific water consumption Water needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks hl/hl Specific CO2 emissions Fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) emitted from the energy used to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kg CO2/hl CO2 emissions from refrigerants Impact from refrigerants refilled or recharged in any system at a brewery or malting site. Expressed in CO2-equivalents kt CO2 Lost-time accidents (LTA) in Production and Logistics Occupational accidents that result in employees being unable to perform the full range of their normal duties for at least one day, Number (LTA) excluding the day of the accident Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in Production and Logistics Number of LTAs x 1,000 / number of FTEs Rate (LTAR) Days lost (DL) in Production and Logistics Days absent from work (excluding the day of the accident) due to lost-time accidents Number (DL) Days lost rate (DLR) in Production and Logistics Number of DLs x 1,000 / number of FTEs Rate (DLR) Full-time equivalents (FTEs) in Production and Logistics Number of employees on payroll, where part-time workers are converted into FTEs by an equivalent proportion and one person counts as Number (FTEs) maximum 1 FTE Number of consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns Campaigns towards consumers with the purpose of reducing the environmental impact of packaging by, for example, encouraging correct disposal Number of used packaging through recycling messages Percentage of fermented produced volume carrying responsible Volume of packed fermented products that carry responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text divided by total packed fermented Percentage drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text production volume x 100% 1 CO2 emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance with the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and IEA statistics: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2015 Edition). Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 67 SECTION 6 List of reporting sites COUNTRY COMPANY SITES WESTERN EUROPE Bulgaria Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko, Shumensko Croatia Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica Denmark Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen Brewery, Saltum, Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries No production sites Estonia Saku Õlletehase as Saku Finland Sinebrychoff Kerava France Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai Germany Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei Hamburg AG, Mecklenburgische Brauerei Lübz Greece Olympic Brewery S.A. Thessaloniki Ritsona Brewery Italy Carlsberg Italia Varese Latvia Aldaris Aldaris Riga Lithuania Svyturys Utenos Alys Utena, Klaipeda Norway Ringnes E.C. Dahls Trondheim, Farris, Gjelleråsen, Imsdal Poland Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery Brzesko, Kasztelan Brewery, Szczecin Brewery Serbia Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija Celarevo Sweden Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg, Ramlösa Sverige Switzerland Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns, S Rheinfeld, Sion Carlsberg Supply Company No production sites UK Carlsberg UK Northampton Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 68 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES EASTERN EUROPE Azerbaijan Baku (Company) Baku Brewery Belarus Alivaria Alivaria Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan (brewery site) Russia Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St Petersburg, Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don, Baltika Khabarovsk, Baltika Novosibirsk, Baltika Samara, Baltika Tula Brewery Tula, Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl, Yarpivo Voronezh Carlsberg Eastern Europe (Grain Co) Malt Plant Yaroslavl, Malt Plant Tula Ukraine Carlsberg Ukraine Lvivska Brewery Lviv, Slavutich Zaporozhye, Slavutich Kiev Uzbekistan Carlsberg Uzbekistan Tashkent ASIA China Xinjiang Group Akesu Brewery, Urumqi No. 2 Brewery, Wusu Brewery, Yining Brewery, Korle Brewery Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong (Huizhou) Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan, Dali Beer Co. Ltd Chongqing Brewery Group Mawangxiang Brewery, Dazhulin Brewery, Hechuan Brewery, Liangping Brewery, Wanzhou Brewery, Fuling Brewery Chongqing Jianiang Beer Co., Ltd. Panzhihua Brewery, Xichang Brewery, Boke Brewery, Shizhu Brewery, Yibin Brewery Chongqing Brewery Guoren Co., Ltd. Guoren Lixian Brewery, Guoren Changde Brewery, Guoren Yongzhou Brewery Carlsberg Beer Enterprise Management (Chongqing) Changzhou Tianmuhu Beer Co. Ltd, Lujiang Co. Ltd, Yancheng Co. Ltd, Anhui Tiandao Beer Co. Ltd, Company Limited, Chongqing (“Eastern Assets”) Bozhou Brewery Carlsberg Hong Kong Not a production site Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong Not a production site India Carlsberg India Kolkatta, Alwar, Aurangabad, Paonta Sahib, Hyderabad, Dharuhera, Bihar Laos Lao Brewery Pepsi Plant Vientiane, Lao Brewery Pakse, Lao Brewery Vientiane Malaysia Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur Myanmar Myanmar Carlsberg Bago Brewery Nepal Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery Singapore Carlsberg Singapore Not a production site Vietnam Carlsberg Vietnam Phu Bai, SEAB Hanoi, Vung Tau Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016 Responsible business 69 Carlsberg A/S 100 Ny Carlsberg Vej 1799 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone +45 3327 3300 www.carlsberggroup.com CVR No. 61056416
