Report on Sustainability 2017 Perhaps the biggest challenge facing a company like Suncor is: how do we continue to be a profitable, growing business in a world that demands a much stronger focus on environmental performance and social responsibility? There’s no single answer to that question, but there is, I believe, a clear path forward. We need to leave the era of fixed and polarizing positions behind and move boldly into the solution space. Doing so requires a degree of compromise to ensure the perfect does not become the enemy of the good. And it requires a bias to action. A bit of discomfort shouldn’t deter us from acting in pursuit of a shared ambition to develop Canada’s energy resources in ways that foster economic growth while protecting a healthy environment and advancing social well-being. Tackling climate change As a company, as an industry and as a larger society, we have already made some progress in moving into the solution space. Consider the global challenge of tackling climate change. We know climate change is happening. Clearly, we all have a shared interest in finding solutions. At Suncor, we’ve moved on several fronts – internally and externally – to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity while providing the energy the world needs. We came very close to meeting our 2015 energy efficiency improvement target (first set in 2009) and, in 2016, we announced an ambitious new sustainability goal: to reduce the total GHG emissions intensity of our oil and petroleum products by 30% by 2030. It’s a target we believe puts us on the path to ultimately bending the curve on our absolute GHG emissions as well. Along with other oil sands producers, we’ve collaborated with our peers, with environmental leaders, with Aboriginal Peoples and with other governments, to help advance climate change policy that has made Alberta a global leader in this area. We did so by collectively recognizing we can’t, at this point, affix a permanent solution to a long-term challenge like climate change. But we can lead in a way that moves us in the right direction. That SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) collaboration helped inform a policy plan that couples a broad-based carbon-pricing regime with an overall emissions limit for the oil sands. Why would we, as energy producers, support public policy that imposes a first of its kind, emissions limit on our resource basin? And why would Suncor, as a company, commit to an ambitious program to reduce its own GHG emissions? The answer to both questions is rooted in two interrelated convictions. The first is our belief that bold, ambitious action will be required by all of us to effectively tackle the climate change challenge. The second is our conviction that technology will continue to transform our industry to a place of global cost and carbon competitiveness. Transitioning to a low carbon economy Some look ahead and predict fossil fuels have no place in a sustainable energy future. I respectfully disagree. Whether it’s about providing food, heat or transport, modern society draws on reliable and affordable oil and gas as its primary energy source. And despite the advancement of alternative and renewable energy sources, fossil fuels will continue to provide a concentrated and efficient source of energy for the foreseeable future. It’s also evident that to remain a central part of the energy equation, oil and gas producers need to be carbon-competitive and cost-competitive. We are moving aggressively towards the goal of harnessing new technology that transforms the GHG footprint of our operations and our impact on the life-cycle of our product. Technology and innovation are taking us there. Technology has always been key to the oil sands industry, which Suncor pioneered exactly a halfcentury ago. It’s allowed us to develop this vast resource on a commercially viable basis while continually improving our environmental performance. Today, Suncor invests in a range of strategic technologies, including next-generation in situ extraction processes that could dramatically reduce energy costs and GHG emissions. In fact, we’re currently evaluating the potential to advance these in situ technologies at commercial scale through the development of an in situ demonstration facility (ISDF) at our MacKay River lease. We also collaborate with peer companies and external partners through organizations like Canada’s Oil Sands Innovation Alliance (COSIA) and Evok Innovations on clean technology solutions that will help us thrive in tomorrow’s lower carbon economy. On the policy side, we continue to collaborate with the Ecofiscal Commission, where I serve as a member of the Advisory Board. The commission brings together economists who provide a perspective on efficient economic policy to tackle environmental challenges. The Advisory Board brings together diverse actors – including from across the political spectrum, from industry, and the SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) environmental community – to provide a practical perspective and advocate for policy that most efficiently helps trigger practical environmental solutions and grow the economy. I believe our investment in step-change technologies and commitment to progressive ecofiscal policies puts Suncor in a very strong position going forward. As long as the world needs fossil fuels, we intend to be a cost-competitive and carbon-competitive supplier of choice. That’s why we’re comfortable operating within the boundaries of an emissions limit and an economywide carbon price. With certainty on price and emissions, we can plan, innovate and invest in ways that will allow us to grow our business and successfully compete in the global marketplace as a low carbon source of oil. As we make this transition to a low-carbon economy, Suncor is committed to the principle of transparency. That’s why, in response to a shareholder resolution by NEI Investments, we recently produced our first stand-alone report on the resilience of our strategy on this path to a low-carbon future. We intend to update this disclosure practice annually as part of our Report on Sustainability. Social innovation and collaboration Innovation is not limited to technology or environmental performance. The way the world views energy development has changed and part of responding to that is through social innovation and collaboration. Suncor’s recognition of this evolving dynamic is reflected in the strong emphasis we place on sustainability and embedding it throughout our organization. In 2016, we launched our first long-term sustainability goal to address our social performance. That goal, to be pursued over the next 10 years, sets us on a new path toward strengthening our relationships with Canada’s Aboriginal Peoples and increasing the participation of Aboriginal Peoples in resource development. We took a good first step on that path by signing two historic partnership agreements with the Fort McKay First Nation and the Mikisew Cree First Nation that will see them become equity partners in the East Tank Farm synthetic crude terminal when the agreements are finalized in 2017. Both First Nations will share in the benefits as the terminal receives bitumen from the Fort Hills oil sands mine and ships product to market. Another key social collaboration for Suncor is the work we do, along with several other companies, as members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Local Network in Canada. This is part of our support for the UNGC and its 10 Principles, which guide our approach to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption – wherever in the world we operate. In everything we do, one value stands above the rest: safety above all else. And as we learned again in our response to the 2016 Fort McMurray forest fires, ensuring safety sometimes requires collaboration of the first order. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) The fires forced more than 85,000 people, including our employees, to leave their homes. For the first time in our history, we shut down and then restarted our oil sands base and in situ operations – and did so safely and without incident. Our facilities were also the first point of refuge for community members fleeing northward for safety. We sheltered, fed and moved more than 10,000 people. I’ve never been prouder of a collaborative effort than the one undertaken by the community, first responders, aid organizations, government and industry. Observing kindness, perseverance and optimism in the face of an extremely difficult situation was a powerful experience for me. Succeeding in the solution space Leadership starts with knowing where we want to go over the long term. It’s about making courageous decisions that will stand the test of time. At Suncor, we have the track record, the economic strength, and the commitment to execute on that vision and collaborate across diverse interests to find solutions to shared challenges. As we’ve taken some critical first steps into the solution space, I’ve had the chance to reflect on what we’ve learned so far. What works and what doesn’t? I believe the road to success begins with setting ambitious goals. It’s a good thing if your reach exceeds your grasp; it means you always aspire to something more. Focus on the possible. It’s easy to find reasons why something won’t work; it’s much more difficult to imagine ways that it could. Listen more than you speak – and avoid the trap of trying to sell each other on pre-conceived solutions. Making progress on complex issues requires setting egos aside. Arrogance is the enemy of collaboration. The path forward will be challenging, but this journey is worth the effort. I urge you to join us in ensuring we shape a positive and sustainable shared energy future. Steve Williams president and chief executive officer SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Report on Sustainability 2017 This Report on Sustainability has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines ‘Core’ option and uses the Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. Additionally, our 2017 Communication on Progress, detailing our commitment and implementation of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles has been integrated throughout this report. The tables below provide information about:  G4 standard disclosures and material issues (aspects) covered in this report  UNGC principles addressed  where to find additional information, either within this report, or other public disclosures, and  G4 standard disclosures that have been externally assured Read more about:  GRI  UNGC General standard disclosures These general standard disclosures describe our organization and sustainability reporting processes. Strategy and analysis General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-1  CEO message  Vision and strategy G4-2  Building Bridges  Climate change  Economic (All sections)  Contribution to the economy  Environment (All SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) sections)  Sustainability goals  Managing enterprise risk  Social (All sections) Organizational profile General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-3 Suncor Energy Inc. G4-4 Our operations G4-5 Calgary, Alberta Canada G4-6 Our operations G4-7 Our operations G4-8 Our operations G4-9 Our operations [Performance data > Economic > Revenues, market SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) capitalization]:  Suncor-wide [Performance data > Social > Suncor employees and contractors]:  Suncor-wide G4-10 Total workforce by 6 employment type, contract, and region, and gender by total workforce, by location are reported in the following pages in this report: [Performance data > Social > Suncor employees and contractors]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing No data management system is currently in place to report all employment types by gender (contractors). We anticipate fully reporting this indicator in 2018. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-11 [Performance data > 3 Social > Workforce unionized]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing For additional information related to our employees and collective agreements, see our Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2017, p. 26 (PDF, 98 pp., 357 KB) G4-12 Contribution to economy G4-13 Performance data G4-14 Vision and strategy G4-15  Land and biodiversity  Partnerships and collaboration  Public policy participation G4-16 Partnerships and collaboration SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Identified material aspects and boundaries General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-17 Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Report 2016, pp. 22-24 (PDF, 5 pp. 358 KB) For more information about the entities not covered in this report, refer to the performance data page(s). G4-18 Materiality review G4-19 Materiality review G4-20  Materiality review  Performance data G4-21  Materiality review  Performance data G4-22 Any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports and reasons for restatements can be found throughout the performance data pages and accompanying footnotes for specific indicators that have SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) been restated. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in scope, boundary or measurement methods can be found on the performance data page as well as introductory statements for specific business segment performance data pages. Stakeholder engagement General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-24 Social responsibility G4-25 Social responsibility G4-26  Materiality review  Social responsibility G4-27  Air quality  Climate change  Land and biodiversity  Materiality review  Tailings management  Water use SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Report profile General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-28 January 1 – December 31, 2016 G4-29 July, 2016 G4-30 Annual G4-31 1-866-SUNCOR-1 (1866-786-2671) or email us G4-32 ‘In accordance’ – Core  GRI content index  Performance data G4-33 An independent thirdparty has provided assurance on selected key performance indicators for our Report on Sustainability. The assurance report and indicators that were reviewed can be found on the performance SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) data page. Governance General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-34 Corporate governance For additional information about our corporate governance structure, and committees of the Board, refer to Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary of our 2017 Management Proxy Circular (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB). G4-35 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary Risk Oversight, pp. C-3 to C-4) Additionally, a Strategic Issues Management Process is in place to effectively manage our strategic issues. The process identifies, monitors and manages key environmental, economic SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) and social issues most critical to our business and our external stakeholders and sets up a governance system to oversee the management of the issues. G4-36 We have several senior leadership positions whose roles include sustainability oversight in the organization, including:  Executive Vice President, Business Services (directly reports to the CEO)  Vice President, Sustainability & Communications  General Manager, Sustainability G4-37 Social responsibility For additional information about stakeholder feedback with our Board of Directors, refer to our 2017 Management Proxy Circular (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Communications/Disclosure Policy and Stakeholder Feedback, p. C-4) G4-38 Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2017 (PDF, 98 pp., 357 KB) (Directors and SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) executive officers, pp. 7176) G4-39 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule D: Position description for independent board chair) G4-40 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary, pp. C-11 to C13) G4-41 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Conflicts of Interest, p. C-9) G4-42 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule F: Board Terms of Reference – Part IV: Mandate of the Board of Directors, pp. F-4 to F-6) G4-43 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Corporate Governance Summary – Orientation and Continuing Education, pp. C-7 to C-9) Additionally, our Board of Directors receive periodic reports from our Vice President, Sustainability & Communications. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability Committee of the Board also receives quarterly updates and stewardship on our priority sustainability issues. G4-44 The Board completes an annual self-evaluation. For details, see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 11 pp., 888 KB)(Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Assessment of Directors, pp. C-12 to C-13) Specific information about topics reviewed and action plans that are developed are confidential and not reported. G4-45 The Board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, see the Suncor SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. C-3 to C-5) G4-46 The Board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. C-3 to C-5) G4-47 The Board oversees Suncor’s Enterprise Risk Management Program. For details, see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Schedule C: Corporate Governance Summary – Risk Oversight, pp. C-3 to C-5) G4-48 Our Executive Leadership Team, including the CEO, review and approve this report prior to publication. G4-49 Issues of concern are elevated through the Strategic Issues SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Management Process to a senior leadership governance body. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainable Development committee of the Board also reviews the effectiveness to which we achieve objectives pertaining to the environment, health, safety and sustainable development. This committee also receives a quarterly update and stewardship on our priority sustainability issues G4-50 Throughout 2016, key issues focused on climate change, water and First Nations issues. In depth discussions, goal setting and initiatives to address these issues have been ongoing and will continue to evolve. G4-51 Executive pay For more information, see the Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Board of Directors Compensation and Executive Compensation, pp. 17-58) SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-52 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Board of Directors Compensation and Executive Compensation, pp. 17-58) G4-53 Suncor Energy Inc. Management Proxy Circular 2017 (PDF, 111 pp., 888 KB) (Advisory Vote on Approach to Executive Compensation, p. 16) Ethics and integrity General Link or direct answer External UNGC Standard Assurance Disclosures G4-56 Ethical business 10 conduct G4-57 Ethical business 10 conduct G4-58 Ethical business 10 conduct SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Specific standard disclosures These specific standard disclosures provide context for our management of and performance related to issues identified through our materiality review process. Expand all | Collapse all Category: Economic DMA and Link or direct Omissions External UNGC Indicators answer Assurance [Performance data section > Data category > Indicator] • Company total and/or by business area Aspect: Economic performance G4-DMA Economic G4-EC1 [Performance Data > Economic > Economic value generated and distributed]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant [Performance Data > Social > Community SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Investment]:  Suncor-wide G4-EC2  Building bridges  CEO message  Climate change action plan  Environment  Social responsibility  Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change response, (pp. CC5 and CC6) (PDF, 104 pp., 638 KB) G4-EC3 Suncor Energy Inc. Annual Report 2016, (pp. 110-113) (PDF, 54 pp., 358 KB) G4-EC4 [Performance Data > Economic > tax and royalty credits earned]:  Suncor-wide Aspect: Market Presence SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-DMA Economic G4-EC5 [Performance Data > Social > Ratios of lowest and average wage to minimum wage]:  Oil Sands  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing G4-EC6 Our employees Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Economic G4-EC7  Community investment  Contribution to economy G4-EC8  Contribution to economy  Partnering with Aboriginal businesses Aspect: Procurement SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Practices G4-DMA Economic G4-EC9 [Performance Data > Economic > Purchases]:  Suncor-wide For more information regarding spending on locally based suppliers, view our Economic page. OG1 [Performance Yes Data > Environment > Performance Production]: Data  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Category: Environmental DMA and Link or direct Omissions External UNGC Indicators answer Assurance [Performance data section > Data category > Indicator] • Company total and/or by business area Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Environment G4-EN3 [Performance Data 7, 8 > Environment > Energy use]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant  Wind energy Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change Response, (pp. CC11) (PDF, 104 pp., 638 KB) G4-EN4 [Performance Data 8 > Environment > SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Energy use]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant  Wind energy Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change Response, (pp. CC11) (PDF, 104 pp., 638 KB) G4-EN5 [Performance Data 8 > Environment > Energy use]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant G4-EN6 [Performance Data 8,9 > Environment > Reduction in energy consumption]:  In Situ SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com)  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing G4-EN7  Renewables 8,9  Technology development OG2 Suncor's 2017 8,9 CDP Climate Change Response, (p. OG6.1 and OG6.2) (PDF, 104 pp., 638 KB) OG3 [Performance Data 8,9 > Environment > Production]:  Wind energy Aspect: Water G4-DMA Environment G4-EN8 [Performance Data Yes 7, 8 > Environment > Water withdrawal]: Performance Data  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant  Wind energy G4-EN9 Water stewardship 8 Suncor's 2017 CDP Water Response, (pp. CC1.2a, CC5.1 and CC5.1a) (PDF, 46 pp., 340 KB) G4-EN10 Water use 8 [Performance Data > Environment > Average annual water recycling rate]:  In Situ Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA Environment G4-EN11 [Performance Data 8 > Environment > Land holdings for potential and approved development]:  Oil Sands  In Situ SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Additional information:  Land and biodiversity G4-EN12 [Performance Data Yes 8 > Environment > Total land Performance disturbed]: Data  Oil Sands  In Situ Additional information:  Land and biodiversity G4-EN13 [Performance Data Yes 8 > Environment > Land reclaimed]: Performance Data  Oil Sands  North America Onshore  In Situ Additional information:  Reclamation OG4 Land and biodiversity Aspect: Emissions SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-DMA Environment G4-EN15 [Performance Data Yes 7, 8 > Environment > GHG emissions]: Performance Data  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant  Wind energy Additional information:  2016 GHG performance  Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change Response, (pp. CC8-CC10) (PDF, 104 pp, 638 KB) G4-EN16 [Performance Data Yes 7, 8 > Environment > GHG emissions]: Performance Data  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) plant  Wind energy Additional information:  2016 GHG performance  Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change Response, (pp. CC8-CC10) (PDF, 104 pp., 638 KB) G4-EN17 [Performance Data 7, 8 > Environment > GHG emissions]:  Suncor-wide G4-EN18 [Performance Data Yes 8 > Environment > GHG emissions]: Performance Data  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant G4-EN19  Climate change 8, 9 action plan  Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change Response, (pp. CC3.2 and CC3.3) (PDF, 104 SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) pp., 638 KB) G4-EN20 [Performance Data 7, 8 > Environment > Ozone depleting substances]:  Oil Sands G4-EN21 [Performance Data 7, 8 > Environment > SO2,NOx and VOC emissions]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant Aspect: Effluents and waste G4-DMA Environment G4-EN22 [Performance Data This information 8 > Environment > is currently Water discharge unavailable. We quality]: are looking into collecting data to report the  Suncor-wide quantity and  Oil Sands  In Situ quality of  North America unplanned water Onshore discharge events SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com)  East Coast and whether Canada water discharges  Refining & are reused by Marketing another  St. Clair ethanol organization and plant expect to fully These reported report on this water effluent indicator in the discharges are near future, when planned and the collection and water quality tracking parameters must information be analyzed and becomes reported as per available. regulatory requirements. Unplanned water discharges are rare in normal operating conditions. We currently report the number of unplanned water discharge events as well as the number of effluent/wastewater limit exceedances for applicable business units (reported to regulators). G4-EN23 [Performance Data 8 > Environment > Hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com)  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant Additional information:  Tailings management G4-EN24 [Performance Data 8 > Environment > Spills]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant G4-EN26  Land and 8 biodiversity  Tailings management  Water stewardship  Water quality monitoring OG5 [Performance Data > Environment > Produced water]:  In Situ SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com)  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada OG6 Flared volumes are We do not report reported on the vented gas as it following pages: is not material [Performance Data due to the > Environment > operational Flared gas]: practices we have in place to limit venting,  Oil Sands such as vapour  In Situ  North America recovery units Onshore that are used on  East Coast some of our Canada storage tanks.  Refining & Marketing Suncor's 2017 CDP Climate Change Response, (pp. OG7.6a) (PDF, 104 pp., 638 KB) OG7 [Performance Data > Environment > Drilling waste]:  In Situ  North America Onshore Aspect: Products and services G4-DMA Environment SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-EN27 [Performance Data 7-9 > Environment > Ethanol blended into gasoline]:  Refining & Marketing Petro-Canada retail stations sell gasoline containing up to 10% ethanol in most markets. In addition, PetroCanada fuels are Top Tier certified. Use of Top Tier qualified gasolines promotes cleaner engines, reduced emissions and optimal fuel economy. At our upgrader and all of our refining facilities, we have introduced ultralow sulphur diesel (15 parts per million (ppm) sulphur or less) production to meet Canadian legislative requirements. Suncor supplies renewable content in diesel fuel, meeting a 2% federal mandate, a 4% mandate in British Columbia, SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) 2% mandate in Ontario, and 2% mandates in Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. Renewable diesel fuel reduces carbon monoxide as well as particulate emissions, which contribute to smog. We also have a biodiesel mixing facility at our Fort McMurray facility (ATT Terminal), seasonally supplying the mine and the local market with up to 5% biodiesel. Note that the mine operates on ultralow sulphur diesel with sulphur content of less than 15 ppm. OG8 [Performance Data > Environment > Sulphur content in fuels]:  Refining & Marketing Aspect: Compliance SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-DMA Environment G4-EN29 [Performance Data 8 > Environment > Regulatory contraventions and fines]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  North America Onshore  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing  St. Clair ethanol plant  Major Projects Aspect: Overall G4-DMA Environment G4-EN31 [Performance Data 7-9 > Environment > EH&S management]:  Suncor-wide Aspect: Environmental grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Environment SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-EN34 In 2016, 63 8 grievances, mostly related to environmental impacts, were documented through our formal grievance mechanism. Most concerned turbine noise from wind power projects in Southern Ontario. All of the grievances have been addressed and many have been resolved. Although all have been addressed, some may still be in progress and on their way to being resolved. Category: Social Expand all | Collapse all Sub-category: Labour practices and decent work DMA and Link or direct Omissions External UNGC Indicators answer Assurance [Performance data section > Data category > Indicator] • Company total and/or by business area Aspect: Employment SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-DMA Our employees G4-LA1 [Performance Data 6 > Social > New employee hires and employee turnover]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing G4-LA2 Information about our approach to compensation and benefits can be found on our careers page at Suncor.com G4-LA3 [Performance Data 6 > Social > Return to work and retention rates]:  Suncor-wide Aspect: Labour/management relations G4-DMA Our employees SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-LA4 Skilled Labour 3 Aspect: Occupational health and safety G4-DMA Our employees G4-LA5 Suncor’s workforce at Oil Sands, In Situ, Exploration & Production and Refining & Marketing that include operations are represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. These committees address health and safety concerns and provide guidance on required next steps. G4-LA6 [Performance Data Yes > Social > Injury frequencies and Performance fatalities]: Data  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing Occupational disease claims are SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) also reported internally as well as to the regulators for the applicable jurisdiction. Suncor also reports internally on incidence rates for non-occupational illnesses through our Integrated Disability Management program on an enterprise-wide level as well as by business unit. G4-LA7 Our operations are not in regions where our employees might inherently be at high risk to communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS, malaria or tuberculosis, or other serious diseases. Read more about our approach to occupational health and wellness G4-LA8 Skilled Labour Aspect: Training and education SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-DMA Our employees G4-LA9 [Performance Data Data for the 6 > Social > Training average hours of and development]: training per employee per year is currently  Suncor-wide unavailable. We  Oil Sands  East Coast Canada recently  Refining & transitioned to a Marketing new learning management system (LMS), allowing us to design, plan, deliver and track employee learning activities across the organization. We are determining how this solution will allow us to report more on this indicator in the near future. G4-LA10 Building Talent G4-LA11 [Performance Data 6 > Social > Employees receiving performance reviews]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA Our employees G4-LA12 Directors and 6 executive officers can be found in our Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2017 (PDF, 98 pp., 357 KB) (pp. 71-76) Employees by employee category are reported in the following performance data pages of this report: [Performance Data > Social > Minority group, gender and age indicators]:  Suncor-wide  Oil Sands  In Situ  East Coast Canada  Refining & Marketing Aspect: Equal remuneration for SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) women and men G4-DMA Our employees G4-LA13 [Performance Data 6 > Social > Percentage of basic salary (women to men)]:  Suncor-wide Sub-category: Society DMA and Link or direct Omissions External UNGC Indicators answer Assurance [Performance data section > Data category > Indicator] • Company total and/or by business area Aspect: Indigenous Rights OG9  Aboriginal 1, 2 Relations  Social responsibility Aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Social SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) responsibility G4-SO1  Social 1 responsibility  Partnering with Aboriginal businesses G4-SO2 Social 1 responsibility OG10 Social responsibility OG11 [Performance Data > Environment > Land disturbance & reclamation ]:  In Situ  North America Onshore Additional information:  Reclamation Aspect: Anticorruption G4-DMA Economic SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-SO3 Ethical business 10 conduct Risks around bribery and corruption related to our foreign operations can be found in our Annual Information Form dated March 1, 2017 (PDF, 98 pp., 357 KB) (p. 64-65) G4-SO4  Economic 10  Ethical business conduct Training specific to the prevention of improper payments is provided on a targeted basis to certain individuals in high-risk jobs and jurisdictions. Certain third party business associates are also provided with anticorruption training, based on assessed risk. SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) G4-SO5 No unlawful 10 bribery or corruption incidents were recorded in 2016, nor were any such actions brought against Suncor. Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Public policy participation G4-SO6 [Performance 10 Data > Economic > Political donations]:  Suncor-wide In past years, Suncor has made minimal political donations in areas where we operate, where permitted by law. Contributions since 2012 are disclosed on the lobbying and disclosure page of this report. As of June 1, 2016, Suncor no longer makes political contributions as a SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) matter of policy, except in exceptional circumstances. Aspect: Anticompetitive behaviour G4-DMA Economic G4-SO7 Ethical business conduct No regulatory enforcement actions were initiated for anticompetitive conduct against Suncor in 2016. Suncor’s business code of conduct provides that Suncor shall in the conduct of its business (a) avoid all practices and activities that are a violation of any provision of competition law, and (b) support and encourage the maintenance of a competitive SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) economy. Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Economic G4-SO8 There were no material fines or non-monetary sanctions levied on Suncor in 2016 for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Aspect: Asset integrity and process safety OG13 Process safety SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com) Sub-category: Product responsibility DMA and Link or direct Omissions External UNGC Indicators answer Assurance [Performance data section > Data category > Indicator] • Company total and/or by business area OG14 [Performance We currently do not Data > have formal Environment > processes in place Net production] that establish sustainability criteria for the biofuels we  St. Clair ethanol produce or plant purchase. Sustainability criteria for our produced/purchased [Performance biofuels aren’t Data > material for Suncor Environment > and therefore are Ethanol blended not reported. into gasoline]  Refining & Marketing SUNCOR ENERGY INC. REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY 2017 (full report available at https://sustainability.suncor.com)
