Innovation through diversity ANNUAL REVIEW 30 June 2017 About this report Welcome to Stockland’s 2017 Annual Review – reporting on our financial, social and environmental performance for the financial year, 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017. This is our sixth integrated report. We continue to evolve our approach to Integrated Reporting across our corporate reporting suite: integrating our sustainability strategy with our Group strategy, further streamlining our Financial Report, and providing more accessible content online. Our reporting approach and materiality is discussed in detail on page 63-67. For Stockland, integrated reporting is a journey toward more meaningful corporate reporting and is a process of continuous improvement, one that we believe will provide great benefit to both our organisation and our stakeholders. Our full corporate reporting suite for 2017 includes: Annual Review Focusing on strategy, corporate governance, and our integrated financial, (online only) social and environmental performance. Financial Report A detailed account of our FY17 financial performance. Property Portfolio Details on each of the assets within our portfolio, updated every six months. Sustainability Reporting Our in-depth sustainability performance, case studies and management approaches (online only) in accordance with GRI G4 “comprehensive”. Shareholder Review A concise version of the Annual Review sent to all our securityholders. Copies of all reports are available online at: www.stockland.com.au/ corporate-reporting CONTENTS Letter from the Chairman 02 Letter from the Managing Director and CEO 04 Our performance 06 Our business and strategy 11 Governance and remuneration 19 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Grow asset returns and our customer base 29 Capital strength 35 Operational excellence 39 CREATING SHARED VALUE Shape thriving communities 43 Optimise and innovate 49 Enrich our value chain 57 Our reporting approach 63 Assurance 68 Stockland is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption and the Sustainable Development Goal of the UNGC. Stockland’s Sustainability Reporting also serves as its UNGC Communication on Progress. FEEDBACK We welcome your questions and value your feedback about our reporting approach. Please contact us at reporting@stockland.com.au. Follow us at @stockland Find us at linkedin.com/company/Stockland About this report | 01 Letter from the Chairman Our focus on delivering diverse and affordable housing options for all Australians, coupled with positive market conditions, resulted in record Residential and Retirement Living sales. TOM POCKETT CHAIRMAN Dear Securityholders, Within the financial year we made good Our focus remains on owner occupiers and progress on our Commercial Property first home buyers, placing us in a preferred It was a great honour to be invited by position for residential lending trends and development pipeline. The first stage my fellow board directors to become government growth initiatives. opening of our $412 million Stockland Green Chairman last October. Hills shopping centre redevelopment in Our Retirement Living development I am pleased to report that Stockland Maitland, NSW, was well received by locals, pipeline is also proceeding well and delivered a strong result across and our customers in Ballarat eagerly we remain committed to providing high our diversified portfolio for the 2017 anticipate the opening of our $37 million quality retirement living options for financial year. This outcome is a result redevelopment of Stockland Wendouree. our residents. We delivered our Urban of the disciplined and consistent Development Institute of Australia (UDIA) Our Logistics and Business Parks portfolio implementation of our strategy. award winning apartments at Cardinal achieved strong comparable FFO growth with positive leasing results. Recent Freeman The Residences in Sydney’s STRENGTH THROUGH DIVERSITY industrial redevelopments in Sydney inner-west, our vertical village at Birtinya, Funds from operations (FFO) grew by 8.5% and Melbourne were completed on Sunshine Coast is making good progress, to $802 million and FFO per security grew budget and fully leased. and planning is underway at a number 7.4% on the prior year. This was slightly of brownfield projects. above our previous guidance range for the Our focus on delivering diverse and year. Statutory profit was $1,195 million, affordable housing options for all Australians, DISTRIBUTION up 34.4%. coupled with positive market conditions, resulted in record Residential and As forecast, our full year distribution In our Commercial Property business, Retirement Living sales. was 25.5 cents per security, representing our Retail Town Centres are the largest a payout ratio of 77% of funds from component of our portfolio. We delivered Profitability of our Residential business operations. 3.5% comparable FFO growth, and improved strongly, at 17.4% growth on the previous year. A record 6,604 lots were We saw a good take-up of our distribution continued to remix our assets to reflect reinvestment plan with over 20% of securities changing customer trends. settled in the financial year, with 75% of sales to owner occupiers and more participating, providing funds for our than 50% of net deposits coming accretive development pipeline. from first home buyers. We are targeting to increase distributions We have made a number of strategic land by 4% to 26.5 cents per security in FY18, acquisitions over the past 12 months to assuming there is no material change significantly restock our portfolio, acquiring in market conditions. 9,900 lots. The majority of these are in the high-performing Melbourne market. Our landbank now totals over 80,000 future housing lots nationally. 02 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 GOVERNANCE The expectations being placed on companies continue to evolve and the The expectations Board closely monitors and engages being placed on with these changing expectations, which go to the heart of our ability to deliver companies continue long term value. to evolve and the The Board is committed to an open and transparent relationship with stakeholders. Board closely monitors We believe we have the right mix of skills and engages with and experience to oversee a high standard of governance, integrity and accountability. these changing In July we were delighted to welcome expectations, which Andrew Stevens to the Board. Andrew is a highly regarded director with extensive go to the heart of expertise in the technology sector and our ability to deliver significant commercial experience. He has strengthened the breadth and long term value. depth of knowledge and leadership capabilities on our Board and we look forward to his contribution. As required by the Stockland Constitution, Andrew will offer himself for election by We have also retained our global securityholders at the 2017 Annual General sustainability leadership credentials. Meeting on 25 October 2017. We were named Global Real Estate Sector Leader by both the S&P Dow STRONG CULTURE Jones Sustainability Indices and GRESB The Board recognises and promotes (the Global Real Estate Sustainability the importance of a strong culture and Benchmark) in the category Diversified the shared benefits that this can bring – Retail/Office. to employees and securityholders. Our employees have all contributed CONCLUSION to the strong result for the year. It is Thank you to my Board colleagues and our also pleasing that we maintained a high employees for their continued enthusiasm employee engagement score of 82%, and dedication to delivering exceptional with 95% of respondents saying they are outcomes. The Board and I are confident willing to work above and beyond what we have the right management and strategy is required to help Stockland succeed. in place and look forward to discussing Our safety and employee turnover metrics these results with you at our Annual improved and we were recognised by General Meeting in October. the Workplace Gender Equity Agency (WGEA) as an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality. Our focus on sustainability remains, with many key achievements during the year including Aura, our largest masterplanned TOM POCKETT community, achieving the highest ever CHAIRMAN Green Star Communities Rating – World Leadership – of any greenfield community in Australia. Letter from the Chairman | 03 Letter from the Managing Director and CEO We continue to see the benefits of our disciplined approach to implementing our strategy – to grow our asset returns and improve customer experiences, deliver operational excellence, and improve our capital strength. MARK STEINERT MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO Dear Securityholders, Our centres combine traditional, everyday Our leadership in housing affordability shopping needs with food, entertainment, initiatives, and commitment to delivering We’ve delivered another positive a range of options for first home buyers and lifestyle and services, and are the ‘town performance this financial year across families, places us in a preferred position for centres’ of their communities. Specialty our diversified business, by reinforcing residential lending trends and government store sales productivity grew 1.9% to $9,072 our position as the leading creator of growth initiatives. per square metre, which exceeds the Urbis communities in Australia, strategically sub-regional average by 8.3%. repositioning our assets, and restocking Our Retirement Living business also the portfolio. Our Logistics and Business Parks business delivered its fourth consecutive year had an outstanding year. Occupancy of double-digit growth. Operating profit We continue to see the benefits of our was up 11.1% on FY16, reflecting strong increased to 99% and the portfolio now disciplined approach to implementing sales, active management of our portfolio represents 15% of our total assets. our strategy – to grow our asset returns and improved margins. and improve customer experiences, The Sydney office portfolio also performed deliver operational excellence, and well this year, where the majority of our Our developments are progressing well improve our capital strength. assets are located. The Perth and Canberra and we are broadening our customer reach markets remain challenging, but we are through our new non-deferred management GROW OUR ASSET RETURNS seeing positive leasing momentum fee communities for over 55s, called ‘Aspire’, AND CUSTOMER BASE at our properties. with two projects underway. Commercial Property accounts for around Our Residential business settled a record We take pride in our retirement living 70% of our assets and remains a key profit 6,604 lots, up 7.6% on FY16, achieved business, and we are committed to open, driver, delivering comparable growth in funds significant operating profit (FFO) growth transparent and respectful relationships from operations of 3.4% across the portfolio, of 17.4%, and lifted return on assets to with our residents. Every year, we run with 3.5% in Retail, 3.6% in Logistics and 20.8% on the core portfolio. Importantly, independent surveys of residents to better Business Parks, and 2.3% in Office. strategic metropolitan acquisitions with understand their satisfaction levels with In a challenging environment, our retail strong transport links added around our service. Last year, more than 6,800 business delivered positive income growth, 9,900 lots to inventory during the period. residents responded to this survey, maintained high occupancy and continued We commence FY18 with record pre-sales and rated their overall satisfaction to focus on remixing our portfolio in line of 5,811 lots. with Stockland as 8.4 out of 10. with our customer needs and trade We have continued to expand our area dynamics. medium density business, with 213 homes settled this year and close to 600 currently under construction. Medium density development is a key growth driver for our residential business as we extend our focus on community creation into the important “missing middle” of our major capital cities. 04 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 CAPITAL STRENGTH OUTLOOK Our focus on maintaining a strong balance sheet has underpinned this solid result and In the year ahead, we expect positive economic conditions to continue, and Our focus on sets a good platform for future growth. interest rates to remain fairly stable. maintaining a strong We commence the financial year well Gearing at the end of FY17 was 22.7%, at placed to meet our goals of sustainable balance sheet has the lower end of our 20-30% target range, due to disciplined capital management profit growth on a through the cycle basis, with strong occupancy and pre-sales. underpinned this and operating cash flows. While lending conditions to investors solid result and sets We retained an A-/stable credit rating from Standard and Poor’s and also obtained and foreign buyers are tightening, a good platform for owner occupiers remain our core focus a new comparable A3 rating from Moody’s and represent 75% of our net residential future growth. in August 2017. This confirms the strength sales, with less than 3% of total buyers of our balance sheet and provides access requiring Foreign Investment Review to a broader range of debt markets, Board approval. positioning the business well to continue to grow in the future. We expect FY18 FFO growth to be slightly lower than FY17 primarily due OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE to non-Sydney office let-up assumptions, We continue to progress implementation higher Commercial Property outgoings, of new systems, including Salesforce and particularly electricity prices, and lower SAP, which will improve efficiencies across Retirement Living development profit our business. reflecting project timing. We have also introduced new digital Our disciplined approach to acquisitions technology in our assets, including and our focus on creating the most liveable virtual masterplans at some of our new and connected communities and their town communities and our Geni app trial at centres set us up well for the future. Stockland Balgowlah. We will continue Assuming no material change in market to look at ways to introduce technology conditions, we are targeting growth to enhance our customers’ experience in FFO per security of 5.0-6.5% in FY18, across our assets. with growth skewed to the first half due Once again, we were recognised as to timing of residential settlements, a global leader for our sustainability with distribution per security growth credentials and we remain committed targeted at 4%, representing 26.5 to excellence in this space. Stockland cents per security. has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2015, and we remain committed to its principles and to promoting the Global Compact where we operate. I am pleased to confirm our continued support of this important initiative. MARK STEINERT MANAGING DIRECTOR AND CEO Letter from the Managing Director and CEO | 05 Our performance 06 | Our key financial metrics DISTRIBUTION PER SECURITY (¢) STATUTORY PROFIT ($M) 25.5¢ $1,195m FY17 25.5 FY17 1,195 FY16 24.5 FY16 889 FY15 24.0 FY15 903 FY14 24.0 FY14 527 FY13 24.0 FY13 105 The distribution payable for the full year ended 30 June 2017 is Our statutory profit increase was underpinned by the strong 25.5 cents per ordinary stapled security. Our distribution policy is FFO performance and growth in our business. Statutory profit to pay the higher of 100% of Trust taxable income or 75–85% of FFO. includes significant fair value adjustments. The largest component comprised increased valuations from our Commercial Property portfolio, driven by continued capitalisation rate compression and income growth. FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) ($M) FFO PER SECURITY (¢) $802m 33.4¢ FY17 802 FY17 33.4 FY16 740 FY16 31.1 FY15 657 FY15 28.0 FY14 573 FY14 24.8 FY13 472 FY13 21.3 FFO has replaced underlying profit as our primary reporting FFO per security was 33.4 cents, up 7.4% on FY16. measure. FFO has been determined with reference to the Property Council of Australia’s guidelines. It excludes adjustments such as unrealised fair value gains/losses, realised transactions occurring infrequently and those that are outside the course of our core ongoing business activities. NET TANGIBLE ASSETS (NTA) PER SECURITY ($) ADJUSTED FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (AFFO) ($M) $4.04 $687m 10.3% on FY16 FY17 4.04 FY16 3.82 AFFO PER SECURITY (¢) 28.6¢ FY15 3.68 FY14 FY13 3.53 3.50 8.7% on FY16 Our NTA per security increased by 5.8% to $4.04, reflecting income AFFO has been determined with reference to the Property Council growth and an average 20 basis points tightening in capitalisation of Australia’s voluntary disclosure guidelines to help investors and rates on our Commercial Property portfolio. analysts compare Australian real estate organisations. For Stockland, the key differences between FFO and AFFO relate to cash paid for incentives and leasing costs, and maintenance capital expenditure. These items are deducted from FFO to determine AFFO. Our performance | 07 Our key performance outcomes OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Grow asset returns and our customer base COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Retail town centres Logistics and Business Parks Office FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS (FFO) $419m 4.1% Comparable FFO ↑ 3.5% $143m 8.3% Comparable FFO ↑ 3.6% $59m 13.2% Comparable FFO ↑ 2.3% OCCUPANCY (STABLE ASSETS) OCCUPANCY (STABLE ASSETS) OCCUPANCY (STABLE ASSETS) 99.5% 99.0% 91.4% RETAILER SATISFACTION TENANT SATISFACTION WEIGHTED AVERAGE LEASE EXPIRY 75% 89% 3.6 years WEIGHTED AVERAGE LEASE EXPIRY WEIGHTED AVERAGE LEASE EXPIRY RETURN ON ASSETS 6.6 years 4.5 years 8.4% RETURN ON ASSETS RETURN ON ASSETS 8.1% 8.0% DEVELOPMENT UNDERWAY DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE $449m with a $1.0bn pipeline $680m Residential Retirement Living OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT $270m 17.4% $63m 11.1% LOTS SETTLED SETTLEMENTS 6,604 1,050 RESIDENT LIVEABILITY OCCUPANCY 83% 95.0% OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN RESIDENT SATISFACTION 15.3% 84% RETURN ON ASSETS CASH RETURN ON ASSETS 15.2% 6.2% 08 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Capital strength Operational excellence S&P RATING RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE)2 A-/stable 11.4% from 11.0% MOODY’S RATING CORE SYSTEMS PROGRAM PROGRESS Successful implementation of Salesforce A3 1 and SAP SuccessFactors modules GEARING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORE 82%, seven points above 22.7% Australian National Norm WEIGHTED AVERAGE DEBT MATURITY CITATION BY WGEA (WORKPLACE GENDER EQUALITY AGENCY) Employer of Choice for Women 5.7 years for 3rd consecutive year WEIGHTED AVERAGE COST OF DEBT 5.4% GLOBAL LEADERSHIP IN SUSTAINABILITY OPERATING CASH FLOWS $921m from $787m WORLD DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDEX 2016–17 Global Real Estate Industry Leader; 4th year listed as global leader GLOBAL REAL ESTATE SUSTAINABILITY BENCHMARK (GRESB) Global Sector Leader for Diversified – Office/Retail sector CDP RECOGNITION Position on the Climate A list for leading global climate performance 1 Moody’s rating received August 2017 2 Excludes work out assets Our performance | 09 CREATING SHARED VALUE Shape thriving Optimise Enrich our communities and innovate value chain RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES WELLBEING ELECTRICITY INTENSITY REDUCTIONS SINCE FY06 EMPLOYEE FLEXIBLE WORK OPTIONS Personal Wellbeing Average Score of 79%, 35% across Retail and 70% of employees now work flexibly above the national average of 72-76% 51% across Office and Business Parks Over $78 million saved RETIREMENT LIVING RESIDENT WELLBEING NABERS ENERGY RATINGS DIVERSITY Personal Wellbeing Index score of 82%, Exceeded target 4.5 star average 45.9% women in management above national average 72-76% for Office and Business Parks NEW SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE GREEN STAR – COMMUNITIES SAFETY Three new inclusive play spaces Six Residential communities achieved Corporate LTIFR of 1.8, developed with Touched by Olivia 5 star or 6 star ratings down from 4.0 in FY16 STOCKLAND COMMUNITY GRANTS PROGRAM WASTE DIVERSION FROM LANDFILL STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 320 local community organisations, 96% of Residential and 84% of Retail Aura Engagement Excellence Program – awarded $303,000 in total waste diverted (from FY15-17) Property Council Project Innovation Award COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION BIODIVERSITY SAVINGS ENABLING ENDURING EMPLOYMENT $6 million invested in community Around 1,972 hectares of land 74 job placements at the Connectivity development initiatives reserved for protection in perpetuity Centre at Stockland Green Hills 10 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Our business and strategy Our vision is to be a great Australian real estate company that makes a valuable contribution to our communities and our country. | 11 Our business Stockland is one of the largest diversified property groups in Australia with more than $16.6 billion of real estate assets. As Australia’s largest community creator we own, manage and develop shopping centres, logistics centres and business parks, office assets, residential communities, and retirement living villages. Founded in 1952, today Stockland leverages Our primary objective is to deliver earnings To optimise value to securityholders a diversified model to help create thriving per security growth and total risk-adjusted we are structured as a stapled security: communities with dynamic town centres securityholder returns above the Australian a combination of a unit in Stockland Trust where people live, shop and work. Our vision Real Estate Investment Trust index average, and a share in Stockland Corporation, is to be a great Australian real estate company by creating quality communities and traded together as one security on the that makes a valuable contribution to our property assets and delivering great Australian Securities Exchange. This stapled communities and our country. customer experiences. structure allows us to efficiently undertake property investment, property management and property development activities to create sustainable risk/reward outcomes. WE ARE WELL POSITIONED WITH A DIVERSE PORTFOLIO 13 3 1 Retail 4 2 1 25 10 Logistics and Business Parks 6 2 Office 1 11 Residential 17 16 6 Retirement Living 10 23 6 8 15 28 12 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Our portfolio 41 RETAIL TOWN CENTRES 3,500+ retailers 421,000+ customers every day $7.1 billion in value 1 million+ sqm of gross lettable area $6.7 billion+ p.a. retail sales 27 146 tenants LOGISTICS CENTRES AND BUSINESS PARKS 1.4 million sqm $2.0 billion in value 8 OFFICE BUILDINGS $0.8 billion in value 140,000+ sqm of net lettable area 168 tenants 56 RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES 127 families move in every week 80,400 lots remaining ~$21.1 billion*total end value 65 RETIREMENT LIVING VILLAGES 11,900+ residents 9,600+ established units 2,900+ units in development pipeline $1.3 billion funds employed * Excluding value on projects identified for disposal For more information see our Property Portfolio www.stockland.com.au/property-portfolio Our business and strategy | 13 Our strategy OUR GROUP BUSINESS STRATEGY HAS THREE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: Grow asset returns and our customer base Driving returns in our core businesses and providing great customer experiences Operational excellence Improving the way we operate across the Group to drive efficiencies, compliance, sustainability and employee engagement Capital strength Actively managing our balance sheet to maintain diverse funding sources and an efficient cost of capital OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our sustainability strategy integrates with our business strategy and priorities, providing a better way Community to deliver shared value for all Health & Connection Wellbeing Education stakeholders. We have three core sustainability priorities: • Shape thriving communities E THRIVING • Optimise and innovate SHAP UN COMM ITIES • Enrich our value chain C Str apita t We pursue each sustainability priority en l Asse gt ow s & through action in several focus areas. h Gr eturn r Base R ome We explore our sustainability priorities st Cu and focus areas throughout this review. Stakeholder FY17 marks the end of our three-year Biodiversity OU I Engagement sustainability targets. To enable & OPT IC H HA I N IM continuous improvement we have Governance E N R UE C N O IS E Water Management & Risk VAL R V AT E & Quality set new targets for FY18-FY20. Supply N Carbon Chain O p e r at i on a l & Energy We have also committed to a longerE x cel le n c e Waste & term carbon intensity reduction target Employees DE L I VE UE Materials R I N G S HA RE D V A L of 60 per cent for our Commercial Property portfolio. 14 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Responding to our challenges and opportunities Stockland adopts a rigorous approach to understanding and proactively managing the risks faced in its business. We recognise that making business decisions that involve calculated risks, and managing these risks within sensible tolerances, is fundamental to creating long-term value for securityholders and meeting commitments to our employees, tenants, customers, business partners, consultants and the communities in which we do business. Various risks could impact our business, and the nature and potential impact of these risks change over time. For example climate change risks and opportunities are reflected in several risks listed below: extreme weather events, changing regulation, and the ability to develop products that meet anticipated future demand. Read more on page 50. Our risks include, but are not limited to: SHORT TERM – STRATEGY EXECUTION Risk Our response Increased competition and changing Continue to: market conditions impact our • maintain a diversified business model at scale in each sector opportunities for growth • reinvest in our assets to meet changing customer needs • focus on retaining a strong balance sheet with appropriate gearing • use diverse funding sources • concentrate on efficiency and cost management • maintain a prudent approach to provisioning • replenish our land and asset pipeline • maintain discipline and agility in our investment decision-making • use a rigorous whole-of-business approach informed by detailed research to drive our capital allocation process Systems enhancements affect As part of our continued investment in the efficiency of our operations, we have made business process efficiency significant progress on improving the Group’s systems capabilities including the successful implementation of Salesforce and SAP SuccessFactors. Deployment of further SAP and Salesforce capabilities will continue during next year. We continue to maintain two-way engagement with employees to enable a smooth transition. Housing affordability is increasingly Our Residential business is influenced by the dynamics of the Australian housing market. Housing challenging in Australia affordability remains of key concern for Australians as the price of housing and rental properties continues to increase. We believe a suite of measures is required to unlock housing supply and address affordability. Our affordability initiatives in Queensland, New South Wales and Victoria have given first home buyers priority to purchase land and get a foothold in the market. We will also continue to: • partner with government and industry to drive solutions • provide a broader mix of value-for-money housing options including house and land packages, completed housing, medium density and apartments • balance the demand from home owners and investors so that our residential communities remain attractive to future buyers Extreme weather, security risks and Continue to: price shocks impact business continuity • train our employees and increase their risk awareness and community resilience • undertake regular scenario testing • engage with peers and across industries • invest in asset upgrades and adapt community design to improve resilience • assess and implement wholesale energy strategies and renewable energy installations Change within the retail sector The retail landscape is constantly evolving. Within the last 10 years the sector has seen impacts rental growth a convergence of technical advances, in particular e-commerce, changes in underlying consumer behaviour, and the entry of new, international retailers. These changes have challenged some of our retailers. We have been proactive and have pre-empted many of the changes. We continue to: • focus on experiential retail, services, food catering • redevelop our assets to create diverse, walkable town centres that form the social hub of the community • leverage deep customer insights and analytics to inform our tenant remixing Regulatory changes impact our Continue to: business and customers • engage with industry and government on policy areas including taxation and planning reform • develop in areas where governments support growth • focus on good practice to remain well positioned in the market and prepared for potential regulatory changes Our business and strategy | 15 LONGER TERM – CHANGING MARKETPLACE Risk Our response Ability to develop products that Continue to: meet anticipated future customer • foster a culture of innovation where we remain flexible, and identify and take advantage and societal demands of opportunities to leverage movements in stakeholder preferences • evolve our market-leading product innovation and deepen our customer insights using our proprietary Liveability Index research, Stockland Exchange (our online research community), Quantium (which provides data-driven customer insights to inform how we view markets and opportunities) and other data sources • focus on creating sustainable and liveable communities and assets, resilient to changes in climate • enhance our design excellence, providing greater functionality and value for money that meet the demands of Australia’s changing demographics, including an ageing population and more socially conscious Millennials Our ability to harness opportunities Continue to: arising from digital disruption • identify, develop and integrate technical enhancements across our business, including online residential and retirement living engagement opportunities • support Stockland retail centres as thriving community hubs by delivering quality services and community spaces that are e-enabled • promote employee innovation and collaboration through Ideas@Stockland to further enable us to take advantage of new opportunities Capital market volatility impacts Our long-term growth is dependent on our ability to access capital at the appropriate time our ability to access suitable capital and cost even as capital markets fluctuate in response to domestic and global economic shifts. Variable economic activity and changing capitalisation rates may impact the valuation of our assets. So that we are able to continue to raise sufficient capital to fund growth, we will continue to: • focus on retaining a strong balance sheet at appropriate levels of gearing • maintain and increase access to diverse funding sources • maintain our prudent capital management policies Ability to adapt our operating model Physical and organisational boundaries are becoming increasingly blurred as new to meet the changing nature of the technology enables greater workplace flexibility, including when and where employees workforce work, and encourages creative and adaptive teamwork. This year we successfully deployed Office365, Salesforce and SAP SuccessFactors to improve collaboration and flexible working. We will continue to: • encourage flexible work practices supported by our new collaboration platforms • train our senior leaders to be more agile and resilient through programs such as our Stockland Leadership Experience Increasing expectation on corporates Community expectations on the social and behavioural operations of a “good corporate” are changing. Corporates are increasingly expected to work in partnership with the community and government on societal issues. We are well placed to meet these expectations and have a strong reputation for sustainability leadership and community development. The risks and opportunities listed above align with our material matters. Read more on page 64. More information on Stockland’s risk management policy is available at stockland.com.au/about-stockland/corporate-governance 16 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Our value chain This diagram demonstrates what we control and influence across the value chain. In FY14 we launched our medium-density and completed homes program. This is allowing us to broaden our customer reach. Currently undertaken by Stockland Currently undertaken by Stockland or coordinated using external parties Not currently undertaken by Stockland 1. Upstream 2. Funding 3. Acquisition 4. Design 5. Procurement, 6. Leasing 7. Asset and 8. Refurbish/ 9. Downstream products contracting & and sales property re-development products construction management • Building Downstream CAPITAL PARTNERING BALANCE SHEET DETAILED DESIGN MASTERPLANNING LEASING SALES ASSET MANAGEMENT PROPERTY materials services are • Building associated with MANAGEMENT the ongoing AND APPROVALS technologies operation of our properties and are not undertaken by Stockland. RETIREMENT LIVING They include: • Child care • Equipment leasing • Warehouse management RESIDENTIAL • Cleaning and security • Catering • Utilities provision RETAIL • Payments processing LOGISTICS & BUSINESS PARKS OFFICE Detailed Design Building and Sales By design Construction By commercial consultants By contractors agents Our business and strategy | 17 Stakeholder engagement We have a commitment to developing and maintaining strong relationships with a broad range of stakeholders across our diverse business, and understanding and responding to their unique perceptions, needs and concerns. We practice open, honest, two-way communication and recognise the mutual benefits that result from genuine engagement for both our business and our stakeholders. At Stockland, we recognise the importance of engaging regularly and directly with all our stakeholder groups so that we understand their expectations, issues and concerns. Our key stakeholders How we engage Employees Our annual Our Voice employee survey measures employee engagement across the organisation. We have 1,578 employees in Australia. Employees are also provided with opportunities to provide feedback on specific issues throughout the year. Our intranet, stockXchange, is a key source of business news, activities and policies, and is updated each business day. Our annual interstate roadshow and bi-annual results Town Halls provide an opportunity for our Executive Committee to interact with employees in each capital city where we operate and provide an update on our strategy and performance. Employees are able to ask questions anonymously or directly to our Executive Committee as part of these roadshows and throughout the year. For more information on our engagement with employees refer to Operational Excellence (page 39), Enrich Our Value Chain (page 57) and our Employee Engagement, Development, Diversity and Inclusion Deep Dive. Government and regulators We engage regularly with all levels of government in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Federal, state and local governments set the Western Australia, South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory, both directly and regulatory environment in which we operate. through industry associations. We also engage with the federal government. Our policy is to make no political donations to politicians or political parties at any level of government. For more information on our engagement with government and regulators see the Government and Industry Relations update in our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive. Securityholders and We provide investor briefings on our strategy and financial results. At our Annual General the investment community Meeting, securityholders can engage with our Board of Directors and are updated on our We have over 51,000 securityholders strategy and performance. Our management also meet regularly with institutional investors. in Australia and overseas. For more information on our engagement with securityholders and investors see the Investor Relations update in our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive. Customers We regularly seek feedback from customers through surveys and research, and we incorporate We have daily contact with a diverse feedback into our product design and service offerings. range of customers, including commercial, Customer Relations Management Systems are in place across all our businesses to support retail and industrial tenants, shoppers regular, effective and responsive engagement with our customers. in our retail centres, our residential For more information on our engagement with our customers refer to Grow Asset Returns community customers and residents and our Customer Base (page 29), Shape Thriving Communities (page 43) and our Customer in our retirement villages. Engagement and Experience Deep Dive. Suppliers Spend associated with the development of our assets accounts for approximately 80 per cent We procure services and products from of our annual direct procurement spend, with operational and corporate procurement each over 3,600 active suppliers, with the top representing approximately 10 per cent of annual procured spend. 100 suppliers representing approximately We actively monitor and engage with our suppliers. Our strategic suppliers (predominantly 75 per cent of our spend. involved in the development and construction of our assets) are pre-qualified to ensure they have the capability and proven ability to meet general and project-specific sustainability and quality requirements. This involves an assessment of the occupational health and safety systems, financial viability, environmental, social and sustainability capabilities of suppliers. For more information on our engagement with suppliers see Enrich Our Value Chain (page 57) and our Supply Chain Management Deep Dive. Communities Our engagement with communities includes community and consultation forums, one-on-one The people who reside, work or engage meetings with community groups and local leaders, as well as surveys and research. in the areas where we operate. For more information on our engagement with communities see Shape Thriving Communities (page 43) and our Community Deep Dive. Media We regularly engage with the media to provide information about our business that supports We interact with journalists across a wide clearer and more accurate reporting. spectrum of local, regional, metropolitan and We aim to respond promptly to requests for information about our business activities. national print and electronic media outlets. For more information on our engagement with media see the Media Relations update in our Stakeholder Engagement Deep Dive. 18 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Governance and remuneration The Stockland Board oversees the high standard of corporate governance, integrity and accountability required of a professional and ethical organisation. | 19 Corporate governance The Board believes that Stockland’s governance accords fully with the principles and recommendations of the ASX Corporate Governance Council as summarised in our corporate governance statement at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/ corporate-governance. Tom Pockett Carolyn Hewson Barry Neil Stephen Newton Chairman Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive ROLE OF THE BOARD (non-executive) The Board has overall responsibility for the good governance of Stockland. The Board: • Oversees the development and implementation of Stockland’s corporate strategy, operational performance objectives and management policies with a view to creating sustainable long-term value for securityholders; Nora Scheinkestel Carol Schwartz Mark Steinert Non-executive Non-executive Managing Director • Oversees the development and and CEO implementation of Stockland’s overall framework of governance, New Board Director Andrew Stevens risk management, internal control and Mr Stevens joined the Board in July 2017. He is a highly regarded compliance, which underpins the integrity director with extensive expertise in the technology sector and of management information systems significant commercial experience. and financial reporting and fosters high As required by the Stockland Constitution, Andrew will offer himself ethical standards throughout Stockland; for election by securityholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting • Appoints the Managing Director, approves Andrew Stevens on 25 October 2017. the appointment of the Company Secretary Non-executive and Senior Executives reporting to the Managing Director, and determines the level of authority delegated to the The Board aims to ensure that its COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY Managing Director; securityholders are kept well-informed OF THE BOARD of all major developments and business Stockland is committed to having a Board • Sets Executive remuneration policy, events that are likely to materially affect whose members have the capacity to act monitors Senior Executive performance Stockland’s operations and financial independently of management, and have and approves the performance objectives standing and the market price of its the collective skills and diversity of experience and remuneration of the Managing securities. Further information in relation necessary to optimise the long-term financial Director and his or her direct reports, to communication with Stockland’s performance of Stockland so as to deliver and reviews Senior Executive and securityholders is located on the long-term sustainable profitable returns Board succession planning and Stockland website. to securityholders. As at the date of this Board performance; Stockland’s Directors, Senior Executives report, the Board comprised one Executive • Approves and monitors the Director and seven Non-Executive Directors. and employees are required to maintain annual budget, business plans, The Boards of Stockland Corporation high ethical standards of conduct. financial statements, financial policies Limited and Stockland Trust Management Stockland’s Code of Conduct (the ‘Code’) and financial reporting and major Limited have the same Directors. Directors’ is periodically reviewed and endorsed by capital expenditure, acquisitions details are listed on pages 18 to 22 of our the Board and covers dealings with both and divestitures; Financial Report, including details of their external parties and internal operations. • Determines and adopts dividend and Further information in relation to the Code other listed company Directorships distribution policies for Stockland; is located on the Stockland website. and experience. • Oversees compliance with laws and regulations that apply to Stockland and its businesses; and • Appoints and monitors the independence of Stockland’s external auditors. Further information on Stockland’s governance including our policies can be found at stockland.com.au/corporate-governance 20 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 S AND EXPERIENCE SKILL IN 2 O ARD 017 B Environment, Property social & management governance & investment People The Board recognises management & executive Property & community development the advantage of having remuneration a mix of relevant business, Construction Accounting, executive and professional audit & risk & project management experience on the Board, the importance of cultural Government & regulatory Retailing & customer and ethical values, and marketing the benefits of diversity, Technology Industrial including gender diversity. (including digital) supply chain logistics Funds Banking management & finance The Board recognises the advantage including CEO and CFO positions, covering DIRECTOR REMUNERATION of having a mix of relevant business, a wide range of industry sectors, or they AND SECURITIES OWNERSHIP executive and professional experience have held senior positions in relevant To underpin the alignment of Directors on the Board, the importance of cultural finance and accounting disciplines. and securityholder interests, the Board and ethical values, and the benefits believes that Directors should hold The Board also believes that it is important of diversity, including gender diversity. a meaningful number of Stockland to maintain a range of director tenures The Board has identified a range of core securities. In August 2015 the Board to facilitate orderly Board renewal while skills and experience that will assist the revised its existing policy to increase maintaining valuable continuity and corporate Board collectively to fulfil its oversight role the minimum number of securities knowledge among Directors. As at 30 June effectively. These include experience with each Non-Executive Director is required 2017, of the seven Directors, including the property investment and management, to acquire from 10,000 to 40,000 securities Managing Director, four had tenure of less property and community development, within a reasonable time of becoming than six years, two had tenure of between construction and project management, a Director. The increased minimum roughly six and nine years and one had served retailing and consumer marketing, equates to one year’s base Board fees. for more than nine years. In August 2016 technology (including digital), industrial All new Directors will have a period and October 2016, Mr Peter Scott and supply chain logistics, funds management, of three years to comply with this policy Mr Graham Bradley retired from the Board banking and finance, government and and any existing Directors who hold less respectively and Mr Andrew Stevens was regulatory relations and environmental, than 40,000 securities will have until appointed to the Board on 1 July 2017. social and governance matters. It is also 30 June 2018 to comply. Stockland also These changes reflect the ongoing succession advantageous for some Board members has a policy regarding the minimum planning and renewal programme for the to have experience in the audit and risk securityholdings for Senior Executives Board. In defining the Board’s requirements management field, capital management, as set out in the Remuneration Report. for new Directors, consideration is given mergers and acquisitions, people Both these policies are intended to to the skills, professional experience, management and executive remuneration. align the personal financial interests and educational backgrounds of continuing The Board believes that the core skills of of Directors and Senior Executives members of the Board, the organisation’s importance to Stockland are well represented with those of securityholders. strategy and any identified skills required among the current Directors. In addition, to supplement the Board’s capabilities most Directors have occupied senior as the organisation’s strategy evolves. executive management positions in large Criteria used include the value of gender corporations both in Australia and globally, diversity on the Board. Governance and remuneration | 21 BOARD COMMITTEES Four permanent Board Committees have been established to assist in the execution of the Board’s responsibilities: Human Resources Committee The Human Resources Committee incorporates the functions of two Board Committees recommended by the ASX Guidelines: a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Human Resources Committee seeks to ensure that there is a strong link between employee reward, Stockland’s performance and ultimately securityholder returns. The Human Resources Committee also seeks to ensure that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is designed to attract and retain talented and experienced individuals. Refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 51 of our Financial Report for further information. Audit Committee The Board has delegated oversight for the preparation of Stockland’s financial reports and the maintenance of a sound financial reporting control environment to the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee works in conjunction with the Sustainability Committee, Human Resources Committee and Risk Committee to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities for ensuring Stockland has adopted and maintains appropriate corporate governance procedures. Risk Committee The Board as a whole is ultimately responsible for the sound management of risk and compliance across the organisation. The purpose of the Risk Committee is to assist the Board to fulfil its risk governance responsibilities. The Risk Committee provides a board-level forum to oversee Stockland’s risk culture and review the effectiveness of risk identification and management including the structures, processes and management systems within Stockland’s overall risk management framework. Sustainability Committee Stockland recognises that a sustainable future for its business depends upon the sustainability of the communities, economy and society in which it operates. The purpose of the Sustainability Committee is to consider the social, environmental and ethical impact of Stockland’s business activities; major corporate responsibility and sustainability initiatives and changes in policy; and stakeholder communication about Stockland’s corporate and sustainability policies. Financial Services Compliance Committee The Financial Services Compliance Committee was responsible for monitoring and reviewing (Incorporated into the Audit Committee the effectiveness of the Compliance Plan in respect of Stockland Trust and its controlled entities from February 2016) and in ensuring adherence to applicable laws and regulations. The Compliance Plan is designed to protect the interests of securityholders. The Compliance Plan for Stockland Trust and its controlled entities has been approved by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC). The Financial Services Compliance Committee met regularly and was required to report breaches of the law and Constitution to the Board, which is required to report any material breach of the Compliance Plan to ASIC. The membership and the procedures for the Committee meetings are set out in the Board Committee Charter located, together with the charters for each Board Committee (except the Financial Services Compliance Committee) on the Stockland website at stockland.com.au/corporate-governance 22 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Remuneration Stockland is committed to an executive remuneration framework that supports Following a review of the competitiveness of Stockland’s objectives. These are to deliver Stockland’s Remuneration Framework relative growth in earning per security (EPS) and total risk-adjusted securityholder returns to our property industry peers, the Board has made above the average Australian Real Estate four changes, which applied from FY17. Investment Trust index, to create quality property assets and to deliver value for our customers. OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK • To make our long-term incentive program simpler and more transparent, we awarded LTI grants based on the face value of Stockland’s securities at the time of grant, rather Stockland’s remuneration policies are than the fair value methodology which we had used for the past 10 years. framed around several key principles, including: • To make our long-term incentive plan more reflective of Stockland’s performance • Fixed Pay should be fair, competitive compared with our major competitors we measure our relative TSR performance and regularly benchmarked against against a tailored index rather than the ASX AREIT 200 Index excluding Stockland. market practice; • Consistent with the focus on Funds From Operations (FFO) as our key financial • A significant portion of executive measure, the Earnings Per Security component on the LTI awards from FY17 will remuneration should be ‘at risk’; that be based on Growth in FFO per security. LTI awards made before FY17 will remain is, awarded only if clear performance based on Underlying Profit. criteria set in advance are achieved; • Based on benchmarking with our peers, and to further weight short-term • ‘At risk’ or variable pay should be remuneration towards “at risk” compensation, we increased the potential maximum aligned to securityholder interests; STI opportunity that our Senior Executives may earn, subject to their performance • Variable pay as a portion of total against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard and their individual annual objectives, remuneration should be higher for from 125% of Target to 150% of Target. Increasing this short-term incentive brings more Senior Executives; our remuneration policy into line with most of our industry peers, and is in line with • Short-term incentives (STI) must our philosophy of restraining the growth of Fixed Pay in favour of increased “at risk” be affordable and funded from incentive opportunity for our Executives. There is no change to the existing potential annual earnings; STI at Target for any of our executives. • STI awards should be based on a mix of individual and company performance measures that reflect progress against a Balanced Scorecard; • A portion of performance-based pay for Executives should be awarded as Stockland securities with deferred vesting; • Vesting of long term incentives (LTI) should be dependent on achievement of long-term goals; • LTI should not only help motivate and retain key Executives but also build a sense of ownership of business performance that benefits all stakeholders; • Remuneration policies and decisions must reflect prudent risk and capital management considerations; and • Unvested equity awards should be forfeited if employees resign during the applicable vesting period and should be subject to a broadly framed clawback policy which give the Board discretion to adjust or forfeit these awards in certain circumstances. Governance and remuneration | 23 OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK The table below provides a summary of Stockland’s framework and how each component is determined. PRINCIPLES REMUNERATION AT RISK AND PHILOSOPHY COMPONENT MEASURE WEIGHTING Fixed Remuneration Fixed Pay (FP) External benchmarking should be fair, competitive Salary and other benefits based on surveys sourced and regularly benchmarked (including statutory from a number of to relevant market levels superannuation) organisations including EY, AON Hewitt and Mercer A significant portion Short term Incentive (STI) Depends on company Target of remuneration should 50% awarded as cash for and individual performance 100% of FP be ‘at risk’ and fairly performance up to target for reflecting progress against (Managing Director & CEO) reward executives if MD (two-thirds as cash for a Balanced Scorecard of pre-set objectives and Key Performance Indicators 80-90% of FP other Senior Executives) hurdles are achieved (KPIs) based on: (Other Senior Executives) and/or exceeded 50% awarded in deferred securities for performance • Business/Financial Maximum and up to target for Managing outcomes 150% of Target Build a sense of business Director & CEO (one-third • Customer/Stakeholder and ownership and alignment for Senior Executives) and Sustainability performance which benefits all 100% awarded as deferred • Leadership and People securityholders interests securities for any performance Management above target • Operational Excellence and Risk Management Any deferred securities vest equally subject to continued service after 1 and 2 years Long Term Incentive (LTI) Earnings per security (EPS) Managing Director & CEO Delivered as Performance Compound Average 200% of FP Rights measured against Growth Rate in Funds Other Senior Executives performance hurdles From Operations (FFO) 120% of FP over a three year (50% weighting) performance period. and Any rights then convert to deferred securities Total Shareholder if performance hurdles Return (TSR) are exceeded, which vest Above a composite equally subject to continued index reflecting AREIT 200 service after 3 and 4 years competitors, as described in section 2.3 with maximum vesting occurring if Stockland’s TSR is 10% or more above this index (50% weighting) Minimum securityholding The Managing Director & CEO is required to maintain requirement a minimum holding of Stockland securities equivalent to at least two times fixed pay (one times fixed pay for other Senior Executives) for any securities granted after 1 July 2010 24 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 CORPORATE BALANCED SCORECARD At Stockland, STI awards are dependent on Group, business unit and individual performance measures based on a Balanced Scorecard approach, which the Board uses to set financial and non-financial KPIs that are aligned to overall business strategy and priorities. The Corporate Balanced Scorecard is used by the Board to determine the size of the overall STI pool. The Board’s assessment of performance against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard in FY17 is provided in the following table. KPI Commentary Overall Rating Business and Financial Performance (75%) Group Performance • Funds from Operations per security (FFOps) guidance • FFOps growth was 7.4% to 33.4 cps Above Target of 6% to 7%; and • Return on Equity1 (ROE) of 10% • ROE was 11.4% Business Performance • Operating business performance in line with plan Business unit profitability was up on FY16: On or Above • Commercial Property FFO of $608 million was up on FY16 Target and in line with plan. • Residential Operating Profit of $270 million was well up on FY16 and above plan. • Retirement Living profit of $63 million was up on FY16 and in line with plan • Maintain conservative debt profile and remain within policy • Average Debt Maturity was over five years and Credit Rating On or Above limits for gearing, interest cover, asset mix, credit rating maintained, liquidity buffer increased with gearing and Target and debt profile interest cover, all within guidelines • Credit Rating Maintain Arating • Debt Maturity profile >5 years • Liquidity Buffer 10% above committed and undrawn facilities • Gearing within range 20-30% • Deliver against Key Business Priorities • Good progress against our strategic priorities being; On or Above Grow our asset returns and customer base, Operational Target excellence, and Capital strength Customer, Stakeholder and Sustainability Performance • Achieve independent customer satisfaction goals for • The customer satisfaction scores were above target On Target each business unit for Retirement Living but below target for Commercial and Residential • Embed sustainable business practices across Stockland • The Leading Global Real Estate firm in DJSI Sustainability On or Above and make good progress towards environment Survey. Continued progress across our GHG measures Target improvement goals and other sustainability targets Organisational Performance (25%) People Management • Maintain employee-initiated turnover (employees rated • Turnover was 10.6% Above Target good and above) at 12.0% or less • Achieve employee engagement target – 80% • Employee engagement score of 82% Above Target • Maintain women as percentage of total management • Women in management was 45.9% Above Target at 45.2% or better • Women in senior management was 37.3% • Increase women as percentage of total senior management • 34.6% of General Managers were females to 36.0% or better • Increase female General Managers to 33% or better • Progress longer term diversity and inclusiveness objectives • Good progress made including being recognised On Target as a WGEA Employer of Choice for Gender Equality for the third consecutive year Operational Excellence and Risk Management • Continued Process Improvement and enhanced innovation • Good progress with implementation of key systems On Target as part of Core Systems Program • Embed strong risk compliance and safety management • Excellent safety record with no major preventable On Target practices injuries and continued embedding of the risk and compliance framework 1 Excluding Residential workout projects. ROE was 10.1% including these projects. Governance and remuneration | 25 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Underlying Profit, FFO, EPS and other key financial performance measures over the last five years are set out below. FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Underlying profit1 ($M) 495 555 608 660 696 FFO 2 ($M) 472 573 657 740 802 Statutory profit ($M) 105 527 903 889 1,195 Security price as at 30 June 3 ($) 3.48 3.88 4.10 4.71 4.38 Distributions/dividends per security (cents) 24.0 24.0 24.0 24.5 25.5 Underlying EPS (cents) 22.4 24.0 25.9 27.8 29.0 FFO per security (cents) 21.3 24.8 28.0 31.1 33.4 Statutory EPS (cents) 4.7 22.8 38.5 37.4 49.8 Stockland TSR – 1 year (%) 17.5 20.5 12.3 16.4 7.1 A-REIT 200 TSR (excluding SGP) – 1 year (%) 24.8 11.3 24.2 21.1 (6.7) 1 Underlying Profit was the performance measure used in determining the EPS component of LTI remuneration for periods up to and including 30 June 2016. Performance against this benchmark is set out in section 3.4 on page 43 of our Financial Report. 2 FFO replaced underlying profit as Stockland’s primary reporting measure from FY17. This change recognises the importance of FFO in managing our business and the use of FFO as a comparable performance measurement tool in the Australian property industry. The reconciliation of FFO to statutory profit is provided on page 11 of the Operating and Financial Review, in our Financial Report. 3 FY12 closing security price was $3.08. 26 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION OUTCOMES Following the continued strong financial and operational performance delivered by the executive team in FY17 the aggregate Short-term Incentive (STI) awarded to our Senior Executives was higher than in the previous year. The table below outlines the cash remuneration, which includes: Fixed Pay and the non-deferred portion of any FY17 STI; the value of Deferred STI (DSTI) awards from FY15 and FY16 that vested during FY17 and Long-term Incentive (LTI) awards from FY15 that vested during FY17. Total cash STI awarded payments in Previous years’ Previous years’ Awards 4that 4 and received relation to DSTI that 4 LTI that 4 lapsed or4were 4 Fixed Pay1 as cash financial year were realised 3 were realised 3 forfeited4 $1 $ $ $4 $4 $4 Executive Director Mark Steinert 2017 1,500,000 750,0002 2,250,000 1,080,721 1,889,970 1,776,090 Managing Director and CEO 2016 1,500,000 750,000 2 2,250,000 1,177,557 1,077,413 2,154,825 Senior Executives Stephen Bull 2017 700,000 420,000 1,120,000 307,708 491,655 462,090 Group Executive and CEO, Retirement Living 2016 700,000 420,000 1,120,000 273,481 280,245 560,490 Katherine Grace 2017 550,000 293,333 843,333 176,426 178,485 356,970 General Counsel and Company Secretary 2016 500,000 266,667 766,667 93,743 – – Tiernan O’Rourke 2017 875,000 466,667 1,341,667 323,700 643,860 604,440 Chief Financial Officer 2016 850,000 453,333 1,303,333 295,845 367,380 734,760 Darren Rehn 2017 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 362,664 499,320 499,320 Group Executive and Chief Investment Officer 2016 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 560,777 268,470 536,940 Michael Rosmarin 2017 600,000 320,000 920,000 214,235 454,425 427,050 Chief Operating Officer 2016 600,000 320,000 920,000 226,673 259,050 518,100 John Schroder 2017 1,050,000 630,000 1,680,000 430,664 794,970 746,790 Group Executive and CEO, Commercial Property 2016 1,050,000 630,000 1,680,000 440,988 453,338 906,675 Simon Shakesheff 2017 600,000 320,000 920,000 244,763 434,715 427,050 Group Executive, Strategy and Stakeholder Relations 2016 600,000 320,000 920,000 303,795 237,855 475,710 Andrew Whitson 2017 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 362,664 531,075 499,320 Group Executive and CEO, Residential 2016 750,000 450,000 1,200,000 400,571 302,618 605,235 1 Fixed Pay includes salary, superannuation and salary sacrificed items. 2 For Mark Steinert this is 50% (two thirds for Senior Executives) of his STI awards. The remaining 50% of his STI (one third for Senior Executives) was deferred in Stockland securities which vests over two years following the performance year, 50% after year 1 and 50% after year 2 subject to continued employment. 3 This represents the value of all prior years’ deferred STI and LTI that vested during FY17 using the 30 June 2017 closing security price of $4.38. 4 The value shown represents the value of any previous years’ equity awards that lapsed or were forfeited during the financial year. The FY17 values are based on the closing 30 June 2017 security price of $4.38 (FY16: $4.71). Governance and remuneration | 27 REMUNERATION RATIO – MANAGING DIRECTOR/EMPLOYEE Remuneration Measure FY17 FY161 FY15 FY14 Managing Director’s annual total compensation ÷ employee median annual total compensation 46 48 44 44 % increase in Managing Director’s annual total compensation ÷ employee’s median % increase 1.08 -0.26 1.50 6.04 1 Annual total compensation for each year is calculated as Fixed Pay FTE (as at 30 June of end of performance year) + STI FTE (awarded for relevant performance year) + LTI ( allocated at start of performance year), for employees who participated in the Remuneration Review plus sales employees paid on a commission basis. GENDER PAY EQUITY RATIO We believe the methodology of measuring pay equity is limited if FY17 98.6% based solely on average fixed pay by job band as it ignores different FY16 97.4% market values placed on different jobs. Stockland believes a better and more accurate process is that we assess gender pay equity by FY15 97.2% considering an individual’s positioning against the relevant market FY14 96.9% benchmark. This analysis is shown in the gender pay equity ratio chart to the right. 100% 28 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Grow asset returns and our customer base Driving returns in our core businesses and providing great customer experiences. | 29 Our business PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW unit results COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY Funds from operations • Retail town centres • Logistics and Business Parks ($M, unless otherwise stated) FY17 FY16 Change Comparable growth • Office • Retail town centres 419 402 4.1% ↑ 3.5% ↑ FUNDS FROM OPERATION • Logistics and Business Parks 143 132 8.3% ↑ 3.6% ↑ 3.4% • Office 59 68 13.2% ↓ 2.3% ↑ growth in comparable FFO across Trading profit 5 – our Commercial Property portfolio Net overheads (18) (18) CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Total Commercial Property 608 584 4.2% ↑ 3.4% ↑ 75% Return on assets (ROA) 8.1% 8.3% Retail tenant satisfaction TenSAT score produced by Monash University RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES 89% ($M, unless otherwise stated) FY17 FY16 Change Logistics and Business Parks Lots settled (lots) 6,604 6,135 7.6% ↑ tenant satisfaction Revenue 1,767 1,482 19.3% ↑ OCCUPANCY (STABLE ASSETS) – Including superlot revenue 1 91 109 16.3% ↓ 99.5% EBIT (before interest in COGS) 412 354 16.4% ↑ across Retail portfolio EBIT margin 23.3% 23.9% ↓ 99% Operating profit (FFO) Operating profit margin 2 270 15.3% 230 15.5% 17.4% ↑ ↓ across Logistics and Business Parks portfolio ROA – core portfolio3 20.8% 19.6% ↑ ROA – total portfolio 15.2% 13.8% ↑ RESIDENTIAL 1 44 superlot settlements in FY17; 33 superlot settlements in FY16. OPERATING PROFIT 2 Operating profit is equal to FFO for the Residential business. 17.4% 3 Core excludes impaired projects. OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN RETIREMENT LIVING 15.3% ($M, unless otherwise stated) FY17 FY16 Change EBIT 69 64 8.3% ↑ RETURN ON ASSETS Operating profit (FFO)1 63 57 11.1% ↑ 20.8% Occupancy 95.0% 94.9% ↑ core portfolio Cash ROA 6.2% 5.8% ↑ RESIDENT LIVEABILITY Established 83% – Established settlements (units) – Withheld settlements (units) 731 49 716 19 2.1% ↑ ↑ communities liveability score – Stockland Liveability Survey Total sales volume (units) 780 735 6.1% ↑ Average re-sale price $339k $329k 3.3% ↑ RETIREMENT LIVING Turnover cash per unit $86k $81k 6.2% ↑ OPERATING PROFIT Turnover cash margin 25.4% 24.7% ↑ 11.1% Reservations on hand (units) 128 155 17.4% ↓ Development RETURN ON ASSETS Average price per unit $539k $509k 5.8% ↑ 6.2% Average margin – excludes Deferred Management Fee (DMF) 19.1% 16.8% ↑ RESIDENT SATISFACTION Development settlements (units) 270 297 9.1% ↓ 84% Reservations on hand (units) 58 67 13.4% ↓ 1 Operating profit is equal to FFO for the Retirement Living business. 30 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Retail town centres Create market leading retail town centres FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS $419m Comparable FFO ↑ 3.5% 4.1% In a challenging environment, we have delivered positive FFO growth of 4.1%, maintained high occupancy, and we continued to focus on remixing our portfolio, in line with our customer needs and trade area dynamics. Nationally, retail sales have been impacted by low wages growth, some retailer closures in the past year, and mixed results from major tenants. While trading at some of our Growth in specialty retail sales of 9.7% centres has been variable, we have seen an in retail services and 5.3% in casual dining RETAIL STRATEGIC PRIORITIES improvement in sales growth in the second and food catering over FY17, reflects the The Retail business maintains half and particularly in the final quarter. success of our remixing strategy. We also its focus on creating market leading Specialty store sales productivity grew continue to look at ways to introduce town centres, redeveloping its 1.9% to $9,072 per square metre, which technology to enhance our customers’ most productive assets to create exceeds the Urbis sub-regional average experience across our centres. community and entertainment of $8,273 per square metre by 8.3%. hubs and maximise trade area Momentum continued in the delivery We continue to see growth in lifestyle and of the retail development pipeline, with market share. We have $449 million, entertainment tenancies, particularly larger the $412 million transformation of Stockland at cost, of retail development under format operators such as JB Hi-Fi, Hoyts and Green Hills at East Maitland progressing on construction and a future pipeline Harris Scarfe, and we’ve recently confirmed schedule, and a $37 million redevelopment of $1 billion, targeting incremental that H&M will open new stores at our underway at Stockland Wendouree IRRs of 9%+ and stabilised FFO Townsville and Rockhampton centres. in Ballarat. yields of 7%+ from this activity. Our retail mix continues to evolve, RETAIL TOWN CENTRE DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE underpinned by supermarkets, mini majors, food catering, fast UNDER CONSTRUCTION NEXT WAVE casual dining, speciality food, Green Hills NSW Glendale NSW theatre, targeted apparel, health $412m Shellharbour Bunnings NSW and retail services. 7% stabilised yield Baringa Qld ~11.9% incremental IRR Glendale NSW We will continue to focus on tailoring Wendouree Vic Caloundra Qld our offering to each specific trade $37m area, cultivating retailer relationships 7.2% stabilised yield and long-term sustainable rent, ~13.7% incremental IRR and invest in industry research and technology to adapt to an evolving retail landscape. Targeting incremental IRRs of 9%+1 and stabilised FFO yields of 7%+ 1 Unlevered 10 year IRR on incremental development from completion. Our strategic priorities | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 31 Logistics and Business Parks Grow and develop a leading portfolio FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS $143m Comparable FFO ↑ 3.6% 8.3% Our Logistics and Business Parks We achieved strong comparable FFO (Melbourne) all completed on budget business had an outstanding year. growth of 3.6% with positive leasing results, and fully leased. A $77 million development Occupancy increased to 99%, following particularly in the Sydney market. project is underway at Warwick Farm a period of active leasing and renewals, (Sydney), which is majority pre-leased and the portfolio now represents 15% Our development pipeline is also progressing to Daikin, for a 10 year term. The future of our total assets. well, with recent redevelopments at Ingleburn pipeline also looks very positive. (Sydney), Erskine Park (Sydney) and Oakleigh LOGISTICS AND BUSINESS PARKS DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE UNDER CONSTRUCTION PLANNING UNDERWAY LOGISTICS AND BUSINESS PARKS Coopers Paddock, Warwick Farm NSW Macquarie Technology Park NSW STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Waterside NSW Brooklyn Vic Yennora NSW Yatala Qld Our focus is on growing and Ingleburn (stage 2) NSW developing a market leading Willawong Qld portfolio of logistics centres and business parks. We will leverage our existing assets and land, strong tenant relationships and asset management skills Greenfield to become a scale player Brownfield in this market. Targeting incremental IRRs of 9%+ (Greenfield) and incremental FFO yields of 7%+ Office Optimise returns Our Sydney office portfolio performed well this year, which represents the OFFICE STRATEGIC PRIORITIES and assess development majority of our assets. Total FFO growth In Office we continue to focus was lower due to the sale of Waterfront opportunities over time Place and Eagle Street Pier, Brisbane, on optimising returns. We intend to retain the majority of our residual in FY15. The Perth and Canberra market office portfolio (strongly weighted remains challenging, but we are seeing to Sydney) whilst we maximise FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS positive leasing momentum at our assets. returns and assess development $59m Several of our Sydney properties also opportunities over time. Joint have development opportunities. ventures (or part sales) will also 13.2% 1 be considered as appropriate. Comparable FFO ↑ 2.3% 1 Lower due to sale of Waterfront Place and Eagle Street Pier, Brisbane in FY15. 32 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Residential Maximise returns RESIDENTIAL STRATEGIC PRIORITIES by creating thriving The Residential business is making communities good progress on its plans to make the portfolio more resilient and profitable in the future by continuing OPERATING PROFIT to focus on: 1. Reshaping the portfolio – Actively manage the portfolio $270m 17.4% to improve returns and achieve and maintain an optimal pipeline with a preference to acquire land on capital efficient terms. We continue to make good progress in activating our land Our Residential business delivered We continue to deliver some of the most through the launch of new another year of double-digit operating liveable and desirable new communities projects and working through profit (FFO) growth of 17.4%, and a net in Australia. Our leadership in housing low margin and impaired stock. operating profit margin of 16.6% on affordability and commitment to delivering the core portfolio. We settled a record a range of options for first home buyers 2. Broaden our market reach – 6,604 lots in FY17, and we commence and families, places us in a preferred Increase revenue by creating FY18 with record pre-sales. position for residential lending trends a better community value and government growth initiatives. proposition that drives high We made a number of strategic land customer referrals and broaden acquisitions over the past 12 months During the year, the Residential business market reach through a mediumto significantly restock our portfolio, reviewed its application of whole of life density/built form offering. acquiring 9,900 lots. The majority of these (WOL) accounting to ensure ongoing are in the high-performing Melbourne consistency across our portfolio, ahead 3. Improving efficiency – market. Our landbank now totals over of our change in systems, specifically Continue to manage costs. 80,000 future housing lots nationally. in relation to the allocation of costs Project management has been and treatment of superlots consistently embedded into the business We have continued to expand our and is driving significant with retail lots. There was no net impact medium density business, with 213 homes cost savings. to our WOL profitability and no material settled this year, close to 600 currently change to FFO in FY17. under construction, and pipeline of over 2,800 across Australia. Medium density We regularly review our approach development is a key growth driver for to managing project cost contingencies our Residential business as we extend and potential revenue upside as part our focus on community creation of our WOL accounting within the in the important “missing middle” Residential business. This ensures of our major capital cities. effective risk management to support our business performance through the business cycle. The cost contingency and revenue review resulted in no incremental FFO in FY17. LEADING IN HOUSING CHOICE AND AFFORDABILITY RESIDENTIAL: BROADENING CUSTOMER CHOICE 75% 50 75 per cent of customers Launched 50 homes 100 200 2,800+ Launched 100 homes Launched 200 homes Medium density sites are owner occupiers in 50 days – First in 100 days – First in 100 days – First across our portfolio Home Buyer initiative Home Buyer initiative Home Buyer initiative in Queensland in Sydney in Melbourne Our strategic priorities | Grow asset returns and our customer base | 33 Retirement Living Leading operator and developer OPERATING PROFIT $63m 11.1% Operating profit (FFO) in Retirement Living was up 11.1% on FY16, reflecting strong sales, active management of our portfolio and improved margins. Reservations on hand reflect the availability of stock in key markets. Cash ROA increased to 6.2%, from 5.8% in FY16. This is the fourth consecutive year of double-digit operating profit growth for our business, driven by our focus on resident satisfaction underpinned by a customer-centric culture. Our development pipeline is proceeding deferred management fee communities well, with the delivery of our UDIA awardfor over 55s, called ‘Aspire’. We have two RETIREMENT LIVING winning apartments at Cardinal Freeman projects currently underway, at our Elara STRATEGIC PRIORITIES The Residences in Sydney’s inner-west. residential community in Sydney and The business remains focused We are also making good progress on our Calleya in Perth, and the initiative will on being a preferred operator new vertical village at Birtinya, in the heart be rolled out at other locations in our and developer of Retirement Living of the Sunshine Coast’s new health hub. portfolio over the coming years. villages by creating high quality We continue to invest in new projects, We understand there is a lot of focus retirement villages in Australia. with planning underway on a number on the sector at the moment. We take The business has a clear strategy of brownfield redevelopments at pride in our Retirement Living business, to continue to improve its return existing villages. and we are committed to open, transparent on assets by: and respectful relationships with our 1. Actively managing the portfolio; Development margins were high this year residents. Every year we engage independent at 19.1% due to project delivery mix, but 2. Growing development volumes; consultants to assess resident satisfaction. will normalise in FY18 to around 15-17%. and Last year, more than 6,800 residents We are further extending our reputation participated in the survey, and rated 3. Differentiating the customer for quality villages and broadening our their overall satisfaction with Stockland experience through access customer reach through our new, nonas 8.4 out of 10. to a range of resident care and other services. RETIREMENT LIVING DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE UNDER CONSTRUCTION TO START WITHIN NEXT 18 MONTHS Lightsview SA Newport Qld Somerton Park SA Somerton Park SA Mernda Vic Cardinal Freeman The Residences NSW Affinity WA Willowdale NSW Birtinya (formerly Oceanside) Qld Gillin Park Vic Aspire at Elara NSW Aspire at Calleya WA 34 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Capital strength Actively managing our balance sheet to maintain diverse funding sources and an efficient cost of capital. | 35 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We maintained our focus on prudent We manage our exposure to financial balance sheet management, continuing markets, including movements in foreign • Maintain a strong balance sheet to utilise diverse funding sources throughout exchange rates and interest rates, through to support future growth the year. Our gearing level decreased the use of derivative financial instruments to 22.7% at 30 June 2017 (30 June 2016: in order to provide greater certainty over • Maintain diverse funding sources 23.8%), driven by strong operating cash future financing costs, taking advantage • Maintain disciplined capital allocation flows allowing continued investment without of the historically low interest rate needing to increase debt, and the impact environment. The fixed/hedged ratio of revaluation gains across the Commercial of 109% at 30 June 2017 (30 June 2016: Property portfolio. This is comfortably 96%) represents the proportion of debt FY17 PROGRESS within our target range of 20-30%. that has fixed interest based on drawn We continue to retain our A-/stable credit debt at 30 June 2017. The overhedged • Maintained S&P A-/stable credit rating from S&P and obtained a new A3 rating position resulted from strong operating rating for over ten years and new from Moody’s (equivalent to S&P’s A-), cash inflows at the end of the financial equivalent Moody’s credit rating in August 2017. year and is expected to revert to around of A3 (received in August 2017) 100%. The weighted average cost of debt for the period has decreased to 5.5% • 22.7% gearing remains within (2016: 5.8%). our target range of 20-30% Interest cover has increased to 4.8:1 • Reduced average cost of debt (30 June 2016: 4.5:1) due to stronger to 5.5% for FY17 performance across the business. • Increased our access to diverse funding sources Gearing remains within our target range of 20-30%. We continue to retain our A-/stable credit rating from S&P and obtained a new A3 rating from Moody’s (equivalent to S&P’s A-), in August 2017. BALANCE SHEET ($M) FY17 FY16 Change % Cash 238 208 14% ↑ Real estate assets: 1 • Commercial Property 10,255 9,706 6% ↑ • Residential 2,483 2,517 1% ↓ • Retirement Living 3,848 3,589 7% ↑ Other assets 701 922 24% ↓ Total assets 17,945 16,942 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3,529 3,800 7% ↓ Retirement Living resident obligations 2,629 2,427 8% ↑ Other liabilities 1,410 1,461 3% ↓ Total liabilities 7,568 7,688 Net assets/total equity 9,927 9,254 1 Includes non-current assets held for sale, inventory, investment properties, equity-accounted investments and certain other assets. 36 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 The Commercial Property investment The value of the Retirement Living Investment in Retirement Living totalled portfolio has increased by $549 million assets, net of resident loan obligations, $133 million with main villages including to $10,255 million, primarily due to net was $1,219 million, an increase of $57 million Cardinal Freeman, Willowdale and Mernda valuation uplift across all three asset from June 2016. This primarily reflects Village. Investing cash inflows includes classes (up $264 million including equitycapital expenditure on the development $71 million in dividend receipts relating to accounted joint venture investments) and pipeline including the redevelopment our investment in BGP Holdings Plc together capital and development expenditure of Cardinal Freeman, Sydney, and fair with proceeds from sale of investment of $333 million. value uplift on the investment property properties of $74 million. portfolio, partly offset by an increase Retail portfolio values benefited from income in resident loan obligations created Net financing cash outflows primarily growth and capitalisation rate compression, on first sales of development units. reflect dividends paid (net of DRP). including the following centres in NSW: We have identified potential to develop The prior year included $335 million Wetherill Park ($43 million), Glendale a further 2,970 Retirement Living units in net proceeds from borrowings to fund ($32 million), Shellharbour ($30 million), in our existing portfolio. acquisitions and development expenditure and Balgowlah ($21 million). Our Office and also included payments to terminate portfolio recorded a net valuation gain Total debt decreased by $271 million derivatives ($119 million), with no payments of $67 million largely due to an uplift to $3,529 million at 30 June 2017 on terminations in the current year. at 135 King Street, NSW ($52 million), primarily as a result of favourable fair while Logistics and Business Parks similarly value movements on foreign denominated EQUITY delivered valuation gains of $18 million debt due to an appreciation in the AUD during the period. Valuation gains across against the USD, EUR and HKD and largely Distribution/Dividend the portfolio saw our weighted average offsets the net unfavourable movements Reinvestment Plan (DRP) capitalisation rate reduce marginally in derivative financial instruments. On 9 June 2017, Stockland announced from 6.4% to 6.2%. Movements in other assets and liabilities that the DRP would operate for the final mainly reflect the changes in value of the distribution to 30 June 2017 to help Retail portfolio values Group’s financial instruments, equityaccounted investments and intangibles. fund the accretive development pipeline. We achieved a take-up rate of 21.6%. benefited from income The DRP security price of $4.20 was CASH FLOWS growth and capitalisation determined by the average of the ($M) FY17 FY16 Change % daily volume weighted averages of the rate compression. selling price over a 15 day trading period Operating cash flows 921 787 17% ↑ immediately preceding 27 July 2017, The increase in capital and development with a discount of 1.0% on the securities expenditure predominantly reflects Investing acquired under the DRP. continued investment in the Retail cash flows (380) (508) 25% ↓ development pipeline including the Financing DISTRIBUTIONS redevelopment of Green Hills, NSW. cash flows (511) (241) 112% ↑ The dividend and distribution payable Residential assets, which represent Net change in for the year ended 30 June 2017 is 25.5 mainly land under development, cash and cash cents per Ordinary Stapled Security. decreased slightly to $2,483 million at equivalents 30 38 21% ↓ Our distribution policy is to pay the 30 June 2017. Strong settlement volumes higher of 100% of Trust taxable income Cash at the end in FY17 (up 8% on prior period) and the of the period 238 208 14% ↑ or 75-85% of FFO. sale of some previously impaired land and The distribution for the full year comprises: capital efficient restocking led to a reduction in inventory, while a disciplined approach Operating cash inflows are up $134 million Stockland (cents) FY17 FY16 to development expenditure throughout on the prior year, primarily as a result of increased FFO and favourable movements in Trust distribution 25.5 24.5 the year ensured that production did not exceed sales. Whilst we settled 6,604 lots working capital, partially offset by increased Corporation dividend, during the year we have added approximately payments for Residential land. fully franked – – 9,900 lots to the pipeline. Finished goods Net cash outflows from investing Total dividend/ levels remain appropriate. Land acquisitions activities reflects our continued distribution 25.5 24.5 reflect our focus on acquiring land on capital commitment to growing our asset base efficient terms where possible. and mainly comprises payments for and development of Commercial Property investment properties ($374 million), with the largest individual contribution relating to ongoing development at Green Hills. For more information please see our Financial Report 2017 www.stockland.com.au/corporate-reporting/downloads Our strategic priorities | Capital strength | 37 OUR APPROACH TO TAX Stockland’s tax strategy is to conduct We are structured as a stapled security: VOLUNTARY TAX TRANSPARENCY CODE all of our tax affairs in a transparent, a combination of a unit in Stockland Trust As part of our commitment to tax equitable and commercially responsible and a share in Stockland Corporation, transparency and demonstrating manner, whilst having full regard to all traded together as one security on the good corporate citizenship, Stockland relevant tax laws, regulations and tax Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). This has adopted the Australian Federal governance processes, to demonstrate stapled structure allows us to efficiently Government’s Voluntary Tax good corporate citizenship. undertake property investment, property Transparency Code (TTC), which management and property development provides a set of principles and Consistent with the Board approved activities to create sustainable risk/ minimum standards to guide medium low tax risk appetite, we maintain reward outcomes. and large businesses on public a low tax risk profile to ensure we remain a sustainable business and disclosure of tax information. an attractive investment proposition, Tax disclosures and information in both the short and long term. For information and detailed reconciliations of Stockland’s tax STAPLED SECURITY LISTED ON THE ASX expense, effective tax rate and deferred tax balances please refer to Section (B3) – Taxation on page 67 of the Financial Report. STOCKLAND TRUST STOCKLAND CORPORATION TAX CONTRIBUTION SUMMARY • The Trust is not liable for income tax provided taxable income and As Australia’s largest diversified any assessable realised capital gains property group, we own, develop are fully distributed to unitholders • Income/losses are subject to the each tax year Australian company tax rate of 30% and manage commercial property assets, residential and retirement • Income of the Trust is taxed in the hands living communities. We contribute of unitholders through distributions to the Australian economy, through the various taxes levied at the federal, state and local government level. For 2017 these taxes totalled approximately TAX CONTROL AND GOVERNANCE The key principles of our TCGF are $238 million, and were either borne POLICY FRAMEWORK summarised as follows: by Stockland as a cost of our business or collected and remitted as part Stockland maintains a Tax Control • A tax strategy that ensures all tax of our broader contribution to the and Governance Framework (TCGF), affairs are conducted in a transparent, Australian tax system. reviewed and approved by our Board equitable and commercially responsible Audit Committee, which outlines the manner, whilst having full regard to all principles governing our tax strategy relevant tax laws, regulations and tax and risk management policy. governance processes, to demonstrate Our Tax Control and Governance good corporate citizenship, Framework is consistent with the • A balanced tax risk appetite which is FY17 guidelines published by the Australian consistent with the Board approved risk TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION Taxation Office (ATO) regarding tax risk appetite, to ensure Stockland remains management and governance processes a sustainable business and a reputable $238m for large business taxpayers. and attractive investment proposition, We undertake periodic reviews • A commitment to engage and maintain of the TCGF to test the robustness relationships with tax authorities which of the design of the framework against are open, transparent and cooperative, ATO benchmarks and to demonstrate % consistent with Stockland’s Code the operating effectiveness of internal of Conduct and Ethical Behaviour 40 Net GST paid controls to stakeholders. policy, and 28 PAYG withholding • An operating and trading business 28 State taxes (includes land tax, based in Australia, with no strategic stamp duty and payroll taxes) intentions of engaging in any tax 3 Other duties and levies planning involving the use of offshore entities or low tax jurisdictions. 1 Fringe Benefit Tax 38 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Operational excellence Improving the way we operate across the business to drive efficiencies, compliance, sustainability and employee engagement. | 39 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PROGRESS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Our proactive focus on operational Our ‘Flex in Feb’ excellence means we are always looking for • Drive operational efficiency better ways to work and deliver improved campaign aimed to outcomes for our customers and ultimately • Continue to improve technology our securityholders. increase participation use and systems in ‘One Simple Thing’, SUPPORTING EFFICIENCY AND AGILITY • Strong commitment to safety During the year we made significant an initiative encouraging • Maintain high employee engagement progress on improving the Group’s IT employees to identify systems’ capabilities, in particular the • Achieve leading sustainability roll out of our Core Systems Program. an activity that enhances credentials The Program represents the largest their work life quality. investment in our systems in Stockland’s history and supports our business strategy FY17 PROGRESS by delivering business tools that empower Part of creating a better way to work is employees to work more efficiently. This our focus on flexible work. We continued to Return on equity involves reducing the number of legacy promote flexibility with employees through • Improved return on equity (excluding systems we use around our business our ‘Flex in Feb’ campaign which aimed to workout assets) from 11.0% to 11.4% to simplify and streamline our activities, increase participation in ‘One Simple Thing’, reduce costs, and take advantage of rapid an initiative encouraging employees Core systems developments in technology to improve to identify an activity that enhances their • Successful implementation of customer outcomes. work life quality. The campaign attracted Salesforce and SAP SuccessFactors positive participation, with 70 per cent In FY17, we rolled out our new SuccessFactors modules with further deployment of employees recording their ‘One Simple Performance Module across the business, of SAP systems over the next year Thing’ or with a formal flexible work and Salesforce customer relationship arrangement in place. management tool in our Residential and Safety Retirement Living businesses. The remainder In a constantly evolving modern workplace • Reduced LTIFR to lowest rate of the Human Resources and Finance it is also important that we enhance the in six years to 1.8 modules are scheduled for FY18. capabilities of our senior leaders. In October 2016 we completed the development of the Employee engagement Our Collaboration project is also underway Stockland Leadership Experience for senior • Maintained high employee with the rollout of Office 365. This will enable leaders and delivered the program to engagement of 82% – seven points the business and our partners to create, our first cohort of leaders. The Program above the Australian Norm store and share content securely, anywhere, is designed with our purpose at its core anytime, using Office 365 technology. and focuses on improving customer-led Sustainability leadership The project is already delivering improved innovation, inclusive leadership and • Recognised as Global Real Estate document management protocols, collaboration to enhance people and Sector Leader on the Dow Jones accessibility and supporting flexible work enterprise leadership capability. Sustainability Index (DJSI) for 2016-17, practices. The improvements that have the second consecutive year been delivered through the Collaboration project will be further enhanced as we • Global Sector Leader on Global transition to mobile laptop technology Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark and activity based working as part (GRESB) for Diversified – Office/ of our Digital Workplace Strategy. Retail sector • Recognised by CDP with a position on the Climate A list for leading global climate performance • Received Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation from WGEA three years in a row 40 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP DEVELOPING INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP THROUGH THE STOCKLAND LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCE Sustainability remains a key focus for Stockland. We have continued our commitment to improve the liveability, The Stockland Leadership Experience Our first program was centred convenience and efficiency of our (SLE) for Senior Leaders was launched in Maitland, where we are investing communities and commercial operations, in October 2016 for roll-out across our in a $412 million dollar shopping centre and to continue to reduce our impact top 145 leaders. The purpose of the re-development. The Maitland region on the environment. programs is to develop our senior is experiencing an economic downturn leaders ability to: due to a slowdown in mining, has the Recognising these efforts, we were highest rate of youth unemployment proud to be named the 2016-17 Global • Operate more inclusively, Real Estate Industry Leader in the Dow in the state and is one of the centres • Lead customer-centric innovation for the re-settlement of Syrian refugees. Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). This with greater agility, It was in this context that the leaders is the fourth time we have received this spoke with the community members outstanding acknowledgement and the • Lead and drive personal and about: “How can we create a better tenth consecutive year that we have organisational change, way to live in the Maitland Community?” been listed in the World DJSI. In addition, • Increase emotional intelligence we were awarded 2016 Global Sector Leader and self-awareness, Throughout the experience leaders were guided by an inclusive leadership for Diversified Listed REITs on the Global • Develop habit to build resilience expert to develop their listening skills Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark and wellbeing, and and reflect on how their biases might (GRESB) and were one of two Australian • Build more collaborative working get in the way of listening. This gave companies listed on the CDP Climate relationships with peers. leaders an understanding of their own A List for climate change action. For the biases as well as a set of tools they can third consecutive year we received an To create a learning experience, Employer of Choice for Gender Equality the SLE is centred on our Purpose adopt back in the workplace to use with their teams and customers. citation with Australia’s Workplace of “creating a better way to live” for Gender Equality Agency. the communities in which we operate. Feedback on the program from our Leaders are set in the context of first cohort and the executive team has a community for a week, and are set been exceptional, with an 88 per cent a challenge to address, supported approval rating. We've seen a positive by a faculty of experts in the fields shift in leaders operating differently of innovation, inclusion, mindfulness with their teams, adopting mindfulness and leadership effectiveness. and innovation techniques in their work. The program will be rolled out to a further 75 leaders in FY18. Senior Leadership Experience Workshop, Maitland (NSW) Our strategic priorities | Operational excellence | 41 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING We engage our supply chain on health Our vision is to foster a culture where health, and safety matters in key areas including: safety and wellbeing are core values and to the direct and indirect procurement continually improve our safety performance process, development and implementation as part of our normal business practice. of project level safety management systems, project inductions, risk reviews and health In FY17, we reported a total of five lost and safety performance monitoring time injuries (LTIs) with an associated Lost of project delivery. Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 1.8. This represents the lowest figure we have In addition to these processes, in December achieved in the last six years. The result 2016 we commenced a series of joint can be attributed to various remedial discussions with our development contractors activities implemented progressively in each state to drive safety behaviours and throughout the year, including refresher advance best practice in the construction MATES IN CONSTRUCTION training in workers’ compensation, injury industry, with a particular focus on plant ACCREDITATION FOR GREEN HILLS management, increased focus on reducing rollovers and services strikes. Named incident reporting times and the engagement ‘Sights on Safety’, the initiative focuses on of injury management specialists to assist collaboration with our construction project Construction is a crucial component in the management of work-related injuries delivery partners to identify and implement of our supply chain and involves (including stress). measures to help reduce the number close partnerships with contractors of serious incidents occurring at our and local communities. Construction Our employee wellbeing score (as measured development sites. activities present a number of risks in our annual employee engagement survey, requiring sound management, Our Voice) was 75 per cent. Whilst this The focus on plant rollovers and service and mental health on construction represents a one point decline on FY16, strikes followed a review of serious incidents sites has emerged as an important our score remains six points above Willis across our development projects from industry safety concern. Construction Towers Watson’s Australian National Norm FY15 to date, which identified these types workers are six times more likely (ANN). We also scored 12 points above the of incidents as priority areas. The review to die by suicide than through ANN for the question “I often feel anxious found over 80 per cent of these incidents a workplace accident. at work”. These results parallel those for were primarily caused by operator error and the Work Life Quality category, which also required safety performance improvement by our delivery partners. Since starting To support declined one point in FY17 to 75 per cent, but remains five points above the ANN. the Sights on Safety initiative, we note mental health at a reduction of rollover incidents towards A key driver of these results has been identified as frustration with work systems the second half of FY17. We are working its worksites, we have and processes. We are addressing this with our delivery partners through FY18 to communicate and implement been working with through the Core Systems Program which will be key to improving our systems. agreed standards for mitigating the Mates in Construction, risk of these incidents. an independent charity working on Key health and safety metrics suicide prevention FY17 FY16 FY15 FY14 FY13 FY12 Total average workforce 1 1,578 1,507 1,438 2 1,695 1,736 3 1,384 in construction. Total hours worked (million) 2.83 2.75 2.53 2.97 3.03 2.42 Over the past financial year, Stockland Green Hills (NSW) Number of lost time injuries (LTI) 4,5 5 11 12 18 17 18 become our first accredited Mates Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR)6 1.8 4.0 4.7 6.1 5.6 7.4 in Construction site. The accreditation involved 192 employees participating 1 Total average workforce uses monthly employee totals rather than the end of financial year figure used in one-hour suicide awareness in Our People metrics. training, and eleven employees 2 Total average workforce in FY15 reduced as a result of the sale of the Aged Care business in FY14. participating in halfor two-day 3 Total average workforce was updated in FY13 to include Aevum payroll employees. workshops aimed at developing 4 Includes injuries incurred as a result of a work related incident. Does not include commuting/recess injuries. 6 Number of LTIs/total hours worked from July 2016 to June 2017 × 1,000,000 hours. higher levels of support skills. The training has confirmed the importance of “looking out for your mates” on site and has equipped workers with skills necessary to recognise concerns before it is too late. 42 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 CREATING SHARED VALUE Shape thriving communities Our research indicates that health and wellbeing, community connection and education contribute most to liveable communities. | 43 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW STRATEGIC PRIORITIES By using our skills and experience to facilitate healthier living, promote OUR TARGETS Health and wellbeing community connection and provide lifelong To ensure we create and shape • Activities and places that encourage learning opportunities, we believe we will our communities that thrive now positive physical and mental health help to shape places where our customers and into the future. and wellbeing want to live, shop and work. Our proprietary industry and customer All residential and retirement • Smart design that optimises research tells us that these social impact living communities score above accessibility, safety and mobility areas are important to customers when the Australian average National Community connection deciding whether to live, recreate and Wellbeing Index to FY17 • Activities that foster engagement, shop with us. Aligning our activities to these ACHIEVED pride and a sense of belonging focus areas allows us to create a positive impact on our communities, ensuring Achieve consistent Stockland • Design that encourages sense they thrive, now and into the future. National Liveability Index of place and supports recreation We coordinate our efforts in the scores of 80% across our and participation community through a combination residential communities Education of mechanisms including: ACHIEVED • Design that facilitates learning and • Customer engagement – Maintaining Make a meaningful contribution education opportunities for all ages high levels of communication with to community health and our local community to ensure we are wellbeing, community • Programs that support economic responsive to their needs and interests employment within our communities connection and education in • Community development – Local partnership with community projects and initiatives that enhance groups supported directly and by the communities at Stockland’s assets the Stockland CARE Foundation FY17 PROGRESS • Community investment – Our employee ACHIEVED volunteering and giving programs, and Community wellbeing • Stockland CARE Foundation – For our FY18-FY20 targets visit • Residential Communities National Our charitable trust, which delivers www.stockland.com.au/sustainability. Liveability Score of 83%, third year infrastructure, programs and initiatives above 80% target to Australian communities. • Residential Community resident determined by questions that are directed CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT Personal Wellbeing Index score at how people feel about themselves. Areas of 79%, above the national We engage with our customers through addressed include standard of living, personal average 72-76% satisfaction surveys and maintaining high relationships, health, feeling part of your levels of communication with our local • Retirement Living resident Personal community and how safe you feel. The community to ensure we are responsive Wellbeing Index score of 82%, well Stockland average was 82.3 per cent while to their needs and interests. We use these above national average 72-76% the national average sits at 75 per cent. surveys to measure our progress against our strategic priorities. For our Commercial Property business, Community investment in addition to our tenant and mystery shopper • Three new inclusive play spaces For our Retirement Living business, surveys, we completed a shopper survey developed with Touched by Olivia we use our Residents’ Voice survey asking shoppers questions regarding to measure residents’ satisfaction with sustainability in our shopping centres. • 320 local community organisations, the community elements of the village This was conducted by Stockland Research awarded over $300,000 in total and their personal wellbeing whilst living in April 2017 and we received 687 responses. through the Stockland Community in a Stockland retirement village. The survey found a statistically significant Grants Program The FY17 survey was completed by over positive correlation between involvement • $6 million invested in community 6,800 residents, with 90 per cent of residents in community programs and shoppers’ initiatives rating their overall happiness between 7 and overall rating of the shopping experience. 10 on a scale of 1 (very unhappy) to 10 (very Likelihood to recommend the centre New target happy). The average happiness score was 8.4 to others also had a positive correlation • New targets set for health and out of 10 and 30 per cent of residents rated with participation in community programs. wellbeing, education and community their happiness with village life as a 10 out of The survey also found that we have a role connection to FY20 10. The overall happiness across Stockland’s to play in creating communities in our retail villages has remained stable since 2013. centres by providing activities and services beyond shopping (92 per cent agree). Residents’ responses were also assessed against the Personal Wellbeing Index (founded For our Residential business, we use by work conducted by the Australian Centre our proprietary liveability survey to on Quality of Life at Deakin University). This assess residents’ satisfaction with is a subjective assessment of quality of life, their communities. 44 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 LIVEABILITY – FUNDAMENTAL TO RESIDENTS’ WELLBEING AND LONG-TERM SATISFACTION STOCKLAND LIVEABILITY INDEX 2017 STOCKLAND COMMUNITY As cities continue to experience strong population growth, we need to have an LIVEABILITY RESULTS overarching focus on creating liveable, healthy and connected places for people. We have conducted in-depth, customer-driven research since 2011 to measure 2,500 the liveability of our Residential communities nationally over time. We know responses from 401 communities from this research that people buy more than just a house or land. Home buyers are buying into a lifestyle shaped by the people, facilities, activities and environment around them. 83% Stockland Liveability Score – We have identified four guiding principles for liveable cities, grounded in the Index: above our 80% target 79% average personal wellbeing score of residents – above the Australian average 2 Connected to work, shops and Healthy by providing walkable Smart with great access to high Affordable with a variety of housing 63% community hubs neighbourhoods and quality education options for different of residents are doing more exercise ideally within 30 great outdoor places at every stage of life, life stages, ages minutes of home that encourage people to get active and clear pathway to jobs of the future and budgets 63% feel safer 75% feel like they are part of the community Our Liveability Index The results of our index help to inform: gives us a transparent • Project planning – Development managers use the Liveability Index • Place-making – Research informs the creation of a consistent place-making method for prioritising customer insights to better plan, design approach across our communities, and bring forward key community as set out in our ‘Better Places Manual’ our efforts in designing, infrastructure, to generate higher • Collaboration – Our research planning and building levels of customers satisfaction. shows us that if we work with • Community lifecycles – We measure government and other key what is important how customer satisfaction, wellbeing stakeholders to fast-track schools, to residents. and happiness increase over time parks, childcare, cafes and shops, as our communities mature. we can have a profound impact on the liveability of our communities and customer wellbeing. 1 We targeted and received sufficient responses from 24 communities to look at these results in depth. 2 Benchmarked against the Deakin University's Personal Wellbeing Index Learn more about our Liveability Index at www.stockland.com.au/liveability Creating shared value | Shape thriving communities | 45 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT We also received strong local interest 640 AND INVESTMENT in our Community Grants Program for In FY17, we invested close to $6 million a second year. We awarded more than through our community development, $300,000 of community grants to 320 community investment programs and the community development initiatives local community organisations in FY17. Stockland CARE Foundation. Over the year delivered across Australia These winners comprise a diverse group 640 community development initiatives of community organisations, including $6m were delivered across our assets. community preschools, men’s sheds, sporting clubs, respite for carers, youth Community development wellbeing programs, suicide prevention contributed to community groups, toy libraries, choirs, over 55s National partnerships $457,985 investment and development recreation and computing clubs, disability groups and children’s reading groups. Stockland community grants $303,714 Asset-based contributions Community Investment $2,551,436 4,000+ hours volunteered by our employees Fostering more inclusive and accessible communities remains an important goal. We added to our growing number of inclusive play spaces and opened three Workplace giving $251,197 new play spaces in our residential and 140 In-kind donations $617,114 retail communities in partnership with our Stockland CARE Foundation partner Corporate donations $280,947 Touched by Olivia. In FY17, two new National community employees involved in our accessibility initiatives were developed investment partnerships $130,000 student mentoring program in consultation with the community. At our Stockland Shellharbour shopping Volunteering $213,720 centre we opened two quiet rooms designed Stockland CARE Foundation $376,034 We continued to focus on our national to create a safe and calm retreat for parents, partnerships delivering health and carers and children with Autism Spectrum Management costs $856,205 Disorder (ASD). We also installed adult wellbeing, education and community Total community contribution $6,038,651 connection benefits. Some of those change facility based on ‘Changing Places’ benefits are listed below: design principles to provide an accessible toilet with a hoist to assist visitors with • Live Life Get Active – Across 20 of our mobility impairments, and an adult-sized communities more than 5,000 people changing table. participated in our free outdoor activity camps to promote fitter, healthier and happier communities. Collectively We added to our participants reported losing 2,695 kilograms. growing number of • National Theatre for Children – inclusive play spaces More than 23,000 students in Melbourne, and opened three Sydney, Brisbane and Perth enjoyed live National Theatre for Children productions new play spaces in focussed on environmental preservation, our residential and protection, rehabilitation and stewardship within our residential communities. retail communities • Jamie’s Ministry of Food – More than in partnership with 3,600 participants in our community based fiveand seven-week cooking our Stockland CARE programs that teach individuals the Foundation partner basics of how to prepare simple, healthy, fresh and affordable meals. Touched by Olivia. At our Stockland Wetherill Park kitchen 45 per cent of attendees were concession card holders. 46 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 HEALTHY EATING WITH JAMIE’S MINISTRY OF FOOD Jamie’s Ministry of Food program not only increases participants’ cooking confidence, knowledge, attitudes and beliefs towards cooking and healthy eating, but shifted behaviour change towards healthier cooking and eating in the home. Residents and their grandchildren participating in a cooking and nutrition program led by Jamie’s Ministry of Food at Stockland Wetherill Park (NSW) Our commitment to delivering healthy Our retirement village residents have Independent evaluations conducted cooking and good nutrition programs also benefited from Jamie’s Ministry of by Melbourne University and Deakin in our local communities continues Food programs, participating in cooking University in 2014 and 2015 concluded through our exciting partnerships demonstrations and the Learn Your Fruit that the Jamie’s Ministry of Food program with Jamie’s Ministry of Food. and Veg program with their grandchildren not only increases participants’ cooking during school holidays. confidence, knowledge, attitudes and In FY17, over 3,660 of our residents, beliefs towards cooking and healthy customers and local community The focus of these classes was having eating, but shifted behaviour change members participated in a variety generations cooking together in a fun towards healthier cooking and eating of initiatives that provided and educational environment. Fruit and in the home. opportunities to change behaviours vegetables were introduced with loads through education and practical of facts and visuals around smelling, Participants of both the permanent hands-on cooking programs. touching and tasting the different and mobile kitchens were found to varieties, followed by the grandparents increase their vegetable consumption These programs included the and grandchildren making a simple by over half a serve per day and this continued delivery of cooking classes no cook Jamie Oliver recipe. behaviour has been sustained six at our permanent kitchen at Stockland months after the completion of the Wetherill Park (NSW) and our hosting program. The program has also of the Jamie’s Ministry of Food Mobile been shown to increase social Kitchen at Stockland Cairns (Qld), connectedness particularly for Cleveland (Qld), Newport (Qld) the socially isolated and people and Baldivis (WA). with disabilities. Creating shared value | Shape thriving communities | 47 STOCKLAND CARE FOUNDATION We launched our CARE Foundation in 2015 Stockland CARE Foundation raised $376,034 to help improve the health, wellbeing and education of communities in and around our assets. In 2015, a survey of our shoppers found that only 50 per cent had heard of Redkite, with only 23 per cent aware of their activities. As few as 15 per cent of shoppers 94 had heard of Touched by Olivia, with only families with access to RedKite’s eight per cent aware of what they do. services for kids with cancer To increase awareness amongst both our employees and the broader community, $30,000 of marketing and maintenance we introduced an annual awareness-raising costs avoided for Touched by Olivia campaign – Foundation Fortnight. The twothrough volunteering week campaign held in late October included targeted events and activities to promote awareness and raise funds for the Stockland 3 more CARE Foundation and our partners across inclusive play spaces designed all our retail, residential and retirement with Touched by Olivia: living assets and our state offices. • Stockland Shellharbour, NSW Our shopping centres hosted ‘CARE Day’ • Stockland Wetherill Park, NSW on October 29, with a variety of children’s • Cloverton, Vic activities. CARE Foundation red kites and butterfly wings were available for purchase, with all proceeds going to our partners. Customers were invited to post pictures of their families enjoying care day with the hashtag #CareDay2016. In seven of our retirement living villages we hosted Grandparents Day, inviting friends and families to take part in a range of activities including kite-making and story time. Across our residential sales offices, for a gold coin donation, customers could read about the Foundation and its cause whilst their children coloured in a Touched by Olivia colouring book or made and decorated a kite. The campaign received incredible support from employees, customers, and our suppliers and partners. Over $290,000 was raised for the Stockland CARE Foundation’s charity partners. Foundation Fortnight 2017 will be held from 2 October to 15 October 2017. For more information on our community initiatives see our Community Deep Dive and Community Data Pack For more information on our customer engagement see our Customer Engagement & Experience Deep Dive 48 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 CREATING SHARED VALUE Optimise and innovate We aim to provide business solutions that better serve our customers while reducing our impact on the environment. | 49 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW STRATEGIC PRIORITIES RESILIENT COMMUNITIES AND ASSETS The following elements are our key areas For the benefit of our stakeholders, and OUR TARGETS of environmental impact and how we society more broadly, we are committed To reduce our net environmental seek to manage them: to creating climate-resilient assets that impact we aimed to achieve: operate with minimal disruption, as well Climate change and energy efficiency as building strong communities that are 10% reduction in the emissions equipped to adapt to climate change intensity of our Office and Retail • Reduce emissions and improve risks and opportunities. climate resilience within our portfolio portfolios by FY17 (based on We have a comprehensive approach FY14 baseline) • Invest in alternative energy supplies to assessing and managing the physical ACHIEVED to reduce our emissions risks of climate change for both our assets Biodiversity and our local communities, residents and 40% reduction in energy customers. This approach includes the usage per residential lot • Minimise our impact on local bushland following key steps: and retirement home habitat, ecological communities and incorporated into the design protected or significant species • Conduct a national mapping exercise of newly developed projects of all assets in the portfolio (including • Design that promotes nature (compared to regional those under development) to identify reserves and activates parklands averages) the level of vulnerability and exposure based on 1.5°C to 2°C warming scenarios, PARTIALLY ACHIEVED Water management and quality their geographic location and perceived • Improve water consumption exposure to climate vulnerability based Create a net positive impact efficiency and sustainable sourcing on recent experiences. on biodiversity across our new developments by FY17 • Deliver projects that minimise water • Undertake climate and community ACHIEVED use and positively contribute to local resilience assessments at assets water catchments prioritised through the national 40% reduction in potable water mapping exercise. consumption per residential Waste and materials • Develop an action plan to implement lot and 20% reduction per • Reduce, reuse and recycle our waste, retirement home incorporated minimising our contribution to landfill the key recommendations outlined in the assessment process. Recommendations into the design of newly • Specify the use of ecologicallymay include the implementation of developed projects. and health-preferable materials operational responses, maintenance PARTIALLY ACHIEVED regimes, emergency response plans and community development programs For our FY18-FY20 targets visit that focus on improving the health www.stockland.com.au/sustainability. FY17 PROGRESS and wellbeing of our communities. This action planning is integrated • Electricity intensity reductions: with annual sustainability and asset/ Retail 35% and Office & Business We achieved our target to improve the business planning processes. Parks 51% since FY06 resilience of our North Queensland retail Our work in building resilience means assets, with the improvements resulting • Green Star – Communities: that we are able to: from implementation of climate resilience 6 Residential communities achieved initiatives (see case study). We also 5 star or 6 star ratings • Optimise asset performance by assessed seven residential communities minimising increases in operating and 10 retirement living villages prioritised • Waste diversion from landfill: and maintenance costs, based on their climate risk exposure. 96% of Residential and 84% of Retail • Make informed decisions regarding waste diverted (from FY15-17) future investments, Over the past year, we formalised our participation in the University of NSW • Biodiversity savings: Around • Reduce liability and insurance premiums Microclimate and Urban Heat Island 1,972 hectares of land reserved by ensuring assets are prepared for Mitigation Decision-Support Tool Project. for protection in perpetuity climate change, The aim of the project is to provide • Increase customer comfort levels within governments and developers with • Installed a 925 kW solar photovoltaic our assets and communities, and a resource that incorporates existing (PV) system at Stockland Wetherill and emerging evidence to inform policy • Help maintain the longevity of assets Park (NSW) and practices related to urban design for within our portfolio. • New targets set for climate change, cooling streetscapes, precincts and cities, In FY17, we reassessed the climate resilience decreasing energy consumption, protecting energy, biodiversity, water, waste and of our portfolio of North Queensland retail materials to FY20, including longerhealth and vulnerable populations, and assets, and benchmarked them against their improving comfort conditions. term FY25 carbon intensity target. original assessment undertaken in FY15. 50 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 CLIMATE RESILIENT ASSETS Our climate resilience assessment Examples of initiatives and actions included: After further experience with extreme methodology focuses on the weather events and comparison against • Fastening roofing systems and roof vulnerability of the asset to climate other portfolio assets, the vulnerability mounted equipment to improve change, particularly its ability to of some built elements was revised due resilience to cyclonic wind, endure severe weather impacts and to a lower perceived vulnerability than operate without disruption. As outlined • Upgrading air conditioning and originally scored or where a particular in the figure below, the methodology electrical equipment to provide vulnerability has been removed. defines key resilience criteria, with a greater reliability and performance For example, our shopping centre in particular focus on location and design, during days of extreme heat, Cairns is no longer deemed a cyclone structure, operation and maintenance, • Replacing ageing roofing materials evacuation centre so the resulting utilities and services, and stakeholders. and specifying new roofing systems vulnerability has been removed. in developments to utilise ‘cool roof’ In FY15 we set a FY17 climate resilience On reassessment, the North technologies to reduce urban heat target for the assets in our North Queensland retail portfolio achieved island effect and heat loads on plant Queensland retail portfolio. The aim an average score of 5.4 from the initial and equipment, was to improve the score from 5.9 score of 5.9 which is 0.1 ahead of target. to 5.5 by implementing a range of • Improving the design of stormwater This still places these assets in the actions and initiatives aimed at drainage infrastructure to be more upper range of moderate vulnerability, improving reliability and resilience resilient to the effects of intense due to their proximity to cyclone affected to extreme weather events, better flooding, and regions, but some assets that were emergency preparedness and • Implementing new business in the high range of vulnerability have greater comfort and amenity continuity plans and emergency had their vulnerabilities measurably for building occupants. procedures for assets in regions reduced due to the implementation vulnerable to cyclones. of resilience initiatives. CLIMATE EFFECTS ANALYSIS PROPERTY ELEMENTS ANALYSIS CLIMATE RISKS ANALYSIS Exposure to weather events Building design / Potential impact of climate events structure (sensitivity) and operations / on assets and operations procedures (adaptive capacity) CLIMATE-RESILIENCE SCORE Creating shared value | Optimise and innovate | 51 Commercial Property – electricity intensity (kWh/m²) FY17 64.43 FY16 68.26 FY15 69.30 FY14 69.47 FY13 70.90 Renewable energy generated using solar power (kWh) FY18-20 12,300,000 FY17 2,376,838 FY16 1,940,689 FY15 292,124 FY14 175,374 TARGETING ENERGY EFFICIENCY • Completion of our second largest solar AND EMISSIONS REDUCTION system at Stockland Wetherill Park REDUCTION IN ELECTRICITY The increasing cost of energy, particularly (NSW), which is on track to generate INTENSITY SINCE FY06 (kWh/m²) 1,200,000 kWh annually, and 35% electricity, poses a challenge for the property industry and for all Australians. • Completion of LED lighting upgrade at Coupled with our commitment to reduce Stockland Point Cook (Vic) and Stockland our carbon emissions, improving the energy Hervey Bay (Qld) and a large HVAC upgrade efficiency of our assets and communities at Stockland Bundaberg (Qld). Retail portfolio not only improves the cost of operations and living but also provides improved environmental outcomes. As electricity is an increasing proportion Following the successful achievement of our 51% Office and Business of our assets’ operating expenditure, FY17 renewable energy Park portfolio improvements in energy efficiency enable target, we will install $78m+ us to reduce cost and improve our operational efficiency. The increasing cost of power a further 12.3 MW also means that renewable energy options such as solar have become cost-effective of solar PV projects saved choices for our energy supply. in our Retail portfolio Our Commercial Property business accounts for the majority of Stockland’s in operating centres We actively assess the most appropriate electricity costs. We continue to trial and in developments locations to roll out solar across the new technologies as they emerge, portfolio and focus on alternative energy and where proven successful we stage from FY18-FY20. initiatives that meet our return-on-investment implementation through the portfolio. hurdle. Following the successful achievement In FY17, we implemented a number of Our approach to alternative energy is of our FY17 renewable energy target, we will energy efficiency projects including: focused predominantly on solar PV in our install a further 12.3 MW of solar PV projects • LED lighting upgrades at Stockland retail commercial properties, though wind in our Retail portfolio in operating centres Shellharbour (NSW), Stockland Tooronga and tri-generation has also been explored and in developments from FY18-FY20. and Stockland Rockhampton (Qld) across certain assets. Our installed capacity We also have solar PV installations on equivalent to savings of approximately of 2.26 MW includes our newest installation a large proportion of our retirement village 800,000kWh annually, at Stockland Wetherill Park (NSW) as well homes. Over the next 12 months, we will be as installations at Stockland Shellharbour • Completion of variable speed drives looking closely at how solar can be adopted (NSW), Stockland Green Hills (NSW) and (VSDs) at Stockland Rockhampton, in the Residential business on a large scale Stockland Nowra (NSW). which has the potential to result in through different network ownership and 160,000 kWh of savings annually, management models. 52 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 OUR EMISSIONS PROFILE We report our scope 1 and scope 2 emissions according to our Total scope 1+2 emissions (tCO₂-e) operational control boundary under the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGER Act). FY17 115,367 Residential constitutes the largest proportion of our scope 1 FY16 124,917 emissions due to contractor construction activity across our FY15 124,131 developments. Commercial Property constitutes our largest FY14 122,029 proportion of scope 2 emissions and remains the focus of our strategic energy efficiency initiatives. FY13 122,902 Total scope 1 emissions (tCO₂-e) Total scope 2 emissions (tCO₂-e) FY17 FY17 Office and business parks base building gas 1,010 Corporate tenancies electricity 1,418 Logistics centres gas – Office and business parks base building electricity 18,350 Retail centres gas 1,451 Logistics centres electricity 4,328 Vehicle fleet fuel 84 Retail centres electricity 54,944 Refrigerants leaked 3,224 Residential sites electricity 1,413 Residential sites gas 12 Residential contractors electricity 147 Residential contractors fuel and gas 20,278 1 Retirement living villages electricity 7,874 Retirement living villages gas 745 Retirement living contractors electricity 8 Retirement living contractors fuel, gas 393 Total scope 2 emissions 88,483 Total scope 1 emissions 26,884 1 Construction activities across masterplanned residential communities transition from civil works in FY16 to residential lots in FY17. For more information please see our Carbon and Energy Deep Dive and our Environmental Data Pack Creating shared value | Optimise and innovate | 53 SUSTAINABLE ASSETS • Livable Housing Australia – Three-tiered We remain committed to delivering more AND DEVELOPMENTS performance certification for liveable accessible housing options for Australians. Asset ratings and certifications are a key housing design: Silver, Gold and Platinum. In FY17, we achieved the following Livable means of assuring and demonstrating the Housing Australia (LHA) certifications: Green Star is now a standard Stockland quality of our projects and assets. These requirement on all shopping centre and • LHA Silver standard design for Willowdale ratings serve as independent validation retirement living developments, with Community Place, our sustainability and that key sustainability aspects, including a minimum of 4 Star Green Star – Design community hub at the Willowdale (NSW) social and environmental factors, have been & As Built certification required. We have residential community, considered in our project and asset designs, the largest number of Green Star rated • LHA Silver design ratings for two homes developments and operations. retail properties in Australia, as verified in the Aura (Qld) display village, and Assets that are highly rated and can by the GBCA, with 23 assets awarded one • LHA Silver standard at Birtinya Retirement demonstrate optimal performance are or more rating. We have also received the Village (Qld), our first vertical village. often more attractive to customers and first Green Star rating for a retirement investors. Not only do they guarantee living asset. We updated and relaunched our Retirement a certain level of energy and water Living design guidelines to reflect LHA We continue to extend our Green Star efficiency, and therefore cost savings principles, and remain committed to 100% certifications across our new Retail and over the long term, they also incorporate Silver LHA in new greenfield retirement Retirement Living projects. In our Retail various design features that promote social villages. We are working to deliver LHA portfolio we achieved a 4 Star Green Star inclusion and enhance health and wellbeing. more efficiently with our builder partners. – Design rating for Stockland Harrisdale Buildings with high environmental ratings We will continue to improve processes (WA); our first ever 5 Star Green Star – often demonstrate higher return on to enable better delivery and better As Built rating for retail at Stockland investment over time. awareness within the market. Wetherill Park (NSW). We have a strong commitment to the use In addition to rating our assets we have For our Logistics and Business Parks of product rating and certification tools minimum standards for our assets. These portfolio, we have committed to integrate to ensure the sustainability performance include targets for water quality and sustainability standards into our design of our projects and assets. They include: waste management. brief so that we maintain consistency in the • Green Star – A range of tools design of logistics buildings that deliver For the FY15-FY17 target cycle, our administered by the Green Building good environmental outcomes. Commercial Property combined landfill Council of Australia (GBCA) that rate diversion rate on four major retail In our Residential business we use the Green the sustainable design, construction and construction projects was 84%, against Star Communities tool (see our case study). operation of buildings and communities, our target of 80%. In our Residential and using a scale from 1 to 6 Stars, with We completed NABERS Energy ratings Retirement Living businesses we achieved 1 being Minimum Practice and 6 being for the calendar year 2016 for 23 out of a diversion of waste from landfill rate of World Leadership. 24 eligible assets in our Retail portfolio 97%. At our new Newport community (Qld), and for 16 out of 19 assets in our Office we worked with our principal contractor • NABERS – The National Australian Built and Business Parks’ portfolio. Based on to develop a refined spoil management Environment Rating System uses measured the ratings that have been undertaken, the strategy that enabled the project to reuse and verified performance information retail portfolio average for NABERS Energy 1.5 million cubic metres of spoil on site to assess energy efficiency, water usage is 3.98 stars (4.19 stars in FY16) and 3.20 (read more in our case study). and other factors of a building or tenancy stars for NABERS Water (2.85 stars in FY16). and its impact on the environment. This The Office and Business Parks portfolio performance is converted into a rating NABERS Energy rating is 4.74 star and the scale of 1 to 6 stars, with 6 being marketNABERS Water rating is 3.98 stars. leading performance. Portfolio sustainability ratings 3.98 4.74 22 NABERS Energy NABERS Energy Green Star Performance Retail portfolio average* Office and Business Parks portfolio average* rated Retail assets 3.20 3.98 24 NABERS Water NABERS Water Green Star Design, Communities Retail portfolio average* Office and Business Parks portfolio average* & As Built rated assets * Includes assets eligible for a rating For more information please see our Asset Ratings and Certification Deep Dive 54 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 GREEN STAR COMMUNITIES The Green Star – Communities rating tool, administered by the Green The highly coveted 6 Star Green Star – Building Council of Australia (GBCA) Communities rating signifies world leadership is a voluntary certification for developers of masterplanned communities that in the design of the masterplan, which sets recognises the achievement of best the highest possible sustainability standards practice sustainability outcomes. We seek Green Star – Communities for the community both during construction ratings for our residential projects so that the project’s sustainability and after it is completed. outcomes are independently verified and benchmarked by the GBCA. • Heat island effect reduction through Aura has set a strong precedent The tool relies on scientific and provision of open space and cool roofs, that has been followed by the holistic analysis, which has been both of which reduce heat stress and Residential business, which achieved peer-reviewed and ratified by more also contribute to energy savings six more Green Star – Communities than 1,000 industry and sustainable in cooling homes, ratings in FY17: development experts. • Cool Roof policy, which establishes • Newport – 5 Star guidelines for the roofs of homes (Australian Excellence) Over the past year, we advanced our to reduce the heat island effect, first 6 Star Green Star – Communities • Altrove – 5 Star rated community at Aura (Qld, rating • Veloways that provide leading (Australian Excellence) achieved in FY15) by achieving additional cycling infrastructure, separating cyclists from motorists and improving • Willowdale – 6 Star Green Star – Communities credits for (World Leadership) the development. These additional cycling connections, • Dark Sky Alliance-compliant LED • The Grove – 5 Star sixteen points lift Aura’s score to (Australian Excellence) 91.3 points, and makes it the higheststreet lights, which improve night scoring Green Star – Communities rated sky amenity and reduce impact • Cloverton – 6 Star development in Queensland (secondon nocturnal fauna, and (World Leadership), and highest nationally). Our community • Aura’s community stewardship program, • Calleya – 6 Star at Aura was recognised for its: which empowers the community to (World Leadership). engage and contribute to the successful operation and longevity of the environment and society. Creating shared value | Optimise and innovate | 55 BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT – Our FY17 diversion from landfill rate target of 36 per cent. In our Office and A NET POSITIVE OUTCOME for Residential and Retirement Living Business Parks portfolio, waste diversion The impacts of our business on biodiversity development was 97 per cent, which from landfill was 43 per cent; just short are, for the most part, unique to our greenfield exceeded our target rate of 60 per cent of the 45 per cent diversion target. residential developments and in particular due to a number of large residential projects not needing to export large We also undertook a Life Cycle Assessment our masterplanned communities. These on our Stockland Green Hills (NSW) impacts occur both during construction amounts of debris from site. redevelopment. Results from the analysis (e.g. clearing, sediment runoff, changed We continued to engage with our tenants, showed a cumulative 142 per cent reduction hydrological regimes) and as a result retailers and customers to further improve in environmental impact was achievable by of urbanisation (e.g. poaching species, the levels of recycling at our retail sites. the proposed building design for Stockland introduction of invasive species, Retail waste diverted from landfill was Green Hills compared to the standard isolation of habitat). 45 per cent, exceeding our waste diversion reference building. Our developments can leave biodiversity in better shape through conservation, investment, secure ownership, and SPOIL MANAGEMENT SAVES MILLIONS ongoing management, especially when compared with the existing state of many pre-development sites. These sites are Our forthcoming community at Newport (Qld) on the Redcliffe The project saved often degraded habitat, facing continued Peninsula will feature a range of over $3.5 million by impacts from threatening processes. They waterside and waterfront homes, are also usually in private ownership with a retail and dining precinct, not having to pay no certainty over conservation outcomes. When we develop the site, in some cases a retirement village, foreshore to export material parks, and a proposed 23-hectare we will retain the majority of biodiversity, lake with access to Moreton Bay. off site and import and in some cases land will be cleared. Where this is the case, conservation The earthworks required to develop new material. in perpetuity of remaining biodiversity a site like Newport can be emissions or biodiversity off-site provides certainty intensive and often require sending These sustainable earthworks for ecological communities and species. large amounts of dirt off site to landfill. initiatives at Newport protect our As with all of our developments, natural environment, save money, we have worked with our contractors and improve the competitiveness Our developments to deliver sustainable outcomes of our business and our suppliers. can leave biodiversity on construction sites, such as Our leadership in sustainable minimising the environmental development was a key factor in better shape impacts from earthworks. in receiving approval to proceed through conservation, At Newport, we worked with our with Newport, further underscoring the value of sustainable practices principal contractor to develop investment, secure a refined spoil management strategy for efficient property development that delivers value for us, our ownership, and ongoing that enabled the project to reuse suppliers, and the communities 1.5 million cubic metres of spoil management, especially on site. That’s over 600 Olympic in which we operate. when compared with the swimming pools worth of material that may have otherwise ended existing state of many up in landfill. pre-development sites. Earthworks at Newport also prioritised the use of scoops over dump trucks In FY15 we set a target of delivering to transport dirt, given the relative fuel a positive biodiversity outcome across efficiency of scoops. Prioritising scoops all of our new projects between FY15 to FY17, saved the project over 114,000 litres as measured by the biodiversity calculator. of fuel. A total of 11 new projects were delivered This equates to a saving of over $135,000 over this period, and we met our target (using 2016 average Queensland diesel to deliver a net positive outcome. fuel price of $1.192 per litre) and over 305,000 kg CO₂-e of greenhouse gas WASTE MANAGEMENT emissions avoided. The materials and equipment used within Newport (Qld) our assets have a significant bearing on the capital cost of our projects and on the operating cost and efficiency of the assets we retain and manage as owners. 56 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 CREATING SHARED VALUE Enrich our value chain When we collaborate our outcomes are strong and relationships prosperous. | 57 Our progress PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW STRATEGIC PRIORITIES SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Our four value chain focus areas are: Effective management of our supply OUR TARGETS chain enhances our long-term business So that we create and maintain Employee engagement performance as it enables us to identify positive relationships and and address key environmental, social collaboration within our value • Attract and retain high-performing and governance risks and opportunities chain, we aim to: employees associated with our developments that • Develop leaders who are authentic, are beyond our operational control. Maintain 100% of active accessible and performance-focused Stockland continues to develop and development projects with encourage sustainable procurement Stakeholder Engagement Plans Supply chain management practices across our supply chain. ACHIEVED • Identify and address key We expect all our key supply chain environmental, social and partners (contractors on our development Outperform the Australian High governance risks that fall sites, suppliers of corporate goods and Performing Norm employee beyond our direct control services, and service providers at our engagement score of 80% • Develop and encourage sustainable operating assets) to demonstrate their ACHIEVED procurement practices with commitment to environmental and our partners social responsibility. Increase women in management We continued focus on implementing to 50% by 2020 Stakeholder engagement (see page 18) our supply chain framework and providing IN PROGRESS • Develop and maintain strong clear guidance on what we expect from our relationships through regular suppliers and their supply chain in meeting Implement our Sustainable and genuine engagement commitments in regards to governance Supply Chain Charter to provide with stakeholders and management, environmental impact, guidance on setting and health and safety, social value, human delivering specific supply rights and capability and capacity. chain initiatives IN PROGRESS FY17 PROGRESS Employee flexible work options • 70% of employees now work flexibly Diversity Stockland expects its suppliers and their supply • 45.9% women in management chain to meet commitments in regards to governance Safety and management, environmental impact, health • Corporate LTIFR of 1.8 and safety, social value, human rights and capability down from 4.0 in FY16 and capacity. Stakeholder engagement • Aura Engagement Excellence Program – Project Innovation For more information please see our Supply Chain Management Deep Dive Award at the 2017 Property Council Innovation and Excellence Awards Enabling enduring employment • 74 job placements through Green Hills Connectivity Centre at our Stockland Green Hills redevelopment 58 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 BOOSTING LOCAL EMPLOYMENT We expect our suppliers to actively engage with the communities The Green Hills Connectivity Centre connects in which we operate. Suppliers are job seekers with employment opportunities, encouraged to source labour, goods, and services from local communities, and upskills individuals in preparation for the thus maximising the opportunities workplace. Over the past year, the Connectivity for our projects to benefit both Stockland and locals. Centre placed 74 people into employment. We partnered with the primary contractor of our $412 million shopping The Connectivity Centre also convened One of the highlights of the year for centre redevelopment of Stockland workshops such as the Customer Service the Connectivity Centre was an art Green Hills (NSW) to focus on local Workshop, where young job seekers exhibition that the centre hosted employment opportunities provided interested in working in industries in April 2017. The exhibition engaged by the project. Over the past year, such as retail and hospitality can gain job seekers in the local community the project created 1,495 construction a statement of attainment to increase who are artistic or undergoing art jobs within the local community their employability. as therapy, and encouraged broader (defined as contractors residing community engagement with the Other workshops hosted by the within 50 kilometres of the site). centre. The exhibition involved Connectivity Centre during the year Furthermore, the project has a collaboration with Maitland City include Driver Learner and Driver procured over one-third of its Council and the Local Aboriginal Awareness workshops, as well as construction services from within Land Council, and was featured Interview Technique workshops. the local area (measured by value). in the local paper the day after winners were announced. Another feature of our Green Hills redevelopment is the Green Hills Connectivity Centre, which we set up in collaboration with the primary contractor on the project. The aim of the Connectivity Centre is to connect job seekers with employment opportunities, and to upskill individuals in preparation for the workplace. Over the past year, the Connectivity Centre placed 74 people into employment in construction, retail, and administration positions. The Centre also provided postplacement support to 19 employers to ensure placement retention. Aerial photograph of construction at Stockland Green Hills. The Green Hills Connectivity Centre has assisted locals to find employment in construction, retail, and administration positions within the centre. Creating shared value | Enrich our value chain | 59 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT • Employees consider that we care • Innovation continues to be a focus area AND DEVELOPMENT about health and safety (92 per cent), for improving organisational performance Building a highly engaged workforce is with employees indicating their work and employee engagement. The Core critical to our success as an organisation area is a safe place to work (96 per Systems program is an example of where and our ability to deliver on our priorities. cent), that Stockland provides adequate we are challenging our traditional ways For over a decade Stockland has partnered OH&S systems, resources & training of doing things (69 per cent) and trying with Willis Towers Watson, a leading global (90 per cent), and prompt and effective new approaches to address business advisory company, to design and deliver the action is taken when unsafe conditions challenges (75 per cent). Through Our Voice employee engagement survey, are brought to management’s attention quarterly Leadership Team gatherings, which is one of the key ways we measure (90 per cent). the Stockland Leadership Experience the engagement of our employees. for Senior Leaders, and the graduate program, we are improving collaboration across business units (63 per cent). In 2017, we achieved an employee engagement score of 82 per cent, which remains above the Australian EMPLOYEE TURNOVER We recognise that employee engagement has National Norm of 75 per cent. a direct relationship with both productivity levels and talent attraction and retention. In 2017, we achieved an employee • Leadership remains steady with As such, we use key metrics to determine engagement score of 82 per cent, which a score of 73 per cent, eight points the success of our employee engagement remains above the Australian National above the ANN, and people have a clear activities, including employee-initiated Norm (ANN) of 75 per cent. 96 per cent sense of direction from the Leadership turnover, turnover in the first year and (14 points above the ANN) of employees Team at 80 per cent. These results key talent retention. indicated they fully support the values reflect concerted efforts on employee for which Stockland stands, 91 per cent communication, and visibility of leaders We achieved our target of less than of respondents said they believe strongly reinforcing our objectives and priorities. 12 per cent employee-initiated turnover in the goals and objectives of Stockland, for employees with Strong performance The Our Voice survey also identified the or above (turnover rate 10.6 per cent). and 95 per cent of respondents indicated following areas for improvement: Stockland-initiated turnover decreased they are willing to work beyond what is required to help Stockland succeed. in FY17 after an increase in the second • Employee satisfaction with our Stockland achieved strong performance half of FY16 as a result of redundancies work processes and systems across the following areas: that were a part of the formation of the (66 per cent) has declined from last Stockland Support Centre (SSC). year. Improving systems and technology • Corporate responsibility and is an organisational priority area, and Our overall turnover rate decreased sustainability had a positive rating so it is encouraging to note that employee to 17.5 per cent from over 20 per cent of 88 per cent, which is nine points perceptions of the efforts to enhance in FY16. above the Global High Performing Norm systems and technology improved (GHPN), reflecting our employees' belief (by four points to 79 per cent). The Core that we are doing a good job of integrating Systems Program launched last year sustainability into our projects, activities aims to consolidate and streamline (86 per cent), and our products and our management systems. services (84 per cent). • Work processes continue to • Diversity and Inclusion continues to impact employee enablement, be a key driver of employee engagement which encompasses work systems, for our employees, with 86 per cent employee wellbeing, and efficiency of employees considering we are diverse of processes. While 55 per cent and inclusive. As we continue to create of employees believe Stockland a more diverse and inclusive workplace, is working to make processes it is encouraging to note the large as efficient as possible, some are proportion of employees who agree experiencing obstacles to doing that men and women have the same their job well (65 per cent). In parallel opportunities to advance at Stockland to the Core Systems Program we are (83 per cent), perceive the working reviewing key operating models and environment to be accepting of processes to improve efficiencies differences with regard to people with across the organisation. disabilities or psychological/physical impairment (86 per cent), and agree Stockland is accepting of differences with regard to cultural background or lifestyles (93 per cent). 60 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION PARENTS AND CARERS LEAVE POLICY At Stockland, we aim to leverage the maximum potential of our people, irrespective of individual differences, such as gender, ethnicity, age, physical abilities, sexual identity, family status, beliefs, and perspectives. Our FY17 employee engagement results reiterate the importance our people place on Diversity and Inclusion, which continues to be a key driver for engagement and retention. The Diversity and Inclusion Index from our 2017 Our Voice survey has remained steady at 86 per cent, and continues to be above Australian National Norm for Diversity and Inclusion. To expand the reach of Diversity and Inclusion through our business, we have established Employee Advocacy Groups Mark Steinert, Managing Director and CEO and Davina Rooney, General Manager under the diversity pillars of: Gender Sustainability at Stockland’s Head Office Childcare Centre Treehouse. Equity; Parents and Carers; Wellbeing, LGBTI+ and Cultural Inclusion; and In FY17, the Parents and Carers EAG 3. Improved clarity on eligibility for Disability and Flexibility. made policy changes to the Parental short-term incentive payment – Leave experience at Stockland. The Employees need a minimum of one The achievements of the Employee group initiated five changes to our month’s paid service to be eligible Advocacy Groups included updates Parental Leave policy: for an STI payment (excluding to the Parents and Carers Leave paid parental leave) for existing Policy and the launch of our second 1. Changes to the timing of employees (previously was Reconciliation Action Plan. non-primary carer’s leave – three-month requirement). In consultation with employees At the launch of our second RAP we it was found that the previous 4. Amended primary carer’s acknowledged some of the achievements policy granting 10 days leave leave for fathers/partners – from our first plan, which spanned FY14-17. immediately following the birth Primary carer’s leave can now They included over $3 million in procurement or adoption of a child was not always be accessed within 12 to 18 months from First Nation suppliers, the sponsorship the best use of leave. Employees at the business’s discretion of four scholarships for Indigenous students told the EAG that being able to take (was previously only available through the ABCN Scholarship Foundation, the 10 days of non-primary carer’s within 12 months). and the development of an Indigenous leave anytime during the first year Employment Strategy. 5. Enhanced primary carer’s leave – would be more appreciated. The policy now allows for 16 weeks 2. Introduction of accrued long paid leave including superannuation service leave – Employees can plus the choice of one parental now access accrued long service flex option: leave on their 10-year anniversary (a) an additional two weeks of joining Stockland, regardless paid leave, of whether parental leave has been taken (accrual is still based (b) superannuation paid during on paid service). period of unpaid leave up to one year (up to 36 weeks), or (c) a lump sum payment of $3000 (gross) on return from leave. The policy has been extended to long -term foster care arrangements. For more information please see our Employee Engagement Deep Dive Read our Reconciliation Action Plan at www.stockland.com.au/about-stockland/stockland-in-the-community Creating shared value | Enrich our value chain | 61 AURA ENGAGEMENT EXCELLENCE PROGRAM We conceived the Aura Engagement The program has built strong Excellence Program during the initial relationships between our business planning stages of Aura (Qld), and the community and has been Australia’s largest masterplanned instrumental in delivering industrycommunity under single ownership. leading sustainability, environmental, economic and social outcomes for The program identifies and optimises the masterplanned project. Program opportunities for community outcomes include: management of natural areas within Aura. We developed a strategy • Community stewardship of Aura’s following extensive consultation with natural beauty, local community organisations and the • Early rehabilitation of key natural Sunshine Coast Council about the best areas, well in advance of the project’s way to involve the local community State and Federal obligations, and in the long-term delivery of Aura. • Enabling us to pilot new construction This feedback indicated that a community technologies including High Efficiency -led reference group should be created Sediment Basins to ensure maximum to work with us to guide the preservation protection of downstream waterways. and management of natural areas. This community engagement Program implementation commenced methodology and its implementation in 2014 with the founding of the Aura was awarded a 6 Star Green Star – Community Stewardship Group, Communities rating from the Green co-ordinated by independent Building Council of Australia. organisation, Healthy Land and Water. It continues to evolve and now The program was also recognised includes more than 18 community at the 2017 Property Council of stakeholder groups working in close Australia Innovation and Excellence collaboration with us to manage Awards, where the Aura Engagement natural areas within Aura. Excellence Program took out the Project Innovation Award. Representatives meet quarterly to discuss prospective research, conservation and rehabilitation opportunities. 62 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Our reporting approach The aim of our integrated approach is to inform investors and other stakeholders on how our business creates value over the short, medium and long term. | 63 MATERIALITY PROCESS Stockland has used the materiality definition from the Integrated Reporting Framework, which states ‘an integrated report should disclose information about matters that substantively affect the organisation’s ability to create value over the short, medium and long term’. We identified our FY17 material matters using the following process. The issues identified through this process and the sustainability content in the Annual Review are reviewed and approved by Stockland’s executive team and the Board. Identify Evaluate and Prioritise Alignment and Disclosure We combined the outcomes of the following An integrated reporting materiality workshop Following the materiality workshop, the final two materiality processes to identify draft was held with members of the leadership list of material matters was presented to our material matters: team to identify any additional relevant internal Integrated Reporting Committee. 1. Materiality test capturing internal and issues, rank issues of greatest significance Once confirmed, the matters were submitted external perspectives in alignment with the and prioritise them based on their ability to the Executive Committee and the Board principles of AA1000 and GRI G4, including: to affect value. for review. • Investor research and engagement; Material matters were mapped in terms An alignment check was also performed, of their potential impact on value creation with our strategy review process and • Customer feedback and insights; over the short, medium and long term. • Employee surveys; sustainability materiality outcomes. • Political and regulatory developments; • Industry engagement and advocacy; and • Social and mainstream media. 2. An internal operational and strategic risk assessment. The resulting list of matters served as a starting point for our integrated reporting materiality workshop. MATERIAL MATTERS Increased competition and changing Our growth is supported by a strong Through our materiality research, market conditions impact our medium-term organic pipeline. In the we have identified emerging societal opportunities for growth longer term, however, the continued growth issues that impact the landscape in which All of our businesses are impacted by of our business is dependent on our ability we operate. They represent future risks local and global economic conditions. to acquire new land and assets. Strong and opportunities for our business International economic markets remain domestic and offshore investor demand and our stakeholders over the short, volatile and the outlook for specific markets for property assets is expected to continue, medium and long term. in Australia remains uneven. We expect supported by relatively high asset yields, conditions to remain reasonably supportive. the lower Australian dollar and Australia’s Our material matters also align with record of economic and political stability. Interest rates are anticipated to be the core focus areas of our sustainability reasonably stable and we expect the We will continue to ensure discipline and strategy. We anticipate that these matters economy to continue to grow, albeit agility in our investment decision-making so will evolve over time and we will continue at below trend levels. we can take advantage of opportunities that to work with relevant stakeholders to shape these issues going forward. We have capitalised on supportive will deliver the appropriate risk-adjusted market conditions throughout the year, returns. We will use a rigorous whole-ofA summary of Stockland’s emerging issues business approach informed by detailed while ensuring the decisions we make and where further information can be found research to drive our capital allocation now will serve our business well through is provided in the following pages. process. Within our existing portfolio the cycle. We will maintain asset and geographic diversification and will continue we have significant organic development to focus on retaining a strong balance opportunities and a replenished landbank sheet with appropriate gearing and diverse supported by a strong balance sheet funding sources. We will also concentrate to provide funding flexibility. on efficiency and cost management, Other stakeholders’ interests potentially and maintaining a prudent approach impacted by this issue include returns to provisioning. for investors, our customers’ ability to purchase/lease, and growth in the property sector in general. See Capital Strength pg 35, Grow Asset Returns and our Customer Base pg 29 64 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Systems enhancements affect business Housing affordability is increasingly Extreme weather, security risks and process efficiency challenging in Australia price shocks impact business continuity To achieve operational excellence we need Our Residential business is influenced by the and community resilience to ensure that our systems are cost-effective dynamics of the Australian housing market. The safety of our customers and employees and agile to support the diversified nature Housing affordability remains of key concern is a key priority. Managing their safety and of our business. for Australians as the price of housing and the resilience of the communities in which rental properties continues to increase. we operate is becoming increasingly complex. We continue to execute our Information While current regulatory settings are likely This includes safety and security risks technology strategy with a focus on to lead to some moderation in growth rates associated with terrorism, cyber threats long-term strategic investment, and the for residential property prices, we continue and extreme weather events. identification and integration of technical to expect an elongated cycle for the east enhancements across the business. We continue to build our resilience to these coast markets. evolving risks; training our employees and We have made significant progress on In response we consider a suite of measures increasing their risk awareness, scenario improving the Group’s systems capabilities, is required to unlock housing supply and testing, engaging with peers and across including the commitment to implement address affordability. These include early industry, and investing in asset upgrades. SAP and Salesforce as core systems. This planning and delivery of infrastructure project aims to reduce the number of legacy We also assess the impact of prices shocks and simplified development controls to systems we use in our business to simplify on our business including electricity costs. enable housing diversity. Our affordability and streamline our activities, reduce costs, We have assessed and implemented energy initiatives in Queensland, New South Wales and take advantage of rapid developments strategies and continue to grow our number and Victoria have given first home buyers in technology to improve customer outcomes. of renewable energy installations across priority to purchase land and get a foothold This investment will also position Stockland’s the portfolio. in the market. systems to continually improve in line with Our focus on developing sustainable improvements to SAP and Salesforce. We will continue to partner with government communities also assists in increasing and industry to drive solutions and provide In FY17, we successfully implemented the resilience of our assets. As part of our a broader mix of value for money housing Salesforce and SAP SuccessFactors sustainability strategy we are increasing the options including house and land packages, modules. Deployment of further SAP and climate resilience and resource efficiency completed housing, medium density Salesforce capabilities will continue during of our assets to benefit our business, our and apartments. next year. We continue to maintain two-way customers and the broader community. engagement with employees to enable We have also assessed the demand a smooth transition. from home owners and investors so that See Optimise and Innovate pg 49, our residential communities remain our Health and Safety, Climate See Operational Excellence pg 39 attractive to future buyers. While lending and Community Resilience and and our Employee Engagement conditions for investors and foreign buyers Carbon and Energy Deep Dives and Development Deep Dive are tightening, owner occupiers remain our core focus and represent 75% of our net residential sales, with less than 3% of total buyers requiring Foreign Investment Review Board approval. See Our Business and Strategy pg 11, Grow Our Asset Returns and Customer Base pg 29 Our reporting approach | 65 Change within the retail sector Regulatory changes impact Ability to develop products that impacts rental growth our business and customers meet anticipated future customer The retail landscape is constantly evolving. Substantial policy reform presents both and societal demands Within the last 10 years the sector has opportunities and potential impacts for Our ability to develop products that meet seen a convergence of technical advances, our business and our customers. Tax and anticipated future customer and societal in particular e-commerce, changes planning reform remain key policy areas demands is crucial to the sustainability in underlying consumer behaviour, and where we will continue to engage with of our business, particularly in light the entry of new, international retailers. industry and government. We will continue of Australia’s changing demographics, These changes have challenged some to focus our development activity in areas including an aging population and of our retailers. where governments support growth and more socially conscious millennials. focus on good practice to remain well We have been proactive and have We are continuing to evolve our marketpositioned in the market. pre-empted many of the changes. leading product innovation and deepen We continue to: We acknowledge the possibility of our customer insights using our proprietary regulatory changes focused on reducing Liveability Index research, Stockland • Focus on experiential retail, services, carbon emissions, particularly in the Exchange (our online research community), and food catering, context of Australia’s ratification of the Quantium (which provides data-driven • Redevelop our assets to create diverse, 2015 Paris Agreement to limit global customer insights to inform how we view walkable town centres that form the temperature increases to below 2°C. markets and opportunities) and other social hub of the community, and We regularly engage with government data sources. • Leverage deep customer insights and and industry stakeholders on mitigating We are fostering a culture of innovation analytics to inform our tenant remixing. long-term impacts of climate change. where we remain flexible and identify and We are well placed to accommodate take advantage of opportunities to leverage See Grow Our Asset Returns future climate change regulation movements in stakeholder preferences. and Customer Base pg 29 and given our established focus on energy We are enhancing our design excellence, our Customer Engagement and efficiency and renewable energy providing greater functionality and Experience Deep Dives across our portfolio. value for money. We understand there is currently a lot Importantly, we continue to focus on of focus on the retirement living sector. the creation of sustainable and liveable We take pride in our Retirement Living communities and assets. This includes business, and we are committed to open, developing understanding of the longertransparent and respectful relationships term impacts of climate change and with our residents. We proactively incorporating our findings into the engage with government and industry design and upgrade of assets. to continue to raise standards across the whole industry. See Operational Excellence pg 39, Optimise and Innovate pg 49, See Our Business and Strategy pg 11 and our Customer Engagement and our Stakeholder Engagement and Experience, Climate and Deep Dive Community Resilience, Community and Employee Engagement and Development Deep Dives 66 | Stockland Annual Review 2017 Our ability to harness opportunities Capital market volatility impacts our Our ability to adapt our operating arising from digital disruption ability to access suitable capital model to meet the changing nature There are a myriad of challenges and Our long-term growth is dependent on of the workforce opportunities that arise from digital our ability to access suitable capital at the Physical and organisational boundaries disruption, including changes to the way appropriate time and cost, even as capital are becoming increasingly blurred as new we use digital technology. We need to be markets fluctuate in response to domestic technology enables greater workplace accessible and responsive and to anticipate and global economic shifts. Variable flexibility, including when and where future consumer behaviour and potential economic activity and changing employees work, and encourages disruption to our sector. capitalisation rates may impact the creative and adaptive teamwork. valuation of our assets. This year we successfully deployed To remain competitive we must cloud-based systems such as Office365, continually assess and leverage digital Over the past decade we have maintained Salesforce and SAP SuccessFactors innovation. This includes facilitating a strong balance sheet at appropriate to improve collaboration and a connected and agile workforce, more levels of gearing, enabling us to continue flexible working. efficient business and supply chain to sustainably fund growth in the business. processes, and digital lead nurturing In the short term we have also been able We will continue to encourage flexible and customer-centric innovation. to refinance borrowings and maintain work practices supported by our policies, diverse funding sources. new collaboration platforms and training We will continue to identify and integrate our senior leaders to be more agile technical enhancements across the business, So that we are able to continue to access and resilient. including enhancing online residential and sufficient capital to fund growth, we will retirement living engagement opportunities. continue with our prudent capital We will also continue to support our retail management policies. See Operational Excellence pg 39 centres as thriving town centres by and our Employee Engagement Our well-defined capital management and Development Deep Dive delivering quality services and retail and approach enables us to invest, allocate community spaces that are e-enabled. and raise capital across various funding types and geographies at different points Increasing expectation on corporates See Grow Our Asset Returns in the cycle. and Customer Base pg 29, Community expectations on the social Operational Excellence pg 39 and behavioural operations of a “good See Capital Strength pg 35 corporate” are changing. Corporates are increasingly expected to work in partnership with the community and government on societal issues. We are well placed to meet these expectations and have a strong reputation for sustainability leadership and community development. See Operational Excellence pg 39 and the Chairman’s Letter pg 02 Our reporting approach | 67 Assurance The sustainability reporting content within the Annual Review has been externally assured in accordance with the Australian Standard for Assurance Engagements (ASAE3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and (ASAE 3410): Assurance Engagement on Greenhouse Gas Statements by Ernst & Young (EY). A copy of EY’s assurance statement is available on our website at www.stockland.com.au/corporate-reporting/downloads. 68 | Designed and produced by Landor Stockland Corporation Ltd ACN 000 181 733 Stockland Trust Management Limited ACN 001 900 741; AFSL 241190 As responsible entity for Stockland Trust ARSN 092 897 348 Head Office Level 25, 133 Castlereagh Street Sydney NSW 2000 Sydney Telephone 02 9035 2000 Melbourne Telephone 03 9095 5000 Brisbane Telephone 07 3305 8600 Perth Telephone 08 9368 9222 www.stockland.com.au
