2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE MINING TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT US 3 SAFETY AND HEALTH 111 Message from the CEO 4 Management Approach 112 Key Performance Goals 5 Safety Leadership and Accountability 117 Map of Projects and Operations 8 Injury and Illness Performance Metrics 120 Our Company 9 Occupational Health and Wellness 121 Our Vision and Values 11 Safety and Health Case Studies 123 Our Corporate Governance 13 Supply Chain Management 17 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 127 Commitment to External Initiatives 18 Management Approach 128 Materials 131 ABOUT THIS REPORT 19 Climate Change Risks and Opportunities 133 Scope and Content 19 Water Management 138 Boundary and Limitations 20 Waste and Hazardous Assurance 21 Materials Management 141 Biodiversity Management 144 OUR PRIORITIES 22 Environmental Compliance 146 Materiality Analysis 22 Transportation 147 Methodology 24 Environmental Stewardship Case Studies 148 Top Material Topics 26 Materiality Matrix 27 MINE CLOSURE 151 Goldcorp and the SDGs 34 Management Approach 152 Objectives and Initiatives 156 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 37 Mine Closure Case Studies 158 Management Approach 38 Governance and Accountability 41 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES 161 Executive Compensation 44 Business Ethics and Compliance 45 GRI INDEX 164 Public Policy Advocacy 50 Contributions to Political Parties 51 GLOSSARY 176 Enterprise Risk Management 52 Strategy and Governance Case Studies 55 CONTACT US 181 COMMUNITIES 58 Management Approach 59 Sustainable Benefits for Communities 63 Stakeholder Engagement 69 Human Rights 79 Communities Case Studies 89 OUR PEOPLE 94 Management Approach 95 Our Workforce 98 Employee Recruitment and Development 99 Diversity and Inclusion 103 Labour and Management Relations 107 Our People Case Studies 108 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 2 ABOUT US Goldcorp is a leading gold producer focused on responsible mining practices with safe, low-cost production throughout the Americas. We believe our portfolio of long-lived, highquality assets positions our company to deliver long-term value. At Goldcorp, sustainable and responsible mining is a company-wide commitment rooted in our values as an organization. We are committed to creating social and economic benefits for all of our stakeholders, at every phase of the mining lifecycle, from early exploration, through to the mine’s eventual closure and reclamation. We believe in safe production, acting ethically, respecting all our stakeholders, open communication, empowering others and innovation. We are committed to being responsible stewards of the environment and complying with the highest applicable health and safety standards. These are core values and strengths that guide our decision-making, everywhere we do business. We call our approach to doing business Together, Creating Sustainable Value. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 3 ABOUT US MESSAGE FROM THE CEO While accolades are not our objective, we were pleased to Welcome to Goldcorp’s 2016 Sustainability Report, our see our external reporting eleventh Sustainability Report. In 2016, despite a volatile recognized in a number of year for the precious metals industry, we strongly reasserted awards this year, one from the our dedication to our vision of Together, Creating Finance and Sustainability Sustainable Value. Initiative and two from the Chartered Professional In the face of continued market volatility, we adopted Accountants of Canada. Our important optimization measures throughout the organization. commitment to indigenous As we undertook these changes, our commitment to relations was also sustainability was not compromised; it was strengthened. acknowledged with a Change We continued improving and implementing our Sustainability Maker award at this year’s Excellence Management System (SEMS) across our Indigenous Works Workplace Inclusion Leadership Awards. operations. We made real progress on water conservation and We will continue to invest in improving our community announced a transformative strategy, called Towards Zero relationships and increasing our transparency in reporting. Water, for drastically reducing fresh water use. We flattened organizational hierarchy and empowered our mine The most far-reaching announcement of the year was the management teams across our sites, a move that strengthens launch of our Towards Zero Water initiative. This represents a the sustainability of our operations and makes local mine company-wide commitment and a complete re-visioning of management responsible for nearly all key decisions that how we use water in mining. With today’s technology, 100% affect communities, from hiring to expansion plans. recycling and re-use of water is not possible in high-volume mining operations, but we are dedicating considerable Throughout the extractive industry, sustainability has become scientific resources to the challenge of steadily reducing our an essential component of doing business. Safe, sustainable water consumption toward that goal. This is a daunting practices are a requirement, from environmental policies to challenge and a strong message to send to our communities workplace safety to proactive and inclusive stakeholder and our peers. Improved stewardship of water resources will engagement. Our commitment to sustainability begins when give us a competitive advantage, socially, practically and the first exploration teams take the time and care to consult economically – and it’s simply the right thing to do. with communities and establish a spirit of openness, transparency and trust. An excellent example is the work done In closing, I want to express my gratitude to the people of by Kaminak Gold at the Coffee project, a new development Goldcorp and the Board, as they have stood with us through property that we recently acquired in Canada’s Yukon. In the a year of change. I know I can count on everyone’s talent and decision to acquire the project, we put serious weight to the dedication as we build a lean, agile Goldcorp that delivers relationships that Kaminak had established with government, long-term sustainable value to all of our stakeholders. In 2017 communities and First Nations groups. They set the and beyond, we will remain committed to health and safety, groundwork that we can carry forward, in a spirit of social and environmental stewardship, and advancing community engagement, openness and transparency, all of Towards Zero Water. Collectively, we continue to strive to which are increasingly important to us and key to the way achieve our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. we do business. I regret to report a fatality in April at the Marlin mine, a tragedy that overshadowed the overall improvement in our safety statistics. We responded with a thorough review and implemented corrective actions across all of our operations. David Garofalo Ensuring Goldcorp is “Safe Enough for Our Families” will continue to be our number one commitment. President and Chief Executive Officer Goldcorp Inc. We are an active member and contributor to national and international organizations that work to improve sustainability in mining. We apply the International Council on Mining and Metals’ Sustainable Development Framework as well as the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. This year we signed on to the UN’s Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and have started to implement its principles throughout our operations. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 4 ABOUT US KEY PERFORMANCE GOALS The following table highlights the progress we made in 2016 towards our short-term sustainability goals. As we strive for continuous improvement, we recognize the importance of setting long-term objectives, with observable and measurable results, that can help us improve our financial and sustainability performance. As a result, we are currently reviewing our sustainability strategy with the intent of identifying and formulating multi-year objectives that are credible, measurable, and aligned with our internal and external business drivers. For more information about our corporate annual objectives, please refer to our Corporate Scorecard in our annual Management Information Circular. LEGEND Goal met Goal partially met Goal not met GOALS 2016 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION MOVING FORWARD Strategy and Governance Diversify our Surpassed the targets set by the Catalyst Accord Continue our efforts to diversify our management and (25% of board seats to be held by women by management and governance bodies. governance bodies. 2017) and the 30% Club Canada (30% of board seats to be held by women by 2019). Our entire management team in both Canada and Latin America, including Mine General Managers, participated in Unconscious Bias training, which raised awareness of unconscious and conscious bias in the workplace, and provided strategies for disrupting and overcoming it. Enhance sustainability Completed SEMS audits at four operating sites Continue our internal assurance performance through and established metrics for SEMS performance process to consistently apply SEMS implementation of measurement and reporting. We also rolled out across all sites. systems for SEMS a company-wide training course that built performance awareness of SEMS standards and how to apply measurement, them on the job. compliance assurance and risk management. Implement and pilot a Revised and began piloting our integrated risk Implement our centralized risk risk management framework and conducted several risk management tool to contain site governance framework workshops and initiatives across our sites. and enterprise risks, controls and based on a risk and mitigating actions. control model underpinned by a strong culture of integrity and compliance. Implement our Successfully implemented our anti-bribery Sustain our program and strive for anti-bribery and and anti-corruption program, which also continuous improvement. anti-corruption included an assessment of the program by program across our external subject matter experts and the operations. completion of an internal awareness review to assess the program’s effectiveness. Communities Roll out a companyRolled out a human rights training course, Broaden awareness of our wide training program certifying over 2,900 employees and contractors, Human Rights Policy and human on human rights for and marking the first time we deployed a rights due diligence mechanisms employees with access computer-based program to standardize human across our operations. to computers. rights training across the operations. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 5 ABOUT US GOALS 2016 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION MOVING FORWARD Enhance stakeholder Monitored corporate affairs risks in the Continue monitoring risks in the partnerships and regions, as part of our country risk regions we operate and enhancing relationships in assessment processes, and enhanced partnerships with stakeholders. key regions and stakeholder partnerships. Our key focus will be planning and monitor overall Became signatories to the Voluntary Principles implementing the commitments corporate affairs risk on Security and Human Rights and continued made in our community agreements. in those regions. to be an active member and participant of the Mining Association of Canada, the World Economic Forum, the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada (PDAC) and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). People at Goldcorp Develop and Completed a major organizational restructuring Focus on career development implement project aimed at optimizing our operations and opportunities for our people to enable optimization plans generating efficiencies across the organization. them to continue to grow in our at sites, corporate This included decentralizing our business, decentralized organization. and regional offices. removing the regional layer within our operating model and leveraging opportunities to introduce a greater level of efficiency and accountability at our sites. Develop and Overhauled the StepUp program based on Evaluate the lessons learned through implement a leadership feedback received from our employees during the pilot phase and integrate them development program 2015. We engaged a new vendor, refreshed and into our leadership training program that includes revamped the entire program and completed a moving forward. identification of pilot for executives. We also held steering high-potential committee and discovery meetings and focus employees and groups to ensure the revamped program will creation of personal reflect a holistic and sustainable approach to development plans. behaviour-based leadership that will be fully integrated with our talent management strategy. Continue rolling out Continued our women’s training, development Broaden the scope of activities and Creating Choices and and mentorship program. Over 125 women engage employees on other ways to Growing Choices from across the company graduated from increase diversity throughout the programs, and broaden Creating Choices or its sister program, Growing organization. Continue to increase the scope of diversity Choices. To date, over 1,700 women have awareness of diversity and inclusion, activities throughout graduated from these programs. In 2016, work grow our Diversity strategy and the organization. also began on the third instalment of the enhance performance indicators. program, Future Choices, aimed at providing women with the tools they need to lead and succeed long after mine closure. In addition, we surveyed over 3,000 employees on the topic of diversity and inclusion. The survey will inform future diversity and inclusion planning and activities moving forward. Safety and Health Achieve zero fatalities. Unfortunately, there was a fatality at the Achieve zero fatalities. Marlin mine. Following that incident we have implemented comprehensive measures for ground control systems across our sites, and will continue to monitor their effectiveness. Zero fatalities will remain our number one commitment. Reduce All Injury Exceeded our goal and completed the year with Set individual commitments across Frequency Rate (AIFR) an AIFR of 1.12, an 11% improvement over 2015. our operations to help us achieve an to 1.2. AIFR of 0.90. Implement the StepIn All sites developed and implemented the StepIn Continue rolling out StepIn through program to improve program in 2016. A core element of the program 2017. A corporate leadership training the quality of employee was to improve the quality of employee program, StepUp, will be introduced engagement. engagements. Over 316,000 employee in 2017, with Safety Leadership as one engagements were completed by management of its core competencies. in 2016, exceeding our goal by 20%. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 6 ABOUT US GOALS 2016 PERFORMANCE DESCRIPTION MOVING FORWARD Environmental Stewardship Continue executing Continued executing Water Stewardship Strategy Advance our H2Zero initiative, which against the Water milestones; we are on track for achievement by should trigger a series of innovations Stewardship Strategy the end of 2017. and initiatives that will lead us to milestones as per the In addition, we launched an ambitious program, significant reductions in our water schedule developed by Towards Zero Water (H2Zero), beginning a footprint. We will continue to work on each site. ten-year journey to drastically reduce our water innovative ways for environmental consumption. management, always considering the present and future of water, energy and biodiversity. In 2017, we will be working on establishing performance metrics and milestones, as well as an innovation roadmap. The completion of our water stewardship milestones in 2017 will position us to advance our next, more aggressive phase of water stewardship. Conclude the Goldcorp Concluded the five-year Goldcorp Energy We completed the five-year Energy Strategy, Strategy. While we made great progress, we implementation of the energy assessing performance did not achieve all our energy targets. We strategy and have now incorporated against the five-year targeted a 15% increase in energy efficiency by energy management into the SEMS. targets. implementing energy savings projects whose Moving forward, energy efficiency cumulative five-year savings equal 550,000 MWh will now be a regular consideration at (15% of 2011’s energy consumption). We our operations. achieved energy savings of 460,000 MWh, or 84% of our target. We targeted a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (a reduction of 240,000 tonnes of CO2e). We saved 175,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2016, or 73% of our target. Finally, we targeted that 5% of our energy would be from renewable sources (180,000 MWh is 5% of 2011’s energy consumption). We sourced 150,000 MWh from renewables, or 83% of the target. Complete a preBased on favourable results from a preAnalyze the results of the feasibility feasibility study for a feasibility study, we decided in late 2015 to move study and determine whether the major renewable a wind farm study near the Cerro Negro project project will move to the execution project (the Cerro to the feasibility phase. Our goal was to phase. Negro wind farm). complete the feasibility study in 2016, but this goal was not achieved. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 7 ABOUT US MAP OF PROJECTS AND OPERATIONS All production as at December 31, 2016 Coffee, Yukon, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2016 Ownership: 100% Musselwhite, Ontario, Canada Musselwhite Minerals produced: Gold ONTARIO, CANADA Gold production (thousands of ounces): 261 Coffee Ownership: 100% YUKON, CANADA Borden, Ontario, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2016 Cochenour, Ontario, Canada Exploration project as at December 31, 2016 Red Lake, Ontario, Canada Minerals produced: Gold Cochenour Éléonore Gold production (thousands of ounces): 324 ONTARIO, CANADA QUÉBEC, CANADA Ownership: 100% HEAD OFFICE VANCOUVER Porcupine, Ontario, Canada Minerals produced: Gold Borden Red Lake ONTARIO, CANADA Gold production (thousands of ounces): 277 ONTARIO, CANADA Ownership: 100% Porcupine ONTARIO, CANADA Éléonore, Québec, Canada Minerals produced: Gold Gold production (thousands of ounces): 274 Ownership: 100% Camino Rojo, Mexico Exploration project as at December 31, 2016 Camino Rojo MEXICO Peñasquito, Mexico Peñasquito Minerals produced: Gold/Silver/Zinc/Lead MEXICO Pueblo Viejo Gold production (thousands of ounces): 465 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Ownership: 100% Los Filos MEXICO Los Filos, Mexico Minerals produced: Gold Marlin Gold production (thousands of ounces): 231 GUATEMALA Ownership: 100% Sold in 2017 to Leagold Mining Corporation Pueblo Viejo, Dominican Republic Minerals produced: Gold/Silver/Copper Gold production (thousands of ounces): 467 Ownership: 40% Marlin, Guatemala Minerals produced: Gold/Silver Gold production (thousands of ounces): 115 Ownership: 100% NuevaUnión, Chile Exploration project as at December 31, 2016 NuevaUnión Alumbrera Ownership: 50% ARGENTINA CHILE Alumbrera, Argentina Minerals produced: Gold/Copper Gold production (thousands of ounces): 96 Ownership: 37.5% Cerro Negro, Argentina Operations Minerals produced: Gold/Silver Development Joint Venture Operations Cerro Negro Gold production (thousands of ounces): 363 Joint Venture Development ARGENTINA Ownership: 100% Offices 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 8 ABOUT US OUR COMPANY Goldcorp is a leading gold producer focused on responsible mining practices with safe, low-cost production throughout the Americas. A portfolio of long-lived, high-quality assets positions us to deliver long-term value. Our operating cash flows are from the sale of gold and by-products, such as silver, copper, lead and zinc. In 2016, our operations, projects and offices engaged in gold mining and related activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. Our principal producing mining properties are: the Éléonore, Musselwhite, Porcupine and Red Lake mines in Canada; the Peñasquito mine in Mexico; the Cerro Negro mine in Argentina; and the Pueblo Viejo mine (40% interest) in the Dominican Republic. Our current sources of operating cash flows are primarily from the sale of gold, silver, lead, zinc and copper. Our principal product is gold doré with the refined gold bullion sold primarily in the London spot market. Headquartered in Vancouver, British Columbia, we employ and contract over 15,000 people throughout the Americas. Our vision is to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders by focusing on growing net asset value (NAV) per share to generate long-term shareholder value. With a portfolio of large, long-life assets that provide economies of scale, coupled with low cash costs and underpinned by a strong balance sheet, we continue to optimize our portfolio of assets and reinvest in the pipeline of organic opportunities to drive increasing NAV per share. Gold Growth in Focused Net Asset Value Responsible TOGETHER, Safe, Mining CREATING Profitable Practices SUSTAINABLE Production VALUE Low Strong Political Balance Risk Sheet In 2016, we achieved gold production of 2.9 million ounces. We paid over US$500 million in wages and salaries and over US$408 million to subcontractors. We are focused on our renewed growth strategy, which projects a 20% increase in gold production, a 20% increase in gold reserves and a 20% reduction in all-in sustaining costs (AISC) over the next five years, while ensuring we create sustainable value for our shareholders, employees, contractors and partners. For a full review of Goldcorp’s 2016 financial performance, please refer to our audited consolidated financial statements and our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2016. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 9 ABOUT US OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE Goldcorp is a leading gold producer engaged in gold mining and related activities including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation. At December 31, 2016, our principal producing mining properties were the following: BY-PRODUCTS GOLD SILVER ZINC LEAD COPPER Canada Red Lake X Porcupine X Musselwhite X Éléonore X Latin America Peñasquito X X X X Los Filos X Marlin X X Alumbrera X X Pueblo Viejo X X X Cerro Negro X X SIGNIFICANT CHANGES DURING 2016 In 2016, there were a number of important events, as per our financial highlights: • We completed a reorganization of our leadership and operations, moving to a leaner, decentralized model. Under this model, the Mine General Managers are accountable for growing the Net Asset Value (NAV) of their individual businesses while the focus of the corporate office is to provide guidance and oversight, as well as to allocate capital. • We laid out a growth strategy that is expected to deliver a 20% increase in gold production, a 20% increase in gold reserves and a 20% reduction in all-in sustaining costs over the next five years. In this pursuit, we continue to be committed to being responsible stewards of the environment and building collaborative partnerships with communities, governments and all other stakeholders for mutual success. • On July 19, 2016, we completed the acquisition of Kaminak Gold Corporation. Kaminak’s principal asset is the 100% owned Coffee project, a hydrothermal gold deposit located approximately 130 kilometres south of the City of Dawson, Yukon. • In September 2016, we announced the appointment of Charlie Sartain to our Board of Directors, effective as of January 1, 2017. Mr. Sartain is a mining engineer with over 30 years of mining experience and was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Xstrata’s global copper business. • In January 2017, we entered into agreements to sell our Los Filos mine in Mexico and our Cerro Blanco project in Guatemala to Leagold Mining Corporation and Bluestone Resources Inc., respectively. Further information regarding these and other events is available in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2016. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 10 ABOUT US OUR VISION AND VALUES At Goldcorp, safe, responsible mining and sustainability excellence are company-wide commitments, which are at the core of all our activities and every business decision we make. We work to achieve a balance of economic prosperity, environmental stewardship and social responsibility that extends beyond the operating lives of our mining operations. VALUES AND PILLARS At Goldcorp, our vision Together, Creating Sustainable Value describes why we are in business. Our values allow us to stand apart – they shape our culture and drive our success going forward. Our six pillars guide what we do every day. They support our strategy, guide our vision and are grounded in our values. PEOPLE ITY BIL NA INNOVATION SA PO FE ST OT WER FE N SA CTIO AI TY HE IN RS G U SU OD EM TOGETHER, PR CREATING SUSTAINABLE N VALUE MM OP G UN EN TIN LY ICA AC ICAL S MA H TIO RV ET E I RESPECTING RG ALL OUR CO SE NS STAKEHOLDERS RE SAFE PRODUCTION PILLARS: Growing People is about providing opportunities for personal and professional growth for everyone, and developing our people to their fullest potential. We value and respect each individual’s contributions. Growing Safety is an integral requirement of our business. We are committed to protecting our people by looking out for each other, by recognizing the complexity of the task at hand, and by enhancing our abilities to recognize and deal with risk. Growing Reserves is fundamental to the long-term viability of our business. By replacing the gold we produce, we provide the resources for future development. Growing Reserves ensures our future. Growing Safe Production reflects our desire to improve in quality and output, against whatever technical measure is most relevant to the work. Our overall gold production is the result of thousands of different technical inputs. Growing Margins requires all of us to consider the financial implications of our decisions and exercise financial discipline. Strong margins will ensure we remain one of the lowest-cost senior gold producers and will allow us to deliver on our commitment to shareholders. Growing Sustainability is about being accountable for leaving a positive economic, social and environmental legacy everywhere we operate. Our results are driven by good governance, collaborative partnerships, innovation and responsible stewardship of resources. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 11 ABOUT US VALUES: Innovation: Be resourceful and always look for new and better ways of doing things. The freedom to come up with great new ideas and to take reasonable risks to implement them is part of our culture and key to our success. Safe Production: No ounce of gold is worth risking a life. At Goldcorp, we believe in creating a workplace that is Safe Enough for Our Families. Open Communication: Speak up and admit when you (or we) have made a mistake. Share ideas; be honest. Through open communication, fresh new ideas will come forward, and that is how we will continue to be successful. Respecting All Our Stakeholders: Build partnerships, be a team player, and treat people fairly. Truly listen to those that are impacted by what we do. Acting Ethically: Treat people with respect and act with integrity; abide by our Code of Conduct and avoid discrimination, bribery or corruption of any kind. Ethics is more than a set of rules, it is about having the courage to say and do the right thing, no matter what. Empowering Others: Help others succeed. Lead by example, be a good mentor and a lifelong learner, recognize good work, take responsibility, and celebrate the wins. VISION: TOGETHER, CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE Together: We work as a diverse and inclusive team, building collaborative partnerships with employees, communities, governments, suppliers and stakeholders for mutual success. Creating Sustainable Value: We create value collaboratively, seek input and feedback, enable participation, and empower our employees, partners and stakeholders to speak up and step in to help us ensure that the places where we operate are left in as good or better condition than how we found them. We work hard to make a lasting positive impact on people’s lives throughout our business. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 12 ABOUT US OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our values are reinforced through good governance and strong leadership. We implement these values through our internal systems and corporate policies and guidance. All of our employees and contractors must comply with our Code of Conduct and related corporate policies. Together, the Code and policies ensure that best industry standards and ethical practices are implemented throughout the organization, and that we are in compliance with all applicable regulations and standards. Acting ethically is a Goldcorp value, and the Code is intended to help us achieve and maintain our commitment to act with integrity. POLICY AND GUIDANCE STRUCTURE Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct is Goldcorp’s commitment to acting ethically. It is a key component of our company’s values. It is intended to be more than just a policy; it is a tool to help us achieve and maintain our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity. It is applicable to all employees and contractors. Sustainability Excellence The SEMS is our integrated management system focused on Safety Management System (SEMS) and Health, Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility and Security. Framework and Standards The SEMS provides the framework for sustainability management and specific performance standards to implement our policies consistently across the company. It applies to all phases of the business, from property acquisition and exploration, through construction and production, to reclamation and closure. Corporate Guidance, Our sites develop the context-specific tools and procedures that Procedures and Tools respond to their specific needs. These tools and procedures are in alignment with our corporate policies and include, but are not limited to, site-level grievance procedures, site-level security management plans and site-level hazardous material management procedures. Training We train our employees and contractors to ensure that our workforce respects and applies our policies, standards, procedures and tools across the company. Our training includes anti-bribery and anticorruption training, human rights training, safety leadership training and ethics training. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 13 ABOUT US KEY CORPORATE POLICIES The policies that guide our workforce are the backbone of our performance. The following table describes our key policies, many of which can be found on our website. OUR CORPORATE POLICIES Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy elaborates on our zero tolerance for bribery and corruption by outlining specific prohibition of commercial and public bribery as well as facilitation payments. The policy also includes specific compliance requirements for gifts and entertainment, political and charitable contributions, third-party risk management and transparency of our books and records. The principles in our Code of Conduct summarize what Goldcorp expects from each of us and provide valuable advice on how to conduct our work with integrity. The Goldcorp Investment Framework (GIF) provides direction over major investments decisions that meet our financial and operational criteria, including sustainability considerations. It helps guide our investment decisions to allocate capital to projects with the highest, risk-adjusted rates of return. The Framework ensures investments are aligned with our vision, pillars and values and achieve optimal shareholder value based on a consistent and sustainable decision-making framework. Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy provides guidelines for developing meaningful and effective strategies for engaging with stakeholders, establishing grievance mechanisms, identifying socio-economic opportunities and making meaningful and sustainable contributions to the communities where we operate. The Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy ensures that we meet our obligations under securities laws and stock exchange rules. The policy includes guidelines on disclosure of material information, the confidentiality of undisclosed material information and the preparation and release of communications made on Goldcorp’s behalf. It prohibits anyone from trading in our securities when that person is in possession of material, non-public information, and it provides for the imposition of trading blackout periods. Our Diversity Policy commits us to workplace diversity and sets out the guidelines by which we will endeavour to increase diversity throughout the company, including at the Board level. Our Donations Policy establishes guidelines for the administration of our corporate giving program. It outlines the four key areas of priority for philanthropic activities, which include education, health, community development, and arts and culture. The Environmental and Sustainability Policy states that Goldcorp and our subsidiaries are committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. Resources will be focused to achieve shareholder value without neglecting our commitment to sustainable development. The needs and culture of the local communities will be respected. The Human Rights Policy commits us to integrate human rights best practices into all of our business and decision-making processes. The policy mandates that we operate in a way that respects the human rights of employees and the communities in which we operate. International humanitarian laws were consulted in developing the policy, and it includes our commitment to seek to establish constructive dialogues and partnerships with a variety of stakeholders on human rights performance. The Occupational Health and Safety Policy ensures that we develop and implement effective management systems to: identify, minimize and manage health and safety risks; promote and enhance employee commitment and accountability; provide training and information; strive for continuous improvement by setting targets and measuring results; and provide the resources to achieve a safe and healthy work environment. The Security Policy commits us to respecting human rights and promoting the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 14 ABOUT US SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (SEMS) At Goldcorp, sustainability is both a foundational component and functional element that applies company-wide. Created and rolled out in 2014, the SEMS is our integrated management system for Safety and Health, Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Security. Composed of a framework and clearly defined standards, the SEMS provides organizational structure, responsibilities and practices for implementing and maintaining a desired level of sustainability performance. It is designed to apply across the entire mining lifecycle. Through its implementation, we can effectively deliver on our commitments, measure and monitor our impacts, and achieve our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Historically, the various components of sustainability – whether CSR, health and safety, security or environment – were viewed as separate responsibilities. SEMS incorporates sustainability into our core business at all levels, so that our workforce understand they all have a role to play in implementing sustainability at Goldcorp. In 2016, we completed SEMS audits in four operating sites (Cerro Negro, Musselwhite, Porcupine and Éléonore) and established metrics for SEMS performance measurement and reporting. Under SEMS requirements, each site prepares action plans that consist of multiple tasks designed to address the audit findings. Moving forward, we will continue implementing SEMS standards across our sites, and will assess compliance with the system, strengths and areas of opportunity. In response to requests from the mines for a better understanding of SEMS, we launched an online training module, Introduction to SEMS, to build awareness and understanding of the system’s purpose and standards, and how to apply SEMS. This training was a key part of ensuring we meet our annual sustainability requirements and was available to employees and contractors with access to computers. Over 3,000 employees and contractors completed the training. Moving forward, we will roll out SEMS course refreshers to our workforce. SEMS TRAINING IN ACTION In 2016, our Los Filos mine in Mexico underwent a two-week SEMS training session. Training began in early July, beginning with a theoretical understanding of SEMS. The team spent the first day of training focused on building a better understanding of the sustainability needs of Los Filos by challenging and assessing the site’s understanding of the SEMS standards and requirements. By the end of the first day, each member made a presentation on how Los Filos was complying with the different standards. They identified challenges and opportunities, as well as site-specific tools, procedures and processes required to address gaps and properly implement these standards. This hands-on training approach created an inclusive and collaborative environment that encouraged participation from all members of the group. Having co-workers leading discussions on site-specific tools with concrete examples led to a lot of discussion and a better understanding of the system. SEMS connects every task that is completed, at each site and at all levels of our organization. The system provides a systematic approach to the operational framework and ultimately leads to sites increasing their overall NAV. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 15 ABOUT US THE SUSTAINABILITY EXCELLENCE MANAGEMENT PLAN SYSTEM (SEMS) The SEMS is Goldcorp’s integrated management system composed of a framework and a set of standards for implementing and maintaining a SEMS STANDARDS desired level of sustainability performance throughout the company. It is intended to be fully integrated into all core business functions and IMPROVE EXECUTE emphasizes responsibility and accountability at a  ll organizational levels. SEMS OVERARCHING SEMS STANDARDS The SEMS framework has a set of overarching standards that are applicable across the company and throughout the mining life cycle. These standards represent performance benchmarks that all of our sites are expected to meet. SEMS STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC AREAS R E VIE W In addition to the overarching standards applicable to all functions, the SEMS contains standards specific to Safety and Health, Environmental Protection, Community Relations and Security. Safety and Health Standards Help Goldcorp create a safe and healthy workplace by stipulating the requirements for implementing and monitoring safety practices, initiatives and programs. Environmental Protection Standards Stipulate the requirements for the effective management of materials, water, energy, and waste and hazardous materials. They define the requirements for environmental monitoring and exploration, closure, and reclamation planning. Community Relations Standards Require each Goldcorp operation to understand the local social, cultural, economic, political and institutional context and create locally adapted engagement and impact management plans. Security Standards Help Goldcorp ensure that security management at all sites reflects our commitment to respect human rights, everywhere we do business. GOLDCORP SEMS OBJECTIVES (CYCLE) The SEMS core objectives are designed to cover all aspects and activities that have the potential to affect the sustainability of our sites and the communities where we operate. PLAN > Establishing objectives, process and structure necessary to deliver results and desired outcomes EXECUTE > Implementing plans or processes to consistently and effectively manage risk and meet regulatory and voluntary commitments REVIEW > Monitoring and evaluating performance and results IMPROVE > Sharing leading practices and developing a culture of continued improvement 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 16 ABOUT US SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Our Supply Chain Management teams operate at the global, regional and mine site levels to manage contracts with many suppliers, ranging from multi-nationals to nearby small businesses. They manage the purchase of the hundreds of thousands of items and services that each mine requires on a daily basis, from food to tires to construction materials. Supply Chain Management’s ability to source high-quality goods and services at the lowest price is essential to competitiveness. But in a socially and ethically responsible organization like Goldcorp, their task doesn’t end at price. Every purchase is evaluated against a long list of priorities, as established in the due diligence provisions of the Goldcorp Commercial Practice standards. They must evaluate and balance each supplier’s location and assess whether they are capable and qualified to meet the mine’s logistical requirements. Each vendor is also reviewed for their compliance with labour practices, human rights, ethics, anti-corruption, and safety standards. The Supply Chain Management team’s work is central to our adherence to the World Gold Council’s ConflictFree Gold Standard, which provides assurance that our actions do not contribute to human rights abuses or breaches of international law. In 2016, the Supply Chain Management team exceeded their cost savings targets for the year, without compromising reliability, quality or ethics. THE CHALLENGES OF REORGANIZATION In 2016, Supply Chain Management teams were affected by the company-wide restructuring, which moved some of the purchasing responsibilities from the head office team to each mine’s supply chain team. While some services, such as catering or transportation, have traditionally been sourced locally, the local scope has been expanded. Requests for Proposals (RFPs) have been modified to open competition to more local vendors, and the final decision of vendor is now, more often, made at the mine level. Employees at the mine are often better positioned to balance price factors against the social value of employing a local supplier – without compromising our standards and requirements. ENSURING THAT SUPPLIERS FOLLOW OUR STANDARDS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICS Across our industry, demands for ethical compliance are increasingly strict. At Goldcorp, we need assurance that our corporate values are observed all the way down the supply chain. The Supply Chain Management team, in collaboration with the Ethics and Compliance department, have established a risk-based due-diligence process for the on-boarding of third parties, including vendors. Through a combination of procedures, including the use of external intelligence databases and a dedicated due-diligence platform, applicable third parties are checked, as part of the on-boarding process, for red flags such as previous convictions or political exposure, improving our confidence in approved suppliers. CUTTING COSTS WITH INNOVATIVE THINKING Innovative thinking can produce dramatic results. In 2016, the Supply Chain Management team added a new component to our tendering process. In addition to requesting that vendors meet our specifications and price, we asked them to recommend innovative strategies for improvement in the way we use their product. In a contract for explosives, for example, one vendor suggested a new product and a new way to use explosives more effectively. Instead of recommending a traditional explosive, which comes in a limited selection of “charges” or blast strengths, they recommended a new product that allows the blasting technician to dial-in the exact strength needed. This solution has cut costs significantly. Instead of “one size fits all” blasting, far smaller amounts of explosive are used. The blast is more controlled, safer, and requires less scooping and loading of ore afterward. The result was remarkable – and it came from taking a different approach to an RFP, one that invited a partnership where the vendor could share their expertise. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 17 ABOUT US COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES As a multi-national company with responsibilities to our people, our communities, our industry and the environment in the areas where we operate, we have been steadily increasing our presence on national, international and industry-specific boards and organizations.1 In keeping with our commitment to social responsibility, we have adopted a number of voluntary codes and other external instruments that we consider particularly relevant to our business. We will continue to monitor the advancement of sustainable development initiatives in civil society to ensure we remain a responsible company wherever we do business. The table below summarizes our external commitments and initiatives: EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS AND INITIATIVES EXTERNAL STANDARDS AND COMMITMENTS INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS The Catalyst Accord Canada Association for Mineral Exploration BC Business for Social Responsibility Extractive Industries Transparencies International Council on Mining Devonshire Initiative Initiative and Metals World Economic Forum International Cyanide Mining Association of Canada Transparency International Management Code Mining Industry Roundtable on Safety Voluntary Principles on Security and World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Ontario Mining Association Human Rights Plenary Gold Standard Québec Mining Association Boreal Leadership Council United Nations Global Compact Prospectors and Developers United Nations Declaration of Association of Canada Human Rights World Gold Council United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Camara Minera de Mexico (CAMIMEX) The Voluntary Principles on Security Camara Argentina de Empresarios and Human Rights Mineros (CAEM) Fédération des chambres de commerce de Québec (FCCQ) Gremial de Industrias Extractivas (GREMIEXT) Northwest Mining Association Yukon Chamber of Mines Yukon Chamber of Commerce Yukon Gold Mining Alliance Centre for Northern Innovation in Mining (CNIM) American Exploration & Mining Association For a more detailed description of our memberships and commitments, please visit Memberships and Commitments on our website. 1 Goldcorp discloses its participation in organizations that meet the following definition and thresholds: memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which Goldcorp: a) Holds a position on the governance body b) Participates in projects or committees c) Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues d) Views membership as strategic e) Receives more than US$25,000 financial support 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 18 ABOUT THIS REPORT Open communication is one of our core values and is embodied in our annual Sustainability Report. Each report is a milestone on our sustainability journey that not only shows our stakeholders how far we’ve come but also how much farther we can go. SCOPE AND CONTENT Information in this report covers the 2016 calendar year, which coincides with our financial year. We report annually on our sustainability performance. Our previous Sustainability Report covered the 2015 calendar year and was published in June 2016. This report follows the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 4.0), the United Nations Global Compact and the International Council on Mining and Metals. This year’s report is a G4 Core report. Under the G4 guidelines, companies must focus their reporting on topics that are specifically material to them and their stakeholders. As a result, our 2016 Sustainability Report discloses information on the GRI indicators that respond to our most material topics. More information on the framework can be found on the GRI website. We have designed this report to be accessible to a number of different readers. A PDF format is available for those who may want to conduct an in-depth analysis, such as Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Analysts, Socially Responsible Investors, and non-governmental organizations. The online version allows other readers (e.g., shareholders, host communities, employees and contractors, media and regulators) to navigate easily to specific sections of interest. Both our online and PDF versions of the report contain a GRI index to help organize sustainability content based on a specific GRI indicator. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 19 ABOUT THIS REPORT BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS This report covers Goldcorp-managed operations. In 2016, we had eight operating sites under our management, in four countries: Canada, Mexico, Guatemala and Argentina. Data that is reported in the following sections: About Us, Our Company, Contributions to and from Government, and Mine Closure, follow the reporting procedures utilized in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2016. Some, where noted, are non-GAAP measures on an attributable basis, which include discontinued operations and our share of Alumbrera and Pueblo Viejo. The table below summarizes our sites as of December 31, 2016. There were no specific limitations on the scope or boundary of this report. SITE LOCATION TYPE OF SITE MANAGEMENT % INFORMATION REPORTED Musselwhite Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Porcupine Gold Mines Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Red Lake Gold Mines Ontario, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Éléonore Québec, Canada Operation 100% Fully reported Los Filos Guerrero, Mexico Operation 100% Sold in 2017 to Leagold Mining Corporation. Fully reported Peñasquito Zacatecas, Mexico Operation 100% Fully reported Marlin Guatemala Operation 100% Fully reported Cerro Negro Santa Cruz, Argentina Operation 100% Fully reported Borden Ontario, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted Camino Rojo Zacatecas, Mexico Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted Cerro Blanco Guatemala Exploration Project 100% Sold in 2017 to Bluestone Resources Inc. Select data reported, where noted Cochenour Ontario, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted Coffee Yukon, Canada Exploration Project 100% Select data reported, where noted El Sauzal Chihuahua, Mexico Closed 100% Select data reported, where noted Equity Silver British Columbia, Canada Closed 100% Select data reported, where noted San Martin San Ignacio, Honduras Closed 100% Select data reported, where noted Alumbrera Catamarca, Argentina Operation – Joint Venture 37.5% Managed by Glencore plc. Select data reported, where noted Pueblo Viejo Dominican Republic Operation – Joint Venture 40% Managed by Barrick Gold Corporation. Select data reported, where noted NuevaUnión Atacama, Chile Exploration Project – 50% Managed with Teck Joint Venture Resources. Select data reported, where noted 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 20 ABOUT THIS REPORT ASSURANCE Ernst & Young LLP (EY) was engaged to provide limited assurance on selected assertions and selected performance information included in our Sustainability Report for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the full text of EY’s assurance statement, click here: Goldcorp 2016 Sustainability Assurance Statement. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 21 OUR PRIORITIES MATERIALITY ANALYSIS At Goldcorp, we know that only by understanding the economic, environmental and social impacts that matter most to our business, to our stakeholders and to society at large, can we focus on realizing our vision: Together, Creating Sustainable Value. In 2016, we built on the materiality analysis conducted in 2015, and engaged additional stakeholders in order to better understand and target our sustainability priorities. A materiality analysis is a strategic review of the topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself and its stakeholders. For the purpose of this report, we use the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) definition of materiality: “Those topics and indicators that reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social impacts or that would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.” These material topics can have a significant financial impact and are also relevant for stakeholders who focus on our financial results. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 22 OUR PRIORITIES Understanding the sustainability impacts that matter most to our business and stakeholders enables us to focus our efforts on our key challenges and opportunities, which in turn will contribute to TOGETHER, CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE. Provides an opportunity to engage Helps prioritize sustainability with stakeholders and discuss reporting topics and targeted what matters most to them communications for stakeholders Informs risk management Improves understanding and and strategic planning response to stakeholder needs and concerns MATERIALITY ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY 1 2 METHODOLOGY DESIGN RESEARCH AND IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS We defined the purpose and objective of our materiality analysis, collected We reviewed global and industry reports, information and designed interview relevant laws, regulations, international and engagement instruments. agreements, voluntary agreements of strategic significance, media scans, internal documentation and government briefs, among other sources. 3 4 MATERIAL TOPIC ASSESSMENT AND ENGAGEMENT AND VALIDATION PRELIMINARY PRIORITIZATION We applied the GRI’s Principles of Completeness We applied a relevance scale ranging from and Stakeholder Inclusiveness, and engaged 0 to 4 to assessREPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY the topic's level of importance and internal and external stakeholders in in-depth GOLDCORP 23 impact for our stakeholders and for the company. interviews to validate the topics. We took into account the sustainability impacts, risks OUR PRIORITIES METHODOLOGY Our 2016 materiality analysis was designed in accordance with the new GRI G4 materiality requirements and the GRI Principles for Defining Report Content. Stakeholders that participated in our materiality analysis included employees, non-governmental organizations, academics, industry associations, investors, community members, government officials, and First Nations and Indigenous groups.1 10% 41% Academia Internal Stakeholders 9% Community Members 8% Socially Responsible Investors 13% Non-Governmental Organizations 5% 8% First Nations/ Industry Associations Indigenous Groups 6% Government 1 In 2014, we sent out a survey to internal and external stakeholders to identify and validate our top sustainability priorities. We had over 200 respondents. In 2015, we complemented the survey results with in-depth stakeholder engagements. A total of 63 stakeholders have participated in our Materiality Analysis engagements since 2015. We are implementing a multi-annual engagement plan, designed as a phased approach, to ensure the inclusive and representative participation of varied stakeholder groups across our areas of operation. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 24 OUR PRIORITIES The graphic below provides a description of our Materiality Analysis methodology: MATERIALITY ANALYSIS METHODOLOGY 1 2 METHODOLOGY DESIGN RESEARCH AND IDENTIFICATION OF MATERIAL TOPICS We defined the purpose and objective of our materiality analysis, collected We reviewed global and industry reports, information and designed interview relevant laws, regulations, international and engagement instruments. agreements, voluntary agreements of strategic significance, media scans, internal documentation and government briefs, among other sources. 3 4 MATERIAL TOPIC ASSESSMENT AND ENGAGEMENT AND VALIDATION PRELIMINARY PRIORITIZATION We applied the GRI’s Principles of Completeness We applied a relevance scale ranging from and Stakeholder Inclusiveness, and engaged 0 to 4 to assess the topic’s level of importance and internal and external stakeholders in in-depth impact for our stakeholders and for the company. interviews to validate the topics. We took into account the sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities of our operations, the main topics and future challenges for our sector as reported by our stakeholders and industry peers, and the critical factors for enabling our organizational success. 5 REVIEW AND FINAL CATEGORIZATION AND PRIORITIZATION The results of these interviews were aggregated and analyzed, resulting in a final categorization and prioritization of material topics. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 25 OUR PRIORITIES TOP MATERIAL TOPICS The categories and topics of highest material priority form the main content of this Sustainability Report. These are the interests, topics and expectations raised by our stakeholders during our materiality analysis, and they reflect our core opportunities in contributing to sustainable development in the areas where we do business. The Materiality Matrix illustrates the distribution and ranking of the topics. This 2016 Sustainability Report reports on the topics in the mid-to-high quadrants of the Materiality Matrix. Our material topics are organized in five categories: Strategy and Governance; Communities; Our People; Safety and Health; Environmental Stewardship. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 26 OUR PRIORITIES MATERIALITY MATRIX CATEGORIES: STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE SAFETY AND HEALTH COMMUNITIES ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP OUR PEOPLE CRITICAL IMPORTANCE Waste and Hazardous Material Management Rights and Engagement of Indigenous Peoples Stakeholder Engagement Water Human Management Rights Environmental Compliance Sustainable Benefits HIGH IMPORTANCE Workforce Safety for Communities IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS and Health Governance and Accountability Economic Impact AVERAGE IMPORTANCE Enterprise Risk Management Energy Management and Climate Change Diversity and Equal Opportunities Biodiversity Management LOW IMPORTANCE Supply Chain Management Research and Development LOW IMPACT AVERAGE IMPACT HIGH IMPACT CRITICAL IMPACT INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 27 OUR PRIORITIES GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Ensuring senior management is accountable for environmental, social and ACADEMIA 3.25 economic issues. Maintaining the highest ethical standards to prevent EMPLOYEES human rights violations, corruption and bribery throughout activities and 3.12 supply chains. Complying with all applicable laws, regulations and SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.8 company policies. NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.25 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.4 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.0 GOVERNMENT 2.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder R&D AND INNOVATION Research and development of new technologies and processes to ensure ACADEMIA 2.5 safe, profitable and sustainable mining practices. EMPLOYEES 2.54 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.2 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 1.88 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 2.0 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 2.0 GOVERNMENT 2.25 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Managing issues and events that could cause reputational, financial, ACADEMIA 2.75 political, operational and/or strategic impacts. Ensuring we have robust risk EMPLOYEES management processes at the site, regional and corporate levels to assess 2.92 both internal and external risks that could impact us. One of the many ways SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.2 we manage our external risks is through the country risk assessment NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS exercises, which are conducted quarterly in countries where we are active. 2.88 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.2 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.0 GOVERNMENT 2.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 28 OUR PRIORITIES WORKFORCE SAFETY AND HEALTH Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment for our workforce. ACADEMIA 3.5 EMPLOYEES 3.38 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.8 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.0 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 4.0 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 3.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Ensuring stakeholders participate in early, meaningful and transparent ACADEMIA 3.75 ongoing engagement. EMPLOYEES 3.54 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.2 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.5 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.8 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 4.0 GOVERNMENT 3.25 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder HUMAN RIGHTS Ensuring human rights are upheld through all business activities. ACADEMIA 3.75 EMPLOYEES 3.23 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.6 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.88 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.6 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 2.33 GOVERNMENT 3.25 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 29 OUR PRIORITIES RIGHTS AND ENGAGEMENT OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES Engaging early and transparently with Indigenous Peoples to build strong ACADEMIA 3.75 and collaborative relationships. EMPLOYEES 3.46 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.6 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.63 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.4 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.67 GOVERNMENT 3.25 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Selecting vendors to partner with, by balancing our requirements and ACADEMIA 3.0 priorities, including ethics, anti-corruption, labour standards, local EMPLOYEES procurement and more. Every vendor relationship must meet our 2.6 economic, logistical and sustainability standards. SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 1.6 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 2.44 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.0 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 2.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ECONOMIC IMPACT Creating positive economic impacts for communities in which we operate. ACADEMIA 3.25 This includes both direct and indirect economic impacts through the tax EMPLOYEES revenues and royalty payments we direct around the world, capital 3.28 expenditures made through local capacity-building, and purchase of goods SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.6 and services in the communities where our mines are located. NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 2.69 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 2.8 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 4.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 30 OUR PRIORITIES SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS FOR COMMUNITIES Strategically investing to build partnerships and local capacity through ACADEMIA 4.0 community investment, procurement and employment activities. EMPLOYEES 3.68 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.8 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.56 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.4 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 3.25 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. ACADEMIA 2.75 Investing in alternative energy sources for operational efficiencies and cost EMPLOYEES savings (e.g., solar, wind, etc.). 3.0 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.0 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.13 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.0 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 2.33 GOVERNMENT 3.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Ensuring the highest standards of integrity and compliance with applicable ACADEMIA 3.25 laws, regulations and company policies. EMPLOYEES 3.58 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.6 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.63 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.6 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 4.0 GOVERNMENT 3.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 31 OUR PRIORITIES WATER MANAGEMENT Optimizing water consumption and discharge while maximizing ACADEMIA 3.5 water quality. EMPLOYEES 3.69 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.8 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.13 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.6 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 3.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Integrating long-term sustainable approaches to support biodiversity. ACADEMIA 2.5 Contributing to integrated approaches to land use, from development EMPLOYEES through operation and closure (e.g., alterations of landscape, vegetation 2.27 removal and wildlife habitats). Actively reclaiming land and safely restoring SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.2 legacy assets and dormant properties. NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 2.69 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.0 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 2.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder WASTE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL MANAGEMENT Managing the sourcing, transport, use and disposal of waste, including ACADEMIA 3.5 recycling and tailings management. EMPLOYEES 3.42 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 3.6 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 3.5 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 4.0 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 3.33 GOVERNMENT 3.75 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 32 OUR PRIORITIES DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Encouraging diversity of gender, ages, cultures, backgrounds and skills ACADEMIA 3.0 throughout the Board of Directors, management team, employees, EMPLOYEES contractors, business partners and suppliers. 2.72 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTORS 2.6 NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 2.5 INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS 3.2 INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS 4.0 GOVERNMENT 3.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Level of topic’s importance to stakeholder 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 33 OUR PRIORITIES GOLDCORP AND THE SDGs The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations and its member states, are ambitious and will require collaboration among many sectors. The role of the private sector, and companies like Goldcorp, is critical in this new, universal set of goals to eradicate poverty, protect the planet and advance prosperity by 2030. THE SDGs AND THE ROLE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR Businesses like ours have a tremendous impact on communities. We provide local jobs and use local supply chains, which in turn create jobs and build human capital. We build physical and institutional infrastructure and support technology transfer. The resulting growth in products and services can have multiplier effects that improve communities’ financial sustainability. IDENTIFYING OUR PRIORITIES AND ALIGNING OUR EFFORTS Our materiality analysis is an important first step toward achieving the SDGs. By engaging with our stakeholders and learning their concerns and priorities related to sustainability, we can improve our understanding of the economic, environmental and social impacts that matter most to them, as well as to our business and society at large. We have mapped our top material topics, internal initiatives and strategies to the SDGs. We know we can play a key role in achieving the SDGs and each one of these Goals contributes to the sustainability of our operations. Therefore, this mapping exercise has helped us understand where synergies exist and where gaps should be addressed. As our sustainability strategy evolves, we will align our efforts with the SDGs to minimize the negative impacts and maximize the positive ones. GOAL STRATEGY 2016 EXAMPLES SDG 3 Health: Ensure healthy We support health and well-being for employees • Worked with Heart and Stroke Foundation to lives and promote well-being and local communities by identifying and launch a risk assessment tool completed by for all, at all ages providing solutions for health risks, creating tools 367 employees at Red Lake, Musselwhite, and offering training as well as instilling and Porcupine, Éléonore and our corporate offices, supporting a safety culture. in addition to prevention activities and awareness of signs of stroke. • Conducted Ground Control Audits at all mine sites to reduce potential ground stability events. • Ran industrial hygiene and occupational health program across all sites, using technology to track and analyze employee health data. • Porcupine mine contributed $500,000 to the Timmins and District Hospital Foundation to purchase a new MRI machine to ensure top-quality health care services for community members. SDG 4 Education: Ensure We invest in educational programs that support • Peñasquito provided US$230,000 to Education to inclusive and equitable childhood, youth and adult development in local Share, to introduce youth aged 6 to 15 from quality education and communities. We also invest in research related to 19 communities around the mine site to science promote lifelong learning our business to grow educational opportunities. technology, mathematics and artistic expression. opportunities for all • Éléonore contributed $200,000 to the Mâyâupiu Training Institute of Wemindji, to provide education for adults, including How to Start a Business, which benefitted the members of the Wemindji Cree. • Cerro Negro contributed US$70,000 to a multi-year university/college scholarship program in partnership with the Honorable Concejo Deliberante, to support and increase participation of youth in their post-secondary studies, resulting in more professional designations. • We provided CAD$250,000 to the Eenou-Eeyou Community Foundation in support of the Aamischaaukamikw Cree Cultural Institute, the central museum and cultural institute of the Cree Nation of Eeyou Istchee. The funds will be used to acquire artifacts and secure the museum’s long-term sustainability. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 34 OUR PRIORITIES GOAL STRATEGY 2016 EXAMPLES SDG 5 Gender Equality: We strive to foster an open and inclusive workplace • Our women’s training, development and mentoring Achieve gender equality and and support that all should have equal opportunity program, Creating Choices, and sister program, empower all women and girls to participate and achieve their full potential. Growing Choices, saw 125 women graduate in 2016, providing women with skills and tools to achieve their full leadership potential, work-life balance, build effective relationships and plan for career success. • Over 3,000 full time Goldcorp employees responded to a diversity survey in 2016 that deepened our understanding of our workforce and identified opportunities for greater diversity and inclusion. • Senior executive, mine leadership and the Diversity Committee completed Unconscious Bias training to be better aware of, understand and overcome the many forms of bias in the workplace. • In 2016, we became a Diversity 50 Partner with the Canadian Board Diversity Council. We were also proud to reach our goals set with The Catalyst Accord and The 30% Club Canada, when the representation of women on our Board of Directors increased to 33%. SDG 6 Water: Ensure access to Our Water Stewardship Strategy requires that every • To demonstrate our commitment to Towards Zero water and sanitation Goldcorp site must establish water milestones for Water (H2Zero), we added more detailed water their local environment, including recycling and management to our Global Investment Framework stewardship around monitoring and quality. Each (GIF), which provides direction over major site has shown improvement in 2016. investments decisions. • Our Marlin mine team partnered with local Guatemalan community development councils (COCODES) to build infrastructure to ensure access to clean drinking water. SDG 13 Energy and Climate: Our Energy Stewardship Strategy, which we are • Partnered with technology leaders to make Borden Ensure access to affordable, continually improving, ensures that we take active Lake Project one of the world’s first all-electric reliable, sustainable and steps to manage energy use and minimize GHG mines, using battery-powered equipment that modern energy for all, and emissions through annual site-level and enterprise produces zero emissions to help reduce our take urgent action to risk assessments. environmental impact. combat climate change and its impacts SDG 8 Economy: Promote Our sustainable economic development approach • Hired graduates of our Aboriginal Mining and sustained, inclusive and in communities means local hiring and Skilled Trades Entry Program (AMSTEP), sustainable economic procurement, training, capacity-building, direct launched at Musselwhite in 2015. Grads began growth, full and productive community donations and investments, and working this year. employment and decent work infrastructure investment. • Peñasquito mine contributed over US$425,000 to NGO TechnoServe to build competitive farms, businesses and industries. Smallholder farmers near the Peñasquito site learned to increase productivity and quality through TechnoServe courses. • In 2016, 80% of our employees were drawn locally and regionally, and 23% of our goods and services were purchased from local sources. • Éléonore mine donated to Wemindji Business Development Fund in Québec to support the Cree by aiding start-ups and boosting employment. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 35 OUR PRIORITIES GOAL STRATEGY 2016 EXAMPLES SDG 12 Consumption: Ensure We manage the sourcing, transport, use and • Completed pre-feasibility studies for filtered or sustainable consumption and disposal of waste and demonstrate leadership in dewatered tailings at Peñasquito and Cerro Negro production patterns responsible use and recycling at our sites through to allow for less on-site water consumption. our Tailings Stewardship Strategy. SDG 15 Ecosystems: Protect, Our goal is to develop, operate and close our • Reclaimed over 202,000 hectares of land at the restore and promote mining properties, sustainably. All operations have El Sauzal mine in Mexico, with over 160,000 local sustainable use of terrestrial an environmental closure plan with reclamation plants and trees planted. ecosystems, sustainably strategies to leave the site healthy, thriving and • Planted 19,000 coffee plants and 1,600 avocado manage forests, combat productive for locals. trees in the Marlin mine’s reclaimed pit to restore desertification, halt and the site and promote sustainable land use. reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss • Received full release from US state and federal governments for the Daisy mine in Nevada, which closed in 1999 and has been restored to its natural condition. SDG 17 Sustainability: We maintain engagement with industry peers and • Held the Sustainability Summit, which provided Strengthen the means of the international financial world to ensure sustained employees the opportunity to contribute and learn implementation and revitalize dialogue and build meaningful partnerships. We are how we continue to generate sustainable value for the global partnership for members of: our company and stakeholders. sustainable development • International Council on Mining and Metals • Participated in the UN Global Compact of Canada’s • Mining Association of Canada Peer Review Reporting Program, sharing best practices in sustainability reporting practices. • World Gold Council • Were a catalyst for Argentina’s adoption of the • Boreal Leadership Council Mining Association of Canada’s (MAC) Towards • World Economic Forum Sustainable Mining initiative (TSM), resulting in all MAC member companies operating in Argentina committing to align and report on sustainability protocols. SDG 1 Poverty: End poverty in We have a significant indirect impact and influence • Invested approximately US$20 million in all its forms, everywhere on surrounding economies. Our sites invest in community contributions across our sites and health, education, community development, arts areas of operations. and culture, and infrastructure, as well as local • Helped fund a backup generator for Perito Moreno, employment and procurement. Argentina, near the Cerro Negro site, to reestablish the water supply and reopen schools after a generator failure. • Supported Eva’s Initiatives for Homeless Youth in Toronto, aiding youth in crisis to transition out of homelessness through job training, counselling and harm reduction. • Supported Clan Mother Turtle Lodge in Manitoba, which helps find solutions for Indigenous women and families impacted by sexual exploitation and abuse. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 36 LEADING TO CREATE LONG-TERM VALUE STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE VISION KEY STATISTICS Realizing our vision – Together, Creating Sustainable Value – requires committed leadership, sound strategy, good 20 DISTINCT CULTURES/ governance and a long-term perspective. Our strengths in ETHNICITIES, nine nationalities these areas help provide the foundation for future success. and six languages are represented by our directors and officers. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS • Our Board of Directors appointed a new Chief Executive 100% OF OUR Officer (CEO), David Garofalo, who strengthened our senior management team and reorganized and refocused the BUSINESS UNITS were analyzed for risks related to corruption. organization to drive net asset value growth. • We announced the appointment of Charlie Sartain to our Board of Directors, effective as of January 1, 2017. 96% (APPROXIMATELY Mr. Sartain is a mining engineer with over 30 years of 2,850 EMPLOYEES) mining experience and was previously the Chief Executive completed our annual Code of Conduct refresher Officer of Xstrata’s global copper business. course and re-certification. • We are proud to have surpassed the targets set by the Catalyst Accord (target of 25% representation of women on the board by 2017) and the 30% Club Canada (target of 30% representation of women on the board by 2019). 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 37 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS The mining industry is under pressure from weak commodity prices and increased costs. Shareholder activism is on the rise, and a range of external stakeholders demand companies demonstrate how they are managing risks and mitigating impacts. Around the globe, anti-corruption legislation is becoming more stringent, and mining companies face heightened risks for non-compliance. Stakeholder expectations are rising for transparent disclosure of performance and compensation. Talent attraction and retention is a major challenge: in executive positions the talent gap is widening, making it imperative to retain top talent for effective and skilled management. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to demonstrate that we have the appropriate organizational structures and accountabilities in place to reduce risks. They want us to generate superior returns from high-quality assets, while being transparent through reporting on performance, trends and outcomes. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? Good governance is the foundation on which we build our responsible management and industry-leading results. We strive to provide our shareholders and other stakeholders with clear and concise disclosure about our policies, programs and performance. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to build governance and accountability mechanisms that position our company to optimize results and safeguard long-term success. Strategic management appointments provide our leadership team the opportunity to manage events which could have reputational, financial, operational, environmental or community impacts. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) as well as our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework help us better identify, manage and mitigate these impacts. We also perform ongoing risk assessments for the local and national geographical areas where we work. These are multi-faceted assessments that take into consideration the environmental, social, political and economic risks of the countries where we operate. The Board of Directors and our Executive Management team recognize the importance of strong corporate governance to effectively manage our company and to protect employees and shareholders. Our approach to issues of corporate governance is designed to ensure that our business and affairs are conducted so as to enhance long-term shareholder value. Guidelines and requirements for ethical practices are incorporated into various SEMS standards. For more information on our policies, please visit this report’s section on our Corporate Policies. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 38 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS TALKING STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE WITH DAVID GAROFALO, PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER When you reflect on 2016, your first year as CEO, what are some of the highlights and accomplishments that come to mind? From a sustainability perspective, launching the Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) initiative was our major strategic accomplishment. Water, or the lack of it, is a growing concern that limits our ability to develop and expand mines, and it is also a major issue for communities surrounding our mines. As a company, we must be good stewards of water and the environment. With H2Zero, we are putting our best scientific and engineering minds to work to innovate and address challenges around water consumption. Moving Towards Zero Water consumption will lower our operating costs and it will be a powerful and positive message to send to communities where we want to develop natural resources. Since announcing the initiative, we have set a series of benchmarks spanning the next decade. The first step is to put the metrics in place. In 2017, we will be compiling water-use data to gain an accurate assessment of the cost of water. There’s a cost to every drop of water that we draw, handle, treat and return back to the environment. When we have an accurate assessment, I suspect we’ll find that some of the water-reduction strategies that may seem costly at first, like filtered tailings, are actually cost-effective in the larger picture. What are some of the challenges the industry faces? How is Goldcorp managing them? Mine closure and reclamation have been historic challenges for the mining industry. The management of legacy sites has been a particular issue. We see mine closure as an opportunity to set an example. After a mine closes, the mine operator is responsible for restoring and revegetating the land, and for ensuring its long-term environmental viability. At Goldcorp, environmental and social closure planning begins when the mine produces its first ounce. We start restoring the land while the mine is still in operation, in a process called progressive reclamation. We invest millions a year in progressive reclamation at our operating sites. Another major sustainability challenge is the management of wet or conventional slurry tailings. The Mining Association of Canada and the International Council on Mining and Metals are very focused on tailings management and water, because wet tailings management is the most water-intensive aspect of our industry and the dams bring geotechnical and social risks. Tailings disasters are extremely rare, but when they happen, communities and biodiversity can be negatively affected, and they put a stigma on the entire industry. In the long run, I think wet tailings are unacceptable, and as a corporate strategy we are looking for ways to move away from them. This ties back to our H2Zero initiative. We’re not ready to move every mine to dry stack or filtered tailings. The technology is not ready to be scaled up for high-volume, large-scale mines, like Peñasquito, for example. But in the long term, I think it is viable and we are exploring opportunities in this area. What are some sustainability issues you anticipate will affect Goldcorp in the coming years? Throughout the industry, ore reserves have been declining for more than a decade. A significant impediment in developing resources is the scarcity of water and energy. Among local communities there is a perception that mining consumes too much energy and water, and competes with communities for those scarce resources. That perception puts us in a bad light when we enter a new community and want to build a new mine. As an industry, we have to change that conversation. We have to be more effective in our stewardship of energy and water resources if we hope to change the downward trajectory of resources. We have to communicate better with our affected stakeholders on the issues that matter most to them. At Goldcorp, we are leading on several fronts: through the H2Zero initiative and in a company-wide drive to innovate on energy, as in our all-electric Borden project. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 39 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Sustainability is one of Goldcorp’s core pillars. Can you speak about its importance to the overall company strategy? In simple economic terms, when a company makes capital investments of the scale of building a mine in a remote location, long-term sustainability is essential. The local community, of course, also wants a long-lived sustainable mine. It’s a case of working together to deliver sustainable value: we build relationships with communities, because we have come to their homes and built a mine, and it’s incumbent on us to share in the benefits. When we have community members as staff and as service providers, it benefits both sides. The local economy grows and the people gain skills, and local employment dramatically reduces our cost structure, by reducing our transportation costs and our camp costs. So building and supporting sustainable communities around the mine sites is part of our sustainability strategy for social and economic reasons. Environmental sustainability is also central to our overall strategy. Our ongoing diligence in environmental stewardship is essential to our ability to maintain local relationships and to be accepted into new communities. And, of course, it is simply good business for us, and for any company in the extractive industries, to be a responsible member of the global community. This year Goldcorp experienced changes in leadership and moved to a decentralized model of operation. What are some of the benefits and opportunities for advancing sustainability in a decentralized model? In the past, many decisions that affected mine operations were made at our head office. The new decentralized approach gives mine managers the cradle-to-grave responsibility for their operations. They are responsible for operations, growing their reserves and looking for expansion opportunities. They are also responsible for engaging with local communities and advancing sustainability initiatives in their areas of operation. In effect, they are running local businesses, and you can’t run a business in isolation from the people who live in the neighbourhood. We are trying to establish a sustainable socio-economic ecosystem around each of our mine sites. Ultimately, that will drive down our cost structures and improve the long-term sustainability and economic viability of those businesses. There are many benefits of drawing from the local community. It makes for a much more sustainable business. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 40 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY STRUCTURE As of December 31, 2016, the Board was comprised of ten directors, who were selected for their skills and knowledge of the mining industry and various aspects of corporate governance and management. The Board fulfills its mandate directly and through its committees at regularly scheduled meetings or as required. Board committees currently consist of the Audit Committee, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee, the Governance and Nominating Committee, and the Sustainability Committee. All committees are independent of management and report directly to the Board. More details on our Board and its functions can be found in our Management Information Circular. INDEPENDENCE In 2016, two of the ten Board members were not independent as defined by Canadian and USA securities governance guidelines. Mr. David Garofalo and Mr. Ian Telfer were not independent, as Mr. Garofalo was the President and Chief Executive Officer of Goldcorp, and Mr. Telfer has an employment agreement with Goldcorp for his continued service as Chairman. The independent directors frequently meet as a group when there is a scheduled Board meeting. Additional information on Board independence is available in our Management Information Circular. QUALIFICATIONS AND EVALUATION ON PERFORMANCE The Governance and Nominating Committee, which is composed entirely of independent directors, is responsible for identifying and recruiting new candidates for nomination to the Board. The committee develops and recommends to the Board for approval a long-term plan for Board composition. It is updated on an annual basis. The committee is also responsible for providing new directors with an orientation and education program, and facilitating ongoing director education. The Board conducts annual effectiveness evaluations of the performance of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the committees and the individual directors. The Governance and Nominating Committee annually reviews and makes recommendations to the Board regarding these evaluations. Further information about the nomination, selection and evaluation process of the Board and its Committees can be found in the Governance section of our website and in our Management Information Circular. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 41 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ENGAGEMENT WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES At Goldcorp, we recognize the importance of strong and consistent engagement with our shareholders. We have policies and processes in place that ensure we understand and, when appropriate, address shareholder concerns. We have a comprehensive program designed to engage shareholders that aligns with the Canadian Coalition for Good Governance model policy of director and shareholder engagement on governance matters. WHO WE ENGAGE WITH AND EVENT WHO ENGAGES WHAT WE TALK ABOUT Non-deal roadshows, Board of Directors and With institutional investors throughout the year to provide meetings, calls and senior management public information on our business, operations and discussion sustainability initiatives and to get feedback on our governance processes and executive compensation Quarterly conference call Senior management With the investment community to review our most recently and webcast released financial and operating results Guidance release Senior management Released to the media with the year-end financial results, to report on our financial and operating outlook for the coming year News releases Senior management Released to the media throughout the year to report on any material information with respect to Goldcorp Broker-sponsored Senior management Speaking at industry investor conferences about public conference information on our business and operations Investor Day Senior management Select Goldcorp investors and analysts are invited to attend usually on an annual basis; live webcast and presentations are made available on our website Meetings, calls and Investor relations With brokers and retail shareholders to address any discussions shareholder-related concerns and to provide public information on Goldcorp Site tours Senior management, With investors and analysts to tour assets to understand the investor relations various operations Regular meetings Directors With shareholder advocacy groups to discuss governance issues Socially Responsible Board of Directors and Provide SRIs with updates on sustainability activities Investors (SRIs) senior management throughout our company, including: Board mine site visits; engagements materiality assessment for sustainability reporting; our Dow Jones Sustainability Index performance; human rights updates; environmental strategy updates including water, energy and tailings; and diversity initiatives Shareholders, employees and other interested parties may communicate directly with our Board of Directors by telephone, email and mail, or at our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. For more information on how to contact our Board, please visit the Corporate Directory on our website or see our Management Information Circular. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 42 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE OVERSIGHT OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is overseen by the Board of Directors’ Sustainability Committee. The primary function of the Sustainability Committee is to review and monitor the sustainable development, environmental, health and safety policies and activities of Goldcorp on behalf of the Board. Members of the Sustainability Committee are independent. The full text of the Sustainability Committee’s terms of reference is available at www.goldcorp.com. In 2016, the Sustainability Committee considered, reviewed or approved the following matters: AREA ACTIONS Policies and standards • Oversaw the release of and reviewed the 2015 Annual Sustainability Report • Oversaw the management of the Sustainability Excellence Management System • Discussed implementation of Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Incident reviews/Health • Discussed fatality at Marlin mine and lessons learned and Safety • Received quarterly updates on health, safety and sustainability • Received 2015 Safety and Health Annual Report • Reviewed and discussed our safety and health strategy towards zero fatalities • Reviewed and discussed development and rollout of StepIn, a standardized and global application of the basic elements of mine site supervision Mine visits and updates • Traveled to the Cerro Negro, Red Lake and Porcupine mines and Borden project • Discussed proposed visits to the Kaminak project and Musselwhite, Éléonore and Peñasquito mines Committee operations • Approved amendments to the Sustainability Committee Terms of Reference • Received updates on CSR and environmental matters • Conducted annual self-evaluations For more information on our oversight of sustainability, please see our Management Information Circular. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 43 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Our long-term corporate strategy is central to all of our business decisions, including decisions around executive compensation. We endeavour to provide our shareholders with superior returns while maintaining our company-wide commitment to safe, responsible mining and sustainability excellence. Our compensation programs are designed to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre executives and align their interests with superior and sustainable performance over the long-term in a manner that is fair and reasonable to our shareholders. The following key principles guide the development of our compensation programs: Goal 1: ALIGNED TRANSPARENT Pay for performance Goal 2: Align interests of management STRATEGIC COMPETITIVE with shareholders Goal 3: RISKRESPONSIVE Attract, retain SENSITIVE and inspire key talent Aligned – We use equity-based incentives to align executives’ long-term financial interests with those of our shareholders and encourage behaviour that drives sustainable long-term performance. Transparent – We ensure executives and shareholders understand our executive compensation programs – their objectives, mechanics, and the compensation levels and opportunities provided. Strategic – We reinforce our business strategy by linking short-term and long-term incentive compensation to performance against key indicators. Competitive – We ensure that we can recruit and retain experienced, high-calibre executives in the competitive mining industry, while being fair and reasonable to our shareholders. Risk-sensitive – We support our Enterprise Risk Management system and ensure management’s plans are focused on generating shareholder value within a risk-controlled environment. Responsive – We respond to the fluctuation of commodity prices by emphasizing operational performance measures that are directly influenced by the prices of gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc. The Board recognizes that executive compensation practices and policies are evolving in Canada and globally, and undertakes an annual internal review to ensure our practices and policies are effective in achieving our objectives. We balance the need to be competitive within the mining industry to attract high-calibre executives with the need to provide compensation programs that are fair and reasonable. Since 2012, we have provided shareholders with an advisory “Say on Pay” vote regarding our executive compensation program. It helps us engage constructively, obtain meaningful feedback and ensure accountability for executive compensation. For more information on executive compensation, please see our Management Information Circular. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 44 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE BUSINESS ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE At Goldcorp, we are committed to upholding Our Values, one of which is Acting Ethically. Over the years, we have worked hard to ensure that an ethical culture doesn’t just reside in policies, but rather in the way we conduct our business every day. CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct (the Code) documents the guiding principles of conduct and ethics to be followed by all employees, officers, directors and third parties who work for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp. The principles in the Code summarize what Goldcorp expects from each of us and provide valuable advice on how to conduct our work with integrity. Aspects of the Code include but are not limited to: compliance with the law, prevention of conflicts of interest, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, third-party compliance and oversight, anti-competitive practices, and zero tolerance for fraud. Through a combination of in-person and online training, supported by a structured awareness and communications campaign, we make every possible effort to ensure that everybody working for, or on behalf of, our company clearly understands the principles that must be followed while doing their job. For example, in 2016 we rolled out the Acting Ethically Is Important to Me campaign, in which Mine General Managers (MGMs) spoke about why ethical behaviour was important to them as MGMs and at a personal level. We review and update the Code every three to five years in an effort to keep it current and relevant to the changing business and regulatory environments in which we operate. The Code was last updated and approved by the Board in 2014. Our efforts in promoting ethics and compliance awareness are reflected in the number of Code of Conduct concerns and inquiries reported. In 2016, the reports-to-employees ratio was two reports (including queries and requests for guidance) for every 100 employees, compared to an average of 1.3 across all industries, as stated by NAVEX Global’s 2016 Ethics and Compliance Hotline Benchmark Report.1 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Goldcorp understands that conflicts of interest may arise in the ordinary course of business. Therefore, it is important to ensure that there is transparency and that all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are fully disclosed. Our Code of Conduct sets out the steps to take in the event of a potential or actual conflict of interest. SANCTIONS AND FINES In 2016, we did not receive significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the applicable laws and regulations that prohibit restraints of trade, unfair practices, anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and abuses of economic power. In addition, in 2016, we did not receive any reported fines that on an individual basis exceeded US$100,000 for health and safety, employment and corporate social responsibility matters. For further information on environmental fines and sanctions, please visit the Environmental Compliance section. Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading: Our obligations under the provisions of securities laws and stock exchange rules relating to the disclosure of material information are guided by our Disclosure, Confidentiality and Insider Trading Policy, which ensures that Goldcorp and all persons to whom this policy applies meet their obligations regarding the timely disclosure of all material information. 1 Ratios are estimated and relate to full time employees; ratios do not include contractors. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 45 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT OF FRAUD AND CORRUPTION RISK Goldcorp’s commitment to acting with integrity includes not engaging in or tolerating fraud or corruption. We invest time and resources to create awareness on our commitment to acting with integrity. This means clearly defining the expectations we have for employees and third parties who work with us with regards to ethical behaviour. 100% of our business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption during the reporting year. In addition, corruption risk is re-assessed on a quarterly basis as part of the Enterprise Risk Management process implemented by Goldcorp. We take an integral approach in fraud and corruption risk management. Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption compliance program is a combination of (i) preventive (e.g., structured training and third-party vetting/due diligence, clear policies, monitoring of employee awareness), (ii) detective (e.g., recurrent detection data analytic procedures) and (iii) reactive (e.g., an effective ethics reporting process that constitutes an important component of the Company’s control environment) elements. Our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption compliance program is complemented by a system of internal controls over our financial reporting process; our entity-level controls; and transactional controls, such as delegation of financial authority for expenditures, transaction authorization requirements, segregation of duties and information technology security. The Code of Conduct and our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy are foundational to our compliance program. In 2016, a significant amount of effort was placed in strengthening our third-party risk management process and in enhancing our risk-based detection capabilities. 2016 highlights regarding anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance include: • We conducted an in-depth review of our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Program and determined that our program fully met or exceeded the standards and guidelines provided by the US Department of Justice and the Securities Exchange Commission. We continuously monitor for new Canadian, US and international anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, regulations, standards and guidelines and will accordingly update our program as appropriate. • In-person anti-bribery and anti-corruption training was delivered to the Board of Directors and to the senior management team. • We continued strengthening our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption compliance program’s effectiveness through recurrent transaction-based detection efforts and structured third-party onboarding due diligence. • We monitored organizational ethical tone, awareness and understanding of the key elements of our compliance policies through a global Ethics and Compliance survey with our employees. • We developed and rolled out a Code of Conduct mobile app, which provides direct access to our Code of Conduct, has information on our ethics reporting channels and includes a trivia gaming element as a tool to further promote awareness and complement formal training efforts. • We formalized and strengthened our internal investigation protocols for cases and complaints received through our ethics reporting channels to ensure that they are appropriately managed and escalated. All reports of alleged fraud received during 2016 have been resolved or are currently under active investigation. We have zero tolerance for fraud and corruption and in those cases where fraud allegations are confirmed, the individual(s) and/or entities involved face disciplinary measures that could include termination of employment or contract and criminal and/or civil liability as applicable. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 46 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ETHICS COMMITTEE In order to address Code matters in a timely, unbiased and appropriate manner, we have an internal Ethics Committee that oversees the Ethics and Compliance program. Our Ethics Committee is a multi-disciplinary group of corporate employees and officers chaired by our Executive Vice President and General Counsel. Ethics complaints and follow-up status are also reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. To further strengthen governance around the ethics reporting process, in 2016 we formalized our Internal Investigation Protocols. The Internal Investigation Protocols define the criteria to be followed when assessing, investigating and taking corrective action around ethics-related complaints received through our reporting channels. Per the Internal Investigation Protocols, all reports received are preliminarily assessed for type and criticality (Immaterial, Minor, Moderate, Major and Severe), which then triggers the resources and responsibilities to be assigned to the assessment/investigation of each case through the use of detailed RACI1 charts. Ethics reports and/or complaints are assessed or investigated following a tiered investigation approach linked to the report’s criticality. The level of criticality assigned to a particular ethics report or complaint varies depending on its type and specific circumstances, and may change during the course of the investigation. Certain types of reports inherently receive a higher criticality status, such as: • Corruption of public officials • Falsification of records • Financial statement fraud • Human rights complaints • Sexual harassment • Retaliation The effectiveness of our compliance program is not only defined by its design but also by how well the organization has absorbed its key elements. In June 2016, our Ethics and Compliance team conducted an anonymous global survey for this purpose. The survey results clearly showed continued improvement in the program’s permeation and effectiveness. The graphic below shows some of the key results obtained. 1 RACI charts identify who is Responsible, who is Accountable, who must be Consulted and who must be Informed for each type of case depending on its type and criticality level. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 47 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE GOLDCORP’S ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE SURVEY KEY RESULTS 1,512 employees responded 15 different locations 34% operations staff 51% 4+ years at Goldcorp 66% support staff 34% supervisory role 92% 95% 94% agree that Goldcorp agree that Goldcorp will agree that acting lives its value of acting always refuse to pay ethically is as ethically in all aspects a bribe even when that important as the other of its business means extra cost or delays corporate values POLICY UNDERSTANDING indicated having a general or very 96% good understanding of the Code of Conduct and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Code of Conduct 30% more 12% more employees indicated employees indicated having a very good having a very good understanding* understanding* *compared to 18 months ago WOULD YOU DO SOMETHING IF YOU SAW AN ETHICS VIOLATION? 18 months ago Today 90% 97% said yes said yes 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 48 A WELL-OPERATED ERM FRAMEWORK ENABLES US TO: STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE ETHICS TRAINING AND CAPACITY-BUILDING The preventive element of our Ethics and Compliance program includes the delivery of structured training for our workforce, consistent awareness efforts as well as monitoring of the effectiveness of the overall preventive efforts. In 2016, we delivered in-person ethics awareness sessions at four different locations, completed the global annual Code of Conduct refresher and certification training, and delivered in-person anti-corruption training to the global senior management team and the Board of Directors. Our Annual Code of Conduct refresher training and certification process is mandatory in nature. Employees are required to review key topics of the Code (refreshed every year) and then re-certify compliance. In 2016, 96% (approximately 2,850 employees) of the target population (e.g., employees with permanent access to a computer) completed the course and re-certification.1 As part of the certification process, all supervisors are required to have an in-person discussion with their teams about how and why our value of Acting Ethically is applicable and relevant to their specific teams and functions. Every two years, a similar approach is taken in relation to our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. The bi-annual Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption online training is complemented by: • Annual in-person training/refresher to decision makers (senior management) • Ad-hoc in-person Board training and quarterly updates on the anti-bribery and anti-corruption program’s execution progress • Bi-annual refresher training to high-risk third parties (either in person or through live webcast) • Bi-annual in-person training to key staff (managers, superintendents and department heads) at locations assessed as high risk 1 Employees with direct access to computers who completed the annual Code of Conduct refresher course represented approximately 60% of our direct, full time employee base. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 49 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY We believe that we can make a contribution to the development of sound public policy by providing accurate information about our mining activities. We participate in government outreach related to the mining industry. Some of the public policy campaigns we participated in during 2016 include: the Ontario Cap and Trade framework, the Canadian government’s Price on Carbon policy and Metal Mining Effluent review, the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act review, Natural Resources Canada’s Energy, Innovation and Mining policy consultation, and Ontario’s Long-Term Energy Plan. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 50 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES In keeping with our commitment to engage responsibly with the communities in which we operate, we have a stand-alone Political Contributions Policy that sets clear parameters and limitations for when and how political contributions are to be made for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp. This global policy prohibits any kind of political contributions outside Canada or the United States of America. The policy also details strict corporate-level approvals, including by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. Additional validations from Legal and Ethics and Compliance are required in those instances where political contributions may be allowed as per the policy. In 2016, we made contributions to political parties and related groups in Canada of approximately CAD$119,330. No such contributions were made in other countries of operation. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 51 SAW AN ETHICS VIOLATION? STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE 18 months ago Today 90% 97% ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT said yes said yes The nature of our business and the competitive environment in which we operate requires some level of risk-taking in order to achieve our strategic objectives and create growth and shareholder value. The corporate Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team has developed and implemented a company-specific operating framework in order to better protect and enhance shareholder value. A WELL-OPERATED ERM FRAMEWORK ENABLES US TO: Protect existing value Deliver projects on time Adapt to the changing and assets and on budget environment and minimize financial, reputational and legal impacts Meet internal and external Inform strategic Improve organizational commitments decision-making, prioritize efficiencies and maximize activities and allocate opportunities with our resources effectively stakeholders The primary focus of the ERM process is the identification and assessment of significant risks and the implementation of suitable risk responses. The process includes top-down and bottom-up risk identification and assessment from operations, projects, subject matter experts, management and functional leads; application of standardized risk assessment criteria in terms of likelihood and consequence; as well as development of risk treatment strategies. INPUTS On a quarterly basis, significant risk information Sources of riskfrom theseand information and other inputs sources is consolidated and reviewed by into the Canada and Latin America Risk Committees, the risk which governance structure involves an assessment and discussion of internal and Site/Project Level Risk Review external risks. Internal risks are identified primarily by operations management during the planning and Identify, assess, mitigate and monitor/ forecasting process and also through risk workshops and SEMS audits. External risks emerging from communicate site level risks Allocate resources RISK OPERATIONS FUNCTIONS EXTERNAL environmental, social, politicalWORKSHOPS Review and escalte risks to the next level of management and economic issues where we operateRISKS are identified primarily through a country-level risk assessment process. However, some external risk, such as cyber-security, is identified through Projects, Quarterly Risk Oversight Quarterly the ERM process. All risks are Sustainability, revisited and updated Updates and to ensure regularly that Follow Up the previous risk assessment is still appropriate and the risk impactTailings, etc. have notStandards Flow of risk information and likelihoods changed. Significant risks are consolidated and reviewed with senior management and then reported to the Board on a quarterly basis. Risk Aggregation Review, monitor and aggregate risk insight REGIONAL RISK Country Risk The full Board is sites/locations across multiple entrusted with the responsibility for overseeing COMMITTEE the significant risks MEETINGS to which our business is Assessments Filter intelligence to sites exposedEscaltae and risksensuring to Senior Managementthat there are processes in place to effectively identify, monitor and Political and manage Other them. External Risks A significant risk is one that, if it were to occur, could materially impact our ability to (Targeted meet risk or support our intelligence) business objectives. Exexutive Risk Management Review and discuss consolidated risk for ERM MEETINGS WITH Corporate validation and mitigation SENIOR MANAGEMENT Development Escalate risks to the Board Oversight/Governance Oversee management Define risk appetite BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ensure risk framework is in place Quarterly ERM Updates GOLDCORP 52 Aware of significant risks STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE The Board delegates responsibility for the execution of certain elements of risk oversight to Board committees to ensure appropriate expertise, attention and diligence. The committees oversee their relevant risk areas and report to the Board regularly. This oversight responsibility includes the procedures and programs implemented to mitigate risk, and the allocation of adequate resources to address risk. Management is responsible for ensuring that the Board and its committees are kept well informed of changing risks. INPUTS Sources of risk information and inputs into the risk governance structure Site/Project Level Risk Review Identify, assess, mitigate and monitor/ communicate site level risks Allocate resources Review and escalate risks to the next RISK OPERATIONS FUNCTIONS EXTERNAL level of management WORKSHOPS RISKS Projects, Quarterly Risk Oversight Quarterly Sustainability, Updates and Follow-up Tailings, etc. Standards Flow of risk information Risk Aggregation Review, monitor and aggregate risk insight REGIONAL RISK Country Risk across multiple sites/locations COMMITTEE MEETINGS Assessments Filter intelligence to sites Escalate risks to senior management Political and Other External Risks (targeted risk intelligence) Executive Risk Management Review and discuss consolidated risk for ERM MEETINGS WITH Corporate validation and mitigation SENIOR MANAGEMENT Development Escalate risks to the Board Oversight/Governance Oversee management Define risk appetite BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ensure risk framework is in place Quarterly ERM Updates Be aware of significant risks SEVERAL TOPIC-SPECIFIC RISK INITIATIVES WERE CARRIED OUT IN 2016, INCLUDING: • Social risk assessments • Tailings risk assessments • Project risk assessments • Closed-site risk assessments • Information Technology risk assessment 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 53 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Moving forward, we will streamline the collection and review of risks by restructuring the current quarterly review process and designing a new centralized risk-management tool. This new tool will provide sites with the ability to better manage their controls, monitor action items and reduce time required to consolidate risk information. NUMBER OF SITES RISK ASSESSMENT ASSESSED PURPOSE OF ASSESSMENT EXAMPLES OF RISK IDENTIFIED Social Risk Assessments 4 Identify and analyze potential Loss of enjoyment of property due events involving external to water quantity issues generates stakeholders which could formal complaints/negative negatively impact us publicity, resulting in potential risks to community members Tailings Risk Assessments 10 Identify and analyze conditions or Uncontrolled process water events associated with our tailings discharge facilities that could impact communities, the environment and/ or the safety and health of our workforce Project Risk Assessments 2 Identify and analyze risks Project will not fulfill the local associated with projects that could expectation for employment negatively affect the project’s opportunities success or Goldcorp IT Risk Assessment 1 Identify and analyze IT and cyber Inappropriate or unauthorized security–related risks that could access to critical technology assets negatively affect us and data Closed-Site Risk Assessments 37 Identify, analyze and build an Public accessing hazardous areas, inventory of existing controls used resulting in security or safety issues to manage the potential on site consequences associated with uncertain events or conditions at our closed sites THE PRECAUTIONARY PRINCIPLE The precautionary principle states that when an activity raises threats of harm to the environment or human health, precautionary measures should be taken, even if some cause-and-effect relationships are not fully established scientifically. We adopt a risk-based approach to business development. New projects (and upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations) undergo an assessment of potential environmental and social impact prior to implementation. For new projects, this is usually in the form of an impact assessment, in which the existing (baseline) conditions are described, the proposed project is outlined, potential impacts (both positive and negative) are identified, and modifications and controls are identified to minimize potentially adverse impacts. Provision is made in the assessment process for public consultation and input. We are committed to engaging in consultations with potentially affected host communities prior to making significant development decisions, regardless of any legal requirement to do so. For upgrades, modifications or expansions of existing operations, the level of assessment is commensurate with the potential impacts of the proposed change. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 54 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE CASE STUDIES CLEMENT PELLETIER: AFTER THREE YEARS, LOOKING FORWARD TO A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE After over three years on our Sustainability Committee, one of them as the committee’s Chair, Clement Pelletier says, “Sustainability is all about legacy – what we leave behind after the mine closes. Whether that legacy is environmental, or whether it’s social or economic, we must always be aware that the land and the community will outlast the mine.” A process chemist/metallurgist by training, Pelletier spent 14 years in the mining industry and 36 years in resource-related environmental consulting. In 2014 he joined our Board, where he was immediately named to the Sustainability Committee. “Goldcorp’s commitment to sustainability comes right from the top, from the CEO down. That makes an incredible difference.” For Pelletier, Goldcorp’s Sustainability Committee is a very active team, taking strong roles in the management and direction of sustainability issues across the company. “We don’t just stay at home reading reports. We visit the mines and projects in person, as many as four times a year. We go underground and engage with the mine’s employees, and check out the operations for ourselves. We look at environmental and social issues – and as a professional with a long history of environmental work, I know the technical side. We visit the towns, meet with mayors and members of the local communities. After each visit, the group makes a list of recommendations. Then, when we come back a couple of years later, we check to see what’s been done and how we’ve improved.” He feels that our spirit of innovation is key. “There’s real support for innovation in this company. The backfilling of the open pit with tailings at Marlin and El Sauzal were very innovative. This initiates the move toward dry tailings, as we’re doing at Éléonore, which is very innovative.” This past year, we took a powerful stance with the announcement of the H2Zero initiative. “This is very exciting. We plan to put our best engineer and scientist minds to the task of significantly reducing the water intake at our mines. With recycling and conservation and yet-to-be-developed refinements of dry tailing–type technologies, I’m certain we will get there. It is a long-term objective. It will not happen overnight. But this is a very bold position for a company to take.” Looking forward, Pelletier feels that we have plenty of work to do, but he’s confident in our ability to succeed. “I think the future looks good from a sustainability perspective. Look at what we’ve done so far. We’ve faced issues – not always easy ones – and tackled them head-on. With innovation and persistence, we have solved them. Sustainability is a state of mind.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 55 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE SETTING THE STAGE: TOWARDS SUSTAINABLE MINING IN ARGENTINA In October 2016, Cámara Argentina de Empresarios Mineros (CAEM), the national mining association in Argentina, announced that it will adopt the Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) principles outlined by the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) to improve environmental and social practices in the mining industry across the country. This is the second time that TSM has been adopted by a mining association outside of Canada, and the first time in a Latin American jurisdiction. The TSM initiative requires mining companies to assess their facilities’ performance across six important areas on an annual basis, including tailings management, Aboriginal and community outreach, safety and health, biodiversity conservation, crisis management, as well as energy use and greenhouse gas emissions management. The results of these assessments are freely available to the public and are externally verified every three years to ensure that what has been reported is accurate. “To support the Government of Argentina’s goal to hold mining companies to the highest standards, we are in the process of putting TSM principles and accountabilities into action at Cerro Negro,” says Brent Bergeron, Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability at Goldcorp. “It was important to us to demonstrate how critical sustainability is to our business and how the experience that we have here in Canada – whether it’s working with First Nations, the environment, or any other part of the sustainability equation – is transferrable to other mines and countries, from lessons learned to implementation.” By adopting TSM, Cerro Negro is committing to a higher level of accountability, transparency and credibility. Annual TSM assessments are conducted at a site level against 23 indicators, which provides local communities a more meaningful report of how the mine is performing socially, economically and environmentally. These reports will also provide a basis to further engage the local community. According to Marcelo Alvarez, Cerro Negro’s Director of Corporate Affairs and CAEM’s President, TSM will help move Argentina’s mining sector forward to become more efficient and reliable and make the country an important and attractive jurisdiction for investment and growth. “By adopting TSM, we are committing to raise the standards of our industry.” Cerro Negro already has a solid foundation in sustainability practices to build upon. In 2014, it received the Mining Company of the Year Award from Panorama Minero and the Fundación para el Desarrollo de la Minería Argentina (FUNDAMIN). 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 56 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE BUILDING BETTER SUSTAINABILITY PRACTICES THROUGH COLLABORATION Every three years, we hold a Sustainability Summit, where we convene to learn, discuss, debate and share knowledge around how to enhance our approach and commitment to putting our sustainability goals into action. The Summit brings together experts from all of our mine sites, and features notable guest speakers who inspire attendees to think differently about our sustainability journey. In March 2016, members of our global team were in attendance for three days of learning, dialogue and knowledge sharing. In attendance were people from Sustainability (including CSR, Environment and Security), Technical Services, Human Resources, Communications, Operations and Safety and Health, as well as the Board’s Sustainability Committee. We were honoured to host guest speakers who challenged, provoked and inspired our thinking, including Paul Gilding, former executive director of Greenpeace International and author of The Great Disruption: How the Climate Crisis Will Transform the Global Economy; Craig Sexton, Creative Director at DuPont Sustainable Solutions; Felipe Calderón, former President of Mexico; and John Ruggie, past UN Special Representative on business and human rights and Professor in Human Rights and International Affairs at Harvard’s John F. Kennedy School of Government. As Mr. Calderon participated in the inauguration of our Peñasquito mine in 2010, it was gratifying to gain his unique perspective on our sustainability journey over the years. “The mining industry is, at times, guilty of the same old ways of thinking and doing. It’s important that we hear from sustainability leaders outside our sector to challenge the way we do business,” says Lisa Wade, Vice President, Environment. “Listening to thoughtful evaluation and suggestions as to how we can have continued sustainability success encourages and motivates us to innovate and be more dynamic in our approach.” Key takeaways from the 2016 Summit included: • CSR stressed the importance of social risk as an economic risk if not managed properly; the need for local employment and procurement to start from the earliest beginnings of a project to build relationships and help communities build capacity; and for continued and proactive stakeholder engagement through the entire mine life. • Safety reiterated the positive safety effect of daily employee engagements with the rollout of our new StepIn management training program. When leaders meaningfully touch people at the heart, the impact on safety is notable. • Water management and our need to use and treat less water is of paramount importance, as is the need to use alternative renewable sources to increase energy management, especially as each mine site works to better understand the effect of carbon pricing. • Our Security team came away from the conference with a strategic plan including three-year objectives built from the ground up with input from all the sites and regions, the creation of a self-assessment tool to track trends on governance and adherence to internationally accepted standards, and the application of our Enterprise Risk Management assessment tool to security. Our executive team is accountable for these actions and has been working with employees across the company to create plans and to roll out and continually evaluate programs in support of these outcomes. We share updates on milestones and targets on our Above Ground blog and in our annual Sustainability Report. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 57 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS COMMUNITIES VISION KEY STATISTICS Our vision is to create sustainable, enduring value for our communities: value that lasts beyond the operating life of 80% OF EMPLOYEES were drawn locally and regionally, with our mines. We value our stakeholder relationships and adopt only 19% recruited nationally and an approach that is based on mutual benefit, open dialogue, 1% recruited internationally. trust and the respect of human rights and the rights of Indigenous Peoples. US$20 MILLION was spent in community investments, donations, sponsorships 2016 HIGHLIGHTS and infrastructure investments. • We became signatories of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 100% OF OUR OPERATIONS • We integrated social risk assessments in our overall risk have stakeholder identification maps to help framework and conducted social risk workshops at four of identify with whom we should engage on our sites. specific issues. • Over 130 sustainability practitioners from across the company as well as executive management and board 23% OF GOODS AND members gathered for three days of learning, dialogue and knowledge sharing at our Sustainability Summit. Outcomes SERVICES were purchased of the summit reinforced the need to remain focused on from local sources, accounting for more our commitment to local employment, procurement and than US$600 million of spending. proactive stakeholder engagement. • We were proud to see our commitment to Indigenous relations acknowledged publicly, when we were recognized in the Change Maker category at this year’s Indigenous Works Workplace Inclusion Leadership Awards. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 58 COMMUNITIES MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS Mining is subject to increased scrutiny in today’s society. As stakeholders share issues through social media locally and globally, expectations on mining companies for external disclosure and transparency have increased. Obtaining and maintaining a social licence to operate goes beyond following national and industry regulations. It requires an understanding and response to a wide range of issues that matter to our stakeholders, and relies on building trusting, respectful relationships with all parties involved to address concerns and create mutually beneficial opportunities. Governments are demanding more from companies and increasingly placing responsibility for responsible social performance and sustainable development initiatives on industry. Early, active and continuous engagement has become a standard best practice, with particular attention paid to water and land access, environmental protection, local economic development, jobs and the creation of sustainable local benefits. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to minimize our negative social and environmental impacts on communities and maximize benefits through long-term partnerships with local communities and Indigenous groups. Often, before any impacts are realized, what people want most is information. Communicating how we work is a critically important step and must continue throughout the life of a mine. This means we must engage with communities early and understand their concerns and priorities. We have consistently heard that local communities want us to invest in local, sustainable development, and to contribute to development objectives through local hiring and procurement and community contributions. They also want us to integrate respect for human and Indigenous rights into our business management processes. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? Building strong and respectful community partnerships is foundational to our success. Our staff and local communities are often one and the same. We often source from and work with local businesses. We are constantly aware that we operate on land that is of great importance for local populations and they entrust us to steward it carefully. Without community support, we cannot operate safely and sustainably. In the short term, having strong, proactive engagement with communities ensures continuous operation. Over longer time horizons, our operations can also be a catalyst for long-term sustainable development in surrounding regions, providing mutual benefits for us and the communities where we operate. Understanding and addressing stakeholder concerns is essential to our ability to mitigate our impacts and identify positive opportunities to build sustainable value. Building strong, lasting relationships with those affected by our operations can improve our ability to identify and manage risks – and can even affect a project’s long-term viability. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 59 COMMUNITIES OUR STRATEGY Our main focus is to generate value for our stakeholders, build strong partnerships through active engagement, and make positive and long-lasting contributions in the communities where we operate. Our strategy builds on our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) standards to focus on three pillars: Sustainable Stakeholder Relationships, Sustainable Economic Benefit, and Human Rights. The foundation of this strategy is an integrated approach to risk management for all three pillars. TOGETHER, CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE Sustainable stakeholder Sustainable Human rights relationships economic benefit INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT, BUSINESS PLANNING AND ACCOUNTABILITY INTERNAL LEARNING AND CAPACITY-BUILDING GOVERNANCE AND REPORTING ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our management approach to sustainability, corporate social responsibility and human rights is led by our Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability with specific accountability assigned to the Corporate Director of Corporate Social Responsibility. Additionally, each of our operations has sustainability managers and CSR/community relations teams. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 60 COMMUNITIES ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS TALKING SUSTAINABILITY AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT WITH BRENT BERGERON, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE AFFAIRS AND SUSTAINABILITY What were Goldcorp’s sustainability and community engagement highlights in 2016? 2016 was a year of significant accomplishments in our sustainability journey. We continued to improve the transparency of our disclosures and it was gratifying to see our efforts recognized. The Finance and Sustainability Initiative (FSI) awarded us the Best Sustainability Report award, in the category of Non-Renewable Resources – Gold Companies. We also won in two categories at this year’s Awards of Excellence in Corporate Reporting, presented by Chartered Professional Accountants of Canada (CPA Canada). These awards recognize the important role of high-quality reporting in driving investment and business decisions, and advancing sound sustainability practices. Throughout the year, we continued implementing our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) across the company. We completed SEMS audits in four operating sites and established metrics for better assessing SEMS performance and compliance. In response to our mines’ requests, we also rolled out a training course to build awareness and better understanding of the SEMS standards and how to apply them on the job. Lastly, our acquisition of Kaminak Gold’s Coffee project in Canada’s Yukon was of special significance from a sustainability point of view. While the economics of the project are undeniably strong, we also put serious consideration and valuation to the community relationships that had been established by the Kaminak team. Their collaborative work with all levels of government, communities and First Nations groups was closely aligned with our own. In exploration, as in all the phases of the mining lifecycle, community engagement, openness and transparency are increasingly important to us, and key to the way we do business. What were some of Goldcorp’s community and sustainability challenges and what did the company do to manage them? The restructuring of our company was a challenge. Because our people are members of their communities, any changes in our workforce, however they are accomplished, have ripple effects through families and local businesses. Nevertheless, these changes are allowing us to increase our emphasis on creating sustainable value, and to invest more strategically in our company and the communities near our mines. The post-restructuring Goldcorp is a more nimble and efficient company. Decentralizing our management has moved major responsibilities to the local level and brought the mines’ management teams closer to their communities. The sites are now empowered to be more responsive to the social and economic needs of the individual operations and communities. This year, at Peñasquito, an illegal blockade was resolved through active communication and engagement, and at Cerro Negro, we also engaged with our unions to resolve a temporary work stoppage. These cases demonstrate the importance of proactive and continuous engagement with our stakeholders, and we will continue to work to maintain open dialogue with those impacted by our operations. What is Goldcorp doing to ensure sustainability and responsible mining practices are core to the way the company does business, everywhere it operates? Sustainable and responsible mining is a company-wide commitment rooted in our values as an organization. And we also understand that without community support, we cannot operate safely and sustainably. One of our main priorities is water management, as expressed in our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) initiative. Water is of critical importance to our business operations, and it is also critical for the communities around our mines. The first step toward reducing our water consumption is a true evaluation of the complete cost of water throughout our mines and processes. With a better understanding of the true costs of water, we will be able to take more informed and effective actions on reducing our water footprint. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 61 COMMUNITIES We also recognize the importance of innovation, in our drive to become a more efficient, effective, profitable and sustainable company. If we are going to make progress achieving our water management objectives, investing in innovation, and in new technologies, will be essential. Finally, it is very important that we continue to consistently apply our governance and sustainability standards across our entire organization and strive for improvement. Our SEMS is an important tool for implementing enterprise-wide standards, but we recognize that work remains to be done. We are also acting externally, through industry associations such as the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) on advancing and promoting best practices with our industry peers. We were instrumental in promoting the adoption of MAC’s Towards Sustainable Mining initiative with the Mining Association of Argentina, and we hope to be a catalyst for industry changes that encourage safe, sustainable and responsible mining. Companies in the extractive sector are under pressure to demonstrate diligence in human rights. What progress did Goldcorp make in 2016 in this area? In 2016, after years of preparation, we signed on to the UN’s Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security, and we are working to ensure that these principles are implemented consistently throughout our operations. This is important, because it spells out clearly that we and the security personnel we hire will act with respect for human rights. Also in 2016, we rolled out a company-wide training course that raises awareness of our Human Rights Policy. More than 2,900 full time employees and contractors completed the course and are now better equipped to recognize human rights risks and utilize our measures and procedures to report them. What is Goldcorp doing to demonstrate that the company is transparent and inclusive in its engagement with Indigenous groups and local communities? Effective engagement with Indigenous groups can create employment and business opportunities for communities, form mutually beneficial partnerships, ensure operations are sensitive to local cultural and social practices, and secure our social licence to operate. In 2016, we were proud to see our commitment to Indigenous relations acknowledged publicly, with a Change Maker award at this year’s Indigenous Works Workplace Inclusion Leadership Awards. Moving forward, we are working to ensure the effective consultation, engagement and participation of the local First Nations near our newest projects: Coffee in the Yukon and Borden in Ontario. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 62 COMMUNITIES SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS FOR COMMUNITIES We contribute to the economic development of host communities and countries through a variety of methods. We recognize that we have the ability to impact and influence the local and regional economies around our sites. This is why we are working to create sustainable value – long-term social and economic benefits that do not leave a legacy of dependence. Our approach is multifaceted and incorporates local hiring and procurement initiatives, including training and capacity-building, direct community contributions through donations and investments, and infrastructure investment. We also contribute through the payment of taxes and royalties to various levels of government in the communities and regions where we operate. SUSTAINABLE VALUE Wages and salaries Job creation and smallFinancial support for paid to employees business development community development and contractors in surrounding communities and towns Payments to suppliers for Direct voluntary payments Upgrades to local goods and services to local communities infrastructure LOCAL EMPLOYMENT In accordance with our SEMS, all our sites seek to hire local employees to fill job openings wherever possible. Our human resources and community relations teams collaborate to create and implement local hiring strategies. We train skilled and unskilled local recruits in a range of mine-related work and we provide apprenticeships and technical training support for other employment opportunities. One example of job skills training is the Aboriginal Mining and Skilled Trades Entry Project (AMSTEP) at our Musselwhite mine. AMSTEP is a five-month program designed to prepare Aboriginal peoples with the foundational skills and industry knowledge necessary to enter the mining industry. The first intake of students completed training in July 2016, closing with the graduation of 13 participants. The participants had the opportunity to job shadow in the areas of the trades, mill, warehouse, security, exploration, environment, culinary and housekeeping. Some graduates have been offered employment with us or our contractors while others have chosen to continue their education. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 63 COMMUNITIES In 2016, 80% of employees were drawn locally and regionally, only 19% were recruited nationally and 1% was recruited internationally. EMPLOYEES (%) LOCAL REGIONAL NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL OPERATING REGION 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Canada and US 52% 59% 72% 36% 31% 21% 12% 10% 6% 0% 0% 0% Latin America 47% 41% 49% 25% 28% 26% 28% 28% 23% 1% 2% 1% Total 50% 47% 56% 30% 29% 25% 19% 22% 18% 1% 2% 1% We employ a total of 99 senior managers (department head or above) at our operating sites. Of these, 88% are nationals of the country in which the mine is located. We routinely pay entry-level wages that are significantly higher than those in the local community. In 2016, we paid an average annual wage of approximately US$35,6001. INCOME PER CAPITA AND AVERAGE ANNUAL WAGE2 (US$) AVERAGE ANNUAL WAGES COUNTRY INCOME PER CAPITA ($)3 PER EMPLOYEE ($) Canada 47,500 68,952 Mexico 9,710 21,532 Guatemala 3,590 19,071 Argentina 14,510 32,847 LOCAL PROCUREMENT The presence of our mining activities both attracts and creates business opportunities in the regions in which we operate. We preferentially engage and support local services at each of our operations, and work closely with local partners to help grow firms and increase their capacity. The SEMS directs our sites to create strategies for local procurement while our Commercial Practices, policies and procedures provide additional sustainability considerations and help us manage supply chain risk. We support the development of individual businesses and have created several business development funds to support local entrepreneurs on projects that may or may not be directly related to our mine activities. In 2016, 23% of goods and services were purchased from local sources, accounting for more than US$600 million of spending. The graphic below summarizes some of the examples of the goods and services we procure from the local communities near our mines. 1 Calculation based on Goldcorp employees, and excludes contractors. 2 Average based on the wage of all Goldcorp employees. 3 Source: World Bank Doing Business indicators report 2016. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 64 COMMUNITIES COMMON LOCAL GOODS AND SERVICES PROCURED LOCALLY Catering and food Cleaning and Communications and Welding, fabrication services janitorial services photography services and electrical services Automotive parts Land and air Accommodations and services transportation Hardware and Uniforms and First aid, medical and construction personal protective safety supplies and supplies equipment services EXAMPLES OF LOCAL PROCUREMENT AT OUR MINE SITES: Peñasquito – Confecciones Dely started roughly three years ago. We invested in a small, experienced clothes-making group in the community who wanted to provide services to us but did not have a clear idea how. They needed support to develop a business plan and to build business capacity to produce on a larger scale. We supported the development of this business, which now creates all the uniforms for the Peñasquito mine and is trying to expand into related products. There are roughly ten to 20 people working there. The number fluctuates depending on the mine’s needs. Although they have some work outside of Goldcorp, we remain their key client. We are working with them to diversify their client base and networks into other parts of Mexico. Musselwhite – Windigo Catering is a successful start-up venture originally funded by the Musselwhite mine which, in 2005, was a spin-off from a not-for-profit organization. Over time, this for-profit organization experienced considerable growth in size, services and client base which extended beyond the Musselwhite mine. Windigo Catering now grosses more than $6 million per year, employs more than 60 people – approximately 80% of whom are Indigenous – and shares revenues amongst the five Windigo member First Nations. Windigo notes that the Goldcorp partnership has been a key catalyst for business growth and success. Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund – Incorporated within the Obishikokaang Collaboration Agreement between Red Lake Gold Mines and Lac Seul First Nation, funding was put forward by Goldcorp to support local entrepreneurs from the Lac Seul community through the Lac Seul Small Business Equity Fund. The first fund application by the First Nation community saw a successful Tim Hortons franchise built in Sioux Lookout, a few hours south of Red Lake. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 65 COMMUNITIES CONTRIBUTIONS TO AND FROM GOVERNMENT We make a very sizable contribution to public finances in the countries in which we operate. While corporate income tax and mining taxes vary with mineral prices and profitability, and can be volatile from year to year, many of the other taxes we pay are fixed in nature and do not fall as profits decrease. In 2016, we paid approximately US$134 million in income taxes. Further information regarding taxes and payments to government is available in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for the year ended December 31, 2016. In support of our commitment to acting ethically and to fulfilling external reporting requirements, including Canada’s Extractive Sector Transparency Measures Act (ESTMA) and Québec’s Bill No. 55, An Act Respecting Transparency Measures in the Mining, Oil and Gas Industries, we have created a new global Government Payments and Contributions Policy. This new policy dictates how we identify, approve and report on payments and contributions made to government entities and/or government officials (“government payees”) globally. This policy covers both “routine” and “non-routine” payments and contributions to government.1 For information about our ESTMA disclosure, please refer to our 2016 ESTMA report on our website. TRANSPARENCY INITIATIVES We actively support the objectives of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and the World Gold Council (WGC), among other initiatives that support transparency in payments to government. Goldcorp has sites in Canada, Mexico, Guatemala, Argentina, Chile and the Dominican Republic. Of these countries, Guatemala has adopted the EITI. Montana Exploradora de Guatemala, S. A., a subsidiary of Goldcorp, operates the Marlin mine in Guatemala. We continue to record payments according to the EITI standards and reporting country requirements, and are engaging directly with EITI in Guatemala and are one of the industry representatives on the EITI National Working Group in Guatemala. To learn more about our commitment to the EITI, click here. GOVERNMENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE Government financial assistance includes grants, subsidies, or rebates received from governments. In 2016, we received CAD$11.1 million in rebates2 from Ontario’s Northern Industrial Electricity Rate Program (NIER), which assists Northern Ontario’s largest industrial electricity consumers to reduce energy costs, sustain jobs and maintain global competitiveness. This program is part of the Ontario government’s plan to strengthen the economy and support a dynamic and innovative business climate that attracts investment and helps create jobs. We also received rebates from one of our government utilities in Ontario, which funds up to CAD$200,000 per site to advance energy management programs. In Québec, we received a CAD$3.4 million rebate to advance energy efficiency initiatives. We do not have any direct joint venture relationship in which any government holds a position of shared ownership. However, we do on occasion have state-owned institutional investors (for example, public pension funds). 1 Routine payments include taxes, royalties and published rates/fees. Our focus over the last year has been to implement systems required to meet our external commitments and align our disclosures on information related to payments to governments, including taxes. 2 The NIER rebates were paid out between April 1, 2016 and March 31, 2017. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 66 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS Community contributions support our vision of creating sustainable value by enhancing social and economic development opportunities and creating a lasting, positive impact in the communities where we work. Community contributions at Goldcorp include donations, sponsorships, sustainability funds and investments made in and/or with local communities, stakeholder groups and partners. These contributions support our strategic objectives, benefit communities and aim to build trusting relationships. Community contributions extend beyond taxes, procurement and hiring to include meaningful projects and programs that enhance social and economic development, support the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and create lasting benefits and value beyond mine closure. Total community contributions amounted to approximately US$20 million in 2016.1 The table below provides detailed information on some of our 2016 contributions. DONATIONS AND COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTIONS IN 20162 CATEGORY IMPORTANCE OUR CONTRIBUTION EXAMPLE COMMUNITY IMPACT Health We support local sports US$1.5 million We contributed $500,000 to the The Timmins and District Hospital and recreation Timmins and District Hospital is the largest hospital in programs, medical Foundation, bringing our total northeastern Ontario and serves research and contribution to $1.5 million. These over 115,000 people. In 2015 infrastructure, local contributions have been made as alone, the MRI was used almost hospital foundations, a part of a campaign to raise 10,000 times and the machine and health and funds for a new MRI machine at will come to the end of its life sanitation awareness the Timmins and District Hospital. span by the end of 2016. The campaigns. purchase of a new MRI machine will allow the Timmins and District Hospital to continue to provide life-saving services to the community, including many of our employees and their families. Education Educational programs US$3.5 million We contributed $200,000 to the In 2016 the Mâyâupiu Training and initiatives support Mâyâupiu Training Institute of Institute opened and two training childhood, youth and Wemindji as a part of a five-year, programs were held. A welding adult development in $1 million commitment ending in course and a course called “How the communities where 2019. It provides technical to Start a Business” were we operate. training for adults, specifically completed at the Institute. Wemindji Cree students. Community Community US$13 million Starting in 2015, we committed The Pathways’ DTES program Development development $500,000 over four years to has provided one-on-one support contributions improve support Pathways to Education’s to youth in Vancouver and has the capacities of local program in Vancouver’s helped students stay on track communities and Downtown Eastside (DTES). The with assignments, be accountable promote sustainable DTES is one of Canada’s for class attendance, and, often in value beyond the lowest-income communities, with the face of pressure from peers, mine life. many of its residents affected by focus their attention in positive drug addiction, mental illness, areas that can help break the crime, homelessness and systemic barriers that make unemployment. During 2016, regular school attendance Pathways Vancouver supported difficult. Participants report over 100 grade-school students to having earned better grades, in receive academic, social and addition to experiencing greater financial supports to help confidence and motivation to do overcome the systemic barriers well in school. to education that they face. We are proud to support Pathways Vancouver and its volunteers and program facilitators as they make lasting positive impacts in the DTES and beyond. 1 Community contributions refer to pre-allocated/committed/contractually obligated contributions and discretionary contributions including: donations, community contributions, infrastructure investments, legacy/sustainable funds, business investments and sponsorships. 2 Contribution values in this table represent approximate donations and community investments from the total US$20 million community contributions provided in 2016. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 67 COMMUNITIES CATEGORY IMPORTANCE OUR CONTRIBUTION EXAMPLE COMMUNITY IMPACT Arts and Arts and culture help US$1 million We provided $250,000 to the The Aanischaaukamikw Cree Culture strengthen the cultures Eenou-Eeyou Community Cultural Institute is a museum, and diversity of Foundation in support of the archive, library and teaching communities while Aanischaaukamikw Cree Cultural centre – the cultural hub of the preserving heritage Institute, the central museum and Cree Nation of Eeyou Istchee. and promoting cultural institute of the Cree Every week, busloads of visitors traditions. Nation of Eeyou Istchee. The from all over North America visit funds will be used to acquire the UN award-winning village of artifacts and secure the Oujé-Bougoumou to experience museum’s long-term the institute and learn about Cree sustainability. culture and history. As a result of the success of this fundraising campaign, the foundation was able to expand its mandate and increase its support for Cree social and cultural development goals throughout Eeyou Istchee. Other This includes support US$1 million Perito Moreno, a community near The interim generator that the to disaster relief, our Cerro Negro mine, faced a community received provided environmental power emergency when consistent electricity services investments and other overloaded electrical generators while a commission investigated miscellaneous failed during the winter months. the existing generator issues. As initiatives. The electricity outage resulted in a result, access to local services successive and prolonged cuts, and potable water were restored leading to school suspensions for three months while an and reduced operating capacities investigation was conducted to for local services such as improve future power service hospitals and banks. The power delivery. cut also affected the accessibility and distribution of potable water to nearby residents. In partnership with two local operators, Minera Santa Cruz and Patagonia Gold, Cerro Negro contributed US$60,000 to provide an interim generator. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 68 COMMUNITIES STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We are committed to building open and trusting relationships with our stakeholders. Our engagement takes various forms, tailored to the stakeholder and situation. It ranges from providing information to consultation and shared decision-making. APPROACHES TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholders are defined as individuals, groups or organizations that are directly or indirectly affected by our operations, have a direct interest in our activities, and/or have the ability to influence outcomes and decisionmaking processes. Our goal is to create partnerships that will serve both us and the community. We actively seek out these partnerships with local communities, government, civil society and non-governmental organizations. Local site management, along with the support of corporate and regional management, are responsible for identifying, mapping, prioritizing and engaging with a variety of local, national and international stakeholders on topics related to our operations. This is a continuous process, and regular monitoring for effectiveness is required by the SEMS. Key components of our stakeholder engagement process are: • Relevant, accessible, culturally appropriate and timely information • Safe channels for stakeholders to express their views • Mechanisms for incorporating relevant feedback into our decision-making processes In all engagements – whether it is an informal face-to-face meeting with a local community member, a formal committee meeting with agreement signatories, or following up on concerns via our community feedback mechanisms – we aim to act in a manner that is: • Inclusive • Accessible • Adequately resourced (including training) • Culturally and contextually specific • Participatory • Timely and long-term • Credible, open and transparent • Responsive to feedback At all of our eight operations, we use a variety of formal and informal mechanisms to engage with communities and contribute to their sustainable development. For example, in 2016, five of our operating mines (Cerro Negro, Los Filos, Peñasquito, Éléonore and Porcupine) and our Borden project completed formal social area of influence maps to better define their Social Area of Influence (SAI), also called the “local area”. Defining the SAI is very important as it is used to determine an operation’s responsibilities. It also provides guidance on the area within which impacts need to be managed, stakeholders should be engaged, and where sustainability initiatives can be implemented. Using the information contained in their area of influence maps, Peñasquito and Porcupine then completed social context assessments, which expanded on the information in the maps by providing key social information such as the types of stakeholder groups, local social issues, the political climate, and environmental impacts of the mine. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 69 COMMUNITIES Stakeholder identification maps help us reveal those stakeholders that may be directly affected by our operations, whether from the use of land or the effects of air and water emissions, transportation of hazardous materials, or the socio-economic effects of employment and business opportunities generated by our mines. In 2016, 100% of our operations had stakeholder identification maps to help identify who we should engage with on specific topics. Stakeholder identification maps are the product of a systematic approach, often linked with the site’s area of influence, and determine who might be affected and in what way. A number of our sites also had formal engagement plans based on these maps and use this information to inform which sustainability initiatives can be funded and implemented within their social area of influence. We recognize that potentially vulnerable groups within our affected communities could be disproportionately impacted by, or less able to benefit from, our activities due to the fact that they may be marginalized, historically disadvantaged and disempowered. Our engagement planning is designed to involve vulnerable and marginalized groups in decision-making and supports their empowerment through socio-economic development opportunities. Whether through formal or informal channels, representatives from all our operations meet regularly with local stakeholders and have programs to contribute to community development through mechanisms, such as community investments and local hiring and procurement initiatives. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 70 COMMUNITIES ADDRESSING STAKEHOLDERS’ QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS We bring many benefits to the communities where we operate, such as employment, training and investments in community initiatives. However, we also recognize that mining activities have potential negative impacts. Effective engagement with local communities is our primary way to identify and mitigate concerns around impacts. Key issues discussed through our engagement include issues related to environmental concerns, land use, access to local employment and economic development opportunities, and pressures on local services and infrastructure. Through these discussions, together with our stakeholders, we identify mitigation and monitoring steps to respond to these concerns. The table below summarizes our engagement approaches by stakeholder and common topics/issues of concern raised through engagement: COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Civil society • NGOs • Face-to-face Monthly to Senior • Human and At Marlin, a and non• Political parties engagements quarterly management, Indigenous rights community governmental • Public meetings corporate, • Employment environmental organizations • Unions regional and monitoring association • Teleconferences opportunities • Religious site-level conducts quarterly, organizations • Social media representatives, • Economic development independent, depending on • Education community-based topic • Health and safety environmental monitoring around the • Environmental mine. Membership protection includes • Physical impacts of representatives of the operations (water five communities usage, blasting around the mine and a and dust) representative of the • Impacts on personal Catholic Church, all property from the municipality of San Miguel • Land usage Ixtahuacán, and • Mine closure planning representatives from three adjoining communities in the municipality of Sipacapa. Government Federal, • Face-to-face Weekly to Senior • Resource access Our corporate and provincial, meetings annually management, • Environmental regional offices municipal • Industry corporate, protection engage with or local conferences regional and governments, governments site-level • Taxes and royalties industry and other • Regulatory representatives, • Economic development stakeholders where engagement depending on appropriate to processes • Water and energy topic projects facilitate the mining • Public meetings sector’s contribution • Workforce development to national • Teleconferences • Hazardous materials sustainable • Newsletters handling development • Job creation strategies. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 71 COMMUNITIES COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Communities • Residents • Site tours Daily to annually Site-level CSR • Employment Porcupine actively • Neighbours • Public teams opportunities engages local engagements • Economic development stakeholders in • General public Timmins through the (open house • Education events) Porcupine Watchful • Health and safety Eye Committee and • Face-to-face the Hollinger Project meetings • Environmental protection Advisory Committee, • Community which are both Response • Physical impacts of community mechanisms operations representative groups • Newspapers, • Impacts on personal that work with the radio, property mine to help us newsletters • Land usage, access and understand and compensation recognize the • Above Ground requirements, blog and social • Mine closure planning expectations and media • Community needs concerns of all • Goldcorp assessments stakeholders involved website in Porcupine’s • Engagement activities. surveys Indigenous • First Nations • Face-to-face Daily to annually Corporate, • Land rights At Musselwhite, Peoples tribal councils engagements regional and • Education Red Lake, Éléonore • Traditional • Agreement site-level and Porcupine, joint representatives • Employment and career committees, made leadership implementation development committees from CSR up of members from • Indigenous and Corporate • Cultural heritage Goldcorp and the governments • Community Affairs roundtables • Indigenous consultation signatory community, are responsible for • Implementation of overseeing the collaboration implementation of the agreements agreements. These • Responding to physical committees meet two impact concerns (dust, to four times a year noise, etc.) and informally as necessary. Media • International, • Investor calls Daily to annually Senior • Financial performance We produce regular national or • News releases management, • Access to capital updates on the local media corporate, Above Ground blog. outlets • Goldcorp regional and • Environmental This blog is a place website site-level performance to find updates on • News, radio and printed • Above Ground representatives • Health and safety our sustainabilitypublications blog and social from CSR • Community programs related activities, to media and Corporate ask questions and Affairs • Business risk to participate in respectful, constructive dialogue. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 72 COMMUNITIES COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Academia • Academic • Conferences Monthly to Senior • Technical studies We are a sponsor of institutions • Telephone calls annually leadership, CSR, • Scholarships the Global Energy • Research Environment Minerals and Markets • Training and Corporate • Training and internship (GEMM) Dialogue organizations programs programs Affairs teams started by Simon • Research Fraser University. programs GEMM is a unique forum for community members, companies, academics and government to come together for three days each year to talk openly and honestly about sustainability challenges and potential solutions for the mining industry. Public/private • Hospitals • Community Monthly to Site-level • Infrastructure Several of our sites institutions • Fire partnership annually representatives investments have formal departments discussions in CSR • Community agreements to work • Community partnerships in collaboration with • Libraries first responders in the Response mechanisms area, such as with the local fire department by our Porcupine mine or on spill response at Red Lake, Cerro Negro and Musselwhite. Business • Suppliers • Interactions Monthly to Corporate, • Supplier requirements We are a member of partners • Contractors with our annually regional and site • Long-term business several industry procurement procurement relationships organizations, • Industry teams teams, senior including the ICMM, organizations management • Agreement terms the Mining • Industry • Other roundtables • Quality products Association of companies • Delivery commitments Canada, and the World • Tendering/RFP Economic Forum, process • Regulatory compliance where we actively • Product stewardship look for opportunities • Sustainability programs to maximize benefits and minimize impacts and risks throughout the extractives sector. Investors • Shareholders • Quarterly Quarterly to Investor • Financial performance Directors and senior • Rating agencies conference calls annually Relations, senior • Operational management hold an • Investor Days management performance annual Socially Responsible Investors • Socially • Corporate governance (SRI) call to provide Responsible • Access to capital updates from our Investor Sustainability (SRI) calls • Environmental performance Committee and a • Conferences general overview of • Health and safety our CSR activities • Annual reports and financial • Human rights during the year. circulars • Business risk • Site tours • Non-deal road shows 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 73 COMMUNITIES COMMON TOPICS OF STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER TYPE OF FREQUENCY OF ENGAGEMENT/ISSUES ENGAGEMENT CATEGORY EXAMPLES ENGAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT WHO ENGAGES OF CONCERN EXAMPLES Employees Site and • Internal intranet Daily to annually Senior • Health and safety Senior management corporate • Newsletters management, • Operational change and employees workforce Human interact on Conveyor, • Town hall Resources, • Workforce management our global intranet, meetings Corporate Affairs • Career planning by sharing stories, • YouTube, and general • Training and career resources and Twitter, blog employees development announcements. • Lunch and learns • Crew talks • Email • Performance reviews • Conferences Land and • Private • Face-to-face Weekly to annually Site-level • Resource access A condition of the resource users landowners interactions representatives • Land rights Opinagow • Hunters • Email in Environment, Collaboration CSR and • Compensation Agreement signed • Outdoor • Phone calls Projects • Environmental with the Cree Nation recreation • Public meetings protection of Wemindji, the groups Grand Council of the • Newsletters • Traditional Crees (Eeyou Istchee) subsistence • Letters and the Cree Nation users Government requires our Éléonore mine to consult with local tallymen on activities that will impact their traditional traplines in the area. In practice, there are regular conversations with local trappers. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 74 COMMUNITIES INDIGENOUS PEOPLES’ RIGHTS AND ENGAGEMENT At Goldcorp, our strategy is to seek and encourage partnerships with all local communities. Five of our operations (Red Lake, Musselwhite, Porcupine, Marlin and Éléonore) and two of our projects (Coffee and Borden) are in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories. We are committed to meeting or exceeding mandatory consultation requirements and working in collaboration with all stakeholders who have an interest in our projects and operations. In particular, we collaborate with stakeholders and assist in the creation of employment and business opportunities for local Indigenous communities, with sensitivity and support for their social and cultural practices. As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM), we support the ICMM Position Statement on Mining and Indigenous Peoples, which was updated in 2013 and came into effect in 2015. The Position Statement outlines the ICMM’s view of Free, Prior, and Informed Consent (FPIC) and commits member companies to putting this into practice. A key element of the document is a commitment to obtain consent of Indigenous groups for new projects. With the acquisition of the Coffee project in the Yukon this year as well as our ongoing Borden project in Ontario, we are working to ensure that local First Nations are adequately consulted throughout the project stage. INDIGENOUS ENGAGEMENT Effective engagement with Indigenous groups can create employment and business opportunities for communities, encourage economic independence and entrepreneurship, and ensure operations are sensitive to local cultural and social practices. Many of our sites have established formal agreements with Indigenous groups near to our sites. These agreements often have different names (Collaboration Agreements, Cooperation Agreements, Resource Development Agreements, etc.) and vary by size and scope, but all of them establish foundational elements for collaborative partnerships. We have collaboration agreements in place with all of the First Nations that assert Aboriginal and treaty rights in the vicinity of our operating mines in Canada. Meanwhile, all of our four Latin American sites have signed agreements with local communities and governments in and around our mine sites. In Latin America, our agreements with local communities follow a different format than our First Nations agreements in Canada. Instead, they usually represent specific commitments or activities, and range from large, multi-year projects to smaller, one-time commitments. As such, we may have multiple agreements signed with one community or group, sometimes over various years. In addition, the types of groups we sign these agreements with differ according to the local context. While each agreement is a unique reflection of the partners involved, we strongly believe that together these agreements demonstrate a company-wide commitment to working transparently and in good faith to build long-term relationships with partners in the communities. Below are examples of advances made during the year thanks to our agreements. In 2016, our Porcupine mine worked hand-in-hand with the Flying Post, Matachewan, Mattagami and Wahgoshig First Nations to launch the business venture Niiwin. Owned in equal parts by the four First Nations, the business offers ore haul, cleaning and security services at Porcupine. This collaboration came as part of the Resource Development Agreement signed in 2014 between the four First Nations and Goldcorp, which includes provisions for training, employment, business and contracting opportunities along with a consultation framework for regulatory permitting. Niiwin’s operations were officially launched in October 2016 and employ people from the First Nations and local community. In Latin America, our Marlin mine worked extensively with local community development councils (known as COCODES in Spanish). These councils are formally appointed by each of the communities near our mine and decide, prioritize and implement projects of significance in accordance to each community’s needs and priorities. This approach highlights the importance of including culturally and contextually appropriate decisionmaking processes that take into consideration the traditions and social practices of the areas where we operate. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 75 COMMUNITIES ÉLÉONORE MINE (QUÉBEC, CANADA) In 2015, Goldcorp and the Cree Nation of Wemindji, the Grand Council of the “I am glad that we can distribute Crees (Eeyou Istchee) and the Cree Nation Government publicly disclosed the the Agreement freely in the Cree Opinagow Collaboration Agreement (excluding financial terms). Nation and across the country so that people can learn from the The disclosure of the agreement was an important step of trust and balance we are achieving transparency between our partners and us. between protecting tradition The Opinagow Collaboration Agreement provides an example to the mining while supporting natural resource industry on the ways Aboriginal communities and mining companies can development.” successfully work together to make sustainable commitments to one another – Chief Dennis Georgekish of for the mutually beneficial and successful development, operation and the Cree Nation of Wemindji reclamation of a project. RED LAKE GOLD MINES (ONTARIO, CANADA) On January 30, 2015, Goldcorp and the Wabauskang First Nation signed a Collaboration Agreement paving the way for long-term economic benefits for “This agreement is a significant the northwestern Ontario First Nation. achievement for our community. The Agreement provides a framework for strengthened collaboration in the Agreements like this one are an development and operations of Red Lake Gold Mines and outlines tangible essential part of ensuring that benefits for Wabauskang – including skills training and employment, our Treaty rights are respected opportunities for business development and contracting, and a framework when companies want to for issues resolution, among other factors. develop the lands and resources in our territory.” Previously, in 2013, we signed a Collaboration Agreement with Lac Seul First Nation. The Agreement took four years to complete, considering everything – Wabauskang Chief from exploration activities to job-training programs. Martine Petiquan An advisory committee was formed, comprised of Goldcorp and Lac Seul representatives to share plans, views and concerns regarding any mine developments. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 76 COMMUNITIES INDIGENOUS GROUPS AND FORMAL AGREEMENTS AT OUR OPERATIONS OUR OPERATIONS IN OR FORMAL AGREEMENTS ADJACENT TO INDIGENOUS IN PLACE WITH PEOPLES’ TERRITORIES NAME OF INDIGENOUS GROUP INDIGENOUS GROUPS DATE SIGNED Red Lake Gold Mines Lac Seul First Nation Yes August 2013 Wabauskang First Nation Yes January 2015 Porcupine Gold Mines (PGM) Mattagami First Nation Yes November 2014 Wahgoshig First Nation Matachewan First Nation Flying Post First Nation Éléonore The Grand Council of the Crees Yes February 2011 (Eeyou Istchee) Cree Nation Government Cree Nation of Wemindji Musselwhite Mishkeegogamang Ojibway Yes January 2014 First Nation North Caribou Lake First Nation Yes 1996, renewed 2001 Cat Lake First Nation Kingfisher Lake First Nation Wunnumin Lake First Nation Shibogama First Nations Council Windigo First Nations Council 1 Coffee Tr’ondëk Hwëch’in First Nation Yes June 2014 White River First Nation Yes May 2013 Marlin2 Maya Mam No Maya Sipakapense NON-INDIGENOUS AGREEMENTS AT LATIN AMERICAN OPERATIONS YEARS WHEN AGREEMENTS HAVE OUR OPERATION EXAMPLES OF LOCAL AGREEMENT PARTNERS BEEN SIGNED Cerro Negro Provincial and municipal government 2016 Los Filos Ejidos and communities 2014 Marlin COCODES and villages 2014, 2015, 2016 Peñasquito Ejidos and communities 2006–2014 Specific programs that we worked on with our First Nations partners in 2016 include: Mayappo Training Institute (Québec): In 2016, we contributed CAD$200,000 to the Mâyâupiu Training Institute of Wemindji as a part of a five-year, $1 million commitment ending in 2019. It provides technical training for adults, specifically Wemindji Cree students. The Mâyâupiu Training Institute has opened and two training programs were held. A welding course and a course called “How to Start a Business” were completed at the Institute. These programs aim to equip Wemindji Cree students with technical skills that will better equip them to find job opportunities in their community. 1 The agreements with Indigenous groups for the Coffee project were signed with Kaminak Gold Corporation, which Goldcorp acquired in July 2016. 2 At Marlin, while there is no formal overarching agreement in place, any operational changes such as new exploration areas as well as all contributions to support sustainable community development initiatives undergo a formal engagement process and are documented to ensure transparency. These are typically captured in local acts (actas) that are signed and approved by leaders in the communities. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 77 COMMUNITIES Cree Cultural Institute (Québec): We provided CAD$250,000 in 2016 to the Eenou-Eeyou Community Foundation in support of the Aanischaaukamikw Cree Cultural Institute, the central museum and cultural institute of the Cree Nation of Eeyou Istchee. The funds will be used to acquire artifacts and secure the museum’s long-term sustainability. The Aanischaaukamikw Cree Cultural Institute is a museum, archive, library and teaching centre – the cultural hub of the Cree Nation of Eeyou Istchee. Every week, busloads of visitors from all over North America visit the UN award-winning village of Oujé-Bougoumou to experience the institute and learn about Cree culture and history. As a result of the success of this fundraising campaign, the foundation was able to expand its mandate and increase its support for Cree social and cultural development goals throughout Eeyou Istchee. Clan Mother Turtle Lodge (Manitoba): In 2016, we allocated CAD$125,000 of our approved CAD$200,000 contribution to the Clan Mother Turtle Lodge. Located in Manitoba, the organization seeks to create an Indigenous Healing and Educational Village to build sustainable solutions for Indigenous women and families that have been traumatized through sexual exploitation and abuse. Our contribution will be used to conduct a feasibility plan for the Village and supplemental businesses designed to provide sustainable funding for the Village, and serve as a part of the healing process for the women, who will be able to work in training programs to learn employable skills. The feasibility plan is expected to be completed by mid-2017. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 78 COMMUNITIES HUMAN RIGHTS As a member of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to respecting human rights as set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and under international humanitarian law. From employees and contractors to senior management, our workforce is expected to comply with our Human Rights SEMS standard and Human Rights Policy. Our Human Rights Policy, first released in 2011 and subsequently updated in 2015, reflects the changing social context in which we operate. We acknowledge that strong sustainability performance is intrinsically linked with respect for human rights. Our revised policy defines our daily practices and commitments on human rights. New additions to this policy include clauses on community consultation; grievance mechanisms; commitment to the Conflict-Free Gold Standard; commitment to respect the rights, interests, perspectives, and traditions of Indigenous Peoples; resettlement planning; and potential measures in the event of non-compliance. To read the policy, click here. SOME OF GOLDCORP’S HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY COMMITMENTS INCLUDE SAFE AND DIVERSE WORKPLACE RESPECT OF WORKERS’ RIGHTS Goldcorp is committed to maintaining a safe, Goldcorp is committed to respecting workers’ diverse workplace, free of discrimination rights and their right to form a union RESPECT OF INDIGENOUS RIGHTS SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS Goldcorp is committed to respecting the Goldcorp is committed to ensuring that our rights, interests, perspectives and traditions of security personnel do not use excessive Indigenous Peoples force when performing their duties GOLDCORP WILL NOT BENEFIT MAINTAIN COMMUNITY FROM ARMED CONFLICT RESPONSE SYSTEMS Goldcorp takes measures to ensure that we Goldcorp is committed to ensuring stakeholders do not support or benefit from unlawful have access to remedies, and as a result, we armed conflict maintain site-based community response systems to receive, assess and resolve incidents and grievances related to our business operations 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 79 COMMUNITIES HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE MECHANISMS At Goldcorp, we assess potential human rights issues, take measures to avoid infringing on them, and seek constructive dialogue and partnerships with stakeholders impacted by our activities. Some examples of our due diligence processes and mechanisms include: HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE Human rights Stakeholder Internal and Investigation and training and capacityengagement and external audits remediation of building consultation incidents and human rights impacts Human rights impact External reporting, Site-based Policies and assessments communication and community response standards transparency systems and ethics hotline All Goldcorp Board members, officers, contractors or any third party conducting work or acting on our behalf are expected to behave in a manner that respects human rights and avoids infringing upon them. We take appropriate measures to ensure that everyone working at Goldcorp, or on our behalf, respects our Code of Conduct, Human Rights Policy and Occupational Health and Safety Policy and also abides by our safety protocols, rules and standards. For employees, non-compliance with these policies may be grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. For contractors and third parties, non-compliance may be grounds for contract termination. We respect the right to a safe and healthy work environment and strive to ensure our workforce complies with our Occupational Health and Safety Policy and associated procedures and guidelines to ensure Goldcorp is Safe Enough for Our Families. Our commitment to the right to water and sanitation is also part of our overall commitment to sustainable mining. Our Environmental and Sustainability Policy stipulates that all of Goldcorp and our subsidiaries are committed to the protection of life, health and the environment for present and future generations. In addition, our SEMS includes standards pertaining to our Water Stewardship Strategy. The SEMS is intended to be fully integrated into all core business functions throughout the Company, and it emphasizes sustainability responsibility and accountability at all organizational levels. As stipulated by our Human Rights Policy, we respect the rights and dignity of employees, contractors, partners, community members and other stakeholders impacted by our business. We are committed to creating a safe and diverse workplace and embedding a human rights culture. This includes respect for all stakeholders, including human rights defenders. We are currently implementing a revised integrated risk framework, which takes into consideration the actual and potential social impacts and human rights impacts our operations may generate. We adopt a multi-disciplinary approach to human rights issues; therefore, our analysis looks at impacts across departments and subject-matter areas. Occasionally, and where needed, we seek support and advice from external human rights experts. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 80 COMMUNITIES HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING AND AWARENESS To ensure an integrated approach to human rights training, we coordinate our efforts. Improvements to our overall human rights awareness is coordinated through the corporate CSR team with support from the other sustainability functions and the Ethics department to deliver consistent messaging throughout our operations. In 2016, we launched Respecting Rights, Level I, an online training course that raises awareness about our Human Rights Policy, how to recognize human rights risks and violations, and the mechanisms in place to report them. Over 88% of our workforce with daily access to computers1 (more than 2,900 full time employees and contractors) successfully completed the course and are now better equipped to recognize human rights risks and utilize our measures and procedures to report them. The training course improved our workforce’s average test score by 12%, from an average pre-test score of 60% to a post-test score of 72%. In 2017, we will be rolling out formal training to employees and contractors who do not have regular access to computers. SUMMARY OF COMPLIANCE BY REGION NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PERCENTAGE OF AND CONTRACTORS AND CONTRACTORS EMPLOYEES AND ENROLLED IN WHO HAVE COMPLETED CONTRACTORS WHO TOTAL HOURS RESPECTING RIGHTS, RESPECTING RIGHTS, HAVE COMPLETED DEDICATED TO HUMAN REGION LEVEL I LEVEL I COURSE RIGHTS TRAINING Canada 1,329 1,223 92% 917 Latin America 1,725 1,480 86% 1,110 Corporate Offices 316 258 82% 194 Total 3,370 2,961 88% 2,221 In addition, we designed and piloted Respecting Rights: Championing Human Rights at Goldcorp, an in-depth participatory workshop for employees whose work offers distinct opportunities to understand our human rights commitments and apply our Human Rights Policy. The goal of this workshop is to improve understanding of human rights and increase knowledge of our Human Rights Policy among the management team and key employees overseeing departments that may have exposure to human rights risks in order to promote its successful implementation across all our operations. After completing the workshop, participants were able to: • Explain what human rights mean in the context of our operations • Identify existing human rights risks and potential human rights risks related to our operations • Identify prevention, mitigation and remediation measures for high-risk human rights issues • Explain reporting mechanisms and course of actions to take when becoming aware of an existing or potential human rights risk or violation The workshop was piloted with our Coffee project. We plan to roll out the workshop to our other operations in 2017. 1 Employees with direct access to computers who completed the human rights training represented approximately 62% of our direct, full time employee base. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 81 COMMUNITIES SECURITY PRACTICES In recent years, security practices have come under increasing scrutiny for human rights compliance. We are committed to effectively managing and administering our security programs in accordance with company policies, local and national legal requirements, and industry best practices. Our security teams conduct in-depth risk analyses to determine threats to our workforce within their areas of operation and influence. Our sites are required to develop security plans in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as with our Human Rights Policy and Security Policy. When local conditions require us to deploy armed staff, careful consideration is given to this deployment and additional safety measures and training are implemented as necessary. We have designed training programs for security providers at sites based on international best practices. In 2016, 100% of our security personnel in our Latin America region underwent training on the use of force and on the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights; 98% of our security personnel in Canada have received human rights training. In 2016, we became a signatory to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Established in 2000, the Voluntary Principles are designed to guide companies in maintaining the safety and security of their operations within an operating framework that encourages respect for human rights. As a signatory, we are implementing the principles across all of our operations, and have aligned our corporate policies and procedures with internationally recognized human rights principles in the provision of security. In accordance with the Voluntary Principles, in our highand medium-risk operations, all security personnel are required to undergo extensive and recurring background checks and receive annual training on the Voluntary Principles, including the requirement to sign a declaration of compliance with our human rights requirements. The security contractors also incorporate human rights training in their employee orientation. All security staff receive at least one pre-shift briefing per month on the use of force. Company security supervisors provide ongoing training and refresher classes. Non-compliance with our human rights requirements is not tolerated. There are a variety of complaint mechanisms for incident reporting, and all allegations of suspected human rights abuses are thoroughly investigated. In 2016, Los Filos, Peñasquito, El Sauzal, Cerro Negro and San Martin were assessed by a third-party provider who evaluated their compliance against the Voluntary Principles. The San Martin site was assessed as a onetime baseline assessment since the site is in the post-closure phase. The results were positive with respect to the levels of implementation of the Voluntary Principles and human rights in general. Marlin was not assessed due to the fact that both a Conflict-Free Gold Standard review and a Voluntary Principles assessment were conducted in 2015. Starting in 2015, we designed a more aggressive and formal implementation plan to ensure continuous compliance with the Voluntary Principles. Los Filos, Peñasquito and Cerro Negro, for example, developed action plans to mitigate and avoid security-related and human rights risks and to ensure effective implementation of the Voluntary Principles and sustainability-related management systems. PROMOTING AWARENESS OF THE VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES WITH OUR EXTERNAL PARTNERS Our Latin American sites provide detailed training on human rights, use of force and the Voluntary Principles to their security personnel and contract security guards. This training is provided through workshops, presentations, videos and role-plays, and documented through attendance sheets or signed certifications. In 2016, several sites also engaged relevant public security partners located within their area of influence in order to build awareness of the Voluntary Principles and their importance. For example, at the Los Filos mine, our security team engaged with the State Police (Instituto de la Policía Auxiliar Estatal), which is contracted to provide perimeter security for the mine, in order to review the Voluntary Principles and build awareness of our Code of Conduct and Security and Human Rights policies, as well as our procedures on the use of force. In Argentina, Cerro Negro conducted a presentation with local police and the Gendarmerie (who are not contracted by the mine) on our commitment to the Voluntary Principles and the importance of respecting human rights. In Peñasquito, we are a key participant in the local Security Council, which is composed of peer companies and public security forces, to enhance collaboration and share best practices around security management and the respect of human rights. In addition, we promote the Voluntary Principles through outreach and awareness with organizations such as Camimex and CanCham. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 82 COMMUNITIES CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD The World Gold Council (WGC), the industry’s key marketing body, has recognized that in some places and circumstances, gold may represent a potential source of funding for armed groups involved in civil conflicts. In October 2012, the WGC published the Conflict-Free Gold Standard, which establishes a common approach by which gold producers can assess and provide assurance that their gold has been extracted in a manner that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful armed conflict or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international humanitarian law. As a member company, we supported the WGC’s efforts in developing the Standard, and implemented it effective January 1, 2013. We produce an annual, independently assured Conflict-Free Gold Report summarizing our conformance to the Standard. The Standard requires companies with mines operating in areas considered to be “conflict-affected or high risk” (according to the Heidelberg Conflict Barometer) to evaluate processes and controls and implement additional measures to ensure conformance with the Standard. Although only our Mexican mines are located in areas deemed “conflict-affected or high-risk”, we voluntarily applied the same categorization to our Marlin mine in Guatemala based on our internal security assessment. Our 2016 findings confirmed that all gold and gold-bearing material produced at mining operations where we operate have the appropriate systems and controls in place to conform to the World Gold Council’s Conflict-Free Gold Standard. Conformance with the Standard was subject to independent assurance. For a copy of our 2016 Conflict-Free Gold Report and more information on the background and structure of the Standard, please visit www.goldcorp.com. INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES In order to conduct business in an efficient and cost-effective manner, it is essential that we have a steady, stable flow of production inputs to our sites. However, numerous social and environmental risks have the potential to disrupt the flow of goods. In our industry, there is increasing awareness of these risks as well as of the opportunities to leverage dollars and relationships to influence supplier sustainability both upstream and downstream. At Goldcorp, we are driven to innovate and address situations that may hinder safe production. Increasingly, we are automating our processes to facilitate responsiveness to potential opportunities and mitigate supply shortages. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 83 COMMUNITIES Our Third-Party Due Diligence Standards define the minimum due diligence that employees must fulfill when entering into a relationship with a third party on behalf of Goldcorp. Compliance with the Third-Party Due Diligence Standards is required under our Global Supply Chain Policy, our SEMS and our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. Under the Global Supply Chain Policy, human rights, environment, safety and sustainability performance are requirements that must be assessed when selecting a third party. GOLDCORP’S THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE STANDARDS These standards define the minimum due diligence that Goldcorp employees must fulfill when entering into a commercial relationship with a third party on behalf of Goldcorp. HOW? WHY? We have designed and implemented a Third-Party Goldcorp could be held liable for the actions of Due Diligence tool to support compliance with a third party working on its behalf. Therefore, these standards. The tool was designed to guide we need to ensure we only do business with employees through the due diligence reputable third parties. Compliance with the requirements and serve as a centralized database Third-Party Due Diligence Standards is required of third-party due diligence information. under the Global Supply Chain Policy, the Sustainability Excellence Management System and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy. WHEN? WHO? Third-party due diligence is required whenever Anyone engaging a third party on behalf of a new third party is going to be added to our Goldcorp must ensure it is a reputable third party vendor file, regardless of circumstance. It is also by conducting the appropriate due diligence. necessary when an existing third party changes Due diligence will be driven/facilitated by its name/legal entity. Supply Chain at locations that have a dedicated Supply Chain team. Of the 320 contracts that were entered into with third parties (as reported by our sites), 96% were screened or had clauses for human rights compliance.1 None of the contractors screened were found to be in violation of human rights laws, and as a result, no potential contractor was declined from and no existing contractor was removed from contracting with us for human rights compliance reasons. Our approach to risk management and impact assessment also includes reviews of significant investments against numerous criteria, including human rights risks. In this report, we define “significant investments” as those that either moved the organization into a position of ownership of another entity or initiated a capital investment project that was financially material. There were 81 such investments and contracts reported at our sites in 2016. Of those agreements, 80 had human rights clauses, and two were screened for human rights compliance. 1 Goldcorp aggregated and reported the total number of suppliers that were screened or had clauses on human rights compliance. Moving forward, we will report specifically on the number of new suppliers that were screened for human rights during the reporting period. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 84 COMMUNITIES LAND RIGHTS AND RESETTLEMENT To conduct our mining activities, we are occasionally required to acquire land and/or resettle individuals or communities. Land acquisition and resettlement is a complex and life-changing issue for the communities affected. It is never our first resort when other options are available. The timing and location of resettlement is negotiated with the affected households and every reasonable effort is made to ensure that the integrity of the community is maintained. In 2016, no resettlement occurred at any of our operations. COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS As stated in our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and SEMS, we are committed to establishing Community Response Mechanisms, also known as grievance mechanisms, based on international best practices. We acknowledge the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, which means that we, and our subsidiaries, must act with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others. In light of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, we have implemented grievance and incident reporting procedures. Grievances may come from both internal and external stakeholders, such as employees, contractors, local community members, civil society and government. At Goldcorp, we have two formal company-wide channels for receiving complaints and grievances, as well as other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-by-site basis.1 Our Community Response Mechanisms and Ethics from the Ground Up channels are accessible, inclusive, and available to internal and external stakeholders. Both channels respond to the local context and needs. Employees and communities negatively impacted by the actions of our contractors or business partners can also access these mechanisms to report a grievance or an incident. COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS Principles of effective rights-compatible grievance mechanisms: • Proportionality: The mechanism must be scaled to the level and severity of the risk. • Legitimacy: The process must be perceived to be legitimate by local stakeholders. • Cultural Appropriateness: The mechanism must take into account the way local people express their concerns and how they normally resolve their disputes. • Accessibility: The process must be simple, convenient, easy to use and accessible to all. • Transparency and Accountability: Information must be provided ahead of time as to the exact process, requirements and timeline. Agreements must be fulfilled and commitments must be respected. • Fairness and Participation: Complainants must be treated with respect, encouraged to fully participate in the process, and offered fair compensation whenever appropriate. • Safety: The mechanism must explicitly guarantee there will be no retribution of any kind against the complainant. We are committed to not tolerating any form of retaliation against a party who makes, in good faith, a report of a Code of Conduct violation or a report to any of our channels of complaints and grievances. Respect for all of our stakeholders is one of our core values. It is also part of our Human Rights Policy, and applies to all employees, contractors and third parties doing work for, or on behalf of, Goldcorp. We ensure there is no retaliation by creating awareness of our Code of Conduct and Human Rights policies, and by taking the necessary actions when either of these policies is violated. 1 Some overlap may exist between these channels. Due to the confidential nature of grievance management, as well as the ability of a stakeholder to escalate their grievance through multiple channels, verifying the precise number by category at the corporate level has proven difficult. Since both mechanisms are confidential in nature, we have not attempted to define or describe the specific issues raised. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 85 COMMUNITIES FORMAL CHANNELS FOR COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES ETHICS FROM THE GROUND UP CHANNELS COMMUNITY RESPONSE MECHANISMS Purpose Receive complaints, questions and concerns Provide an easily accessible site-level process related to the implementation of our Code of for community stakeholders to provide Conduct feedback to us Key policies Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and SEMS, Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy Goldcorp Grievance Framework Communication channels Toll-free telephone hotline, email and Varies by site: examples include a dedicated mailing address website, community drop boxes, offices, telephone lines, email addresses and text message systems Primary users Employees and contractors Local communities and other external stakeholders Complaints and grievances process Initial complaint is received (in confidence, Complaints are received and documented at if through our ethics and compliance hotline) each operation. Classification and from an external third party, and the cases investigations vary based on severity. are investigated and resolved by the corporate Operations engage with stakeholders to Ethics Committee with local site support resolve and close out grievances as necessary Type of complaints reported Issues related to theft, fraud, discrimination, Issues related to environmental performance, harassment, employee relations, labour, health physical disturbances, land access, and safety, and human rights compensation, job opportunities and contractor management In 2016, our Ethics from the Ground Up channels received 46 complaints and/or inquiries regarding alleged discrimination, harassment and other issues that could relate to human rights, compared to 39 complaints in the previous year. All reports were investigated and 41 were resolved or closed during 2016. For the remaining five, the resolution process was ongoing at the end of the reporting period. RECEIVED IN ETHICS FROM THE GROUND UP PREVIOUS YEAR, HOTLINE (HUMAN RIGHTS–RELATED RESOLVED/CLOSED COMPLAINTS ONLY) RECEIVED INVESTIGATED RESOLVED/CLOSED IN CURRENT PERIOD Discrimination 17 17 14 0 Harassment and bullying 15 15 13 0 Impacts on livelihoods, personal safety 11 11 11 0 and security Sexual harassment and unwanted 3 3 3 0 sexual advances Total 46 46 41 0 Our Community Response mechanisms are intended to meet the needs of local communities and other external stakeholders. Each Community Response mechanism at our operating sites is tailored to the local context, but they are all designed to comply with the Goldcorp Grievance Mechanism Framework. In 2016, our sites received and responded to a total of 633 complaints, of which 228 were closed at the time of writing of this report, and the remaining 405 were in various stages of investigation and resolution. As part of our grievance reporting, we conduct a categorization process of grievances against related SEMS standards. In some cases, more than one standard is applied to a given complaint, as they may have impacts or aspects related to more than one category. This year we also revised and enhanced our process for assessing the severity of grievances. At Goldcorp, we endeavour to treat complaints in a respectful and holistic manner, aiming to understand and respond effectively to all the root causes. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 86 COMMUNITIES GRIEVANCES RECEIVED FROM COMMUNITY EXAMPLES OF RESPONSE MECHANISM BY CATEGORY NUMBER GRIEVANCES RECEIVED Grievances related to the environment 261 • Dust concerns • Impact on water availability or quality • Noise complaints • Vibrations • Waste and debris Grievances related to society 329 • Impacts to infrastructure • Damage of property, crops and livestock • Lack of communication about activities • Community safety around site installations • Delays on meeting commitments such as community investments Grievances related to labour practices 24 • Labour practices • Safety concerns • Access to employment • Contractor concerns Grievances related to human rights 2 • Harassment and discrimination Grievances related to Indigenous rights 17 • Consultation concerns • Land and infrastructure access • Social, cultural and spiritual well-being Total 633 We received 54 other work-related concerns from employees that were resolved at the site either by line management or by the Human Resources team and were not reported to one of our two formal channels. In 2016, there were no significant1 disputes related to land use or customary rights of local or Indigenous Peoples. COMMUNITY FEEDBACK MECHANISMS IN PRACTICE: ADDRESSING LOCAL CONCERNS IN CHAPLEAU The Borden project is located near Chapleau in Ontario. Home to many different communities, the Township of Chapleau is known for its beautiful outdoor recreational facilities. Fishing, canoeing, hiking, bird watching and hunting are common activities in the area. Many cottagers have permanent or seasonal properties on Borden Lake, within close proximity to the Borden project. The Borden team recognized that the project would bring changes to the area and that building positive relationships with the local community would be critical to ensuring long-term success. One of the key elements necessary to build trust with community members was to provide all stakeholders, including Chapleau cottagers, the opportunity to voice their concerns through a site-level grievance mechanism. In 2015, the Borden team created and implemented the Community Feedback Protocol, a procedure based on open communication and systematic response to stakeholders’ concerns. It included frequent visits and dialogue with local stakeholders to better understand the project’s local impacts and respond to community concerns. Among the key concerns identified by locals were the visual and noise impacts related to exploration drilling. Through dialogue with local stakeholders, the Borden team identified several solutions to address these concerns and mitigate some of the impacts. Sound walls, sound monitoring equipment, and noise mitigation procedures, as well as directional lighting and broadband back-up alarms, are some of the examples of the noise and visual mitigation measures that remain in place. 1 Significant disputes are determined as those which cannot be resolved through the course of normal Community Response mechanisms in place and/or which require financially material resources to resolve and/or can have a material impact on the operation. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 87 COMMUNITIES This process has created positive results: many of the cottagers have welcomed the changes and have provided positive feedback. Trust between local stakeholders and the Borden project team has improved, with the project team successfully completing its 2015 drilling programs. The Community Feedback Protocol has been a critical tool for hearing and addressing local stakeholders’ concerns. The Borden project continues to use the Protocol as an important engagement and grievance management tool. The project has also incorporated noise and visual impact mitigation measures as part of future site planning. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 88 COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES CASE STUDIES PUTTING OUR APPROACH TO INDIGENOUS RELATIONS TO THE TEST In 2016, we invited Indigenous Works (formerly the Aboriginal Human Resource Council), a Canadian organization recognized nationally for facilitating stronger Indigenous inclusion strategies, to conduct an internal survey of 45 key employees who deliver and/or guide our approach and relations with Indigenous communities. We wanted to understand and identify areas of opportunities for growing or building on effective Indigenous relationships and partnerships. Overall, Indigenous Works (IW) gave us high marks for our efforts and achievements, and provided recommendations for growing and improving the ways we approach community relations. • Our board and management recognize the link between successful partnerships and the economics of developing and operating mines on Indigenous territories. However, IW identified that several of the communities near our mines lack the capacity to fully respond to the opportunities identified in various agreements. IW recommends we adopt a more rigorous framework and strategy to assess community capacity, identify ways of working with the community to improve their governance, leadership, planning, business and employment development capacities, and track improvements to capacity-building. • Our investments strengthen the economic and social fabric of Indigenous communities around our operations. IW suggests that building stronger relationships with government, development agencies and other stakeholders would enable developmental partnerships and entrepreneurial approaches to address long-term systematic issues. We cannot address community capacity-building, community development and Indigenous employment issues by ourselves. Working with others toward social innovation and social finance instruments would affect community-development outcomes. • IW credits us for holding ourselves accountable to ensure our partnerships are effective, but believes most sites face issues regarding Indigenous participation in the supply chain. Encouraging more opportunities for Indigenous community business development and providing a structure that can provide capital as well as expertise throughout the business cycle would be advantageous to the communities surrounding our mines. • IW recognized our record-keeping practices on employment and procurement opportunities and tracking of environmental stewardship data, but believes there is opportunity to create new metrics to explain and/or show the full significance and impact of our community investments and agreement benefits with Indigenous communities. • Our commitment to reconciliation and growing relationships and partnerships with Indigenous peoples has been demonstrated in our actions, such as the undertaking of this barometer survey. However, IW believes we can play a key role in supporting Recommendation 92 of Canada’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which speaks to the need for corporate Canada to create full partnerships based on mutual respect, mutual recognition, Indigenous law, legal translations and the right to self-determination. Establishing a community Indigenous partnership institute would further enable us to demonstrate a partnering ethos. The institute could undertake a partnership barometer study to determine how to further grow partnerships, identify both parties’ pivot points, develop training curricula for Indigenous communities and employees working in community relations, and develop a scorecard to drive exemplary partnership practices. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 89 COMMUNITIES Since receiving these recommendations in mid-2016, we have started to put together a strategy for taking action on the recommendations. In the process, we have engaged our employees and Indigenous partners to create more dialogue. The next step will be surveying our external stakeholders to identify areas of alignment and opportunities, and what our stakeholders believe we need to do and deliver to be even more successful. We have also committed to undertake this barometer study again to track our improvements and to ensure we stay the course when it comes to new approaches and best practices that can be applied to our organization. “CHANGE MAKER” RECOGNITION In 2016, Roger Souckey, our Canada Region Director, Corporate Social Responsibility and Human Resources, was recognized as a Change Maker at the 2016 Indigenous Works Workplace Inclusion Leadership Awards. “The results of the Indigenous Works survey, and the recent recognition by this organization of our approach and team, show us we have a lot to be proud of when it comes to Indigenous relationships in our business,” says Brent Bergeron, Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. “Roger Souckey’s passion to affect positive change for inclusion and diversity in our Canadian operations has resulted in positive partnerships and engagements with Indigenous Peoples. We do not take these partnerships for granted; they are deeper, more substantial, based in sincerity and of greater quality today than they have ever been, and this level of commitment will continue to be embedded in the fabric of who we are as an organization.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 90 COMMUNITIES LASTING IMPACT FOR YOUTH IN VANCOUVER’S DOWNTOWN EASTSIDE At Goldcorp, we believe that education provides the keys to unlock potential. Supporting that potential is one of the best ways we can create long-lasting positive benefits in the communities where we live and work. One such initiative is Pathways to Education Vancouver, a program focused on breaking the cycle of poverty by providing students with academic support, social counselling and financial aid. Founded in 2001, Pathways operates in 17 low-income communities across Canada with programs in Ontario, Québec, Nova Scotia, Manitoba and British Columbia. Since its inception, the program has supported 3,138 students to graduate from high school, with 73% of those students going on to pursue post-secondary studies or training. We began supporting Pathways last year when we committed CAD$500,000 over four years to the program’s introduction to Vancouver’s Downtown Eastside (DTES). The DTES is one of Canada’s lowest-income communities, with many of its residents plagued by drug addiction, mental illness, crime, homelessness and unemployment. During the last school year, Pathways Vancouver helped over 100 grade-school students to receive academic, social and financial supports to help overcome the systemic barriers to education that they face. The Pathways program provides one-on-one support that helps students stay on track with assignments and keeps them accountable to attend their classes, often in the face of pressure from peers to focus their attention elsewhere or systemic barriers at home that make regular school attendance difficult. Participants report having earned better grades, in addition to experiencing greater confidence and motivation to do well in school. In many instances, Pathways volunteers have made significant connections with difficult-to-engage students. With the right supports, facilitators and volunteers have seen youth transform into studious individuals who take initiative in their schoolwork and who are motivated by improvements in their grades. One Pathways Vancouver student shared: “My parents and I really appreciate the tutoring program. I am now passing math and want to be on the honour roll.” Several parents add that they have noticed improved concentration and social interaction in their children since they began attending sessions. Pathways to Education Vancouver is offered by Pacific Community Resources Society in partnership with local schools, Britannia Homework Club Society, Ray-Cam Co-operative Centre and Strathcona Community Centre. The program is one element of the community-driven Our Place graduation strategy, a place-based approach to improving the educational success of children and youth living in the inner city. We are proud to support Pathways Vancouver and its volunteers and program facilitators as they make lasting positive impacts in the DTES and beyond. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 91 COMMUNITIES FOCUSING ON HUMAN RIGHTS – MARLIN CLOSURE UPDATE At Goldcorp, we believe in acting ethically and respecting all of our stakeholders, everywhere we operate. This is as important in Northern Canada as it is at our Marlin mine, in Guatemala – where the company has been proactively addressing human rights for almost 10 years. In 2008, Goldcorp undertook a Human Rights Assessment (HRA) conducted by a third party, whose primary objective was to provide an independent assessment of the potential human rights impacts from operations at the Marlin mine. The complete findings of the HRA can be viewed at www.hria-guatemala.com, and Goldcorp’s responses to the HRA’s recommendations can be viewed on the company’s website. Over the years, we have provided information around key elements of closure – particularly the financial provisions involved – to ensure it is carried out adequately and to prevent long-term impacts on surrounding communities. Effective closure planning at Marlin has also included work to mitigate the socio-economic challenges that result from a mine’s closure. At the request of shareholders – and recognizing the need to communicate openly with many stakeholders on these plans, and about ongoing successes as well as challenges – Goldcorp agreed to undertake a status review regarding the implementation of commitments made following the HRA. The report commissioned by Goldcorp is available here. The end of operations is a good time to assess our performance – and, where necessary, realign before we enter this next phase of the mining life cycle – to ensure respect for human rights remains an integral part of closure activities. We also want to acknowledge the importance of transparency at all stages of our operations, including closure. MARLIN’S CLOSURE PLAN OVERVIEW Throughout its operations phase, Marlin invested over US$130 million in environmental projects, including awardwinning flood protection infrastructure, tailings filtration systems, pit backfill, and progressive reclamation and reforestation activities, in preparation for closure. Goldcorp also voluntarily established a US$29.7 million closure bond with the government of Guatemala in 2012. Furthermore, this assurance is backed by Goldcorp’s approval of a US$75 million project to reclaim the Marlin property beyond progressive reclamation starting in 2017. Although the diagram below illustrates key milestones from 2017 to 2026, closure planning has been integrated into the operations at Marlin for many years. The Marlin pit progressive reclamation project started in 2012 and has placed over three million cubic metres of filtered tailings and waste rock back into the pit. This is a best-inclass technique that results in a stable, environmentally benign landscape. In December 2015, backfilling of the main pit was completed; the cover of the pit wall was started in 2016 and completed in 2017. Operations Underground closure Pit cover Waste rock dump reclaimed Mill decommissioned Reforestation Tailings cover and water diversions 2017 2018 2019 Post-Closure 2020–2026 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 92 COMMUNITIES In addition to these activities, Marlin’s closure activities will include the following objectives: • Revegetation of the open pit, the tailings facility and all disturbed areas • Removal of infrastructure (including plant, buildings and related facilities) • Reclamation of non-essential roads and clearings • Strengthening of the Sierra Madre Foundation (the Foundation), including the completion of testing of various agri-business projects that provide viable income streams to sustainably fund the Foundation’s work • Transfer of lands outside the Foundation • Monitoring and maintenance of the site until 2026 FOLLOWING THROUGH AND LOOKING AHEAD Water was one of the largest stakeholder concerns throughout the life of the Marlin mine, and specifically access to potable water. Goldcorp recognizes access to clean water as a human right, and Marlin’s commitment to support programs that enhance access to water has taken many forms. This included delivery of water to communities well outside the mine’s direct area of influence, ultimately resulting in construction of seven potable water systems. Over the mine’s closure phase, Marlin will provide financial and technical assistance to complete the water systems in the communities of Escupijá, Sipacapa, Canoj and San Isidro Setivá. The mine worked with local development councils (COCODEs) to establish water commissions that support and manage the water infrastructure – crucial for the long-term sustainability of the water projects, which, after initial investment and construction, will be fully operated and maintained by the communities themselves. The Guatemalan government has committed to improving potable water infrastructure in the region and is currently focused on seven additional communities located upstream of the mine. Looking beyond these projects, ongoing site water monitoring will take place until 2026. This monitoring will ensure that the site is performing as expected. The Foundation will assume responsibility for maintenance and monitoring activities as the closed site matures. It is expected that the site will be physically and chemically sustainable well before the monitoring period ends. Finally, during the transition between operations and closure, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to sustain economic benefits for both the Foundation and the surrounding communities. The Foundation will review and develop agricultural opportunities beyond the inaugural floral, livestock and produce currently being harvested through various productive projects. Although most of the physical infrastructure on the site will be removed, there is an opportunity to utilize some key infrastructure, such as buildings, for future use. A number of businesses and institutional and entrepreneurial opportunities will continue to be reviewed, many of which may provide employment and/or future opportunities for the Foundation and communities. Beyond these opportunities, green energy such as wind, solar and biomass are being reviewed and evaluated for potential investment. These sustainable technologies have the ability to provide sustainable employment, investment and energy for the Foundation and communities long into the future and will complement other initiatives. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 93 SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE TO REACH THEIR POTENTIAL OUR PEOPLE KEY STATISTICS 9% OF OUR WORKFORCE VISION IS COMPOSED OF WOMEN, People are our core strength. More than any other factor, out of over 15,000 total employees (including our success depends on their capabilities and commitment. contractors) at year’s end. We are focused on attracting and retaining experienced and skilled talent with a culture that puts safety at its core and supports people to reach their potential. 80 DIFFERENT NATIONALITIES and 2016 HIGHLIGHTS approximately 20 different languages are represented by our employees. • We implemented a human resources information system, CORE Employee Central, at our corporate and regional offices and our Porcupine, Musselwhite and OVER 125 WOMEN from across the Coffee sites. company graduated from Creating Choices or its sister program, Growing Choices. • We completed a global talent review focusing on To date, over 1,700 women have graduated from succession planning, critical roles and the identification these programs. of high potential talent. • We completed a large-scale revamp of StepUp, our flagship behaviour-based leadership program, which culminated in a successful pilot with our executive management team. • Our executive and regional management teams, including Mine General Managers, participated in Unconscious Bias training and learned strategies for disrupting and overcoming bias in the workplace. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 94 OUR PEOPLE MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS The industry-wide shortage of experienced and skilled talent is expected to continue. While the current market volatility and resulting project slowdowns have reduced pressure, we expect talent attraction and retention to be an ongoing challenge for several reasons, including local demographics in mining regions and the aging workforce in Canada and other countries. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders expect us to attract, develop and retain talented people who generate sustainable value. Stakeholders also expect us to operate responsibly in accordance with high ethical and legal standards. The strength of our people enables us to attain these standards and expectations. It is important that we create the right work environment, which includes providing opportunities for career development, recognizing performance that supports our core values, demonstrating support for diversity and inclusion, and promoting equal opportunities. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? At Goldcorp, people are our most important asset. We want to offer our employees unmatched opportunities to build rewarding careers in a dynamic company. It is important that we support our people in their personal and career development. We aim to provide resources, time and knowledge, because when they succeed, we all succeed. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to invest in the attraction, retention, development and safety of a diverse and talented workforce aligned with our values of open communication, innovation, empowering others, safety, respecting all our stakeholders and acting ethically. Our multifaceted people strategy aims to achieve world-class performance through accountability and empowerment of our people by delivering proactive targeted talent solutions. We offer our people access to programs that will deliver an experience that drives them to reach their potential and create sustainable value for the organization. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our human resources function is headed by the Vice President, People, who reports to the Executive Vice President, General Counsel. We have local resources for this function in each country where we operate and at every mine site. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to human resources matters and executive compensation, and in establishing a succession plan for executive officers (see Executive Compensation for more information). 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 95 OUR PEOPLE ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS TALKING ABOUT THE PEOPLE OF GOLDCORP WITH JOANNE KLEIN, VICE PRESIDENT, PEOPLE From the People perspective, what were Goldcorp’s main accomplishments in 2016? In 2016, our organization experienced changes in senior management, a new organizational design, and a year of streamlining and optimization. The changes were essential for us to continue to deliver sustainable value to our stakeholders, and managing that change was a major accomplishment. One of our achievements for the year was our global talent review. It began with an exploratory exercise to identify which roles are critical to our future, and how we can identify and develop successors for these roles. Going forward, this will be an important process for us, because it is essential that we effectively and strategically manage our key talent across the business. We’re now taking it to a different level, and planning for future leadership teams that will be as diverse as our operations. In a streamlined organization, we must be able to maximize the potential of our highest performing people. That requires planning and training, and it’s the focus of our StepUp initiative. This program is about defining the behaviours that we want in our employees, and the training they need. It is a multi-disciplinary project, and many layers within the organization will go through the training. Our aim is to make it sustainable in the sense that our supervisors will have the tools and knowledge to deliver the training to their teams. It’s a significant investment in our people and by taking the time to get it right, it will meet our goal of strengthening leadership capabilities consistently across and throughout our organization. We also have our new Future Leaders program under development, which is aimed at identifying our potential future leaders earlier in their career and providing them with meaningful experiences and opportunities to fast-track their career. This program has the potential to build a strong pipeline of up-and-coming talent within the organization. What were some of Goldcorp’s human resources challenges, and what did the company learn from them? Of course, the optimization process, and the reduction in our overall workforce, was a challenge for our people. However, the new, optimized Goldcorp is far better positioned for sustainable success in today’s market. Another challenge we face as a company is diversity in the workforce. To target the diversity challenge, in 2016 we created a Diversity Committee that is tasked with increasing awareness on a company-wide level. In addition, the entire management team in both Canada and Latin America, including Mine General Managers, participated in Unconscious Bias training. This training raised awareness and deepened understanding of unconscious and conscious bias in the workplace, and provided strategies for disrupting and overcoming it. To address issues of gender diversity in this traditionally male-dominated industry, we continued to promote our Creating Choices initiative, which is an acclaimed, enterprise-wide training, development and mentorship program for women. We also have an aging workforce, and our workforce planning must be strategic and deliberate. We must not only hire the next generation, but we must train them for their current and future jobs. We are looking into ways to tap the skills and experience of our existing employees. Even if the next generation will operate remotecontrolled equipment, they still need the knowledge of an experienced miner when it comes to controlling drills, placing explosives and so on. So, we are putting a priority on ways to intelligently address these issues related to an aging workforce. How is Goldcorp managing with a streamlined workforce? Downsizing can be painful, but it is also an opportunity for individuals to take on more responsibilities and gain experience in new areas. Our CEO is a strong leader who has a very clear vision of where he wants to take the organization. We are seeing people reveal their capabilities, and they are being recognized for their results. During the optimization process, we worked to preserve local employment in mining communities as much as possible. This has required an increased emphasis on training and support for training and career development in the local areas where we operate. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 96 OUR PEOPLE Why is diversity and inclusion important to Goldcorp? What is the company doing to become more diverse and inclusive? We have to get past the barriers of what people can’t do, whether it’s language or specific skill-sets, and look at what they can be trained to do if they demonstrate the interest and the aptitude. There can be no greater investment than to expose people to a different country, a different language, a different culture. It helps you appreciate, understand and respect the differences that exist. More often than not, you realize that, at our core, we all want the same things: to be safe, to do a good job, and to take care of our families. These things go beyond culture, race and gender. In September 2016, we engaged a third-party services provider to survey a group of over 3,000 full time employees representative of all of our sites and offices, on the specific subject of diversity and inclusion. The survey gathered voluntary and anonymous data on demographic indicators and employee sentiment to provide management with a snapshot of the current state of diversity and inclusion in the company. How does Goldcorp support local employment from the communities near our mines? The local populations near our mines present a huge opportunity, and there are significant benefits in providing employment opportunities both for us and for the communities we are part of. When we draw on local communities, we reduce transportation and camp costs, and so on. By employing community members, we support the growth of local economic opportunities. At Marlin, for example, we have invested in initiatives that have helped people gain and diversify their skills, become literate and learn new trades. In our newer ventures in Chile and Argentina, it makes sense to train and invest in the local communities, and that’s what we will focus on. That leads to a deeper aspect of what we do. Beyond simply hiring locally, we try to look at what Goldcorp will look like a decade or more from now. If we’re going to have a sustainable company, we must invest now to build the skills that we will need in the future. Whether that means providing training and education for Indigenous groups, or encouraging employment for a higher percentage of the local population, or increasing the representation of females in our industry, we know there are untapped resources out there and we have to be deliberate in our plans to seize the opportunity that exists. Where do you see Goldcorp five – and ten – years in the future? With the significant pace of innovative technologies being introduced in our industry, many of the skills our workforce will require will change, but some will be the same. We still have to build mines, and those mines are likely to be in remote locations. Even if mining machinery is automated, the equipment must be maintained by people. We will still need mine camps and camp facilities, and people to provide services. The magnitude of our local needs may be slightly different, but the value equation will be essentially the same. In the future, we will be a more diverse and inclusive company – with the same spirit of resilience and innovation that has brought us where we are today. Innovation is key to Goldcorp’s future. What innovations are in the future for the company’s people? Innovation is central to the way we are planning for our future workforce. As mining becomes more automated, it becomes safer, but the very nature of the work changes. Will people be driving trucks or operating heavy equipment from a control room? If so, where will those control rooms be located? Could a control room be in someone’s home, for example? Looking ahead, we may start to look at different skill-sets, and move away from some of the traditional qualifications for mining. There is an opportunity for us to be a disruptor in the marketplace. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 97 OUR PEOPLE OUR WORKFORCE Our innovative spirit plays a major role in our success, and attracts and retains an exceptional group of people. Our people drive our business; that’s why we consistently recruit, develop, and retain top talent who share the same spirit and values that drive us to approach a centuries-old industry in new and innovative ways. As of December 31, 2016, our workforce (employees and contractors) totalled 15,262, compared to 15,836 in 2015 and 18,217 in 2014. The reduction in our workforce corresponds to terminations resulting from our transition to a decentralized operating model and having to create efficiencies while operating in a lower commodity price environment. GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY REGION, EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER FULL TIME SALARIED HOURLY (NON-UNION) FULL TIME SALARIED (NON-UNION) HOURLY (UNION) LOCATION EMPLOYEES (UNION) EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES CONTRACTORS MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL Canada, Europe and US 903 319 1,222 0 0 0 1,576 72 1,648 245 14 259 1,075 29 1,104 Latin America 2,235 332 2,567 880 35 915 0 0 0 1,906 195 2,101 5,099 347 5,446 Total Goldcorp 3,138 651 3,789 880 35 915 1,576 72 1,648 2,151 209 2,360 6,174 376 6,550 Total Workforce: 15,262 OUTSOURCING We partner extensively with contractors during the construction of new projects and when significant capital investments are made to our existing operations. Contractors provide a source of short-term labour, as well as specific construction expertise that is not readily available within our own workforce. We also make use of contractors to supplement our internal expertise in key areas of our operations. We have a number of long-term partnerships with contractors who undertake critical components of our operation. Contractors are required to comply with our policies and procedures, including the Code of Conduct and safety procedures such as the Golden Guide and Golden Rules, which help all employees and contractors understand how to do their jobs safely. Our use of long-term contractors falls into three broad areas: • Mining and processing: These are our core functions and we tend to use contractors only to provide a key additional technical resource as needed. • Maintenance: Contractors are used at most of our sites due, at least in part, to the specialized nature of some maintenance functions. These activities are often cyclical and we do not always staff up internally for these roles. • Drilling, blasting, security, employee transport and catering: While these functions are important to the operation of our sites, they are frequently contracted out to firms who specialize in these activities. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 98 OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE RECRUITMENT AND DEVELOPMENT Our recruitment function is committed to establishing a consistent process to ensure that hiring is conducted in an effective, fair and consistent manner, and results in a positive experience for prospective candidates and hiring managers alike. RECRUITMENT At Goldcorp, we work to ensure that all of our recruitment processes are effective, fair and inclusive. We are committed to growing our employees by providing opportunities for personal and professional development. The recruitment function supports this commitment by enhancing awareness of available opportunities and ensuring we have effective avenues to submit applications. GLOBAL RECRUITMENT STANDARDS We created the Global Recruitment Standards in 2014. These standards establish a consistent approach to ensuring we recruit people with the right competencies, experience, qualifications and potential to meet the requirements of the positions and the needs of Goldcorp. The Standards also act as a guideline to make sure we recruit in a fair, non-discriminatory manner, aligned with best practices. Since the Standards’ implementation, we have developed a universal approach to attracting and retaining skilled talent, resulting in an improved experience for internal and external candidates. This has also led to improved information and analytics of our recruitment process. As a multi-national company operating in various jurisdictions, we recognize the challenges of ensuring we have a consistent recruitment process that is effective, fair and inclusive across all of our sites and offices. For this reason, we developed a Recruitment Strategy that increases collaboration and communication across our operations and provides information on our company-wide recruitment policies and procedures. LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT To grow our people and empower them to succeed, we offer a selection of robust training programs. We support employees through every stage of their careers and help them as they consider new career options through to retirement. Our Global Onboarding Program provides facilitated learning sessions and access to policies, guidelines, reference guides, e-learning and videos to give new employees a common understanding of our company strategy, vision, values and history. It also educates employees on our policies. In 2016, we continued to focus on training and development across all operations, emphasizing safety, leadership and development. This will build an ongoing pipeline of talent that will ensure operational continuity and mitigate labour shortage risk. We encourage employees to participate in advanced education, training or other professional development activities, and offer financial assistance for education (requests for assistance are evaluated on a case-by-case basis). Our programs and initiatives include: 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 99 OUR PEOPLE Graduate Development Program: Implemented in 2013 in Canada and the US, our Graduate Development Program is a three-year program in which newly recruited graduates gain on-the-job skills through planned rotations of our operations, achieving development milestones and the technical indicators needed to obtain their specified professional designation. This program provides mentorship and technical and leadership development. Since the program’s inception, we have hired 108 individuals who are now working across our operations in areas such as electrical engineering, environment, industrial hygiene, mechanical engineering, mining engineering, civil engineering and geotechnical engineering. Creating Choices and Growing Choices: These programs have received recognition for providing female employees in all regions with the opportunity to develop confidence and a greater understanding of the opportunities available for personal and professional growth. In 2016, over 125 women from across the company graduated from Creating Choices or its sister program, Growing Choices. To date, over 1,700 women have graduated from these programs. Safety Leadership Training: This training introduces key safety leadership practices and brings employees together to share best practices on how we can make Goldcorp “Safe Enough for Our Families”. Global compliance training programs: During 2016, we designed and rolled out many corporate-led training programs that helped our workforce gain better awareness and understanding of our Human Rights and Code of Conduct policies, as well as our Sustainability Excellence Management System and the new Records and Information Management standards. StepUp: A key initiative that enables us to re-define and re-think how we develop and grow our people across the organization. It’s about growing our business while growing our leaders. The program follows a top‑down model, focuses on accountability and responsibility, and asks our leaders to commit to and model these behaviours. To ensure that our programs add value, all employees who attend training and development programs are requested to provide feedback. Furthermore, discussions are held with the employee’s supervisor, to see whether on-the-job performance improvements have resulted. We also conduct periodic employee surveys to determine employee engagement and identify areas for improvement. We know that employee development is integral to attracting and retaining our workforce; therefore, we are working to develop more robust monitoring and evaluation tools to assess the effectiveness of our employee training programs. For example, since 2015, we have used software-based e-learning technologies that provide training to salaried employees on key policies and programs, such as our Code of Conduct, our Human Rights Policy and our Sustainability Excellence Management System. These technologies also strengthen the ability to better monitor and assess participant completion rates, grades and performance. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 100 OUR PEOPLE PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING Our Performance Management strategy focuses on Growing People by empowering others through open communication and feedback. Through this process, our annual company strategy is established by way of a global scorecard that is cascaded to mine site-specific scorecards and then down into individual annual objectives for each employee. Managers guide and provide feedback to their team members throughout the year and have an individual mid-year checkpoint to assess and discuss progress relative to personal objectives and development plans. At the end of the year, individual annual performance is assessed with the participation of each employee through a self-assessment and, ultimately, with each manager, who conducts a performance review for each of their team members. Our Performance Management process is enabled by an online technology platform, and is available for all salaried employees globally. The online tool was first introduced in Canada in 2008, and then in Mexico in 2010, and will be implemented in Argentina in 2017. In 2016, we leveraged the implementation of a globally integrated Human Resources Information System (HRIS) and made improvements to its functionality. This tool standardizes our review processes and helps us evaluate the individual contribution of each employee towards our strategy and goals. In addition, it enables employees to set targets for personal and professional growth – which will help them achieve their performance and career goals in line with company objectives. In 2016, we streamlined the global performance management process for all salaried staff. At our corporate offices in Canada, 88 female (43%) and 118 male (57%) employees participated in our performance management review process. At our operating sites, 3,664 salaried staff, equating to 78% of our direct workforce, received performance reviews during the 2016 reporting period. Moving forward, in 2017 we will implement a formal development planning program for all employees globally, as part of an enhanced performance management process. Development planning will work in partnership with the existing performance objective setting process, and will be a progressive step in skill-building and career management of our people. The execution of employee development plans will assist employees in taking ownership of managing their career aspirations at Goldcorp with support from their manager. TOTAL REWARDS In 2016, 40% of our full time salaried non-union employees were eligible for long-term incentives, which enabled them to share in our success beyond fixed cash compensation. We review the long-term incentive (LTI) plan regularly to ensure it aligns with our compensation philosophy and supports the long-term sustainability of our organization. LTI awards are not guaranteed and are subject to change following each review. In 2016, 44% of all full time, salaried, non-unionized employees were eligible to participate in our annual bonus program. The table below represents benefits provided to full time salaried employees, unless otherwise stated. HEALTH, VISION FAMILY LIFE AND ACCIDENTAL DEATH AND DENTAL ASSISTANCE AND DISMEMBERMENT RETIREMENT INSURANCE PROGRAM INSURANCE SAVINGS SHARE-BASED PROGRAMS1 Canada ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan United States ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan and employee stock purchase plan Mexico ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Guatemala ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Chile ✓ ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan Argentina ✓ ✓ Long-term incentive plan 1 Share-based programs may include benefits such as employee stock purchase plan and Restricted Share Units (RSU). Eligibility on these options is dependent on job levels. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 101 OUR PEOPLE EMPLOYEE TURNOVER To retain employees in a competitive market, we maintain a positive, dynamic working environment, with competitive compensation and career options. In 2016, we completed a major project aimed at optimizing our operations and generating efficiencies across the organization. This included decentralizing our business, removing the regional layer within our operating model and leveraging opportunities to introduce a greater level of efficiency at our sites. These initiatives resulted in an increase in turnover for 2016 compared to 2015 and 2014. In 2016, employee turnover1 across Goldcorp for site-based employees was 9% for Canada and 23% for Latin America. The disparity between these regions was due to a higher employee headcount in Latin America relative to Canada and also due to the earlier launch of the optimization project in Latin America. For our corporate office (not including regional office employees), turnover was 34% compared to 13% in 2015 and 9% in 2014. High turnover rates are in part explained by the structural changes Goldcorp underwent during the 2016 reporting period. These changes are allowing us to increase our emphasis on creating sustainable value, and to invest more strategically in our company and the communities near our mines. TURNOVER BY GENDER TURNOVER – TURNOVER – AND REGION MALE EMPLOYEES FEMALE EMPLOYEES TOTAL TURNOVER Canada 8% 12% 9% Latin America 23% 20% 23% Corporate 30% 40% 34% Total 18% 20% 18% Turnover rates are calculated only at operating sites in Canada and Latin America and exclude projects and joint ventures that we do not operate. Generally, because of the short-term nature of many of the jobs on-site during the construction phase, turnover rates at projects will not be comparable with our overall performance. GLOBAL MOBILITY Our Global Mobility Program was developed during a period of significant growth for us. Specifically, there was a need to foster development and growth of our people, support movement of talent across our global operations, address current and future resourcing needs, and provide a framework for transfer of knowledge and skills. In 2016, with our shift to a more decentralized operating model, a Global Mobility Program Administration Guideline and Toolkit was developed to enable mine site teams to administer the program locally and empower our Mine General Managers to manage the program at their respective sites. Additionally, we implemented a comprehensive Compensation Data Collection system and process to ensure tax compliance and provide greater insight into the costs associated with the Global Mobility Program, thus driving better decision-making and management. An important aspect of the Global Mobility Program is the opportunity to transfer knowledge and skills from expatriates to local employees. Through our continued focus on employee development and succession planning, we expect the knowledge transfer to continually increase. Going forward, we will continue to benchmark our Global Mobility Program to ensure it remains competitive, sustainable and appropriate based on the socio-economic situation in the countries in which we operate. 1 Employee turnover refers to employees and not contractors who have left the company voluntarily or due to termination, retirement or death. It does not include employees who were transferred within Goldcorp to another site or office or employees on maternity or disability leave. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 102 OUR PEOPLE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We strive to foster an open and inclusive workplace environment and strongly support the principle that all individuals should have an equal opportunity to participate in our company and achieve their full potential. In compliance with our Code of Conduct and our Diversity Policy, everyone at Goldcorp must: 1. Always treat each other and all members of the outside community with respect and courtesy. 2. Always keep our workplace free from all forms of harassment, meaning unwelcome behaviour that a reasonable person would consider to be degrading, humiliating, discriminatory or intimidating. 3. Never permit factors like race, religion, colour, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnicity to determine decisions about hiring, employment promotions, pay rates, transfers, layoffs or terminations (or condone decisions by others determined by such factors). 4. Never permit physical disabilities to determine work-related decisions, unless the disability prevents a person from safely doing a job and the disability cannot be reasonably accommodated. DIVERSITY INITIATIVES To ensure gender diversity throughout our organization, we promote Creating Choices, our acclaimed, enterprisewide training, development and mentorship initiative for women at Goldcorp. Creating Choices strengthens the ability of our female employees to understand opportunities for personal and professional growth, develop their self-confidence and courage, build strong partnerships with fellow employees and communities where we operate, gain access to mentoring, and receive recognition for their contributions to Goldcorp. In 2016, the second phase of the program, Growing Choices, was delivered across the organization. Growing Choices gives women insight into unwritten rules that govern corporate culture, such as creating a personal brand, work-life balance, career planning and building effective relationships. In 2016, work also began on the third instalment of the program, Future Choices, aimed at providing women with the tools they need to lead and succeed long after mine closure. Supported by our executive management and the Board, Creating Choices represents our commitment to diversity and inclusion. To date, over 1,700 women have graduated from the program (1,300 graduates of Creating Choices and 450 graduates of Growing Choices). We actively promote greater gender diversity in the global mining industry, as illustrated by the success of Creating Choices and the growing proportion of women on our Board of Directors. We also support the Women’s Empowerment Principles,1 are proud sponsors of Rugby Canada’s National Senior Women’s 15s and 7s teams, and are active members of the Canadian Centre for Diversity and Inclusion and the Minerva Foundation, which operates in British Columbia, Canada. In 2017, we will remain actively committed to pursuing and developing ongoing diversity initiatives at Goldcorp. DIVERSITY IN THE WORKFORCE Our Diversity Policy, which was published in 2014, promotes the benefits of, and need for, extending opportunities for career advancement to all internal and external candidates, without distinction as to gender, ethnicity or on any other basis. Diversity is led by our Vice President, Diversity, Regulatory Affairs and Corporate Secretary, Anna Tudela, who in 2016 was awarded as a Catalyst Canada Honours Champion for her work promoting diversity and inclusion in the mining sector. In 2016, she continued work with our Diversity Committee to raise awareness of diversity and inclusion across the organization and focus company efforts to enhance our inclusive workplace culture. In 2016, the entire senior management team in both Canada and Latin America, including Mine General Managers, participated in Unconscious Bias training. This training raised awareness and deepened understanding of unconscious and conscious bias in the workplace, and provided strategies for disrupting and overcoming bias. 1 A partnership initiative of UN Women and UN Global Compact which provides a set of considerations to help the private sector focus on key elements integral to promoting gender equality in the workplace, marketplace and community. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 103 OUR PEOPLE In September 2016, we engaged a third-party services provider to survey a group of over 3,000 full time employees, representing all our sites and offices, on diversity and inclusion. The survey gathered voluntary and anonymous data on demographic indicators and employee sentiment to provide management with a snapshot of the current state of diversity and inclusion in the company. The survey was well received and had a high response rate of over 70%. The survey respondents self-identify with over 80 different nationalities and speak approximately 20 different languages, and 83% feel included and accepted as their true selves at work. The survey results and feedback will inform the growth of our diversity strategy in 2017. We track certain diversity indicators among employees and contractors. One of those diversity indicators is gender, which is outlined below. EMPLOYEES BY GENDER % OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES % OF MALE EMPLOYEES REGION TOTAL WORKFORCE AND CONTRACTORS AND CONTRACTORS Canada, Europe and US 4,233 10% 90% Latin America 11,029 8% 92% Total 15,262 9% 91% EMPLOYEE GENDER BREAKDOWN BY ROLE1 MALE FEMALE BREAKDOWN (%) 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Board of Directors 67% 73% 80% 33% 27% 20% Officers 80% 74% 77% 20% 26% 23% Management2 66% 85% 81% 34% 15% 19% Total workforce3 91% 91% 89% 9% 9% 11% DIVERSITY WITHIN OUR GOVERNANCE We believe that diversity provides a depth of perspective and enhances overall operations. In 2016, 33% of our directors were women and 20% of our officers were women. In addition, our directors and officers represent nine different nationalities, speak six different languages between them and self-identify with more than 20 distinct cultures and ethnicities. BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 MALE FEMALE Board of Directors 6 3 Audit Committee 1 2 Compensation Committee 3 1 Governance and Nominating Committee 2 2 Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee 2 2 Senior management (officers) 19 5 1 Breakdown is based on employees and excludes contractors. 2 Managers represent positions with direct reports. 3 Includes contractors. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 104 OUR PEOPLE We support increased representation of women on Canadian boards, as shown through our support of the Catalyst Accord,1 as a member of the 30% Club Canada and through our support of the Canadian Board Diversity Council’s Diversity 50 initiative. As a signatory to the Catalyst Accord, we committed to increase the overall percentage of women on the Board to 25% by 2017. As a member of the 30% Club Canada, we support the goal of 30% of board seats to be held by women by 2019. With 33% representation of women on our Board in 2016, we are proud to have surpassed the targets set. In 2016, we were honoured to receive the Governance Professionals of Canada Award for Best Practices to Enhance Boardroom Diversity, in recognition of our efforts. KEY RESULTS OF GOLDCORP’S DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION SURVEY Over 70% response rate Our employees self-identify with over 80 different nationalities Our employees speak 83% feel included and accepted 20 different languages as their true selves at work 1 Founded in 1962, the Catalyst Accord is a leading non-profit organization dedicated to expanding opportunities for women in business. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 105 OUR PEOPLE GENDER-BASED SALARY RATIOS We believe in equal pay for equal work and do not discriminate our compensation on the basis of gender. Our gender-based compensation data comes from operating sites in two categories: unskilled and skilled workers. Gender bias is common in employee categories: outdoor manual labourers (the majority of whom are male) may be paid a higher hourly rate than kitchen workers (the majority of whom are female). This may result in a perceived gender bias in pay, which is actually a gender bias in the respective work categories. Therefore, as we compete for labour in many competitive markets, gender biases in some categories may arise. Our operations range from a ratio of 1.0 (equal pay for unskilled males and females) to a ratio of 1.3 (male to female pay ratio). The overall average ratio is 1.1 male to female starting salary for unskilled workers. For skilled categories of employment, there is also often a gender bias in mining-related professions. We choose our skilled workers on the basis of merit. The market dictates the salary levels for skilled workers based on education and experience. REGION UNSKILLED LABOUR SKILLED LABOUR (MALE:FEMALE) (MALE:FEMALE) Canada and US 1.1 1.1 Latin America 1.0 1.1 Total 1.0 1.1 We are committed to increasing diversity within the mining sector and support programs with post-secondary institutions to encourage leadership development for women in technical fields (e.g., University of British Columbia’s Goldcorp Professorship for Women in Engineering and Carleton University’s Advancing Leadership for Women Program for women currently working in mining and other technical fields). EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP The age group breakdown remained similar to 2015 and 2014. Data is for our operating sites only and does not include projects, joint ventures, corporate or off-site office employees, as the disaggregated data was not available. The age group breakdown for our Board of Directors can be found in our Management Information Circular. AGE GROUP 2016 2015 2014 2013 Under 30 years 25% 27% 27% 29% 30 to 50 years 59% 57% 54% 52% Over 50 years 16% 16% 19% 19% 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 106 OUR PEOPLE LABOUR AND MANAGEMENT RELATIONS At Goldcorp, we strive for positive employee-management relationships with both unionized and non-unionized employees. We support our employees’ rights of freedom of association and collective bargaining. These include the right of individual employees to join a union or other work-related cooperative. We also support the right of our employees to not join a union or other work-related cooperative and to be free from coercion to join. EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS To keep employees informed, we regularly conduct town hall meetings, in which the President and CEO and other senior executives communicate directly with employees. These meetings provide an opportunity for any employee to submit questions to be addressed directly by the senior executives at the meeting. These town halls are live globally – all our offices and operations are linked via webcast and telephone during the meeting. Town hall meetings are provided in English, Spanish and French. Feedback from these meetings is further discussed in management and leadership meetings and, where a direct response is appropriate, senior management ensures that it is followed through. In 2016 there were three town hall meetings. Discussion topics included our refocused strategy, change in the operating model, key operating milestones, financial and operating results, and new initiatives implemented since the previous meeting. A full audio replay and written transcripts are available to employees who missed the meeting. We maintain an employee intranet called Conveyor, which is available to employees at each of our sites and remotely. This is a vehicle for keeping employees up to date via written articles and/or videos. For employees who are unable to connect to the intranet, mine operations and offices maintain notice boards, provide kiosks to access our intranet, and host regular information sessions to discuss key issues and events. In addition, our Vancouver office and each of our Canadian operations issue their own publications, which provide a variety of local news. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING In our Human Rights Policy, we commit to respect workers’ rights, including freedom of association, the right to peaceful protest and assembly, and engagement in collective bargaining in alignment with the International Labour Organization Core Conventions. In 2016, there were no incidents of violations or risk to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In 2013, at Cerro Negro, in Argentina, freedom of association and collective bargaining were identified as being potentially at risk from trade union members exerting undue pressure on workers. To support worker rights, we support and permit employees to form a union as laid out under Argentinian law. Of our direct employee base, 48% of our total employees were represented by a collective bargaining agreement in 2016. The percentage of our contractor workforce covered by similar agreements is unknown. 2016 TOTAL NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES REPRESENTED REPRESENTED BY EMPLOYEES (EXCLUDING BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REGION CONTRACTORS) AGREEMENTS AGREEMENTS (%) Canada 3,129 285 9% Latin America 5,583 3,882 70% Total 8,712 4,167 48% 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 107 OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE CASE STUDIES DIVERSITY IN MINING One of our core values is Empowering Others, with diversity being one of our top priorities. Although more women are now pursuing careers in mining, it continues to be a male-dominated industry. In 2016, we were among 11 major BC companies that pledged to accelerate gender diversity in the workplace and women’s representation in leadership roles. The CEO Pledge is an initiative of the Minerva Foundation, a BC non-profit organization helping women gain confidence and capabilities to be business leaders. “Studies show consistently that gender diversity correlates with better business outcomes,” says Minerva CEO Adine Mees. We have been working to improve progress in gender diversity for some time, and not just in Canada. Our Creating Choices program launched in 2011 as an enterprise-wide training and mentoring initiative for women. Creating Choices is available at every Goldcorp operation and office throughout the Americas. More than 1,700 women have graduated from Creating Choices and Growing Choices, the second phase of the program. In late 2016, we launched a diversity survey conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to better understand where we are as an organization and to identify opportunities to do more to make our workplaces more diverse and inclusive. Over 3,000 full time, salaried employees across the organization participated. When PwC benchmarked us against other companies surveyed, it showed that we are a diverse workforce that respects and values the perspectives, experience and cultures of our people. 86% of respondents agreed that diversity contributes to business success. Based on the responses, we were able to determine that, as an organization, we represent over 80 different nationalities, speak more than 20 different languages (with over 20% of respondents being multilingual), and practice more than ten different religions, beliefs and non-faiths. In addition, 13% of respondents self-identify as Indigenous and 2% identify as LGBTQI. Our most common form of disability is hearing-related. While we received a lot of positive feedback, we are only at the beginning of our diversity and inclusion journey and there are opportunities to do more. This year, improving and addressing gender diversity in entry-level and middle management roles forms part of our corporate scorecard. We also have a Diversity Committee working to create a diversity vision and strategy that will be presented to the Board later this year. The diversity of our people is what will make us successful in the future and will ensure that we can continue Together, Creating Sustainable Value. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 108 OUR PEOPLE BUILDING MINING LEADERS OF TOMORROW We believe in supporting programs that encourage youth to pursue careers in mining and to create long-term socio-economic benefits in the communities where we operate. This past summer, our Éléonore mine in Northern Québec welcomed several new faces to its workforce with its Summer Student Employment Program (SSEP). The SSEP was launched as an opportunity for Cree students at a post-secondary education level to learn more about the mining industry. The SSEP differs from classroom training in that it allows students to build skills through hands-on work experience alongside miners and employees. The program is in its third year. This past summer, six students got to work in different areas of the mine, from surface maintenance to catering and administration. Allowing the students to experience these different roles gives them a broad understanding of the different areas that make up a mine site. “Having these students integrated within our workforce at Éléonore allows them to enhance their skills and gain valuable work experience in a world-class mining operation,” says Éléonore Mine General Manager Guy Belleau. “By having students exposed to our strong safety culture, we are also contributing to building the mining leaders of tomorrow.” The SSEP was created in partnership with the Cree Nation Government’s Cree Human Resources Department (CHRD), which provides skills development, training programs and employment services to assist Cree and nonCree community members with preparing for and maintaining jobs, while also building fulfilling careers. “Every year, the CHRD invests funds throughout the Cree communities and territory for projects such as this one. We are pleased to have Goldcorp open its doors and welcome the Cree students, allowing them to gain valuable work experience,” says Abel Trapper, CHRD Territorial Programs Coordinator. “We appreciate having these types of working relationships with industry partners; it’s a step towards creating sustainable employment for the Cree.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 109 OUR PEOPLE GRADUATING INTO THE TALENT PIPELINE A cornerstone program in our talent management strategy, the three-year Graduate Development Program (GDP) offers new graduates from Canadian universities a place to start and build their careers. Launched in 2014, the GDP accelerates technical development and leadership competencies among graduates and supports their integration into the workforce. During the course of the GDP, graduates go through planned rotations of our Canadian operations, where they achieve development milestones and acquire the technical skills needed to obtain their specified professional designation. The GDP also allows graduates to gain the opportunity to secure a permanent placement upon completion of the program. In addition to technical skills training, the GDP includes a leadership development component which is delivered via workshops and inter-session missions. This supports the GDP participant in taking ownership of their development path and growing leadership and team skills. Éléonore Mining Engineer Victoria Mauro joined Goldcorp and the GDP in April 2014 after graduating from Queen’s University. She shared: “The GDP has provided me with the opportunity to work at two Goldcorp sites, while rotating through several positions within the engineering field. Not only does the program make us better-rounded in our careers, it is also an excellent networking tool for all participants.” Habiba Essak, Porcupine Industrial Hygienist, graduated from Ryerson University and joined us in 2014, completing her first rotation at Musselwhite. Her experience has been rewarding both professionally and personally – she attributes much of her professional growth to the support of her supervisors, mentors, and colleagues. She says: “I’ve learned a lot about mining and industrial hygiene over the past three years, and this program has helped immensely in preparing for my professional designation.” Within her cohort, she has also met a great group of friends with whom she can relate because of shared experiences and goals. Since its launch, the GDP has had 38 graduates join the program in disciplines ranging from environment, exploration geology, industrial hygiene, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, mining engineering, production geology, civil engineering and geotechnical engineering. Wade Bristol, Senior Vice President, Canada Operations, adds: “At Goldcorp, our greatest strength is our people. The Graduate Development Program is the embodiment of our culture and it is an integral part of our commitment to investing in our future leaders.” Building on the success of the Canadian program, we are currently looking to develop the GDP into a global program in order to offer the same opportunity to graduates in Latin America. “We remain committed to growing our people at Goldcorp, and expanding our GDP program to Latin America reinforces the value of our diverse workforce. This program provides an opportunity for personal and professional growth while enabling the mobility of our talent at the grass roots. I am delighted this will now be a global program that can harness the power of the next generation of leaders in support of our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value,” adds Joanne Klein, Vice President, People. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 110 SETTING THE HIGHEST SAFETY STANDARD SAFETY AND HEALTH KEY STATISTICS WE REDUCED OUR ALL VISION INJURY FREQUENCY RATE “Safe Enough for Our Families.” It’s the phrase that captures one of our core strengths and sets a standard that guides (AIFR) BY 11%, from 282 reported injuries in 2015 to 221 in 2016. We reduced our Lost our efforts to ensure and support the safety and health of Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by 4%, from our people at work, at home and in their communities. 55 reported lost time injuries in 2015 to 47 in 2016. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS • We failed to reach our main objective of Zero Fatalities. OVER 312,000 SAFETY A thorough investigation was completed after the fatality ENGAGEMENTS with employees and in our Marlin mine, and we spent the remainder of 2016 contractors were completed by our mine focused on improving ground control management at all of management teams across our operations. our sites. • We experienced a step-change improvement in safety 124 PFOs were reported in 2016, compared leadership and engagement through the StepIn program. to 107 in 2015. This increase is largely due to As a result, the quality of employee-led interactions greatly greater awareness and reporting of incidents that improved and our safety performance as measured by injury had the potential of fatal consequences. frequency rates improved. • 2016 saw an increase in the number of incidents we classify as Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs). We view this as a positive trend as our employees are getting better at recognizing and reporting conditions and situations that could potentially lead to serious injury or fatality. • All our sites and offices halted production to participate in our fourth annual Day of Remembrance. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 111 SAFETY AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS Across the mining industry, the number of mining fatalities and non-fatal injuries is decreasing. Compared to other industries, however, injury rates remain high. As gold grades decline and new deposits are harder to find, we can expect mining conditions to become more challenging. As a result, the industry is investing in new technology to reduce these risks. One area we are exploring is remote operation of surface and underground equipment and the use of drones to inspect and measure difficult to access areas. We are evaluating the use of autonomous vehicles where the equipment self-operates without the need for operator intervention. The skill-set needed for mining is also changing. As we introduce new technology, recruitment and training programs will need to be modified to accommodate these differences. Additionally, the overall focus on health in the workplace is expanding; not only exposures to materials such as respirable dust and silica, and environmental conditions such as noise and heat, but the overall health of the worker and its impact on safety is of increased priority. Managing fatigue, obesity and musculoskeletal diseases takes a comprehensive approach that looks at work and home environment, fitness, diet and medical or occupational health monitoring. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Our stakeholders want us to ensure that our working environment is safe, and that we are committed to ensuring safe and healthy working conditions for all. They want us to cooperate with interested parties and with the industry on safety and health matters to improve the industry as a whole. They want to eliminate fatalities, and for us to re-examine our workplace practices and address issues identified as precursors to safety incidents. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? Safety is critical to us because our people are our strength, today and in the future. Of all our company values, none is more important than safety: no ounce of gold is worth risking a life or injury. Our commitment, above anything else, is to have Zero Fatalities. We failed in that objective in 2016, and it is clear we have more work to do in this area. Safety begins with preparation: anticipating incidents before they happen and improving ongoing training to identify risks and respond appropriately when the unexpected happens. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 112 SAFETY AND HEALTH OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to create and maintain a culture of safety and health in the workplace, as embodied in our safety vision, “Safe Enough for Our Families”. We recognize that individuals are ultimately responsible for their own safety, and we strive to equip our employees with the tools, training and attitudes needed for continual safety awareness. Continual monitoring and evaluation of our safety performance is integral for us to achieve our vision. Our Safety and Health strategy is embedded in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). Our strategy is as follows: GOLDCORP SAFETY AND HEALTH STRATEGY Leadership engagement Focus on the Strengthen safety and and accountability highest risks health systems SAFE ENOUGH FOR OUR FAMILIES ZERO FATALITIES 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 113 SAFETY AND HEALTH We believe that we can only achieve our vision of “Safe Enough for Our Families” when each and every Goldcorp employee is actively engaged in our safety culture. We realize that our systems and processes are only as good as the leadership and commitment we demonstrate on the job. Our vision is reflected in three basic principles: Care, Think and Act. LY Care: We provide an environment that demonstrates that safety is a core value, that we care about our people, and that we are prepared to listen, learn and act. Think: All tasks contain an element of risk. We expect all employees to think about their actions – not only about the impact a decision might have on themselves, but also their co-workers. Act: We provide procedures, programs, systems and training to ensure that tasks can be completed safely. We encourage all employees to share best practices and improve the ways in which we carry out our work functions. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Our corporate safety and health function is headed by the Vice President of Safety and Health, who reports directly to the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The Vice President of Safety and Health is responsible for the oversight, strategic development and management of our safety and health policies, programs and activities. They work with all functions of the organization, including Operations, Exploration, Projects and Administration, to enable safety excellence across the company. All our operations have Safety and Health managers responsible for supporting the implementation of our strategies on a day-to-day basis. Our Chief Executive Officer is ultimately accountable for our safety performance. At the Board level, the Sustainability Committee has oversight of all safety and health functions. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 114 SAFETY AND HEALTH ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS TALKING SAFETY AND HEALTH WITH TODD WHITE, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER AND EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT From the Safety and Health perspective, what were Goldcorp’s main accomplishments in 2016? For me, the year’s major accomplishment was the rollout of our StepIn program. This is a leadership program for mine site supervisors, which provides them with the tools and skills they need to do their jobs and meet our safety excellence standards. What is especially exciting is that StepIn is developed and delivered by the leadership at each site. The sites choose their specific areas of focus and take ownership of their training and management. As a result, we’ve seen increased engagement in safety along the responsibility chain, from site leadership to supervisors to workers – and a positive improvement in the level of individual accountability for safety. What were some of Goldcorp’s Safety and Health challenges in 2016, and what did the company learn from them? The biggest challenge has been ground stability. While we have strong technical expertise and standards throughout the company, the fatality at the Marlin mine in Guatemala showed there is more work to be done. On April 14, 2016, Jaime Otero Pérez López, an underground miner helper, was killed by a rockfall while working near an open stope at the mine. Operations at the mine were suspended and a thorough investigation was conducted to determine the cause of the incident. The incident occurred as a result of a massive stope failure in a recently blasted stope. As a result of findings from the investigation, in 2016 we audited our sites against their Ground Control Management Plans and the managing process each site uses to ensure they are updated and followed. The plans not only include the geotechnical requirements to maintain safe ground conditions, but also operational requirements such as quality control, barricading, change management and auditing and inspection procedures. These plans are critical operating tools to maintain the safety of our mines. What is Goldcorp doing to ensure that workforce safety remains the top priority? We are making significant improvements to our overall safety systems. Last year, we re-wrote our safety standards, making them more straightforward and simpler to follow. We rolled out an improved methodology for investigating incidents. In 2017, we’re working on a new, improved framework for risk management within our safety system. We are putting in place proactive measures that will focus on incident prevention. We improved our internal online safety-related web pages to make it easier for workers and supervisors to learn about safety and follow safety trends. We launched a company-wide safety app, digitizing our Golden Guide – a field pocket guide to safety at Goldcorp, and including up to date information on recent incidents, safety shares and employee interaction at your fingertips. We are also using our Five Point card to encourage leadership engagement with safety. The Five Point card has been used in Canadian underground mining for over 40 years – it is an easy-to-use personal safety checklist that addresses the safety of the workplace and requires each worker to commit to safety. The cards are now used at all our mines and in all operating areas. We are asking our leaders to go to the field and engage directly with their teams using the card as a starting point for safety discussions. We know that when a leader has a direct face-to-face conversation, it will be remembered as a positive experience and a strong reinforcement of safety-conscious behaviour. I think the most important thing we have at Goldcorp is our connection to family, and connecting safety to the family. We recognize that at our Day of Remembrance and in our Golden Guide. On the first page of the Golden Guide is a photo of the people you care most about, to remind you why it’s important to work safely every day. It is a great way to start conversation by sharing your family photo with a work crew. My family and their support is why I do the work I do and I like to think of the employees at Goldcorp as part of my extended family. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 115 SAFETY AND HEALTH How is Goldcorp advancing health initiatives, both in the workplace and with local communities? In 2016, we laid the groundwork for health improvements with a new data-collection system for health-related information that will be used at all of our sites. This will help us improve consistency in our monitoring programs and controls around health, on issues like dust exposure and noise. It will also allow better analysis and use of the data. In addition, we have been encouraging dialogue on mental health. We brought in experts to talk about mental health in Toronto and Vancouver, and we have strong programs at several of our sites. It’s important to create safe zones where people can talk about sensitive subjects, especially in some of our smaller, remote communities. We understand that the more we talk about mental health, the less of a stigma it becomes. As for health in local communities, our operating sites work with community partners to advance health-related initiatives. For example, at Los Filos, during their annual health and safety fair, various types of health screening and counselling were available to community members. Many volunteers and community health providers provide information on preventative health care – managing stress, reducing fatigue and eating well. Innovation is key to Goldcorp’s future. What innovations are in the future for Safety and Health? We are actively researching and implementing new technologies to improve safety in our mines. Because the best way to reduce the potential for injury is to reduce exposure to hazards, we are using automation and remote operation technologies that allow people to operate heavy machinery at an underground mine from the surface. We are also using drones to provide measurements of hard to access locations. The future is to further advance these technologies and rethink how to mine differently. For example, our Borden project is being designed as an all-electric underground mine, which means the underground equipment will have no diesel emissions, which improves overall air quality underground. It also means there is no need for huge, noisy ventilation systems, which will make the operating environment quieter and safer. An all-electric operation also virtually eliminates the need for compressed air for pumps and other equipment, removing another source of potential injury from energy stored in compressed gases. Those are just a few of the innovations that we are working on that have direct safety implications. This is a very exciting time for health and safety in mining, where new technology is preventing injury and improving health in so many ways. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 116 SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY In 2016, we invested heavily to improve the safety culture throughout the company. The main focus was to assist sites in the implementation of the SEMS. In addition, initiatives such as safety training and coaching, risk assessments, increased meaningful employee engagements, emergency preparedness programs, and audits to assess safety performance led to an overall improvement in safety as measured by the AIFR and reduced tolerance of risk. SAFETY PROGRAMS AND TRAINING Safety training is the way to build a safety culture that develops our people to take leadership in safety, at work and at home. We provide training on all technical, behavioural and cultural aspects of safety. To keep our people up to date with the latest in safety advancements, both inside and outside the industry, we encourage employees to participate in external training, conferences and workshops. Each mine operation develops its own approach for safety programs within our overall vision and framework for coaching, training, workshops and program development. This ensures a successful, sustainable implementation with the necessary cultural and site-specific nuances. In 2016, we continued our many initiatives aimed at improving safety, including: • “Safe Enough for Our Families”: continued promotion and senior management support for our safety vision. Videos describing the vision’s three key themes – Care, Think, Act – continue to be distributed to employees and contractors. • The company-wide Day of Remembrance, which commemorated those who lost their lives working at Goldcorp operations and served as a launching event for numerous safety programs. • The Mine Safety Roundtable and the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM): we participate in these groups for benchmarking and sharing industry best practices in safety and injury prevention. • Technical safety training is primarily provided at the operational level. Our technical safety training programs include mine rescue training, the stope school (at Ontario mines), equipment operation, first aid, simulator training and occupational health awareness training. INTERNATIONAL MINES RESCUE COMPETITION We participated in the tenth International Mines Rescue Competition (IMRC). The event took place in Sudbury, Ontario with 27 mine rescue teams, representing 13 nations, competing in a number of events including an underground scenario, firefighting, first aid and more. While past competitions used simulations, this year’s event took a different approach by using two inactive mines to create a more authentic environment. The competition, held every two years, promotes training through high-level competition and draws mine rescue specialists from many of the world’s biggest mining companies. We entered an international team with representatives from each of our underground mine sites. This was the first time the team had worked together. The team displayed great skill, competitiveness and team spirit and also stood out for embracing diversity. Goldcorp Americas was the only multi-national team competing at the event, the only team made up entirely of volunteers and the only team led by a female captain. DAY OF REMEMBRANCE On October 6, 2016, all our sites and offices stopped production to participate in our annual Day of Remembrance (DOR). Since 2013, we have shut down production for a day and every Goldcorp employee and contractor has stopped to remember those who have lost their lives at our operations. This day is our opportunity to reflect on the importance of safety and what actions we can take to make Goldcorp Safe Enough for Our Families. This year’s event was more relevant than ever, with Goldcorp having suffered two fatalities since the previous year’s Day of Remembrance. Building on 2015’s theme of “I Am Responsible and I Can Make a Difference”, the key objective for 2016 was “I Will Speak Up for Safety”. The day consisted of a combination of videos, statistics, discussions and interactive exercises to help us build our skills as safety leaders at Goldcorp and enable each of us to speak up for safety. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 117 SAFETY AND HEALTH Similar to previous years, our senior executives ‘adopted’ a site for the Day of Remembrance. By adopting a site, the executive commits not only to supporting the site for the Day of Remembrance event, but also to participating in reviews of serious incidents and quarterly safety discussions throughout the year. For 2017, each site will work with their respective executive to create their own plan for their next DOR and each site will hold the event at a time that will be most effective for them. STEPIN The StepIn leadership investment program is focused on providing the tools and skills supervisors need to do their jobs and is a standardized application of the basic elements of mine site supervision. Its objective is for mine managers to work with supervisors to ensure they have all the skills and tools needed to be successful and that our standard of excellence is well understood. StepIn is currently in full implementation at all our sites. At a recent Operations Leadership Team meeting, Peñasquito and Musselwhite presented their approach to StepIn to improve collaboration. Peñasquito has linked its program to the site operations model by mapping a clear process and structure. The objective of its program is to support our leaders in engaging their people to work more safely by helping them better utilize the skills and tools needed to be successful. The site team has established training material and visual action logs, and created a site map visually demonstrating where engagements are occurring and whether there are outcomes or follow-ups from the engagements. A behavioural training program called Working Together has been effective in building the team and helping improve how leaders empower their employees. Musselwhite has also implemented StepIn coaching to empower the supervisor to manage his or her team and workplace effectively and respectfully. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENTS Since July 2015, we have established employee engagements as a corporate leading indicator on safety performance. The purpose of these engagements is to involve our employees in the identification and discussion of safety and health practices and risks, intended to reduce injuries and achieve our objective of Zero Fatalities. Each site establishes a target of engagements for managers to complete each month (planned engagements) and measures all completed engagements (actual engagements). In 2016, the sites had a target of 261,000 management engagements and achieved over 312,000 engagements. SAFETY AND HEALTH SYSTEMS We are rolling out a new incident investigation process that will simplify investigations and increase the effectiveness of corrective action plans. Under the new methodology, investigation teams will use two new tools to identify key factors and root causes that contribute to incidents: the Five Whys and the Why Tree. The idea behind each of these methods is that investigation teams will ask “Why?” a number of times until a root cause can be identified and corrected. This will simplify the investigative process and allow teams to focus on the most important components of incident investigation: corrective actions. The new incident investigation process will aim to prevent the recurrence of significant incidents. Training began in the Latin American region and the new methodology is expected to be fully adopted by all sites in 2017. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 118 SAFETY AND HEALTH POTENTIAL FATAL OCCURRENCES Reporting and investigating PFOs is a critical part of preventing fatalities, as it allows for the sharing of information and enables us to learn from each other and implement changes based on the recommendations. We define PFOs as near-miss incidents or violations of our life-saving rules that had the potential to result in a fatal occurrence. Preventing such incidents is critical in achieving our number one objective: Zero Fatalities. In 2016, there were 124 PFOs, compared to 107 in 2015. This increase is largely due to greater awareness throughout the organization and support for reporting all incidents that had the potential for fatal consequences. Approximately 87% of these PFOs had no injury associated. High-risk areas identified through the analysis of the 124 PFOs from 2016 include: • Working at heights • Ground stability • Energy isolation • Vehicle collisions The improvement in reporting and investigation of PFOs remains a focus across the company, as our safety leaders continue to emphasize the importance of prevention, mitigation and communication of the types of incidents that could potentially cause a fatality. Each PFO is reviewed by at least one member of our senior leadership team as part of the closeout of the incident investigation. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 119 SAFETY AND HEALTH INJURY AND ILLNESS PERFORMANCE METRICS Our vision of making Goldcorp Safe Enough for Our Families is well understood by our employees and we continue to advance safety performance across all regions of our operations and projects. At the end of 2016, we demonstrated improvement in our safety performance as measured by the frequency of reportable incidents. The All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR) improved by 11% and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) improved by 4%. We experienced a fatality as a result of a collapse of ground on April 14, 2016 at the Marlin mine. 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Total fatalities 1 1 0 2 2 (2) 4 (2) 1 (0) 1 (0) 3 (1) Note: Contractor fatalities are in parentheses (e.g., in 2011, two of the four fatalities involved contractors). 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 AIFR (200,000 hours) 1.12 1.26 1.50 1.65 1.65 1.94 2.63 2.89 3.39 LTIFR (200,000 hours) 0.24 0.25 0.31 0.33 0.33 0.31 0.36 0.34 0.61 ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) AND LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) (200,000 hours normalization) n AIFR n LTIFR 2.0 1.65 1.50 1.5 1.26 1.12 1.0 0.5 0.33 0.30 0.25 0.24 0.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2 Fatalities 0 Fatalities 1 Fatality 1 Fatality Minor injuries, such as first aids, are not included in AIFR or LTIFR. We follow the ICMM guidelines for reporting and recording injuries and incidents. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 120 SAFETY AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS We recognize that there is more to ensuring worker and community health and well-being than simply working to prevent injuries. We strive to create and maintain a safe, healthy working environment through the prevention and treatment of occupational diseases. We want our workforce and our neighbouring communities to avoid exposure to occupational illnesses that are both preventable and detectable. Through biological monitoring, environmental monitoring and various medical examinations, we seek to prevent occupational diseases from arising in the first place. Common occupational diseases in the mining industry include dust and noise exposure, fatigue, and trauma from vibration and strains. We follow a hierarchy of hazard controls to reduce and eliminate environmental exposure to occupational disease, where the last line of defence is Personal Protective Equipment and the strongest defence is eliminating the hazard altogether. Sites reported a total of 39 occupational diseases in 2016, which amounts to an occupational disease rate (ODR) of 0.20. Our industrial hygiene program, rolled out in 2013, has helped sites implement best practices to identify and mitigate risks associated with exposures. TOP THREE OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES Hearing loss Hand-arm vibration Carpal tunnel syndrome In general, each mine carries out its own specific occupational health program, depending on its individual demographics and risks of exposure. Programs include health sampling and surveys for hazards such as chemical, dust and noise exposures, as well as providing such services as ergonomic surveys, pulmonary function tests and physical exams. Although no specific corporate-wide programs exist, several mines have proactive programs in place to address the potential for serious diseases and health problems, including drug and alcohol abuse, smoking cessation and diabetes. During 2016, mines completed their quantitative characterization of site exposures for chemical, physical, ergonomic and biological agents. This work will serve as the basis for site industrial hygiene monitoring plans for 2017, and for ongoing risk assessment activities. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 121 SAFETY AND HEALTH IMPLEMENTATION OF INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH SOFTWARE Over the summer, the Occupational Health and Safety team initiated detailed design of the Industrial Hygiene/ Occupational Hygiene (IH/OH) modules within our sustainability and safety management software. Completed IH/OH qualitative risk assessments and Similar Exposure Group (SEG) development will be incorporated into the software tool to develop and report on leading indicators such as air sampling and medical monitoring. The software tool, and access to the detailed information captured within the tool, will improve our ability to anticipate, recognize, evaluate and prevent occupational diseases. COMMUNITY SAFETY AND HEALTH PROGRAMS For the benefit of our local communities, we coordinate health programs that provide basic medical services through local community and government organizations. Several mines also offer wellness programs for employees, family members and local communities. For example, Red Lake, Los Filos and Peñasquito hosted popular health and safety fairs, which welcomed local communities on-site for educational and fun activities to raise awareness about health and safety in the community and on-site. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 122 SAFETY AND HEALTH SAFETY AND HEALTH CASE STUDIES TEAMWORK AND SKILL ON DISPLAY: A POINT OF PRIDE In 2016, we sponsored and participated in the tenth annual International Mines Rescue Competition in Sudbury, Ontario. The well-attended competition is a global event focused on improving mine rescue knowledge and safety practices, as well as providing an opportunity for participants to demonstrate their abilities and commitment to excellence in mine safety. There were 27 mine rescue teams, representing 13 nations, competing in a number of events including an underground scenario, firefighting exercises, first aid and a high angle rope rescue. Held every two years, the competition draws mine rescue specialists from the world’s biggest mining companies and promotes training through high-level tests. While past competitions used simulations, this year’s event took a different approach by using two inactive mines to create a more authentic and realistic environment. The simulated scenario for 2016 was an underground fire where two miners had gone missing. During the exercise, the teams had to change the mine’s ventilation, compromised by the fire, by building a wall in a smoke-filled and heated environment. The simulation called for one of the missing miners to be found seriously injured, which put the team’s first aid skills to a challenging test. “International competitions are a unique opportunity for mine rescue team members from different nations to meet their peers, improve mine rescue skills, exchange technical and organizational knowledge and share practical experiences,” says Todd White, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President. “Serving on a mine rescue team is one of the best ways to gain leadership experience and I couldn’t be more proud of the way our team worked together.” Goldcorp Americas was the only multi-national team competing at the event, the only team made up entirely of volunteers and the only team led by a female captain. “Our team displayed great skill, competitiveness and team spirit and also stood out for embracing diversity,” says Paul Magny, Senior Safety Coordinator, Porcupine Gold Mines. “Throughout our team building, we very quickly eliminated any barriers and individualism, which strengthened our cohesion. It was truly inspiring to see individuals transform to create such a strong, collaborative unit, and from the first day we knew we had something very special.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 123 SAFETY AND HEALTH DAY OF REMEMBRANCE 2016 On October 6, 2016, all our sites and offices halted production to participate in our Day of Remembrance, an annual event where our employees and contractors stop to remember those who have lost their lives or been seriously injured in industrial accidents, and recommit to our ongoing vision of ensuring all of our work environments are Safe Enough for Our Families. This year, the key theme was I Will Speak Up for Safety. Part of what makes this event unique is that all of our sites customize activities to fit with their unique workforce. At Red Lake Gold Mines in Ontario, two employees shared their courageous journeys overcoming safety-related obstacles. One speaker reflected on his challenges being fit for work while dealing with substance abuse issues, while the other reflected on his journey back to work following a serious injury suffered in an underground mining accident. Employees at the Musselwhite mine heard from a guest speaker about how his life had been impacted as a result of losing his left arm in a workplace accident. His testimony focused on the ripple effect, and how a split-second decision – many of which our miners face every day – impacted not only his life, but that of his family, forever. Meanwhile, employees at the Vancouver head office, a high-risk earthquake zone compared to the rest of Canada, learned about important earthquake preparedness information. While a large part of the day is focused on remembrance and areas of safety improvement, we also believe it is important to stop and recognize our safety successes. The Éléonore mine in Québec did just that, taking time out to acknowledge the teams and individuals being awarded the 2015 John T. Ryan Regional Safety Trophy for being the operation with the lowest reportable injury rate among Québec’s metal mines. Todd White, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President, summed it up: “This truly is a remarkable day for our company. The things that really stand out are the silence and sense of community. “Rarely do you experience a mine shut-down – no trucks on the road, no conveyors running, no mills turning, no beeping of horns. Secondly, that sense of community – everyone in the room working together, feeling the common bond of working safely together.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 124 SAFETY AND HEALTH THE MINE RESCUE COMMUNITY: VOLUNTEERS ON GUARD Every underground miner knows the risks inherent in the job. Our miners work with the assurance that – in addition to their safety training and protective gear – they have a trained and equipped mine rescue team ready to step in during an emergency. Mine rescuers are highly trained in the skills and techniques required to enter dangerous, potentially lifethreatening situations. Every one of them at Goldcorp is a volunteer, which raises the question: what kind of person volunteers for mine rescue? We asked some of our mine rescue leaders just that. “Being a rescuer is a mindset. They’re the kind of person who steps forward in a situation when others step back.” Says Alain Trudel, Emergency Coordinator at Éléonore mine: “Mine rescuers are people who are really involved – they’re not backbenchers. They have a sense of leadership and engagement.” REAL-LIFE RESCUE SITUATIONS Today’s mines are safer than ever, but incidents still occur. Every one of the rescuers we interviewed told a story about helping injured underground workers to the surface, or facing underground fires. Trudel recounted a harrowing story from his pre-Goldcorp days of a fire on a remote-controlled scoop tram. It took three missions for the team to bring the fire under control. The rescuer’s attitude doesn’t end at the mine gate. In 2015, the Peñasquito team helped respond to a multiple fatality traffic accident in the town of Mazapil. According to Todd White, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President, “It is shocking and upsetting to see your neighbours injured, but the team bonded together and stepped in to help. There was tremendous pride that they could apply their expertise and help their community.” Ron Ouellette, Underground Miner at Red Lake, adds: “In 2016, I had to use first aid outside of work three times. These experiences provide added motivation for me to participate in mine rescue, because not only does it help me at work, but it also helps me in everyday life.” While traveling home one Christmas, he and his wife were the first to provide aid at the scene of a three-car pileup. MAINTAINING A CONTINUAL STATE OF READINESS White says mine rescuers thrive on teamwork and challenge: “In mine rescue, you’re constantly learning, constantly being tested.” Annual mine rescue competitions at the provincial, national and international levels pit rescue teams against each other, and teams put in months of extra training to hone their skills. Rick Ladouceur, Safety and Training Manager at Musselwhite mine, gave an example. “One year, the team trained with garbage bags over our heads. This simulated working without lights or in thick smoke. I remember becoming almost angry at it. But we won the provincials! And if we end up in a real situation, we’d be able to face it without thinking.” Our triennial Mine Rescue Summit brings together rescue teams from every Goldcorp mine, with interpreters to overcome the language barriers of French, English and Spanish. According to Uchtenhagen, “It’s collaborative, not competitive. We’re not gladiators at the summit!” “It’s about teamwork,” says Ladouceur. “It reminds you why you got into mine rescue in the first place.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 125 SAFETY AND HEALTH THE COMMUNITY OF MINE RESCUERS Everyone we spoke to agreed: mine rescue people are a special breed. Uchtenhagen says, “When it comes to helping their fellow worker, they are the heart and soul of the organization. It’s really something special.” Thank you to all mine rescue workers for your commitment to helping others and ensuring safety at Goldcorp. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 126 WORKING TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL KEY STATISTICS STEWARDSHIP MARLIN SOURCED 100% OF ITS POWER FROM VISION RENEWABLE BIOMASS, saving approximately 40,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide We are committed to the protection of life, health and the equivalent (CO2e) over simply purchasing power environment for present and future generations. At every from the public grid. stage of the mining life cycle, we work to avoid, reduce or mitigate any negative environmental impacts. APPROXIMATELY 2016 HIGHLIGHTS 99,000 TONNES OF CO2e • We launched an ambitious program, Towards Zero Water were saved as a result of Peñasquito and Los Filos (H2Zero), beginning a ten-year journey to drastically reduce both sourcing 96% of their power from an efficient, our water consumption. combined-cycle natural gas power plant. • We completed the five-year implementation of our energy strategy and have now incorporated energy WE SAVED 175,000 TONNES management in our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS). Energy efficiency is now a regular OF CO2e in 2016 and achieved 73% of our target to reduce annual greenhouse gas (GHG) consideration at our operations. emissions by 20%, or by 240,000 tonnes of CO2e. • We are advancing our research on EcoTails. The EcoTails project is completing the pre-feasibility research phase, with test work underway at Peñasquito and Éléonore. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 127 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS Some of the macro environmental trends facing the mining industry are water, energy, climate change and the management of mining waste. There is increased competition for access to fresh water. Regulations around greenhouse gas emissions are on the rise. Dynamic weather patterns and changing ecosystems are influencing society in new ways. Mine waste management is under heightened public scrutiny as a result of mine legacy sites and major tailings dam failures in recent years. As awareness of all these issues grows, and tolerance for negative environmental impacts decreases, the extractives industry will face increasing regulatory and societal pressure to improve its sustainability performance, transparency and innovation. To be sustainable, our industry must not only embrace change, but be an agent of it. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Stakeholders want assurance that we are avoiding, or managing, and mitigating the environmental impacts of our operations. They recognize the importance of the earth and its resources to our operations and their own livelihoods. For many of our stakeholders, water stewardship and energy efficiency are top priorities. Topics such as climate change, water quality and availability, and environmental spills and tailings dam breaches are common concerns. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? We are committed to the efficient use of natural resources, and we understand the importance of these natural resources to us and to our stakeholders. We also recognize that without proper care of the environment, we cannot operate. A successful mining company must be more than just economically profitable in the short term. Success is based on many factors beyond economic profit, and it must be sustained from exploration through mine closure. Our stewardship of the environment, and our ability to innovate in mining technology, are integral to our company’s sustainability. OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to identify and proactively mitigate and manage our environmental impacts. We have embedded our environmental stewardship strategy in our SEMS, which provides a standardized, systematized approach to environmental management in key areas, including specific strategies for Water and Tailings Stewardship. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY At the Board level, the Sustainability Committee oversees the key environmental aspects and activities (for more information, see the section on Board Oversight of Sustainability). Environmental programs are headed by the Vice President of Environment, who reports to the Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 128 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS TALKING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WITH LISA WADE, VICE PRESIDENT, ENVIRONMENT When you reflect on 2016, what are some of the year’s highlights and accomplishments in environmental stewardship at Goldcorp? Our Towards Zero Water (H2Zero) initiative is the year’s highlight. It’s a long-term goal – we have internal targets looking ten years out – but firmly establishing the direction is a significant statement. We are well positioned to begin moving Towards Zero Water. In recent years, through our Water Stewardship Strategy, we have already made tremendous progress. We’ve tightened up our data collection and metrics, we’ve refined our definitions and internal language around water use, and we’ve made sure we have the right studies and science in place to understand our potential impacts. All of this activity sets us up well for moving Towards Zero Water. Since launching our H2Zero Initiative, we decided it would be critical to understand as much as we can about the true cost of water at our mine sites. Some mines pay for their water rights, but that’s far from the end of their costs. It takes infrastructure, energy and labour to extract water, to move it around a site, to store it, to treat it, and to discharge it. Additionally, the water infrastructure requires ongoing maintenance and upgrades, and often replacement at one or multiple points during the life of a mine. It’s not a simple analysis to figure out the cost of water. The more we learn, the more we realize we need to include – but getting as close as we can to identifying the true costs of water is essential if we are going to show both the return on investment of our H2Zero program, as well as its potential to add to our net asset value. We will complete the cost analysis at key operations by the end of 2017. In addition to our aggressive H2Zero program, I also want to mention our success at the Marlin mine, where 100% of last year’s electrical energy came from renewable biomass. After research into power generation options that were the most cost-effective for the mine, the mine manager found a supplier of “green” power generated from the biomass waste from sugarcane farming. This source proved to be both economical and environmentally beneficial at the same time. What were some of the year’s challenges from an environmental perspective? It is no secret that tailings impoundments can give rise to environmental issues and stakeholder concern. As part of our regular monitoring program, we detected some changes to water quality in the Peñasquito tailings impoundment’s groundwater monitor wells. These wells are located within our property boundary and are part of the monitoring that we report to the regulatory agencies. An extensive characterization program of the issue was undertaken including the installation of additional monitoring wells and significant work was done conducting hydrogeological testing in the area. This work resulted in the development of a corrective action plan that includes the installation of a capture and pumpback system. The actual installation of this pumpback system commenced in 2016 and will continue during 2017 when the system also becomes operational. While the science and operation of seepage collection and pumpback systems are well understood and have been used in the mining industry successfully for some time, we are committed to drastically improving the way tailings impoundments behave in the future. We have been a leader in the installation and operation of filtered tailings facilities that contain significantly less water than traditional tailings, and have the potential to drastically reduce environmental risk. This is a key opportunity as we advance our H2Zero goal. We have a successful history of implementing filtered tailings at the El Sauzal mine, the Marlin mine, and most recently at the Éléonore mine. However, this has not been easy or simple in most cases and there have been a lot of lessons learned along the way. The major challenge at this point with this technology is scaling it up to our large throughput mines while maintaining economic viability. We feel the possible return on solving this problem would be transformational for our industry and our environmental footprint. Success of innovation is never a guarantee, but we have seen promising signals as we advance in this area. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 129 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Another challenge was the delay in moving our wind farm project forward at Cerro Negro. We had hoped that the feasibility study would have been complete by now, but there have been a number of issues that have held things back. Competing priorities is a constant issue in all areas, but we continue to view this potential project as worthwhile, and therefore work on the feasibility study will continue in 2017. What issues or trends will affect Goldcorp in the coming years when it comes to the management of environmental issues? Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, mine waste and water management are major issues for our industry. As part of the Pan‐Canadian framework, in 2016 the Canadian government outlined its proposed approach to carbon pricing in Canada, known as the Pan‐Canadian Pricing on Carbon Pollution. The approach sets a minimum price on carbon of $10 per tonne in 2018. The minimum price increases by $10 a year to reach $50 per tonne in 2022. In the province of Ontario, Canada, the government has announced a cap-and-trade program to reduce GHG emissions and help address climate change. As a company with three mines and a development project in that province, we are following these regulations as they are developed. We completely support efficient energy management, and are actively working to reduce GHG emissions at our mines through improved energy efficiency and reviewing where more renewables might make sense. Our Borden project will be the first fully electric-powered underground mine in Canada. Its GHG emissions will be a fraction of a standard mine’s. As our H2Zero initiative matures, we hope to see that reducing water use also continues to improve our energy efficiency and GHG emissions. Another issue throughout the mining industry is tailings and mine waste. In addition to being a key element in our H2Zero goal, we’re very excited that our EcoTails research will also allow for a better way to manage mine waste. The EcoTails project is completing the pre-feasibility research phase, with test work underway at Peñasquito and Éléonore. The stored EcoTails will be safer and will allow for faster and more economical land reclamation and closure, and benefit biodiversity. What are some of Goldcorp’s environmental priorities for 2017? The number one priority is advancing H2Zero. This is at least a ten-year endeavour and we are just starting out. This is a CEO-mandated goal that is recognized as somewhat audacious for our industry, but we have successfully built momentum internally, and company-wide acceptance of the challenge is strong. By the end of the year, we will have established the true value and cost of water at our mines, so it can be embedded in our operational cost calculations and applied in business cases. This is a key variable that we need to know to quantify the cost benefit of any new projects required to help us achieve H2Zero. All of our operating sites will also have planned and budgeted at least one H2Zero project for 2018, if not sooner. We will also finalize metrics and targets to measure our progress along the way. Where do you see Goldcorp in five – and ten – years in the future? In five years, I want us to be well along the H2Zero path, and in ten years I want us to be as close to Zero as technology allows – and I want that technology to be something much better than what we have today. I want us to be the company that had the vision “back then” that people talk about that everyone thought was impossible, but that somehow we managed to do much more than people thought possible. I want mining to look a lot different than it does right now, and I want Goldcorp to be a name everyone thinks about when they talk about how different mining is now than it used to be. Because of that, mining will still be around in ten years, which is my vision – that we are still here because we figured out how to do things better and create sustainable value for all of our stakeholders. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 130 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP MATERIALS Materials are reported in two categories: raw materials, which are the ore from which we extract product, and associated process materials, which are used in processing but are not part of the final product. RAW MATERIALS We extract ore, a non-renewable resource, from open pit and underground mines. This ore is either processed through a mill or placed on a heap leach pad to extract the product. In 2016, we processed 54.8 million tonnes (Mt) of ore, compared with 70.7 Mt in 2015. RAW MATERIALS PROCESSED 100,000,000 85,699,500 87,500,000 74,612,562 70,657,500 75,000,000 38,584,800 54,837,166 62,500,000 26,317,338 21,645,100 50,000,000 11,915,638 37,500,000 25,000,000 47,114,700 48,295,224 49,012,400 42,921,528 12,500,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 n Amount of ore milled [t [metric]] n Amount of ore placed on leach pads [t [metric]] n Total amount of ore processed [t [metric]] ASSOCIATED PROCESS MATERIALS To process ore and extract metals, our operations use certain materials and reagents such as lime and cyanide, as shown in the table below. ASSOCIATED PROCESS MATERIALS AND RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS1 2016 2015 2014 2013 Cyanide (t) 30,900 30,800 23,100 26,500 Lime (t) 48,800 83,500 86,200 180,600 Sodium metabisulphite (t) 5,200 3,300 4,000 3,900 Grinding balls (t) 36,800 36,400 28,500 39,800 Other reagents (t) 125,200 57,400 56,800 61,800 Total (t) 246,900 211,400 198,600 309,100 1 Quantities are typically from purchasing records. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 131 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP RECYCLED INPUT MATERIALS Recycled input materials used at our mines include mainly waste oil, used grinding balls, fly ash and biosolids. These recycled materials are all sourced internally. Recycled input materials as a percentage of our total tracked input materials (excluding raw materials and fuel) remained constant at 4% in 2016. 2016 2015 2014 2013 Recycled glass (t) 10 0 0 0 Recycled fly ash (t) 8,700 7,500 10,300 11,200 Used oil (t) 100 150 500 1,000 Used liner (t) 0 0 100 100 Biosolids (t) 90 200 7,200 95,100 Other recycled materials (t) 2,000 1,200 2,200 4,900 Subtotal, recycled (t) 10,900 9,050 20,300 112,300 Total, all materials (t) 257,800 220,500 218,900 424,900 Percent from recycled 4% 4% 9% 26% 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 132 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Goldcorp supports Canada’s ratification of the Paris Agreement, which brings all countries together to undertake efforts to combat climate change and adapt to its effects. As a member of the Mining Association of Canada, we are prioritizing innovative policies and activities to address climate change and are promoting efficient and responsible energy use in our projects and operations. We believe we can make a positive contribution to the achievement of the Paris Agreement’s goals, and are proactively participating in industry and government outreach activities related to energy and climate change policy. Some of the public policy campaigns we participated in during 2016 include: the Ontario Cap and Trade framework, the Canadian government’s Price on Carbon policy and Metal Mining Effluent review, the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act review, Natural Resources Canada’s Energy, Innovation and Mining policy consultation, and Ontario’s Long-Term Energy Plan. Related to climate change, there are regulatory and physical risks and opportunities. REGULATORY RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Governments have introduced climate change-related legislation in every jurisdiction in which we operate, including Québec, Ontario, Mexico and Argentina. We expect our costs to increase, with new requirements to pay for carbon emissions, whether in the form of a tax, a cap-and-trade system, a fine, or the purchase of renewable energy credits. Typically there is a phase-in period for these costs, and we expect that some of the costs can be offset by increasing our energy efficiency and technological innovation. However, as the regulations phase in, we expect costs to increase at some operations. This kind of change often results in technological advances and cultural changes, and we are ready for opportunities to advance innovation, improve management practices, and form new partnerships between vendors, stakeholders, customers, and research and development entities. PHYSICAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Climate change has the potential to physically impact our operations. Several potential risks and opportunities are outlined in the table below: RISK DESCRIPTION POTENTIAL OPPORTUNITIES Sea level rise Rise in global waterbodies as a result of Our operations are not directly threatened changes in climate. by sea level rise. All our operations are located well inland, at elevations of between 100 and 3,000 metres above sea level. Extreme weather events Extreme events (increased frequency or Improvement and advancement of our intensity of hurricanes, increased snow water balance and modelling tools. pack, prolonged drought, flooding events, Improved predictive modelling and forest fires, etc.) have the potential to analysis of potential operational impacts. disrupt mining operations. Improved water stewardship. Resource shortages Mining and processing depend on the Active engagement with our suppliers to regular supply of consumables (such as understand forecasted resource shortages diesel, tires, reagents, etc.) to operate which could impact the supply of products efficiently. In the event that the effects of required for our mining activities. climate change cause prolonged disruption Improved planning and increased to the delivery of essential commodities, efficiency of material usage. then our production efficiency is likely to be reduced. Water availability Various climate change models show Reduction in water consumption. potential increases or decreases in Innovation studies around improved precipitation at the macro level. tailings management systems to potentially result in lower water consumption intensities. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 133 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy use at our operations is primarily in the form of diesel fuel, propane gas, natural gas and electricity. Diesel is consumed in the transportation of ore and waste rock, for on-site backup electricity generation, for light plants, and occasionally for heating. Electricity is purchased from utilities, or in some cases from private providers, and consumed for both mining and milling operations. The most significant uses of energy are the transportation of ore, the ventilating and heating underground work environments, and comminution (crushing and reducing rock to small fragments). Our total energy consumption decreased by approximately 4% from 2015 to 2016. DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (TJ) 25,000 17,663 18,226 20,000 17,375 16,813 14,953 15,000 13,174 7,245 7,568 8,474 8,026 6,999 10,000 6,035 5,000 7,139 7,954 9,568 10,095 9,752 9,348 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 n Total direct energy consumption [TJ] – Value n Power consumed from public grid [TJ] – Value n Total direct and indirect energy consumption (from GRI.1.9.1.27 and EN4) [TJ] – Value DIRECT AND INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (MWhe1)2, 3 FUEL TYPE, DIRECT ENERGY 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Diesel (MWhe) 2,130,200 2,327,000 2,242,800 2,121,200 1,931,000 1,708,000 Bio-diesel (MWhe) 0 800 13,000 7,100 0 0 Gasoline (MWhe) 24,900 32,100 34,100 38,800 35,200 29,400 Propane (MWhe) 101,800 121,800 114,900 119,600 119,400 134,200 Natural gas (MWhe) 120,300 129,300 168,600 145,700 62,600 55,800 Renewables (MWhe) 400 400 400 800 600 0 Explosives (MWhe) 72,300 96,900 232,500 209,200 62,500 57,200 1 Megawatt-hour equivalent. 2 Operational Control Organizational Boundary, limited to operating mines in the Canada and Latin America regions. Development projects, mines in closure, divested assets and non-Goldcorp operated joint ventures are excluded. 3 Energy consumption data is obtained from purchasing records, metered data or direct measurement. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 134 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENERGY INTENSITY The energy intensity of each of our mines depends on the type of mine, its ore characteristics, process throughput, size, and type of processing. Each mine’s intensity varies based on depth, haul distance, rate of production, mine development and waste rock stripping ratios. Energy intensity on a tonne-moved basis is shown in the graph below, from 2011 through 2016. Energy intensity from 2015 to 2016 increased by approximately 25%, primarily due to a significant decrease in tonnes moved (the normalization factor) combined with maturing (deepening) mines. As our mines mature, production zones tend to move deeper and further away from material handling and processing infrastructure. This typically leads to increased energy intensity; however, our energy strategy helped to provide some mitigation for this. INDICATOR 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total material moved 212,603,099 277,727,570 264,123,721 255,131,843 244,973,167 232,062,643 (ore + waste rock) [t [metric]] Total direct and indirect 4,830,199,425 5,066,841,626 4,910,241,827 4,674,037,337 4,157,068,078 3,662,462,569 energy consumption (from GRI 1.9.1.27 and EN4) [kWh] Energy intensity (total 22.7 18.2 16.9 16.4 16.2 15.5 energy/ore + waste tons) [kWh/t [metric]] ENERGY SAVINGS AND INITIATIVES Energy is essential for operating our mines. Digging, loading and transporting ore, ventilating our mines, and the mineral extraction process all consume significant energy. The efficient use of energy, and access to secure and reliable energy sources, are key to our long-term success. We also recognize responsible energy management as a key focus in addressing climate change issues. Our five-year Energy Strategy established 2011 as the “base year”. Then, beginning in 2012, we challenged ourselves to significantly improve our energy management and incorporate energy management as a component of operational decisions. One of our goals for the five-year period was to create a challenging and focused initiative that would cultivate a culture and standard that considers climate change as an integral part of doing business. Our Energy Strategy was launched in 2012 with the following five-year targets: TARGET MEASURE PROGRESS Energy management plan All sites complete an energy 100% achieved management plan Increase energy efficiency by 15% Implement energy savings projects 84% achieved: energy savings of whose cumulative and recurring 460,000 MWh five-year savings equal 550,000 MWh1 (15% of 2011’s consumption) Reduce emissions by 20% Reduce annual GHG emissions by 73% achieved: reduced CO2e by 240,000 tonnes of CO2e 175,000 tonnes in 2016 Source 5% from renewables Source 180,000 MWh from renewables 83% achieved: 150,000 MWh sourced (5% of 2011’s energy consumption) from renewables 1 Assumptions: 2011, the base year, is considered the “business as usual” case for energy consumption. Energy savings are estimated or calculated using best accessible information, and it is assumed that the estimated or calculated annual energy savings from a project accumulate over subsequent years if the project is maintained. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 135 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP These targets were internal and were designed to create a culture that considers energy management and climate change aspects as a key part of the business. We successfully implemented this change and will now carry forward energy management as part of our standard practices and seek continuous improvement in this area. Some successful energy savings initiatives in 2016 include: RED LAKE GOLD MINES COMPRESSED AIR OPTIMIZATION Compressed air is essential to power many of the tools used in underground mining, including jacklegs, bolters and diamond drills. When compressed air leaks, it causes higher energy consumption and increases the equipment’s maintenance needs. Near the end of 2015, a thorough review of the site’s underground compressed air network was completed, and a considerable number of leaks were identified and targeted for repair. Repairing these leaks has resulted in measurable cost savings and a power saving of 11,000 MWh in 2016. ÉLÉONORE VENTILATION ON DEMAND Éléonore implemented an advanced ventilation-on-demand technology for the underground mine, which has reduced its annual energy consumption by 23,000 MWh. ÉLÉONORE FUEL SAVINGS Modifications to the road for hauling tailings decreased the distance travelled and allowed trucks to increase the daily tonnes moved, ultimately resulting in a 30% fuel savings, or nearly 500,000 litres of diesel per year. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG reporting is based on the GHG Protocol’s A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and is divided into three categories, depending on the source: • Scope 1 (direct) GHGs are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. Our principal source of Scope 1 emissions is fuel consumption for power generation and material movement. • Scope 2 (indirect) GHGs are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. Our principal source of Scope 2 emissions is purchased electricity. • Scope 3 (other indirect) GHGs include emissions from air transport of mine employees. At our operations, Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHGs have been going down since 2013, and decreased by approximately 15% from 2015 to 2016. A major cause of the decrease in 2016 was that significantly fewer tonnes of ore were moved. We are not currently involved in any carbon credit or trading system. Scope 3 GHGs in 2016 were 7,000 tonnes as compared to 4,735 tonnes in 2015. They represent air transport of employees to and from mine sites.1 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS2 1,600,000 1,404,215 1,357,769 1,341,581 1,400,000 1,208,544 1,272,932 1,143,616 1,200,000 1,000,000 701,444 678,873 684,357 618,704 624,832 493,424 800,000 600,000 400,000 529,671 588,575 702,772 739,065 716,748 650,192 200,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 n Total direct, scope 1 [t GHG [metric]] n Total CO2e indirect, scope 2 [t GHG [metric]] n Total [t GHG [metric]] 1 CO2e is the total greenhouse gas emissions taking into account all applicable greenhouse gas types multiplied by their global warming potential (GWP). 2 Operational Control Organizational Boundary, limited to operating mines in the Canada and Latin America regions. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 136 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP GHG INTENSITY “GHG intensity” represents the GHGs produced for each tonne of ore processed and moved. We track GHG intensity across the company to measure our progress as we experience growth or divestment. In 2016, our GHG intensity was similar to the 2011 base year, as shown in the table below. As our mines mature, production zones tend to move deeper and further from material handling and processing infrastructure. This typically leads to increased emissions intensity, but our energy strategy helps to mitigate this increase. INDICATOR 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 GHGs, total [t GHG [metric]] 1,143,616 1,341,581 1,357,769 1,404,215 1,272,932 1,208,544 Total material moved (ore + waste rock) [kt] 212,603 277,728 264,124 255,132 244,973 232,063 Intensity (tonnes/ktonne) 5.4 4.8 5.1 5.5 5.2 5.2 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS SAVINGS The following projects and initiatives resulted in GHG savings: • Musselwhite – management of base load electrical consumption and peak demand allowed the mine to operate without diesel power generation in 2016, saving 20,000 tonnes of CO2e. • Marlin – 100% of power consumption was sourced from renewable biomass, saving approximately 40,000 tonnes of CO2e compared to purchasing power from the public grid. • Peñasquito – 96% of power was sourced from an efficient, combined-cycle natural gas power plant, saving approximately 90,000 tonnes of CO2e. • Los Filos – 96% of power was sourced from the combined-cycle natural gas power plant, saving approximately 9,000 tonnes of CO2e. • Red Lake – repairing leaks in the compressed-air system saved approximately 450 tonnes of CO2e. • Éléonore – ventilation-on-demand in the underground mine saved approximately 4,000 tonnes of CO2e. Also, improvements to the alignment of the haul road used for tailings resulted in a shorter haulage distance which consumes less fuel and therefore equates to GHG savings of approximately 14,000 tonnes of CO2e. For 2016, approximately 175,000 tonnes of CO2e was saved, or 14% of the 2011 base-year GHG emissions. At the end of 2015, we decided to advance the study of a wind farm near the Cerro Negro project to the feasibility phase, based on favourable results from the pre-feasibility study. The study commenced in 2016 and will continue through 2017. The results will determine if the project will move to the execution phase. NOX, SOX AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS The table below shows the emissions of significant air pollutants. Measurements were derived from multiple methodologies including direct measurement, calculations based on site-specific data, and calculation based on published emissions factors and estimation. AIR EMISSIONS1 2016 2015 2014 2013 Carbon monoxide (t) 1,830 1,870 2,180 1,700 Oxides of nitrogen (t) 2,440 1,830 1,880 1,050 Sulphur dioxide (t) 40 20 20 10 2 Particulate matter (t) 740 1,160 740 610 1 Emissions for 2013 and 2014 were recalculated to include all the currently operating sites for better comparison with 2015. Sites in Latin America have been recently developing the methodology and further refinements in following years should be expected. 2 Values have been restated to only include particulate matter. In previous years, values of particulate matter corresponded to the sum of total air emissions. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 137 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WATER MANAGEMENT Water is essential to our operations, our stakeholders and the environment. Given our geographical scope, we operate in areas of water surplus and water scarcity. Our Water Stewardship Strategy is designed to help us better understand and manage our water footprint and water-related risks. We require each operation to achieve certain milestones, which are on track for achievement by the end of 2017. The milestones include: • Water audit and corrective action plan • Hydrogeological model • Site-wide water balance • Water footprint • Water management plan • Site-specific water targets • Stakeholder collaboration plan When our water stewardship milestones are achieved, we will be well positioned to advance to our next, more aggressive phase of water stewardship: an ambitious, voluntary, industry-leading water stewardship program, H2Zero. This ambitious goal reflects our commitment to sustainable mining, and is a result of our understanding that the mining industry’s stewardship of water requires significant change in the coming years. H2Zero includes shortand long-term targets to eventually get as close to net zero water put into our systems as possible. We intend to become continually more water efficient, to recycle more water, and to invest resources into important innovations related to tailings management and mineral processing, to enable us to pursue this goal. In 2017, we will be developing key targets and metrics so that we can measure our progress Towards Zero Water over a ten-year timeline. WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE The quantities of water withdrawn are typically measured using flow metres. However, there are points of withdrawal that may not be equipped with a flow metre and, in these cases, the quantity is estimated, calculated or modelled. Water withdrawal by source is shown in the table below. The significant drop in surface water withdrawal after 2013 is due to a change in recording and measurement. Beginning in 2014, precipitation was removed from the surface water category. Since then, all sites have reported precipitation as a separate category of water withdrawal. The increase in water withdrawal from 2015 to 2016 was due to deepening mines that encounter and extract more groundwater, coupled with increased precipitation during the year at some of our operations. WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 2016 2015 2014 2013 Surface water (m3) 2,095,600 2,660,700 2,674,100 12,274,800 Groundwater (m3) 38,977,800 32,650,700 35,081,600 38,985,600 Precipitation (m3) 13,757,600 12,576,887 14,112,300 Part of surface water1 Third-party water (m3) 143,100 178,100 197,700 151,800 Total withdrawal (m3) 54,974,100 48,066,400 52,065,700 54,412,200 1 Precipitation was reported as part of surface water prior to 2014. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 138 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WATER SOURCES AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER The Peñasquito mine reports two groundwater sources that are significantly affected by withdrawal of water. “Significant” is defined by G4 criteria as withdrawals that account for 5% or more of the annual average volume of a given waterbody. Peñasquito is in an arid environment and, to compensate for water losses and water held and accumulated in the tailings facility, Peñasquito is adding water from groundwater to the process, via a series of water supply wells. Additionally, to maintain the open pit as a dry working environment, there are a series of dewatering wells, which are withdrawing more than 5% of the annual average volume of the aquifer. Peñasquito is striving to focus more on water recycling and reuse, and to reduce the intensity with which fresh water is added to the processing circuit. Regular monitoring is underway to ensure detection and appropriate management of any potential environmental impacts. The water sources are not designated as a protected area, and no important biodiversity value has been assigned to the water sources. Peñasquito conducts ongoing engagement with local communities regarding water source issues as they arise. WATER RECYCLING AND REUSE The rate of water reuse and recycling is a measure of efficiency, one that helps us track improvements that result from implementation of the Water Stewardship Strategy. WATER REUSE AND RECYCLING1 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total reused or recycled (m3) 80,100,000 91,217,600 83,687,500 90,783,700 Total water withdrawal (m3) 55,031,000 48,066,400 52,065,700 51,412,200 Reused and recycled as percentage of 146% 190% 161% 177% total water withdrawal2 WATER DISCHARGE Each site is responsible for the requirements for treatment of discharged water. This avoids significant environmental impacts, and ensures that local regulatory compliances are met. The methods and requirements for treatment vary widely, and depend on the applicable standards, the pre-treated water quality, and the receiving environment. We monitor and report on whether or not the discharge is in compliance with the applicable standards. At Éléonore, where there is an issue of toxicity standards for trout and daphnia in local waterways, 1,819,000 cubic metres of effluent was discharged that was outside of the applicable water quality standards. Éléonore has been working, and continues to work, proactively and transparently with the regulatory authority to achieve compliance. In 2016, a major water treatment plant was under construction which will remedy the issue. It is expected to be completed and commissioned in 2017. At the Porcupine mine, a small, one-time discharge of 280 cubic metres of effluent exceeded the pH standard. The issue was very short in duration and resolved immediately. WATER DISCHARGES 2016 2015 2014 2013 Discharge to surface water (m3) 15,331,500 15,793,700 14,103,800 14,716,300 Discharge to groundwater (m3) 362,500 364,900 23,900 298,500 Discharge to a third party (m3) 436,800 535,200 556,400 528,000 Total (m3) 16,130,800 16,693,800 14,684,100 15,542,800 1 The quantities of water reused and recycled are typically measured by flow meters; however, there are points of use that may not be equipped with a flow meter and, in these cases, the quantity is estimated, calculated or modelled. The percentage has been recalculated for prior years to better respond to GRI indicator EN10. 2 Total reused or recycled divided by total water withdrawal. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 139 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WATERBODIES SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED BY DISCHARGES The Red Lake mine discharges a quantity larger than 5% of the receiving waterbody, Balmer Lake. Balmer Lake is a small headwater lake which drains south into the Chukuni River and eventually into Keg Lake. There are no known negative impacts related to effluent quality from the current mine discharges. Environmental monitoring in Balmer Lake has indicated significant improvements in its water quality and overall biological health in recent years. At Cerro Blanco, treated and discharged mine water is in compliance with the appropriate regulatory conditions. Water is discharged into a waterbody that is a tributary to the Ostua River and eventually to the Laguna de Guija, which is a lake shared by both Guatemala and El Salvador. In Guatemala the lake is not identified as a Ramsar site (of “international importance” under the Ramsar Convention). In El Salvador, however, the Guija general area, more than 10,000 hectares which includes the lake and surrounding wetlands, was declared a Ramsar site in 2010. Consistent with our best practices for environmental management, we pay careful attention to the discharge water quality to ensure there are no negative impacts to the Laguna de Guija. Cerro Blanco’s water treatment facility ensures that any water taken from the underground exploration workings is treated properly prior to discharge. In addition, the water quality monitoring program at the site includes regular monitoring of water quality for surface and underground water as well as monitoring of other important parameters such as aquatic fauna (including fish, macro and micro invertebrate surveys). The monitoring data is submitted regularly to the authorities, and periodic site inspections are conducted. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 140 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WASTE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT Mining and processing gold produces waste by-products in the form of tailings, waste rock, sludge, as well as some hazardous and non-hazardous materials. Tailings are the by-product of minerals processing. They are finely crushed and ground rock particles from which the valuable mineral portion has been extracted. We use retention dams and raised embankments to store and manage tailings. We strictly enforce the design and operational requirements of our tailings facilities, regarding their location, water management, maintenance, operation and monitoring. In some cases, tailings are used as backfill in underground and open pit projects. The Marlin mine, for example, uses filtered tailings to backfill one of the two open pits. We do not dispose of any tailings in riverine systems or marine environments. Waste rock management is a key environmental aspect of our operations. Depending on the characteristics of the waste rock, appropriate waste rock and tailings management procedures are developed as required by the SEMS. Most of the waste rock produced in our underground mines is returned underground to fill mining voids. In open pit mines, the waste rock is moved to waste rock dumps on the surface. In some limited cases, we are able to sequence mining in different pits or pit sections to allow for some use of waste rock as pit backfill. At the end of the mine’s life, the waste rock dumps are re-contoured and re-vegetated to provide stable, long-term containment of the material. Sludge produced at our operations is typically from water treatment plants. This material is usually disposed of in our tailings dams, although final disposal depends on the environmental characteristics of the sludge. Our SEMS recognizes the important environmental aspects of mine waste management, and includes specific standards to address them. We recognize tailings management as a significant issue shared by us and our stakeholders. We are committed to managing tailings in a manner that effectively mitigates environmental, public health and safety, and community impacts while maximizing the long-term security of the tailings facilities and sustainable land use options. In 2014, we developed a Tailings Stewardship Strategy to ensure good practices in construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and, ultimately, closure of our tailings storage facilities. The strategy addresses stakeholder concerns and assures stakeholders that tailings facilities are well managed, providing secure storage, reduced costs and impacts, improved operational excellence and consistent monitoring. Implementation began in 2015. Tailings stewardship ensures planning, design, construction, operation and closure of our tailings storage and water retention facilities will be carried out in a manner such that: • Structures are physically stable under all anticipated conditions • Solids and water are managed within designated areas • Facilities meet or exceed regulatory or standard engineering guidelines • Facilities are chemically stable so that the quality of any seepage or surface runoff does not endanger human health or the environment • Facilities can be closed in a manner that is compatible with the surrounding land use and that will have a manageable impact on the environment 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 141 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WASTE ROCK, TAILINGS AND SLUDGE The quantities of waste rock, tailings and sludge generated are shown in the table below. WASTE ROCK, TAILINGS AND SLUDGE 2016 2015 2014 2013 Waste rock (Mt) 157.8 207.1 189.5 169.4 Tailings (Mt) 42.7 48.5 47.1 46.6 Sludge (kt) 33.7 17.2 11.2 2.9 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD Responsible storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste are central components of sound environmental management. At our operations, our practices are based on minimizing the generation of wastes and residues, recycling and reusing wastes or by-products, and, when materials cannot be recycled, disposing of them in an acceptable manner. Our most significant non-hazardous waste streams include scrap metal, used tires, used oil, used antifreeze, inert industrial garbage and organic waste. All our scrap metal and some tires are recycled. Many of our operations have implemented recycling programs for materials such as paper, pallets, glass and aluminum, and some of our sites have implemented composting programs for organic wastes. Waste hydrocarbons, when not reused on-site, and glycol/antifreeze are removed by licensed waste disposal or recycling operators for reuse, recycling or incineration. Where permitted, we reuse waste hydrocarbons on-site as a substitute for fuel oil in the ammonium nitrate and fuel oil (ANFO) blasting program. WASTE MANAGEMENT MATERIAL (IN TONNES) 2016 2015 2014 2013 Scrap steel 18,400 30,400 25,700 19,200 Tires 3,800 5,300 3,300 3,650 Waste hydrocarbons 2,740 2,790 2,150 3,270 Waste glycol/antifreeze 130 110 100 150 Inert industrial garbage 13,730 7,250 3,950 3,990 Organic waste 3,800 4,600 2,870 3,110 Batteries 110 120 110 110 Laboratory waste 660 780 340 550 Mercury occurs naturally in some ore deposits and is typically recovered along with the targeted metals. Mercury requires specific management. In 2016, our operations generated 24.9 kilograms of mercury, all of it at the Peñasquito mine. The collected mercury was stored on-site at Peñasquito in accordance with International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC) best practices and standards. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 142 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP SPILLS All spills reported are tracked, investigated and analyzed to identify root causes. We then implement actions to mitigate any consequences and to prevent recurrences. Spill incidents are classified in ascending order of severity, from Category I to Category V, based on their actual and potential impacts. Incidents of Category III and above are reported to the corporate level and are classified internally as “reportable” spills. There were 24 reportable spills in 2016, compared to 22 in 2015. REPORTABLE SPILLS ESTIMATED SPILL CATEGORY NUMBER % OF TOTAL VOLUME SPILLED Hydrocarbon spill 10 40 10 m3 Cyanide-related spill 3 12 5 m3 Other material spill1 11 48 450 m3 Total 24 100 470 m3 All our sites are certified under the Cyanide Management Code, which provides direction for the appropriate management of cyanide-related spills. All spills were responded to immediately and did not result in any significant environmental impacts or financial liabilities. 1 Other material spills include antifreeze, water, paste backfill, hydrochloric acid, dust suppression agents, and blasting products. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 143 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Protecting the world’s ecosystems is important to us and for our stakeholders. As resources become scarcer, ecosystems are altered, with potential impacts on biodiversity in wildlife, plants, soil, water and air. These changes present both a risk and an opportunity. Engagement with communities, NGOs and governments is important to ensure we have an opportunity to leave a positive impact on the region’s biodiversity. As part of the SEMS, all sites are required to assess potential risks and impacts related to sensitive areas, habitats and wetlands. This includes developing appropriate management plans and looking for mitigation options, if applicable. Biodiversity considerations are included in the environmental impact assessments that are required at all of our operations prior to their construction. The biodiversity risk is determined during the environmental impact assessment phase, and is typically driven by regulations and discussions with relevant stakeholders, including the applicable regulatory authority. We manage over 400,000 hectares of land at and around our operating mines. Our operations span a range of ecosystems, from the boreal forests of northern Canada to the Patagonia area of Argentina. In all cases, we seek to design, construct, operate and ultimately close our operations in ways that minimize the risks to biodiversity. All our operating sites are required to have a biodiversity management plan in place; the only mine without one is Cerro Negro, which conducted the required monitoring studies in 2016 and will develop a plan in 2017. After land is disturbed by exploration or mining, we reclaim the disturbed areas as quickly as possible. By the nature of hard rock mining, large areas of disturbance (such as the pit, active waste rock dump faces, and tailings dams) can remain throughout the life of the mine, and may not be reclaimable until mine closure. Land areas, disturbance and reclamation activities are indicated below and include both concurrent/temporary and final reclamation. DISTURBANCE AND REHABILITATION1 2016 2015 2014 2013 Previous year disturbed and not yet 9,980 9,470 9,020 8,615 rehabilitated (ha) Newly disturbed land (ha) 570 545 360 440 Newly rehabilitated land (ha) 50 40 10 35 Current year disturbed and not yet 10,500 9,980 9,370 9,020 rehabilitated land (ha) PROTECTED OR HIGH BIODIVERSITY AREAS Cerro Negro, in Argentina, is near the Pinturas River Valley, the location of Cueva de las Manos (Cave of the Hands), a UNESCO World Heritage site. Recent legislation designated the zone a protected area due to its cultural resources. A portion of Cerro Negro, and a ranch owned by Cerro Negro, fall within this protected area. The total land area owned, managed or leased pertaining to Cerro Negro is approximately 120,000 hectares, and of this total, 3,499 hectares fall within the category of “land in or containing protected areas, or areas of high biodiversity”. In Mexico, a Land Use Change Authorization is required before land can be designated as “mining land”. The authorization identifies the areas in which operational activities and infrastructure can be located. Under Mexican legislation, the permitted area must include a buffer zone around the area of impact, which must be maintained as a conservation area. Both our Los Filos and Peñasquito mines have established conservation buffer zones around their permitted areas of operation. These areas will remain in force throughout the lives of the mines. No specific conservation requirements or management activities are required within the conservation area. However, both operations have implemented management plans to minimize impacts in these areas. There have been no significant impacts to biodiversity from our activities in these areas. 1 Adjusted in 2016 for the 2013–2016 years to include only operating mine sites and better reflect where new disturbance and rehabilitation take place. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 144 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED All rehabilitated land can be considered potential habitat; therefore, across our operations, there were 50 hectares of habitat restored during the reporting year. This rehabilitation was overseen by our contractors and us. INTERNATIONAL UNION FOR CONSERVATION OF NATURE (IUCN) AND NATIONAL RED LIST SPECIES The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is the world’s most comprehensive inventory of the global conservation status of plant and animal species. Each site has assessed the risk of impacting habitat for any Red List species as well as species listed on local conservation lists. Around our three Ontario mines, in 2015 we completed an analysis of IUCN and locally listed special status flora and fauna. The study identified 38 flora and fauna species that could be present at or around the mine sites. Our other operating sites outside of Ontario include possible habitat for 117 special status flora and fauna species in the areas affected by operations, for a total of 155 species. All of our sites pay particular attention to areas of the operation that could potentially harm wildlife. Precautions include: • Minimizing disturbances to vegetation and waterbodies • Implementing programs to control pests and weeds • Maintaining cyanide levels in all open waters (including tailings dams) below levels that pose a threat to wildlife (consistent with the International Cyanide Management Code) • Promoting employee and community awareness programs regarding wildlife • Reclaiming disturbed areas as quickly as possible and promoting habitat diversity within these reclaimed areas 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 145 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE We are committed to compliance with the environmental laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where we operate. Local performance standards are imposed through site-specific licences and permits. In some cases, our SEMS mandates higher performance standards than the local requirements. In 2016, Éléonore received 16 Notices of Violation (NOV). 14 were related to discharge from the water treatment plant exceeding the toxicity limits for trout and daphnia (approximately one NOV per month from provincial authorities during the plant’s regular operations, plus one NOV from the federal authority). No fines resulted from these NOVs, and Éléonore continues to work proactively and transparently with the regulatory authorities on improving its water discharge. In the latter part of 2016, operational changes resulted in improvements to water quality compliance, which are expected to continue in 2017. For most of 2016, an additional water treatment plant was under construction, and the authority made regular site visits. After the new water treatment plant is commissioned in 2017, Éléonore’s water quality is expected to be in full compliance. The other two NOVs were related to: late reporting of an emission of sulfur dioxide (SO2) within the mill (48 hours to report as compared to the recommended 24 hours); and a violation regarding a signage requirement at a pond, and dust emissions from the tailings conveyor. The signage requirement was resolved immediately and a corrective action plan for improving dust control on the tailings conveyor is underway. Our sites are subject to strict internal and external scrutiny to verify full adherence to applicable regulations and permits as well as our own internal standards. Our properties are routinely inspected by the applicable regulatory authorities to verify compliance. Our properties are also periodically audited through our internal compliance assurance program to ensure that they are in compliance with our internal standards and commitments. The Sustainability, Environment, Health and Safety Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Environmental and Sustainability Policy. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 146 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP TRANSPORTATION Transportation is a critical component of our business. We own and lease a significant fleet of heavy equipment and infrastructure used to mine and transport ore, waste rock and tailings. We use light vehicles to move people around our sites, and we transport supplies along public roads to our operations. In addition, our employees and contractors use cars, buses and planes to get to and from work. There are three principal areas in which the effects of our transportation activities are felt: GHG emissions, potential transport incidents, and traffic issues such as noise, dust and road maintenance. We recognize these potential impacts and have strategies and/or management plans in place to reduce and mitigate these impacts. The fuel used to transport our workforce in small planes is included in our Scope 3 GHG emissions, which are reported in the Greenhouse Gas Emissions section. Any spills or other environmental incidents that may occur during transportation are fully reported in the section on environmental spills. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 147 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP CASE STUDIES VACANCIES FOR BARN SWALLOWS AT MUSSELWHITE MINE The barn swallow, a medium-sized songbird, is listed as threatened under Ontario’s Endangered Species Act, which protects the species and its habitat. Barn swallows have been found nesting in the Musselwhite mine maintenance shop and warehouse. In an effort to provide an alternative nest habitat for the barn swallow, our Environment and Maintenance departments teamed up. They erected nest structures, based on a design approved by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Forestry, with the intention of enticing the swallows to nest outside of the shop and warehouse buildings by providing alternative, suitable habitat. This is an example of how Musselwhite has enhanced biodiversity conservation at its site by creating habitat for a species at risk. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 148 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP ALL-ELECTRIC BORDEN IS THE MINE OF THE FUTURE As the mining sector faces ever-greater emissions regulations, we have chosen to innovate and lead the way, by planning to build an all-electric underground mine at our Borden project, located near Chapleau in Ontario. This ambitious plan will not only make us more operationally efficient, it will significantly improve the health and safety performance of the mine and reduce our environmental footprint. This is an operational win-win, where economics and environmental stewardship can both benefit. We are teaming up with Sandvik Mining and MacLean Engineering to provide battery-powered underground vehicles for almost all the mine’s requirements. The new technology will range from battery-operated drilling and blasting equipment, to electric bolters, personnel carriers and, ultimately, a 40-metric-tonne battery powered haul truck. This will eliminate all GHGs associated with the movement of ore and waste rock, which contributes roughly 50% of the total GHGs on site, or 5,000 tonnes of CO2 per year. Along with the decrease in emissions comes a reduction in underground ventilation needs. An efficient, ondemand ventilation system will require 50% less ventilation than an equivalent diesel-powered underground mine. An additional bonus will be the reduction in system and equipment maintenance and overall energy costs. Our Borden mine will rely on digital and smart controls, including tele-remote technology to maximize equipment use for continuous mining, and will also consider renewable energy such as biomass for heating. We are hopeful that demonstrating the numerous benefits of an all-electric mine will be an example of leadership in innovation, clean technologies and health and safety that will be adopted by other mining companies. “Other mining companies are studying electrification as an option, but so far no one has put it into practice in Canada,” says Brent Bergeron, Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability. “We want Borden to not only showcase our commitment to safe, sustainable and responsible mining, but also to demonstrate that embracing innovation is a smart business choice that will keep our industry competitive.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 149 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP PROTECTING TRULY PRECIOUS RESOURCES – OUR TOWARDS ZERO WATER STRATEGY There’s no question water plays a critical role in day-to-day operations at Goldcorp. It’s a valuable resource required for metals production. It’s also one of the most important resources in the world and there is growing scrutiny of its use in all industrial applications, including mining. We have embarked on an ambitious, multi-year water-reduction strategy with the ultimate goal of leading the mining industry in drastically reducing freshwater consumption and completely eliminating the use of traditional slurry tailings, currently the largest store of unavailable water in the mining process. The approach, called Towards Zero Water (H2Zero), is ambitious and audacious – some would say nearimpossible. Certainly, it’s a first for the precious metals space, and one that we hope will prove an undeniably solid business case for the sustainability of our industry. With goals to be attained over one-, three-, fiveand ten-year periods, the strategy requires step-change innovation and deep commitment to build upon the milestones achieved in our original Water Stewardship Strategy, set in motion in 2013. H2Zero reflects our focus on corporate social responsibility, as well as our commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative and Sustainable Development Goals. In alignment with these commitments, one of our primary objectives is to ensure that our innovations in water-use reduction can be replicated by other mining companies to create a worldwide impact. To accomplish this, we are sharing information and best practices with other industry leaders through our involvement in the Canadian Mining Innovation Council and the Canadian Mining Association. “With our first few projects underway, momentum is now building on our H2Zero strategy, which will fully recognize the key role water plays in our business,” says Lisa Wade, Vice President, Environment. “It will be exciting to demonstrate our company’s commitment to the environment, while we take the next steps in ensuring continued long-term viability of the industry. We hope others will soon follow our lead.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 150 LEAVING A POSITIVE LEGACY MINE CLOSURE KEY STATISTICS 35 CLOSED SITES in Canada, US, VISION Mexico, Guatemala and Honduras. Our vision is to make mine closure a smooth transition, with careful management of the environmental and socio100% OF OUR PROPERTIES economic challenges as the operation moves through have updated life-of-mine closure costs. reclamation, monitoring, passive care and eventual transfer to the government or surrounding communities. Our goal is to practise comprehensive land reclamation to ensure that US$28 MILLION INVESTED in progressive or closure reclamation activities. the local ecosystem is healthy, thriving and supportive of a meaningful use for nearby communities. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS • We completed mine reclamation at El Sauzal in Mexico, the first mine closure in the country completed under the regulations and standards of the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). • Backfill of the Marlin pit was 95% complete, and will be 100% complete in 2017. • We received full relinquishment of permits and closure bonding after successful reclamation at our Daisy mine in Nevada. • We continued remote water and tailings dam monitoring and expanded the remote system to cover all tailings dams at our Equity Silver mine. • We completed the perimeter berm reclamation of the Hollinger open pit at Porcupine. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 151 MINE CLOSURE MANAGEMENT APPROACH MACRO-TRENDS Historically, mine decommissioning and closure has focused on the environmental aspects of land reclamation and rehabilitation. In recent years, the emphasis has expanded to include the social, cultural and economic impacts. Mine closure now requires an integrated, multidisciplinary approach with an awareness of the need to plan for the social and environmental changes that will occur. Companies understand that closure planning should begin at the earliest phases of mine development and include active participation from all stakeholders. Implementing plans for a successful mine closure can be challenging, particularly as these plans are typically very technical in nature, and can evolve over many years or decades. However, mine closure can bring new opportunities to a community. Maximizing the potential for a sustainable, long-term, positive impact requires community involvement, good planning and strong leadership. A significant trend that has special application for closed mines is the application of remote sensors and data-collection technologies. These can be used to mitigate risks by improving the frequency and accuracy of monitoring closed mines in remote locations. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? Stakeholders are concerned about potential environmental and health effects related to closed mine sites. These issues generally arise from sites that have been poorly managed. The closure of any mine can cause significant change to the social norms established in a community. These changes are best communicated, understood and mitigated when the communities are involved in the closure-planning process from the outset. A mutual understanding and multi-stakeholder involvement in closure planning can lead to post-closure opportunities that are meaningful and relevant for a community. WHY IS THIS IMPORTANT TO US? We believe mine closure is critical for the sustainability of our legacy and of the communities surrounding them. For this reason, we created a new business unit that focuses solely on our approach to closure. For Goldcorp, improving our mine rehabilitation and closure practices is important for: • Enhancing our social licence – By inviting public and regulatory scrutiny of our closure planning and practices, we have the opportunity to earn and increase stakeholder support throughout the mine lifecycle. • Prioritizing and reducing risk – Early planning prepares us for the future. Proactive designs and active restoration result in stable landforms and successful long-term restoration of the land and water. • Improving the closure process – A closed mine is a long-term responsibility. Improving our engineering, planning and reclamation activities while the mine is in operation will result in better management of environmental rehabilitation, and support the establishment of a sustainable landform which can be utilized to its fullest extent by local communities. OUR STRATEGY We are committed to developing, operating and closing our mining properties in a sustainable manner. Our Sustainability Excellence Management System (SEMS) requires all sites to document their closure plans and specific requirements for environmental and social activities. Closure planning begins at the earliest phases of a project. It involves bringing together various internal and external stakeholders to share their views, concerns, aspirations and knowledge. In the early stages of project development and operations, we meet with stakeholders and collect their closure and post-closure goals and views. We conduct risk assessments to maximize the benefits of closure and apply multidisciplinary expertise to develop an effective mine closure plan. While it is not possible to restore a site to its original pre-mining state, it is possible to reclaim a site and establish a healthy, thriving ecosystem that can support productive land use. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 152 MINE CLOSURE ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2015, the Reclamation and Closure Group was established. Headed by the Vice President of Reclamation and Closure, the team is responsible for managing our closed sites and supporting operating mines in their closure planning. Since its inception, the unit has assisted in a number of reclamation projects and in improving planning, reporting and Asset Retirement Obligation activities. The group’s objectives are incorporated in the SEMS and apply to all projects, mines and closed sites. ADDRESSING YOUR QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS TALKING MINE CLOSURE WITH CHRIS CORMIER, VICE PRESIDENT, RECLAMATION AND CLOSURE From the perspective of mine closure and reclamation, what were Goldcorp’s highlights or main accomplishments in 2016? There are four properties we made real progress on in 2016. Our major accomplishment was at El Sauzal in Mexico, which closed in December 2014, where we successfully concluded the closure activities at the mine. Since production stopped, we moved millions of tonnes of rock and planted hundreds of thousands of plants to create a stable, environmentally safe and natural-looking landscape. Throughout the closure we maintained an ongoing relationship and dialogue with local ejidos (landowners), because we were, in essence, reclaiming and managing their land. In preparation for the end of mining activities in Marlin in 2017, the closure plan was updated and a project charter was approved for the closure of the mine. Backfill of the Marlin pit was 95% completed in 2016. The tailings pond is being filled to final elevations in preparation for rock capping and revegetation over the next three years. Last year, to help prepare our employees for the transition, an education and training program was offered, and planning continues to provide opportunities beyond operations. Porcupine, in Timmins, Ontario, is one of our largest collections of closed sites. The Hollinger project was conceived as a closure project since exploration began more than a decade ago. The concept was to remediate hundreds of underground openings in the centre of downtown Timmins, essentially turning unusable land into a sustainable green space in the city centre. The initial phase of reclamation that has been completed is the construction of the berm surrounding the open pit, which will become the foundation for our future vision. What are Goldcorp’s objectives and priorities in mine closure and reclamation? One priority is to improve our ability to monitor and manage remote sites, where there is no infrastructure and sometimes no access. One form of satellite monitoring is being deployed at El Sauzal, where we are moving toward remote monitoring using satellite technologies. This technology and others coming to market are showing tremendous promise in the ability to monitor remote sites. Another priority is to integrate closure and reclamation into our central business: to factor closure in financial decisions and to consider it in every phase of mining, from exploration through the operation of a mine. We have the ability to design and operate mines in ways that will make closure and reclamation easier and less costly. If, for example, rock storage facilities are contoured and modelled after surrounding terrain, the final product could result in a landform that enhances the surrounding ecosystem. This requires taking a longer view, and more integration and knowledge-sharing between departments. It’s something we’re working on. What challenges does Goldcorp face in this area? How can Goldcorp ensure it is mitigating environmental and social risks and impacts associated with the closing of a mine? With closed mines, the challenge is predicting unexpected events. It’s a major challenge, especially with sites that have been closed for decades. To manage the challenge, we need to monitor for physical changes over long spans of time and to understand how the sites will respond to significant environmental events. To get there, we are working on remote monitoring technologies and on improving our predictive models. Our objective is to consistently become more proactive than reactive. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 153 MINE CLOSURE At Goldcorp, we annually review our closure obligations at every one of our sites, accounting for the site’s technical challenges and local social obligations. It is an ongoing process that is continually improving. How is Goldcorp integrating social and economic considerations in its mine closure planning? Mine closure is more than reclamation and environmental work; it’s about helping communities prepare for the eventual closure of the mine and to find opportunities to mitigate the effects on the local economy. There are two sides to that planning. One is the corporate social responsibility side, in which our investments in infrastructure, health and education are intended to benefit the community in ways that will last long after the mine has closed. The other side is employment. It’s a huge challenge to deal with the closure of a mine and the employment transition that occurs for our employees. We begin to plan and develop opportunities long before the mine shuts down. Initiatives to help with retraining, re-education and teaching business skills are essential to support opportunities for former employees to start and run successful businesses or take advantage of alternative employment opportunities. Ultimately we want to integrate these processes into our life-of-mine planning to ensure the ultimate transition is well thought out in advance. In some cases, we set up foundations or guardians (custodians) of the land, which are businesses that are intended to be profitable and productive, to support local employment in the long term. External stakeholders have expressed concern over environmental legacy issues that may arise long after closure. What is Goldcorp doing to prevent this? Clearly today there is an increased public awareness regarding issues surrounding contamination and clean up arising from poor management of abandoned or closed mine sites. To prevent this, we diligently monitor our closed sites and we are actively engaged in applying innovative solutions to improve our capacity to respond quickly. Since the Reclamation Operations Business Unit was formed last year, we have been focused on improving the institutional knowledge and monitoring on identifying the potential risks at each of these sites and gauging the probability and severity of the risks. Once that’s complete, the task is to mitigate risks and monitor the health and recovery of the environment. What does innovation in mine closure look like? Innovation is in nearly everything we do, from our remote-monitoring projects, to utilizing improved technologies for measuring and treating water, to recycling tailings or removing water covers on tailings. One of our projects for 2017 is to explore the development of sustainable green energy solutions for some of our mine sites. The idea is that a mine could develop a renewable energy system to serve some of its current energy needs. Then, after closure, the energy infrastructure could be repurposed to support ongoing maintenance costs along with providing sustainable investment opportunities in our communities. We are currently reviewing potential test sites, and are developing the technical and economic justifications to see whether the investments could provide sustainable benefits. If found positive, this could represent a transformative change in the sustainability of mine closure. At an organizational level within Goldcorp, what we are doing in this department is very positive: we have consolidated closure into a single area of our business and pulled together all the good work that has been done by various departments and teams. We are learning to look at closure as more than an end result, seeing it as a part of a mine’s lifecycle. I think that’s very innovative, and it says a lot about us. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 154 MINE CLOSURE Where do you see Goldcorp five – and ten – years in the future? One vision – an ultimate goal for mine closure – is to get all of our closed sites into the state of ‘passive care’. That’s the state where the site is visited once a year or so, and observed via satellite images a few times a year, and that’s it. Our goal is to have all our closed sites attain this level of care over time. We would also like to see closure planning integrated to support well-developed, sustainable post-closure opportunities for our communities and former employees. Well-planned land use and well-designed productive or sustainable projects can provide income and investment capital sustainably beyond mining. This would put the local communities in control of the land and of the productive projects that we have developed. We are not there yet – but we do see a path to take us there in the future. Over the next few years, I would like to see Goldcorp recognized as a leader in integrating closure planning in the end-to-end mine lifecycle. It is critically important that all of our decisions are made with an awareness of the impact they’re going to have when we’re gone. That’s a lesson etched in the industry’s history and learning from it will provide sustainable value for everyone. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 155 MINE CLOSURE OBJECTIVES AND INITIATIVES Since its inception, the Reclamation and Closure group has been focused on improving our institutional knowledge of our 35 closed sites. With a better knowledge of their unique geologies, histories, environmental condition and regulatory requirements, we will be better positioned to identify and manage the potential risks at each mine site. On an annual basis, all operating and closed sites review – and revise as required – their closure assumptions, regarding the physical work and costs that would be required to complete closure. This ensures that our closure objectives are current and that our closure planning accounts for any new or revised conditions at the operation, and any regulatory changes that may affect closure plans or require changes to the closure design. Reclamation and closure planning begins at the initial stages of a site’s planning and development process, and continues throughout the mine’s lifecycle. We encourage stakeholder consultation as early as possible, especially where the infrastructure that we build will be retained for community use, or where the land use involves the community’s input, and where the post-mining land use will differ from the way the land was used before mine development begins. Closure planning begins at the earliest phases of a project’s lifecycle and evolves as the project matures. Effective closure planning: • Includes active stakeholder participation • Improves project transparency • Identifies risks earlier so they can be mitigated • Reduces long-term liabilities, and moves the project toward passive care and custodial transfer • Recognizes and plans for potential post-closure land uses and opportunities COMPLETION OF CLOSURE AT EL SAUZAL MINE In 2016, we successfully completed the closure of our El Sauzal mine in Mexico. Progressive reclamation had been underway for years. El Sauzal was the first mine in the world to be decommissioned, tested and certified as a ‘non-cyanide’ facility under the International Cyanide Management Code. Since production ended, the area was re-contoured and revegetated, creating a stable, environmentally safe and natural-looking landscape that will be useful in perpetuity. This site will be monitored and maintained as the vegetation matures and the environment restores an equilibrium to the site. Once this balance is attained, the land will continue to be utilized by the landowners. The El Sauzal mountain range sees a significant amount of rain, thus controlling water runoff and limiting erosion damage was a concern. In 2016, we built six and a half kilometres of ditching to control water flow and divert valley flows from the mountains around the site, and minimize erosion. We will spend the next four years monitoring the reclaimed site and performing maintenance as required. PREPARATION FOR CLOSURE OF THE MARLIN MINE Mining at the Marlin mine in Guatemala will end by mid-2017. Progressive reclamation has been performed at the site since the start of operations in 2005. The Marlin pit backfill started in 2012, with a mixture of dry tailings, cement and rock used as fill material. This is a best-in-class technique that results in a stable, environmentally benign landscape. In December 2015, backfilling of the main pit was completed. In 2016, the cover of the pit wall began, and it is planned to be completed by May 2017. The tailings dam will be completely filled by June 2017, which will allow a dry reclamation with a cover to be finished by the end of 2019. In 2016, with the mine approaching its final stages, the closure plan was updated. Community activities included information sessions and the finalizing of social agreements. Employees were offered education, training and retraining opportunities to help diversify their skill-sets. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 156 MINE CLOSURE REMOTE WATER AND DAM MONITORING AT EQUITY SILVER MINE Equity Silver is a mine in northern BC, Canada, which has been closed for over 25 years. We maintain a small team to operate the water treatment facilities and maintain the site year-round. This year, we completed a remote monitoring project utilizing fixed, solar powered and GPS monitoring technology that has provided continuous live monitoring coverage. Using remote sensors and cameras, the water levels and the three dams are constantly monitored, with updates sent automatically to the operating team. At Equity Silver, we are also exploring ways to mitigate the acid rock drainage, which has been actively treated since the mine closed. This year, we applied an innovative technology that we hope will help us understand the nature of the flow paths through the rock stockpiles and potentially help us stop the acid drainage. In addition, we have begun to study opportunities to reduce the water cover on the tailings. COMPLETION OF THE GREENING OF THE HOLLINGER OPEN PIT PERIMETER BERM AT PORCUPINE The Hollinger mine is a legendary underground mine that is part of the Porcupine mine complex in Timmins, Ontario. In 2014, the mine was reopened as an open pit, in part, to reduce long-term liabilities. A key component of getting the project off the ground began with the construction of a perimeter berm to control noise and dust. In 2016, we completed the greening of the perimeter berm surrounding the open pit mine. This, in addition to continuing the development of a subsequent land use plan with the City of Timmins, is the first stage in turning the property into a sustainable, usable green space in the city centre, immediately adjacent to downtown Timmins. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 157 MINE CLOSURE MINE CLOSURE CASE STUDIES MARLIN’S ENVIRONMENTAL LEGACY We understand that mine closure is an inevitable and important part of the mining cycle. Planning and working to mitigate the socio-economic challenges that result from a mine’s closure are a key focus of our business strategy. In 2017, our Marlin mine in Guatemala is moving closer towards closure, marking the end of more than a decade of strong community ties and sustainable mining practices. By always thinking one step ahead, we seek to leave behind local ecosystems that are healthy, thriving and supportive of a meaningful post-mining land use for nearby communities. At Marlin, thinking one step ahead post-closure can be measured by the more than US$30 million invested in environmental projects, ranging from award-winning flood protection infrastructure to tailings filtration systems. More than 140 local residents and contractors participated in the construction of Marlin’s award-winning spillway, a US$14 million infrastructure project. The spillway was specifically designed to withstand the regional flash floods during the wet season, which lasts half the year. During mining activities, the spillway protects the watershed from overflow related to tailings. However, after the mine’s closure is complete, the spillway will provide flood protection for the entire region by regulating flow into local waterways. To prevent future rock oxidation, acid generation and leachate into waterways and to ensure ground stability after closure, the Marlin team filled the former open pit with more than three million cubic metres of filtered tailings and waste rock from the mine’s operations. The remediated pit and surrounding exposed rock has been covered and sealed. Planting of local vegetation, also grown on site in the nurseries, on the former pit will serve as a learning place for community members to focus on sustainable agroforestry practices. Crops, such as avocados, are expected for first harvest in the summer of 2017. We have also reforested 700 hectares in and around the mine, exceeding environmental commitments with the National Institute of Forests. Our objective is to continue reforesting the areas and hopefully reach 1,000 hectares. “We want to be sure we close Marlin in a responsible way, the right way, for future generations to enjoy – for them to know it’s an area that is safe and stable, but an area that can also provide sustainable livelihood,” says Christian Roldan, General Manager for Marlin mine. “We want to be a regional and global example of how to manage a large-scale closure for the benefit of the communities and environment.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 158 MINE CLOSURE INNOVATION AND LEADERSHIP IN RECLAMATION AND TAILINGS MANAGEMENT One of our priorities at all of our sites – whether they’re active, reclaimed or closed – is to store and manage tailings with innovation and best practices in mind. In 2016, we invested more than US$28 million in closure and reclamation and have developed a Reclamation Operations Business Unit (ROBU) – a dedicated team of experts responsible for managing all of our closed sites and supporting operating mines in their closure planning. Together, the ROBU team and IT department reviewed technology that would be helpful at reclaimed or closed sites that have limited personnel on the ground. They identified the Trimble T4D System – which provides up-to-the-minute data on the condition and behaviour of land or structures – as the technology that would best suit our needs. The T4D system includes strategically placed sensors and prisms to monitor and capture up-to-date information on water levels, pore water pressure movement and other important parameters that ensure dam safety and reliability. The system also provides real-time monitoring and live video camera feed. Any incident that merits attention will immediately generate a notification to onand off-site personnel, which facilitates early detection. “This new technology not only provides an added level of assurance for the environment, local communities and stakeholders, it also underpins our enterprise-wide Sustainability Excellence Management System and Tailings Stewardship Strategy,” says Chris Cormier, Vice President, Reclamation and Closure. “The T4D system is installed at our closed Equity Silver site in BC, but our goal is to apply it to more locations over time to demonstrate our commitment to working in a responsible manner.” Our SEMS ensures we meet the best possible standards for managing waste responsibly. A great example of this is at our Marlin mine in Guatemala, where more than three million cubic metres of filtered tailings and waste rock have been used to fill a former open pit mine. Marlin has received public recognition and awards for its innovative approach to tailings management. In 2006, we acquired the Porcupine camp in Timmins, Ontario – the site of several historic and legendary mining operations that were abandoned in the 1990s. Without ongoing care and maintenance, tailings from the Hollinger and McIntyre mines deposited in Gillies Lake in the early 1900s became acidic over time, degrading the water quality in downstream Town Creek to concentrations above allowable regulatory levels. In 2009, we initiated a rehabilitation project in the Hollinger Tailings Management Area to manage acidic tailings on-site and recover tailings that had migrated off-site. Three years after launch, water quality in the pond is now outperforming our initial forecasts and is meeting some of the most stringent of criteria within the Province of Ontario. The area was recently opened to the public, and several walking trails have been established, which connect with an existing community trail network. Cormier adds: “The management of our tailings facilities remains one of our highest priorities at our closed sites. We will continue to look at innovative new ideas and technology to lower any potential risks.” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 159 MINE CLOSURE EL SAUZAL: GOING FULL CIRCLE Social responsibility and environmental stewardship are top of mind at El Sauzal, as the mine completes its reclamation process. The site has generated over 1.7 million ounces of gold and has resulted in many benefits to the local people and former employees. Following the acquisition of El Sauzal from Glamis Gold in 2006, we have been planning a legacy of positive community impact for this remote, mountainous region of Mexico. Planning included immediate and long-term socio-economic contributions and closure strategies for site rehabilitation, and utilizing innovative strategies that have set industry benchmarks. Prior to the development of El Sauzal, the 2,000 residents surrounding the mine were isolated, with few roads and no electricity. Jobs were scarce, as were safe water sources, medical services and nutritious food. In partnership with local and national NGOs, state authorities and local groups, key community needs were identified through baseline studies, and cultural values were woven into each new initiative. Since then, vital infrastructure, healthcare, education, career training and jobs have been created. A CLEAN FINISH Environmental work has been underway since early 2013 to prepare for closure based on regional, financial, legal, social and safety consultations. The processing plant has been dismantled and El Sauzal was the first mine to be recognized by the International Cyanide Management Institute for successfully decommissioning a plant in accordance with the International Cyanide Management Code. We are also partnering with Ecos A.C., a non-partisan, non-profit organization specializing in social and environmental sustainability. To prevent future acid drainage, the tailings storage area and waste rock dumps were re-contoured, covered and seeded with more than 300,000 natural local plants and grasses. This process involved moving more than five million tonnes of mine waste rock and 1.2 million tonnes of tailings to establish final, stable landforms, and installing over seven kilometres of diversion channels on very steep terrain all around and above the disturbed area of the mine to keep the area dry. Buildings, camps and facilities were removed and the area has been reforested with native trees and vegetation, as were nearly 1,000 acres of surrounding lands and habitat. Demolition includes removing everything that was brought to the site over the years of operation. There is no infrastructure above ground left behind. “Mine closure is a positive legacy we leave with our communities and in the land we reclaim. As we now finalize the physical activities at El Sauzal, we have begun the process to monitor the health of the land and the water, while working to return the land to the landowners,” says Chris Cormier, Vice President, Reclamation and Closure. Our ultimate goal is to come full circle with social and ecological growth that will continue long after the mining cycle. Watch the video to see this reclamation in action. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 160 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES Sustainability is foundational to the way we do business – and it’s incorporated in our company’s vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. We are committed to creating positive social and economic benefits for our stakeholders everywhere we do business. We believe in having a lasting positive impact on people’s lives, and in leaving the areas where we operate in as good, or better, condition than when we arrived. While we are proud of our success to date, we strive for continuous improvement, and we believe that we can always do better. Over this past year, we were faced with a number of challenges. In response, we will continue to refine our policies and practices for environmental stewardship, strengthen our community relationships, and work to ensure the health and safety of our employees, contractors, partners and neighbouring communities. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 161 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE FOR UNCERTAIN MARKETS Facing a sixth consecutive year of volatility in commodity prices, we adopted a decentralized operational model that drives costs down and we seek efficiencies wherever possible. The mines now have increased accountability for local operations, and we maintained our commitment to local hiring and local sourcing of goods and services. The resulting job losses and other adjustments were challenging, but they were necessary to maintain the sustainability of our business. Unfortunately, today the risk of cyber-attack is a reality for everyone in business. In 2016, we faced a cyberhacking incident. We appropriately managed the incident and with lessons learned, we reached out to our industry peers. We held a cybersecurity information summit in Vancouver where common experiences and best practices were shared. The summit was well attended by over 130 people that included our peers and information technology professionals. In addition, we have implemented a cybersecurity strategy which includes an information security incident management plan. WORKING WITH COMMUNITIES 2016 was an active year for community engagement. Our company-wide restructuring drove an examination of cost structures at each site, which included consultation and negotiations with labour unions and suppliers. At Peñasquito, an illegal blockade was resolved through active communication and engagement, and at Cerro Negro, we also engaged with our unions to resolve a temporary work stoppage. These cases highlight the challenges we face and demonstrate the importance of proactive and continuous engagement with our stakeholders. Throughout the mining industry, external stakeholders are increasingly demanding greater involvement and transparency, and we will continue to work to maintain open dialogue with those impacted by our operations. A RELENTLESS FOCUS ON SAFETY Safety is our number one commitment. However, we were deeply saddened by a fatal accident at our Marlin mine in early 2016. This incident occurred despite years of effort dedicated to strengthening our safety culture and measurable reductions in our All Injury Frequency Rate (AIFR). As a result of the fatality, we have audited our sites against their Ground Control Management Plans and are implementing corrective action plans. We have also developed new standards around barricading, marking and signage. Our safety achievements this year were overshadowed by the fatality, and we recognize that we cannot let up in our efforts to make Goldcorp Safe Enough for Our Families. ATTRACTING AND RETAINING THE BEST PEOPLE Our entire industry is challenged by a shortage of skilled workers, an aging workforce, and a lack of diversity in the workplace. This year, our need to streamline our workforce in order to remain competitive in a lowcommodity price environment was challenging, and we will continue to focus on local workforce opportunities and investing in local procurement. The challenges of having an aging workforce directly affect succession planning for some of our most critical positions. For this reason, we have developed our Future Leaders program, which identifies and supports the development of our employees while encouraging diversity in the workforce. To plan for the mine workers of the future, we are also exploring training for automated and remote-controlled equipment, and we will invest in maintaining and growing mining-specific skills. PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP In 2016, we faced allegations regarding water contamination at Peñasquito. The allegations related to an event in 2014, when we proactively notified regulatory agencies of naturally occurring selenium in waterbodies, although there has been no evidence of impacts beyond our property boundaries. We engaged local communities and government agencies on this issue and communicated openly about the allegations presented. This incident points to the importance of open and continuous engagement with those affected by our operations. Moving forward, we will continue to maintain open dialogue when issues like this arise. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 162 ADDRESSING OUR CHALLENGES In 2017 and beyond, a critical issue facing our industry is water management. Our Towards Zero (H2Zero) initiative should trigger a series of innovations and initiatives that lead us to significant reductions in our water footprint. When our Borden mine opens, we plan on powering its underground equipment with clean, renewable energy. From battery-operated drilling and blasting equipment, to electric bolters, personnel carriers and, ultimately, a battery-powered haul truck, the mine will set a new standard in clean underground air and GHG emissions that are a fraction of conventional mines. Moving forward, we are actively seeking innovative energy and environmentally sound solutions. We will continue to manage our environmental impacts and work to innovate environmental management and mine reclamation, always considering the present and future of water, energy and biodiversity. WHAT LIES AHEAD We expect the coming year to challenge the mining industry, but we are confident that our discipline in cost control and value optimization – combined with our commitment to sustainability and responsible mining practices – will help us maintain our competitive edge and deliver on our vision of Together, Creating Sustainable Value. Our goal is to place sustainability at the forefront of our activities. We will continue to proactively engage with our stakeholders and strive for continuous improvement in the management of our impacts, the transparency of our disclosures, and in maintaining the trust that we have established with our communities and stakeholders. We strongly believe that innovation is a key tool for sustainability in all of its aspects. For this reason, we must move past traditional ways of doing business, and look to innovation to achieve energy reductions and water conservation, strengthen partnerships and improve workplace safety. By living up to our values and commitments every day, we will ensure we continue to be responsible, respected and welcomed. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 163 GRI INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ CORE LEGEND We have used to indicate assured information. SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS INDICATORS G4-1 Statement from the most senior 4 2, 10 decision-maker G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks 5 4 and opportunities ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE INDICATORS G4-3 Name of the organization 9 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/ 8, 10 or services G4-5 Location of organization’s 9 headquarters G4-6 Number of countries where the 8 organization operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Goldcorp is a public company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. Our top institutional shareholders are identified on our website: www.goldcorp.com. G4-8 Markets served 8, 9 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 8, 9 G4-10 Total workforce 98 Goal 8 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by 107 3 Goal 8 collective agreements G4-12 Description of the organization’s 17 supply chain G4-13 Significant changes during the 10 reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership including the location of or changes in operations G4-14 Description of how the precautionary 52 2 7 approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Externally developed charters, 18 2 principles or initiatives endorsed G4-16 Memberships in associations 18 2 G4-17 Operational structure of the 8, 10 organization 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 164 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-18 Process for defining report content The scope and content of the report, and the depth of reporting, is governed by our commitment to the ICMM, our materiality process, our industry and our audience. Key topics that arose through our materiality assessment are discussed in the Materiality Analysis section of the report and in the disclosure on Management Approach in each of our report sections. 22, 24 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the 26 process for defining report content G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any There were two restatements restatements for the 2016 reporting period. Data on disturbance and rehabilitation of land was adjusted in 2016 for the 2013–2016 years to include only operating mine sites and better reflect where new disturbance and rehabilitation takes place. In addition, particulate matter values have been restated. In previous years, values of particulate matter corresponded to the sum of total air emissions. This has now been corrected. The data collected for this report has been gathered using the best available systems and tools currently in place for the reporting year. Continuous improvement of our data collection and analysis processes is an ongoing focus for Goldcorp. G4-23 Significant changes from previous There were no significant reporting periods in the scope and changes in the scope and aspect boundaries aspect boundaries during 2016. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT INDICATORS G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged 69 10 by the company G4-25 Basis for identification and selection 69 10 of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder 69 10 engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have 61, 71 10 been raised through stakeholder engagement 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 165 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information 19 provided G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Our 2015 Sustainability Report was published in June of 2016. 19 G4-30 Reporting cycle 19 G4-31 Contact point for questions 181 G4-32 Location of the standard disclosures 19 in the report and “in accordance” option the organization has chosen ASSURANCE G4-33 External assurance 21 GOVERNANCE INDICATORS G4-34 Governance structure 41 1, 2, 4 G4-36 Appointments of executive-level 60 1, 2, 4 position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics G4-37 Processes for consultation between 42 Goal 16 stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest 41 Goal 5 governance body and its committees Goal 16 and how the company defines “independent” and “non-executive” members of the board G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the 41 1 Goal 16 highest governance body is also an executive officer G4-40 Qualifications and expertise of the For more information about the 1, 2 Goal 5 highest governance body qualifications and expertise of Goal 16 our highest governance body, please see our Management Information Circular. 41 G4-41 Processes in place for the highest 45 1 10 Goal 16 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-44 Evaluation on performance of the For more information about highest governance body evaluations on performance of our highest governance body, please see our Management Information Circular. 41 G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance 43 1, 4, 10 1, 2, 7, 8, Goal 16 body for overseeing the 9, 10 organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 166 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) G4-46 The board’s role in reviewing 43, 52 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 7, 8, sustainability impacts, risks and 9, 10 opportunities G4-47 Frequency of the Board’s review of During 2016, the Board’s 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 7, 8, economic, environmental and social Sustainability Committee met 9, 10 impacts, risks and opportunities five times. More information about the frequency of the Board’s review of sustainability matters can be found in our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. 43 G4-48 Highest committee that formally The Sustainability Report is 1, 10 reviews and approves the reviewed and approved by our organization’s sustainability report Disclosure Committee and Board of Directors. G4-49 Process for communicating 42 1, 2, 4, 10 1, 10 critical concerns to the highest governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest For information about 1, 2 10 governance body and senior remuneration policies for the executives highest governance body, please see our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. 44 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration For information about the 1 10 process to determine remuneration, please see our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. 44 G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought Since 2012, we have provided 10 Goal 16 and taken into account regarding shareholders with an advisory remuneration “Say on Pay” vote regarding our executive compensation program. It helps us engage constructively, obtain meaningful feedback and ensure accountability for executive compensation. For more information, please see our Management Information Circular at www.goldcorp.com. 44 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY INDICATORS G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, 11 1, 2, 4 1, 2, 6, 10 Goal 16 standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 167 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) ECONOMIC INDICATORS DMA Economic Performance 9, 63, 128 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated 9, 66, 67 9 10 Goal 2 and distributed Goal 5 Goal 7 Goal 8 Goal 9 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other 133 4, 7 7 Goal 13 risks and opportunities due to climate change G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance 66 received from government DMA Market Presence 9 G4-EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry63 6 Goal 1 level wage by gender compared to Goal 5 local minimum wage Goal 8 G4-EC6 Local hiring – proportion of senior 63 2, 9 6 Goal 8 management and total workforce hired from local communities at operations DMA Indirect Economic Impacts 9 G4-EC7 Development and impact of We routinely contribute to the 9 Goal 2 infrastructure investments construction and maintenance Goal 5 of local infrastructure and Goal 7 services. The main areas of Goal 8 investment are education, Goal 9 health, local services Goal 11 (e.g., water supply, power, etc.) and roads. However, we have not attempted to estimate the indirect economic benefits that flow to local and regional communities from our operations and development activities. The impact on regional economic activity will vary depending on local circumstances, but the potential economic stimulus is large. 67 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts We have not attempted to 2, 9 Goal 1 estimate the indirect economic Goal 2 benefits that flow to local and Goal 3 regional communities from our Goal 8 operations and development Goal 10 activities. The impact on Goal 17 regional economic activity will vary depending on local circumstances, but the potential economic stimulus is large. 63 DMA Procurement Practices 17, 64 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on locally 64 2, 9 10 Goal 12 based suppliers 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 168 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) ENVIRONMENT INDICATORS DMA Materials 128 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 131 6 7, 8, 9 Goal 8 Goal 12 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are 132 6, 8 8 Goal 8 recycled input materials Goal 12 DMA Energy 133 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the 134 6 8 Goal 7 organization Goal 8 Goal 12 Goal 13 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the 134 6 8 Goal 7 organization Goal 8 Goal 12 Goal 13 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 135 6 8 Goal 7 Goal 8 Goal 12 Goal 13 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 135 6, 8 8, 9 Goal 7 Goal 8 Goal 12 Goal 13 DMA Water 138 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 138 6 8 Goal 6 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected 139 8 Goal 6 by withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 139 6, 8 8, 9 Goal 6 recycled and reused Goal 8 Goal 12 DMA Biodiversity 128, 144 G4-EN11 Location and size of land adjacent to 144 6, 7 8 Goal 6 protected areas and areas of high Goal 14 biodiversity value Goal 15 G4-EN12 Significant impacts on protected 144 6, 7 8 Goal 6 areas and areas of high Goal 14 biodiversity value Goal 15 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 145 6, 7 8 Goal 6 Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and 145 6, 7 8 Goal 6 national conservation list species with Goal 14 habitats affected by our operations Goal 15 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 169 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) DMA Emissions 133 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 136 6 8, 9 Goal 3 emissions Goal 12 Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 136 6 8, 9 Goal 3 emissions Goal 12 Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 136 6 8, 9 Goal 3 emissions (Scope 3) Goal 12 Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 137 6 8, 9 Goal 13 intensity Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 137 6, 8 7, 8, 9 Goal 13 emissions Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air 137 6 8 Goal 3 emissions by type and weight Goal 12 Goal 14 Goal 15 DMA Effluents and Waste 141 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and 139 6 8 Goal 3 destination Goal 6 Goal 12 Goal 14 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and 142 6, 8 8 Goal 3 disposal method Goal 6 Goal 12 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of 143 4, 6 8 Goal 3 significant spills Goal 6 Goal 12 Goal 14 Goal 15 G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status and 140 6, 8 7, 8, 9 Goal 6 biodiversity value of waterbodies and Goal 14 related habitats significantly affected Goal 15 by the organization’s discharges of water and runoff DMA Compliance 146 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines, 146 1, 6 8 Goal 16 and non-monetary sanctions DMA Transportation 147 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of 147 6 8, 9 Goal 11 transporting products and other Goal 12 goods and materials Goal 13 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 170 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) DMA Environmental Grievance Mechanisms 85 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about 85 Goal 16 environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK INDICATORS DMA Employment 95 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new 102 3 6 Goal 5 employee hires and employee Goal 8 turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full time 101 6 Goal 8 employees that are not provided to temporary or part time employees, by significant locations of operation DMA Labour/Management Relations 107 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding 107 3 1, 3 Goal 8 operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements DMA Occupational Health and Safety 112 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce Management–employee Joint 3 1, 3 Goal 8 represented in formal joint Safety and Health Committees management–worker health and (JSHCs) are valuable tools for safety committees including employees in the safety decision-making process. Every Goldcorp operating site and project, along with our corporate and regional offices, has a JSHC, meaning that 100% of our workforce is now represented. In most cases, decisions and policies made by the JSHCs apply to all on-site personnel. G4-LA6 Type and rates of injury, occupational 120 5 1 Goal 3 diseases, lost days and absenteeism, Goal 8 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or 121, 122 5 6 Goal 3 high risk of diseases related to Goal 8 their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Health and safety topics are 5 3, 6 Goal 8 formal agreements with trade unions covered in formal agreements in our operations that have a trade union on-site. We take a holistic approach to safety and make no distinction in our policy, procedures or expectations as they are applied to union employees, non-union employees and contractors. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 171 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) DMA Training and Education 99 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and 99 9 Goal 8 lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving 101 9 Goal 5 regular performance and career Goal 8 development reviews DMA Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103 G4-LA12 Composition of governance 103, 106 1, 3, 4 1, 6 Goal 5 bodies and breakdown of employees Goal 8 by category DMA Equal Remuneration for 103, 106 Women and Men G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and 106 Goal 5 remuneration of women to men by Goal 8 employee category, by significant Goal 10 locations of operation DMA Labour Practices Grievance 85 Mechanisms G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour 85 Goal 16 practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS DMA Investment 79, 83 G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements 83 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on 80 policies and procedures concerning human rights DMA Non-discrimination 79, 85 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of 85 1, 3 1, 2, 6 Goal 5 discrimination and corrective Goal 8 actions taken Goal 16 DMA Freedom of Association and 79, 107 Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in 107 Goal 8 which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk DMA Child Labour 79 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as No incidents of child labour Goal 8 having significant risk for incidents of were reported in 2016, nor were Goal 16 child labour, and measures taken to any operations considered to contribute to the effective abolition of have significant risk for child labour incidents of child labour. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 172 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) DMA Forced or Compulsory Labour 79 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as We support the principle that Goal 8 having significant risk for incidents of individuals must be accorded forced or compulsory labour an equal opportunity to participate in the free enterprise system and to develop their ability to achieve their full potential within that system. We do not engage in, or condone, forced or compulsory labour. No incidents of forced or compulsory labour were reported in 2016, nor were any operations considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. DMA Security Practices 79 G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel 82 Goal 16 trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations DMA Indigenous Rights 75 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations 85 2, 3 1, 2 Goal 2 involving rights of Indigenous Peoples and actions taken DMA Assessment 79, 80 G4-HR9 Number and percentage of No human rights impact 1, 3, 4, 9 1, 2 operations that have been subject assessments were to human rights reviews or conducted during the impact assessments 2016 reporting period. DMA Supplier Human Rights Assessment 79, 83 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that 83 were screened using human rights criteria DMA Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms 85 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human 85 Goal 16 rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY INDICATORS DMA Local Communities 63 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with 69 2, 9, 10 implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and 61 2, 4, 9 2, 8 Goal 1 potential negative impacts on local Goal 2 communities 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 173 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) DMA Anti-corruption 46 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of 46 1, 2, 4 10 Goal 16 operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on 49 1, 2, 4 10 Goal 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption 46 Goal 16 and actions taken DMA Public Policy 50 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions 51 1 10 Goal 16 by country and recipient/beneficiary DMA Anti-competitive Behaviour 45 G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for 45 Goal 16 anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practice DMA Compliance 45 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines 45 1 Goal 16 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance DMA Grievance Mechanisms for 85 Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts 85 10 1, 2 Goal 16 on society MINING AND METALS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT INDICATORS MM1 Amount of land disturbed or 144 6, 7 Goal 3 rehabilitated Goal 6 Goal 12 Goal 14 Goal 15 MM2 Sites identified as requiring 144 6, 7 8 Goal 6 biodiversity management plans, Goal 14 and sites with plans in place Goal 15 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, 142 6 8 Goal 3 tailings and sludge presenting Goal 6 potential hazards Goal 12 MM4 Number of strikes and lockouts Strikes and lockouts are 3 3 Goal 8 indicative of a serious breakdown in labour/ management relations and a suspension of consultative processes. In 2016, there were no strikes or lockouts that lasted more than one week in duration. MM5 Operations in or adjacent to 75 2, 3, 9 1, 2 Goal 1 Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and Goal 2 formal agreements in place with Indigenous Peoples 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 174 GRI INDEX SUSTAINABLE GENERAL STANDARD ICMM UNGC DEVELOPMENT DISCLOSURES DESCRIPTION PAGE NUMBERS AND NOTES PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE GOAL(S) MM6 Significant disputes relating to land 85 2, 3, 4, 9, 1, 2 Goal 1 use and the customary rights of local 10 Goal 2 communities and Indigenous Peoples MM7 Grievance mechanisms used to 69, 75 10 1, 2 Goal 1 resolve disputes related to land use Goal 2 and the customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples MM8 Artisanal and small-scale mining No artisanal or small-scale Goal 1 mining was reported on any of Goal 2 our sites. However, the access Goal 3 road to our NuevaUnión project Goal 6 is adjacent to the property of a Goal 8 small-scale mining association. Goal 12 The site maintains a close relationship with that local association. MM9 Resettlement 85 Goal 2 MM10 Closure plans 156 2, 6, 9 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 175 GLOSSARY ALL-IN SUSTAINING COSTS (AISC) A non-GAAP performance measure that defines the total costs associated with producing gold. All-in sustaining costs include by-product cash costs, sustaining capital expenditures, corporate administrative expense, exploration and evaluation costs and reclamation cost accretion. As the measure seeks to reflect the full cost of gold production from current operations, new project capital is not included in the calculation. ALL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (AIFR) A standard safety indicator in the extractive industries, the All Injury Frequency Rate is calculated based on the total number of reportable incidents per 200,000 hours worked. For our purposes, we have considered the following incidents as reportable: medical aid, restricted work duty, lost time and fatalities. ASSURANCE A service often provided by an independent third party which reviews documentation and information to confirm its validity. CLOSURE PLAN A plan that establishes the objectives and actions for the closure phase of the mine life cycle, particularly on post-mining land use. COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION An investment of employee time, resources and a monetary contribution, the target beneficiaries of which are external to the company. We are involved in some capacity in the design, implementation or administration of the resources (e.g., a community relations person sits on the project steering committee). These contributions consist of money or in-kind benefits provided directly to community organizations or community representatives for specified purposes. CONFLICT-FREE GOLD STANDARD A voluntary standard developed by the World Gold Council to provide assurance that gold has been extracted in a way that does not cause, support or benefit unlawful conflict, or contribute to serious human rights abuses or breaches of international law. CONTRACTORS “Contractors” refers to external labour, hired to do a specific task. In some jurisdictions, a contractor is defined as a “supervised worker”, an individual who performs regular work on-site for, or on behalf of, the reporting organization but is not recognized as an employee under national law or practice. COUNTRY RISK ASSESSMENT An assessment to identify operational risks related to the social and economic context of a particular country. DONATION A cash or physical gift made to the larger community where the target beneficiaries are external to the company and we are not involved in the administration or delivery of that gift. An example is donating money to a school to purchase books or supplies. EJIDO An area of communal land used for agriculture, owned and operated by members of the community. EMPLOYEE Full time, direct Goldcorp personnel. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE A sustainability reporting framework consisting of principles, guidelines and indicators to measure and report on an organization’s economic, environmental and social performance. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 176 GLOSSARY GOLDEN RULES A set of ten rules which identify the most high-risk situations for our workforce, as identified by analyzing past Potential Fatal Occurrences (PFOs) at Goldcorp and in the industry. They are intended to help workers understand the potential hazards and risks they face and to begin a task only when they have thoroughly understood all the rules and how they apply to the work at hand. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) EMISSIONS Any of the atmospheric gases that contribute to the greenhouse effect by absorbing infrared radiation produced by solar warming of the Earth’s surface. They include carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and water vapour. GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) INTENSITY GHG intensity is a metric that normalizes GHGs per a defined unit of production. This can be defined as the total amount of GHGs per tonne moved and is a metric that we track to determine how we are managing our GHGs across the company as we experience growth or divestment. GRIEVANCE A grievance is a formal complaint, concern, problem or claim (perceived or actual) that an individual or community group wants us to address. Grievances must be communicated to appropriate Goldcorp personnel in writing or verbally. GRIEVANCE MECHANISM A process that allows us to receive and respond to feedback and concerns from stakeholders on matters of interest to them related to our activities. Feedback may include questions, concerns, claims or complaints from internal (i.e., employees and contractors) or external stakeholders (i.e., Indigenous groups or special interest groups, such as non-profit organizations). At Goldcorp, we have two formal channels for receiving complaints and grievances (Ethics from the Ground Up and Community Response mechanisms), as well as other informal channels, which are implemented on a site-by-site basis. HEAP LEACH An extractive process whereby ore is stacked on a pad (forming a “heap”) and leaching solutions are introduced at the top of the heap. The leaching solutions dissolve valuable metals (typically gold and silver) as they percolate through the ore and are collected from a sloping, impermeable liner below the pad. HUMAN RIGHTS Universal rights, or status, regardless of legal jurisdiction or other localizing factors such as ethnicity, nationality and sex. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the most widely recognized document outlining these rights. HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACT ASSESSMENT A process used to measure the impact of a range of activities on human rights. The activities commonly subject to impact measurement include international trade agreements, development cooperation programs and business operations. INDIGENOUS PEOPLES As per the GRI G4 Guidelines, Indigenous Peoples refer to “those whose social, cultural, political and economic conditions distinguish them from other sections of the dominant national community, or who are regarded as Indigenous on account of their descent from the populations which inhabited the country, or geographical region to which a country belongs, at the time of conquest or colonization or the establishment of present state boundaries and who, irrespective of their legal status, retain all or some of their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions.” INTERNATIONAL CYANIDE MANAGEMENT CODE A voluntary industry program for gold mining companies which focuses exclusively on the safe management of cyanide and cyanidation mill tailings and leach solutions. The objective of the Cyanide Code is to improve the management of cyanide used in gold mining, to assist in the protection of human health and to reduce environmental impacts. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 177 GLOSSARY LOST TIME INCIDENT (LTI) An injury resulting in absence from work beyond the day of the incident. Lost Time Injuries may be “minor” (one to several days away from work) or “major” (more extensive lost time). LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE (LTIFR) A measure of the number of occurrences of Lost Time Incidents per 200,000 hours worked. MATERIAL TOPICS Key topics that have a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE An occupational disease is a disease or disorder that is caused by work or working conditions. Some examples of occupational diseases in mining include: dust and noise exposure, fatigue, and trauma from vibration and strains. OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE (ODR) The frequency of occupational diseases per 200,000 hours worked. ORE Rock generally containing metallic and non-metallic minerals that can be mined and processed at a profit. POTENTIAL FATAL OCCURRENCE (PFO) Any incident that has the potential to lead to a fatality. These incidents have a high probability of affecting a critical body part (such as a head injury). At Goldcorp, a PFO is also a violation of a Golden Rule or other critical control, either a near miss or an observation, where there was sufficient energy or toxicity to be fatal. REAGENTS Chemicals used in mineral recovery processes. RECLAMATION The process by which lands disturbed by mining activity are reclaimed back to a beneficial land use. Reclamation activity includes the removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, and the closure of tailing impoundments, leach pads and other mine features. It also includes contouring, covering and revegetation of waste rock piles and other disturbed areas. RECYCLED WATER Worked water that is used again after being treated. RESETTLEMENT As defined by the International Finance Corporation, physical displacement (relocation or loss of shelter) and/or economic displacement (loss of assets or access to assets that leads to the loss of income sources or means of livelihood). We are committed to ensuring that any people we resettle are moved to a location of equal or better value than the one they leave. REUSED WATER Worked water that is used again without being treated. “SAY ON PAY” An advisory vote on “Say on Pay” is provided to shareholders of the company to allow them to show their approval or disapproval of the company’s executive compensation policies. An advisory vote is non-binding on the company and it remains the duty of the Board to develop and implement sufficient executive compensation policies for the company. If the advisory vote is not approved by at least a majority of the votes cast at the meeting, the Board undertakes to discuss with the shareholders of the company why they do not approve of the company’s executive compensation policies and to consider modifications to such policies. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 178 GLOSSARY SCOPE 1 (DIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions that are derived from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting organization. SCOPE 2 (INDIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions that are generated at sources owned or controlled by another organization. SCOPE 3 (OTHER INDIRECT) GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Indirect emissions not covered in Scope 1 or 2, such as emissions from business materials, travel and commuting to work. SLUDGE Sludge is a semi-solid slurry and can be produced as sewage sludge from wastewater treatment processes or as a settled suspension obtained from conventional drinking water and numerous other industrial processes. The term is also sometimes used as a generic term for solids separated from suspension in a liquid; this “soupy” material usually contains significant quantities of “interstitial” water (between the solid particles). Industrial wastewater solids are also referred to as sludge, whether generated from biological or physicalchemical processes. Surface water plants also generate sludge made up of solids removed from the raw water. SOCIAL BASELINE STUDY A study to understand the current socio-economic or human environment around a proposed project, mine or associated infrastructure. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder engagement is a dynamic two-way dialogue based on mutual respect and benefit, with the goals of building lasting relationships, managing risk and impacts, and providing a forum to address and resolve potential issues. SURFACE WATER Water derived from rainfall captured on our sites or from site-surface water sources. TAILINGS Material rejected from a mill after most of the recoverable valuable minerals have been extracted. TAILINGS STEWARDSHIP STRATEGY A management strategy developed to ensure best practices are implemented for proper construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and ultimately closure of our tailings storage facilities, including water retention structures. The strategy is designed to provide assurances that tailings and dams are managed using best practices, providing secure storage, reduced costs and impacts, improved operational excellence and consistent monitoring, and addressing stakeholder concerns. These benefits can be realized both within and outside operational boundaries. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, businesses can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLES ON SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS A multi-stakeholder initiative involving governments, companies and non-governmental organizations that promotes the implementation of a set of principles that guide oil, gas and mining companies in providing security for their operations in a manner that respects human rights. The Voluntary Principles guide companies in conducting a comprehensive human rights risk assessment in their engagement with public and private security providers to ensure human rights are respected in the protection of company facilities and premises. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 179 GLOSSARY WASTE ROCK Rock that is removed from the mining process to provide access to the ore, and is not further processed during the reporting year. WORKFORCE Refers to full-time Goldcorp employees and outside labour, such as contractors, who do work on Goldcorp’s behalf. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 180 CONTACT US We are committed to transparency and open communication. We welcome feedback about our programs and specific comments for improvements in our sustainability reporting. Your inquiries may be directed to: Email: SustainabilityReporting@goldcorp.com Mail: Suite 3400, 666 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6C 2X8 Telephone: (604) 696-3000 Facsimile: (604) 696-3001 www.goldcorp.com Goldcorp Inc. @Goldcorp_Inc GoldcorpInc 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOLDCORP 181
