Lodam report on social responsibility, 2017 Social responsibility WE SUPPORT Lodam at a glance 107 2012 13 & 17 No. of employees on date of issue of this report. Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012. The two Global Goals that Lodam supports in particular: 13. Climate action and 17. Partnerships for the goals. 12 No. 12 on the Great Place to Work® Institute’s list of the 80% 1.276 Accomplished and agreed competence development. Tonnes of CO2 per employee in 2016. best workplaces in Denmark 2016. Lodam’s values Contents Professionalism We strive to be a competent, Management statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 reliable business partner. A partner Lodam electronics. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 that keeps its promises and consistLodam and social responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 ently delivers above the bar in terms UN Global Compact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 of quality, service and value. Environmental responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Inclusiveness Lodam’s energy-efficient products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 We believe in individualism with a Heat pump controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 respect for diversity and the many Case: Green heat pump controller . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 cultures that come together to work under our roof. We are driven by Ventilation controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 good attitudes, the mutual desire Remote caretaking. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 to achieve job satisfaction and our Case: A comfortable evening at Huset Blom. . . . . . . 21 preparedness for change. Lodam transport controller. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Good business acumen Supplier responsibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 We are driven by sound business Supplier code of conduct. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 practices in all daily decisions, both People responsibility.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 internally and externally. All deciAnti-corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 sions should be ethical and to the Final words and facts.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 benefit of the company as a whole. Page 2 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Management statement We are pleased to present Lodam’s We have continued our partnership new report on social responsibility. with the technical humanitarian The report provides an overview of organisation Engineers Without our internal and external activities Borders Denmark with the aim of from May 2016 to April 2017. The contributing to advancing a numaim is to provide our customers, ber of broader societal goals such employees and other stakeholders as the Sustainable Development with insights into Lodam’s work Goals, ref. page 6. with social responsibility as well as our ambitions to contribute to Lodam joined the UN Global social responsibility. Compact initiative in 2012, and we continue to support the UN Global Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen People responsibility is important Compact and its ten principles on Managing Director to us, and we keep measuring emhuman rights, labour, the environployee well-being via the Danish ment and anti-corruption. These “Great Place to Work” employee principles reflect our continued survey, organised by the Great commitment to running our busiPlace to Work® Institute. In Noness in a responsible and serious vember 2016, Lodam was ranked way. no. 12 in the category of mediumsized companies in the Best WorkLodam Management, places in Denmark list. In the past period, we have continued being busy tailoring our Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, organisation and strategies to meet Managing Director the requirements of our customers. We have continued implementing Henning Højberg Kristensen our strategy and making it a total Managing Director Lodam effort to reach it. Special focus have been given to support Henning Højberg Kristensen, customers with solutions which are Managing Director giving them increased efficiency “The aim is to provide our and “ease-of-use”, taking the terms customers, employees and they are used under into considerother stakeholders with ation. Further more optimisation of delivery performance and safe insights into Lodam’s work supply is a key priority. with social responsibility.” Page 3 Our mission is to be a global player within intelligent electronics for HVAC&R. We provide cost-effective and high-quality solutions, enabling our customers to consistently outperform their peers in usability, serviceability and energy efficiency. Page 4 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Lodam electronics Lodam possesses extensive know• OEM solutions for heat pump ledge and know-how about develand ventilation systems oping, producing and implementing • Compressor electronics Lodam in short innovative and efficient electronic • Frequency converters for • Danish company owned climate control solutions. Lodam’s air-conditioning and refrigeraby the German company most important asset is its staff in tion compressors BITZER. the form of more than 100 dedicat• Transport refrigeration for sea ed employees who work either at and land transport. • Lodam produces electronic our modern facilities at our headcontrol devices for OEM quarters in Sønderborg, Denmark, products within the or at a branch office in Aarhus, Mission HVAC&R* industry. Denmark. Energy efficiency through intelli• Products are developed gent controls. in-house and produced by Lodam is a member of the BITZER Our mission is to be a global player global partners. Group, one of the largest groups within intelligent electronics for in the global refrigeration and HVAC&R. We provide cost-effective • Our export share is about air-conditioning compressor and high-quality solutions, en70%. industry. abling our customers to consistently * Heating, Ventilation, Air Condioutperform their peers in usability, tioning & Refrigeration Employee satisfaction is imporserviceability and energy efficiency. tant to preserving an inspiring and creative working environment and Vision the commitment which is essential Our vision is to be the preferred to securing the future development company in the eyes of our cusof innovative and energy-efficient tomers and employees solutions. • Lodam wants to continuously grow through innovative soluLodam’s control solutions are tions. important and reliable integrated • Lodam wants to improve cusparts of our partners’ total systems tomer satisfaction, as meas– and help create a perfect climate ured in our annual surveys, by for humans as well as optimised having a Net Promoter Score storage conditions for foods and (NPS) exceeding 25. other commodities. • Lodam wants to be one of the best places to work in Today, Lodam’s innovative climate Denmark with a trust index of control solutions are used all over 95% as measured by the Great the world, for instance in the folPlace to Work® Institute. lowing areas: Page 5 Lodam and social responsibility The Global Goals In September 2015, world leaders 13. Climate action: Take urgent Lodam is a partner of Engineers committed to 17 Global Goals to action to combat climate change Without Borders Denmark, which achieve three extraordinary things and its impacts. is a technical humanitarian organiin the next 15 years: End extreme Lodam contributes through the sation that aims to help the world’s poverty, fight inequality and injussupply of energy-saving electronic poorest in building a better and tice and fix climate change. Ref. climate control solutions. Read more sustainable future. www.globalgoals.org. about our products and how they save energy on pages 16-22. Lodam is committed to supporting the 17 Global Goals. Given the na17. Partnerships for the goals: ture of our business and our prodStrengthen the means of impleucts, we contribute, in particular, to mentation and revitalise the global achieving two out of the 17 goals: partnership for sustainable development. Page 6 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Looking outwards the UN, Danida and a number of they asked Lodam to participate in As an international company, we Danish NGOs; Lodam has contriba sustainability status interview in also look outwards when it comes uted to spreading the news about order to learn about Lodam’s expeto human rights and social responThe Sustainable Development riences. We have since supported sibility. In 2015, Lodam entered into Goals are a success: The develthsi insight sharing. a three-year partnership with Engioping countries are making real neers without Borders – Denmark progress. See www.worldsbestThese are some of Lodam’s experi(EWB-DK), www.iug.dk, which are news.dk. ences from participating in Maersk part of Engineers without Borders Container Industry’s responsible International. EWB-DK is a techParticipating in customer’s procurement programme: nical humanitarian organisation responsible procurement pro“Maersk Container Industry’s that, through the vision “building gramme request was a chance to look at a better tomorrow”, aims to help Lodam supplies Maersk Container our work with CSR from a strategic the world’s poorest in building a Industry with controllers, which are point of view. At the time, we were better and more sustainable future used in the Star Cool refrigerating already adhering to the principles in their local environment. EWBunits, and has done so since the of social responsibility, but hadn’t DK supports projects in developing launch of the units in 2006. formalised our CSR activities. countries using technical skills to One of Maersk Container Industry’s It made sense for Lodam to take support local development and sustainability targets is to reduce this step. Not only because we fight poverty. EWB-DK’s core areas energy consumption, which is are engaged in business activities are environment (including renewone of the reasons why they have worldwide but also because we able energy and waste), water, chosen Lodam’s energy-efficient were going through a phase of sanitation, hygiene and health cooling control solutions for their substantial growth – which meant (WASH), food security, and emerreefer containers, ref. page 22. doubling the number of employees. gency and disaster relief. The programme triggered a strong In 2011, Maersk Container Industry focus on our CSR activities, and we In 2016, Lodam again participated invited Lodam to take part in its also decided to join the United Nain the ‘World’s Best News’ initiative, Responsible Procurement protions Global Compact as a natural a Danish campaign conceived by gramme, and in November 2015 part of this process”. Page 7 Social responsibility partnerships and networks Lodam is member of a number and organisations that support the ees or their children are active. The of networks, supporting social local communities in which we are employees can apply for sponsorresponsibility activities together present. ships once a year. with other companies and organisations. The list below illustrates Lodam also supports a number of Lodam’s commitment to human local clubs and associations, e.g. rights, environmental innovation sports clubs in which our employHuman rights • Dansk HR, www. danskhr.dk (in • SPM, www.spm-erfa.dk • UN Global Compact, www. Danish) • Delta – EMC Klub, www.emcunglobalcompact.org • Cabi, www.cabiweb.dk (in klubben.dk (in Danish) • World’s Best News, www. Danish) • Delta – Wireless Klubben, worldsbestnews.dk • cleantech.talentattractiondenwww.wirelessklubben.dk (in • Engineers Without Borders mark.com Danish) Denmark / Ingeniører uden • Fachverband Gebäude-Klima, grænser, www.iug.dk Education www.fgk.de (in German) • Cooperation agreements with • ASERCOM – Association of Environment University of Southern DenEuropean Refrigeration Com• Project Zero, www.projectzero. mark and Aalborg University ponent Manufacturers, www. dk • Energy sponsor programme at asercom.org • CO2-neutral websites, www. Aalborg university CO2neutralwebsite.com • The panel of employer repreIndustrial cooperation sentatives at the University of • Confederation of Danish IndusLocal cultural branding Southern Denmark, www.sdu. try (Dansk Industri, DI), www. • Cultural and sports sponsordk di.dk ships: Kultur i Syd, Sønderborg • Guest lectures in e.g. techno• Member of DI’s CSR network Hus, Sønderjyske Elite Sport logy and innovation, sales and and Conflict Minerals network, and Dybbølhallerne marketing and CSR www.di.dk • Sponsorships for local clubs • Industrigruppen Sønderborg and associations in which Innovation and technology • Member of Sønderborg VækstLodam employees are active • TEGnology, www.tegnology.dk råd, vaekstraad.sonderborg.dk • CLEAN, Danish cleantech clusEmployer branding and attraction ter, www.cleancluster.com • Great Place to Work® Institute, • Member of Mechatronics Cluswww.greatplacetowork.dk ter Denmark, www.mechatron• Work Live Stay, www.workicscluster.com (in Danish) live-stay.dk • Partner in local project “Green • Career in Denmark, www.caPower Electronics Test Lab”, reerindenmark.com supported by e.g. Green Labs dk Page 8 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Results goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of the annual employee satisfaction survey (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Result: 96% of all Lodam employees answered “I feel good about the way we contribute to society” in the Danish Great Place to Work 2016 survey, organised by the Great Place to Work® Institute. Goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Continue to anchor the awareness of Lodam’s social responsibility activities and policies among Lodam employees. Measured as part of the annual employee satisfaction survey (Great Place to Work®), above 95%. Lodam supports local clubs and associations. Page 9 Lodam supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Page 10 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 UN Global Compact The world’s largest corporate susThe UN Global Compact strategy: tainability initiative By encouraging companies to operate responsibly and take straThe ten principles of the The UN Global Compact is a call to tegic actions that support society, United Nations Global Compact companies to align strategies and the UN Global Compact works to operations with universal principles ensure that business activity adds Human rights on human rights, labour, environvalue not only to the bottom-line, 1. Businesses should ment and anti-corruption, and but also to people, communities support and respect the take actions that advance societal and the planet. protection of internationgoals. ally proclaimed human rights; and The UN Global Compact asks 2. make sure that they are The UN Global Compact believes it companies to take a comprehennot complicit in human is possible to create a sustainable sive approach to sustainability, and rights abuses. and inclusive global economy that lays out 5 essential elements of delivers lasting benefits to people, corporate sustainability which the Labour communities and markets. UN Global Compact helps business 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associput into practice: ation and the effective To make this happen, the UN Globrecognition of the right to al Compact supports companies Foremost companies must (1) collective bargaining; to: operate responsibly in alignment 4. the elimination of all 1. Do business responsibly by with universal principles and (2) forms of forced and comaligning their strategies and take strategic actions that support pulsory labour; operations with ten principles 5. the effective abolition of the society around them. Then, to child labour; and on human rights, labour, envipush sustainability deep into the 6. the elimination of discrimronment and anti-corruption; corporate identity, companies must ination in respect of emand (3) commit at the highest level, (4) ployment and occupation. 2. Take strategic actions to adreport annually on their efforts, and vance broader societal goals, (5) engage locally where they have Environment such as the UN Sustainable a presence. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Development Goals, with an approach to environmenemphasis on collaboration and tal challenges; innovation. 8. undertake initiatives to Source: www.unglobalcompact.org promote greater environReporting to stakeholders in a mental responsibility; and transparent and public manner 9. encourage the development and diffusion of is fundamental for companies environmentally friendly committed to sustainability. Each technologies. company’s annual Communication on Progress (COP) is a key comAnti-corruption ponent of the company’s commit10. Businesses should work ment to the UN Global Compact. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 11 Environmental responsibility Lodam takes an environmenstrategy is an efficient logistics tally responsible approach to approach, which we call “in the the running of our business, and area, for the area”. The purpose we focus on the areas with the of Lodam’s localisation project is greatest potential for minimising to ensure that our manufacturers environmental impact. One such are sited near our main customers. area is our products that reduce Furthermore, Lodam is working energy consumption for end-users, to find quality-conscious subsupref. pages 16-22. We also require pliers which are located near the that our suppliers take care of the manufacturers. All in all, transport environment, ref. our Supplier Code and logistics are minimised, saving of Conduct, pages 25-27. money, time and energy. In-house, we look at optimising our In the past period, we have focused facilities. We keep a list of ideas for on reducing air transport as this is environmental improvements. The both the most expensive, and also list is available to all employees, the most energy-intensive mode who are welcome to add ideas to of transport. We have specifically the list. The ideas are evaluated at focused on monitoring and reregular CSR meetings, where it is ducing our use of air transport of decided which ideas to look further product parts and components. into or implement. Many ideas have Furthermore, we have looked into already been implemented, and and evaluated potential subsupnew ideas are constantly being pliers which are located near the added to the list. manufacturers. In particular, we The ideas that have been implehave been looking for subsupplimented since the last report range ers of heavy components, which from insulation of a building to have the greatest impact during air serving tap water to guests instead transport. of bottled water (which makes perThe result is a considerable fall in fect sense in Denmark as we have use of air transport, and in general some of the cleanest tap water in a decrease in sea and land transthe world). port. These are some of the other areas The project continues, and our we focus on: focus will now be on the implementation of the processes in the Localisation long term. Localisation is about streamlining logistics, increasing transport efficiency and manufacturing our products close to the markets for which they are destined. Our Page 12 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Refurbished spare parts by water-borne floor heating. The Ligting color in officespace and Lodam has finalised a pilot project heat comes from (ground-to-wameeting areas:4000 kelvin that involved looking into introducter) heat pumps, which we have Ligtning color in canteen:2700 ing refurbished spare parts. developed and produced ourselves. kelvin Apart from following developWhen the temperature drops bements in national legislation on the low freezing point, we supplement Insulation recycling of electronic waste, we this heating solution with natural Hot water pipes in Walkthrough arlooked into whether spare parts for gas. We have seasonal control eas have been insulated in Novemone of our products could be reof our heating to ensure a more ber 2016 so hot water can flow furbished, and to what extent. The homogeneous indoor temperature through the pipes without giving of pilot project was a success, and and save energy. unnecessary heat to the surroundfollowing evaluation by the cusLodam has rented a set of pavilings and without loss. tomer, it was included in our regular ions, which we use as extra meetThe insulation ensures comfortable scope of supply. ing rooms. However, these pavilindoor climate and a gas saving on Based on our experience from the ions are heated by electricity, which 5-10%. pilot project, we are now consideris not ideal, neither from a cost nor ing extending the concept to other from an environmental point of CO2 neutral gas customers. We see considerable view. However, we have concluded, To be aware of the surrounding long-term potential. that initiating new activities will be community Lodam changed into Apart from the obvious environtoo expensive as our present plans fermentation gas in the headquarmental benefits, our aim is for the are only to keep the pavilions for a ter in Sønderborg. The gas is made refurbishment of spare parts to few more years. of animal fertilizers, corn and other bring considerable advantages for types of farming waste. customers in terms of both cost-efLightning The change gives an extra cost on ficiency and quality. To continue the energy efficient 5000 kr. each year. development Lodam replaced 350 Environmental certification fluorescent tubes with energy-conEnergy savings for employees Lodam has looked into the process serving LED-lighting tubes in May For our employees, we have inof obtaining ISO 14001 certifica2017. troduced a number of initiatives tion in terms of scope, costs, risk 36 W+coil loss=50 W per floresthat may help them save energy at analyses and strategy, and we have cent tube home. We have two energy meters, established a detailed overview of New tubes:18 W per LED lightning which the employees can borrow the steps involved. An actual plan tube to check the energy consumption for the certification process will be The changing ensures a saving on of various types of electrical equipmade, either if requested by one of 22.400 kWh/year. ment at home. It is also possible to our customers, or if Lodam believes The LED-lightning is adjusted so borrow a thermal imaging camera that this would be a good idea and lightning in the office space and to help identify insulation probin line with Lodam’s strategies. meeting areas are sharply and actilems. In addition, we have a site vating close to daylight. The Lighton our intranet for discussing and Air and heating ning in the canteen is subdued and exchanging ideas on how to save Lodam’s main building is heated calming also called warm white. energy at home. Page 13 Energy consumption figures 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The tables on this page shows kWh per m2 110 152 127 122 142 137 143 147 our energy consumption and hereof kWh per m2 29 20 18 15 14 CO2 emissions for the past for testing years relative to floor area and kWh per employee 5601 6802 5485 4649 5301 4649 4648 4885 number of employees. Notes: In 2010, we extended our facilities with during the winter period in 2013. approx. 1,000 sq m. During the period of The low figures for 2014 are partly due to construction, our ground-to-water heata very mild winter and partly to the insuing system was switched off. lation of the building acquired in 2013. In 2012, we split the measuring of energy consumption into energy used for product testing and energy for our ordinary facilities and activities in order to monitor how energy is used. In 2013, we extended our facilities with a new 396 sq m building. This building was not as well-insulated as the other buildings, and thus more energy was used 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Tonnes of CO2 per 0.040 0.043 0.050 0.039 0.043 0.043 0.036 0.038 m2 Tonnes of CO2 per 2.043 1.921 2.167 1.493 1.609 1.448 1.180 1.276 employee Notes: Some of our energy consumption relates The above CO2 calculations are made to natural gas, which is weighted more using a tool on www.klimakompasset.dk. highly in the CO2 emission calculations. Environmental inspection The Danish local authorities inNovember 2008: 1 remark spect local companies to ensure (paper sorting handled incorrectly). that they comply with environMarch 2012: 0 remarks mental regulations governing the minimisation of pollution. Due to The next inspection is due to take the nature of Lodam’s business acplace soon (it has yet to be carried tivities, inspections are only carried out at the time of release of this out about every three five years. report). Page 14 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Energy audit according to The recommendations will be paper. We always print a limited 2012/27/EU added to Lodam’s list of initiatives number of copies. Our current supAs part of the BITZER Group, a and will subsequently be evaluplier of printed matter is located large international group, Lodam is ated and implemented where it very close to Lodam, which saves subject to the EU Energy Efficiency makes sense. Lodam’s facilities are energy for transport. Directive (2012/27/EU). Therefore, generally energy-optimised and in See www.fsc.org. an external consultant performed a good condition. an energy audit of our facilities in January/February 2016. Printed matter The audit resulted in a report with a All printed matter, including this few recommendations for improvereport, is printed using environmenments to the existing installations. tally friendly ink on FSC-certified Results goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Result: Lodam has a list of proposed initiatives. This list is evaluated at all regular environment meetings, and new initiatives are added while decisions are made as to which initiatives to look further into or implement. In the last period, we have replaced 350 fluorescent tubes with energy-conserving LED-lightning tubes, and insulated hot water pipes. The list is available to all Lodam employees on the intranet. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture products close to the markets for which they are destined. Our focus will be on anchoring the processes in the long term. Result: The result so far has been a considerable fall in the use of air transport, and a general decrease in sea and land transport as well. Goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Keep and maintain a list of initiatives within the area of environmental protection at the Sønderborg headquarters as well as looking into and implementing the initiatives that make most sense. Goal: Continue to work with our localisation project to streamline logistics, increase transport efficiency and manufacture products close to the markets for which they are destined. Our focus will be on anchoring the processes in the long term. Page 15 Lodam’s energy-efficient products Lodam develops innovative conwater. The controllers can be used trol solutions for heating, ventiin both domestic and industrial lation and refrigeration systems. heat pumps. Today, the solutions are used all over the world, for instance in the Ventilation systems following areas: Lodam’s ventilation control solutions are key to creating perfect OEM solutions comfort and climate for people – • Heat pumps e.g. in homes, industrial buildings • Ventilation systems and schools. Compressor electronics Frequency converters • Compressor protection and Lodam’s converter solution elecmonitoring tronically controls compressor • Frequency converters capacity to match actual cooling demands by changing the comTransport pressor speed. The result is im• Reefer application proved part-load performance, “Innovative control • Truck & Trailer application thus saving energy and cutting CO2 solutions used all emissions. over the world.” Monitoring & Control solutions • Energy optimization Accessories • Remote monitoring Multiple accessories are avail• Indoor climate able for all Lodam controllers to add extra value to the solutions: Heat pumps Innovative and user-friendly user Lodam’s heat pump controllers panels with colour displays, remote ensure COP (coefficient of perforcommunication devices, sensors mance) optimisation of individual and data loggers, web modules systems and add knowledge about and Windows-based multi-tools additional aspects such as anti-lefor communicating with the congionella control of domestic hot trollers. Page 16 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Heat pump controller Controlling domestic hot water and heating Lodam’s heat pump controller You can remotely control and monHow does the Lodam heat pump controller save energy makes it possible to gain total itor the heat pump via the internet, compared to other products? control of domestic hot water and and download a data log for serheating for domestic comfort. The vice and diagnostic purposes. • The unit cuts energy conoptimised control ensures low sumption and costs through energy consumption and is comFurthermore, with the Lodam heat intelligent capacity control bined with a user panel for easy pump controller, you can make via a frequency converter. operation. your heat pump Smart Grid-ready. • It includes intelligent defrost scheduling, which saves energy and ensures low capacity waste. • Pre-programmed outside temperature compensation curves adapt to the fastest control/better comfort. • The controller can be used for heat pumps with air or water/brine as source. Supplementary heat sourcing from solar panels or electric heaters is possible. Page 17 Case: Green heat pump controller LDH 105 Green heat pump controller complies with new EU requirements for standby power One of Lodam’s very good cusThe Lodam heat pump controller tomers for many years, the Danish controls and monitors the heat company Vesttherm A/S, producpump to ensure intelligent control es heat pumps for single-family of the heat and minimise energy houses. Lodam has supplied the consumption and cost. In compliLDH 105 heat pump controller for ance with the new regulations, the Vesttherm’s heat pumps for many LDH 105 Green now also ensures years. that the heat pump uses less than 1 Torben Lauridsen and Vesttherm heat pumps. watt when in standby mode. As from 2015, Vesttherm had to comply with new limits for energy Torben Lauridsen, Managing Direcconsumption when the heat pump tor of Vesttherm, says: As soon is in standby mode. as we became aware of the new regulations, Lodam set to work on Vesttherm is a Danish manuHaving been contacted by Vestthe redesign, delivering the new facturer of hot water heat therm, Lodam immediately set to controller on time, at the same pumps. work redesigning the heat pump price level and to the same high The company has supplied controller to produce a new version standards as before. high-quality heat pumps to which complies with the new the European market for more regulations – the new controller is than 30 years. www.vesttherm.dk called LDH 105 Green. The LDH 105 Green controller had to be tested and approved by the Danish authorities (Danish Energy Agency). The Energy Labelling Directive (2010/30/EU) establishes a framework for labelling and consumer information regarding energy consumption. Page 18 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Ventilation controller A perfect climate everywhere with minimum energy consumption With Lodam’s ventilation controller, goal is to ensure optimised comfort a perfect climate can be created using as little energy as possible. everywhere with minimum energy Lodam’s ventilation system has a How does the Lodam venticonsumption due to demand-drivnumber of features that contribute lation controller save energy en ventilation. The ventilation conto that goal. Some of the features compared to other products? troller operates in both household include remote access, which al• The ventilation controller and industrial units. lows support and service from the controls the supply and office, as well as advanced status exhaust air with energy-savThe supply of fresh, filtered air to alarms to facilitate fault finding. ing EC fans or AC fans with maintain air quality is key to an converters. optimised indoor climate and comfort. As ventilation costs energy, the • The controller ensures demand-driven ventilation by means of CO2 and humidity sensors; if the humidity and CO2 values rise above a stipulated level, ventilation is stepped up, and as soon as the humidity and CO2 values are acceptable, the level of ventilation is reduced again. In this way, only an absolute minimum of energy is consumed to maintain a given level of comfort. • The ventilation can be adjusted according to outside temperature and day-and-night or weekly requirements. Page 19 Remote caretaking A perfect indoor climate at all hours With Lodam’s remote caretaking • By ensuring that the systems service, it is possible to monitor and run efficiently at all times, it is How does the Lodam configure all ventilation systems in possible to prevent outbreaks remote caretaking service a building or a block of flats from of mould in flats. Mould is save energy? a central location via a web-based unhealthy for those living in application on a PC or via a smartthe flats and expensive for the • Optimising the operation of phone application. landlord to remove. ventilation systems ensures a perfect indoor climate with minimum energy conRemote access to ventilation • In case of fire near a building or sumption. However, if one systems is a unique opportunity block of flats, it is possible to or more systems are turned to ensure optimised operation of remotely turn off all ventilation off, either due to technical the ventilation systems level at all systems in order to prevent errors or by a tenant, there times. smoke from entering the buildwill be an instant increase ing or flats and causing smoke in energy consumption. The caretaking service has three inhalation injuries. With the remote caretaking significant advantages: service, it is possible to monitor that all systems are • By remote-controlling all ventirunning in the most optilation systems, you do not have mised way, receive alarms to arrange service visits to each if one or more of them individual flat. This is convenare not, and subsequently ient and saves time for both remotely reconfigure and restart them. landlords and tenants. Page 20 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Case: A comfortable evening at Huset Blom A new way of thinking restaurant is In the cellar of Huset Blom a real has been gently renovated. to control people’s comfort. Lodam treasure is hidden. Hundreds of To make the restaurant a nice and and Huset Blom have made an wine bottles are stored in the old healthy place to be, it is important agreement to secure the guest an room. Many years’ hard work are that the fine food is stored under exceptional experience. stored here to make people feel the right conditions. With remote alive again. Good indoor climate makes monitoring Lodam made it possible people talk “The experience of a good wine is to keep an eye on the climate and A wonderful evening with good not to be mistaken of” says Klaus, view historic graphs to be in control wine, delicious food and nice owner of Huset Blom meanwhile with the conditions. company is the mission at Huset he takes out some new bottles “The App is easy and intuitive to Blom. to his collection. “It’s vital that use. It’s a safety for me that I can the wine is matured under the The candles on the table makes control the ventilation and temright conditions also when they beautiful patterns in the ceiling. perature using the App” explains arrive at Huset Blom and Lodam’s Klaus, the owner of Huset Blom. A pleasant aroma blows into intelligent cooling and ventilation the room as the waiter enters. A solutions makes the conditions Easy remote control via your little talk and laughing from the perfect in the wine cellar.” mobile other guests makes a good and Turning off the ventilation system mindful atmosphere. The perfect can happen anywhere at any time conditions for a good night out. But – Remote Caretaking makes it easy behind the scene a lot of electronto regulate all ventilation systems. ics are working hard to make this In holiday periods or weekends evening perfect. Lodam made it easy to regulate The temperature is exactly 23 every or single ventilation systems. degrees and the ventilation system Lodam has made it possible for “To secure a high energy efficiency blows fresh air out in the room. Klaus to check up on the temperaI find the service very important”, Even though the summer sun ture and humidity anytime anysays Klaus. shines through the windows the intelligent solution makes it feel where with the Remote Caretaking In case of error in the ventilation comfortable. system. systems or if a new filter is required, Remote monitoring keeps an eye Klaus receives an e-mail. The good indoor climate makes people talk. on the food-conditions “I always know who to call if The food-conditions is crucial something is wrong. I don’t need to Innovative solutions in the treaswhen running a fine restaurant call for technical support because ury where the raw materials are the system itself tells me what is Good wine is a treasure itself and selected with love. wrong,” underlines Klaus before he needs to be stored under the right Huset Blom was built in 1924 as a moves on with making the fish for conditions. gardener’s lodge. The old house tonight’s guests. Page 21 Lodam transport controls Reefer container operators depend The Star Cool controller features on reliable and economical equipa unique humidity control system, Lodam’s transport cooling ment. which minimizes weight loss and control solutions cater for a guaranteed even higher product range of applications: Maersk Container Industry producquality upon delivery. Star Cool es the Star Cool reefer container, containers with the CA technolo• Reefer containers which features a controller degy is now the preferred choice for • Truck & Trailer Units veloped by Lodam. The Star Cool Mexican avocado producers. The reefer container controller meets Star Cool CA system offers accordthe increasing demands for high ing to local Sales Export Manager, quality and low operating costs, Roberto Rodriquez, the longest easy and user-friendly functionshelf life and reliability compared ality and optimised serviceability. to other CA systems on the marIn fact, customers using Star Cool ket. Furthermore, the Star Cool reefer containers have cut operatcontroller sets new standards for ing costs and energy consumption user-friendliness and safety. by minimum 30%, but savings of up to 140% are possible compared to using conventional reefer containers. Page 22 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Lodam develops innovative control solutions for climate system applications. Page 23 Supplier responsibility Lodam’s suppliers are our close suppliers’ production facilities. For of those materials, e.g. tin, tungpartners. They have been carefully the time being, these registrations sten, tantalum and gold. These selected based on their quality, are used for monitoring purposes minerals are part of our electronic innovation and flexibility. We strive only. products through the components to select suppliers that are comprocured for our solutions. At presmitted to maintaining high ethical For some of our suppliers, we also ent, we do not have the full picture standards in the same way that perform audits of their suppliers, of the origin of these materials, we are. The incorporation of social i.e. at the next supplier level, using but we have started requesting the responsibility into our supply chain the same supplier audit templates. necessary information from our is an ongoing process, and we genThis is the case for selected, stratesuppliers. Due to the complexity of erally experience a positive attitude gic suppliers, or suppliers where we our supply chain, this is an ongoing and approach from our partners in know from experience that it would process. this matter. be a good idea. The main purpose is to ensure the right quality of their Lodam performs regular audits deliveries; however, the audits also of our strategic suppliers, and our cover environmental, health and supplier audit templates include safety issues. environmental, health and safety issues, ISO 14001 certifications and Conflict minerals deviations, if any. The templates Conflict minerals are raw materials also include the use of solvents, that come from particular parts discharge of waste water and of the world where conflicts occur disposal of waste in general at our and affect the mining and trading Results goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Result: a. Our Supplier Code of Conduct is part of the supplier contracts that we are working on with our strategic suppliers. Some contracts have been signed, while others are still in progress (April 2016). b. We still introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers. Goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Introduce and implement Lodam’s social responsibility policies within our supply chain: a. Supplier contract with code of conduct to be signed by all main suppliers. b. Continue to introduce our Supplier Code of Conduct to new suppliers, and repeat the compliance request to existing suppliers on a regular basis. Page 24 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Supplier code of conduct Preface Lodam strives to select suppliers The purpose of Lodam’s Supplier who are committed to maintaining Code of Conduct is to outline in high ethical standards. We are a greater detail the standards we signatory to the United Nations’ expect our suppliers to adhere to. Global Compact, and we expect Lodam views these requirements our suppliers to share the fundaas an integral part of our business mental principles of the UN Global relationship with individual suppliCompact initiative, whether signaers. We believe that ethical, social tories or not. and environmental standards will provide competitive advantages The Supplier Code of Conduct for the benefit of Lodam and our comprises the following specific suppliers. areas: • Remuneration and employThis Code of Conduct applies ment conditions to suppliers doing business with • Working hours Lodam. Suppliers must comply • Freedom of association and with this code of conduct in all the right to collective bargainaspects of their operations that reing late to their business with Lodam. • Discrimination Supplier companies must ensure • Harassment and disciplinary that their employees comply with measures this code of conduct in all activities • Child labour related to the suppliers’ business • Forced labour with Lodam. • Health and safety • Environment We expect our suppliers to ensure • Corruption and bribery that their subsuppliers are aware • Conflict minerals of and comply with the principles expressed in this code of conduct. Furthermore, our suppliers are required to comply with all relevant national legislation and regulations. Page 25 Supplier code of conduct Specific requirements Discrimination We expect the supplier’s hiring and Remuneration and employment employment practices (including conditions promotion, training and rewards) We expect the supplier to comply not to be discriminatory on the with all legislation and regulations grounds of race, colour, ancestry, governing pay and working hours, religion, gender, gender identity or including those pertaining to miniexpression, sexual orientation, age, mum pay, overtime pay, sick leave, physical or mental disability, health piece rates and other compensatocondition, pregnancy, political ry elements. opinion or affiliation, national, social or ethnic origin, union memWorking hours bership, marital status, citizenship We expect the supplier not to restatus or veteran status. quire employees to work more than 60 hours per week including overHarassment and disciplinary time, or more than the limits on measures regular and overtime hours permitWe expect the supplier not to use ted under local law, whichever is or permit the use of corporal punthe lower. Workers must be entitled ishment or other forms of mental to at least one non-working day in or physical coercion, disciplinary every seven-day period. actions or sexual harassment. Particular employees with unusual Child labour working conditions may be exWe expect the supplier to ensure empted from this general requirethat no person is employed at an ment when covered by specific age younger than 15 (or 14 where national or international legislation; the law of the country permits) however, in the course of 12 weeks or younger than the age for comno employee must be required to pleting compulsory education in work more than an average of 60 the country of manufacture where hours per week, including overtime. such age is higher than 15. Freedom of association and right The supplier must protect young to collective bargaining workers of legal working age, up We expect the supplier not to preto the age of 18, from any type of vent employees and other workers employment or work which, by from associating freely with any its nature or the circumstances in lawful workers’ association or which it is carried out, is likely to collective bargaining association of jeopardize their health, safety or their choice. moral. Page 26 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 If a child is found working, the supThe supplier must comply with all minimise damaging effects to the plier must act in the best interest of applicable local legislation and regenvironment. the child, and any measures taken ulations to prevent accidents and must aim to improve and not worsinjury to health arising out of, linked Corruption and bribery en the child’s situation. with, or occurring in the course of We expect the highest standards of work or as a result of the operation integrity in all business interactions. Forced labour of the employer’s facilities. The supplier must not engage Forced, bonded or indentured lain any form of corrupt practices, bour or involuntary prison labour is We expect the supplier to continincluding extortion, fraud or bribery, not to be used. uously improve working conditions whether direct or indirect. and reduce workplace-related risks Health and safety and hazards by e.g. setting tarConflict minerals We expect the supplier to progets and conducting appropriate We expect the supplier to initiate a vide safe and healthy working training. process to ensure delivery of “conconditions and take appropriate flict-free minerals” products and precautionary measures to proEnvironment to implement a conflict minerals tect employees from work-related We expect the supplier to meet all policy that prohibits the purchase hazards and anticipated dangers in relevant local and national environand use of conflict minerals. the workplace. mental regulations and to strive to Page 27 People responsibility Lodam is still one of the very best basis the managing directors meet workplaces in Denmark. In 2016, with the individual departments to our trust index was 92%, and we present the strategy. The various are ranked no. 12 among mediumdepartments then focus on consized companies in Denmark by the verting the strategy into relevant Great Place to Work Institute®. actions, based on contributions from individual departments and In this report, we have chosen to employees. The strategy process present some of the areas that we also involves follow-up, focusing have focused on in particular since on leadership and co-operation the last report in order to meet our guidelines. vision, which is to be one of the best places to work in Denmark Cross-organisational collaborawith a trust index of 95% as meastion ured by the Great Place to Work Cross-organisational cooperation Institute®. and knowledge sharing is decisive to the success of our complex Trust index: Management and leadership development and production proRefers to the overall average We continue to improve our emjects. We have worked to strengthresult of the Trust Index® ployees’ view of the management’s en our ability to match and align Employee Survey by the Great ability to manage and delegate, expectations, including our diaPlace To Work® Institute. see goals and results on page 31. A logue skills, with a view to meeting particular focus point has been the our goals. allocation by individual managers of more time to leadership. As part of our cross-organisational collaboration, agreements are Focus continues to be on inmade on specific issues between creasing the empowerment of two departments. One example the organisation, i.e. delegating of this is an agreement between decision-making power from the Sales and R&D on how to strengthmanagement level into the organen relations between customers isation. Management seminars and R&D, under which the two have been held for the managedepartments have agreed to use ment, which has also discussed the the same terms and definitions – in issue with Lodam’s Advisory Board, other words, to speak the same which comprises both employees language. and managers. From a top-level perspective, we have focused on setting the direction of the company and communicating it. On a regular Page 28 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Other tools include value stream • Two to three students write mapping projects and the design of their thesis at Lodam every a detailed project model to serve year Lodam’s values as a common basis for cross-or• We always have one PhD Our values are the foundation ganisational collaboration. student of our organisation. They help • We always have at least one us to make business decisions Dialogue and communication are apprentice. At the moment, and influence all of our interthus key to everything we do. Rewe have two, one of them an actions within the company – ceiving the Communication Award apprentice from a new uppersonal and professional. from the Great Place to Work Instiper-secondary school protute® in 2015 is a sign that we are gramme (EUX) in electronics Professionalism on the right track, but we still have • We take on new graduates, We strive to be a competent, work to do. if possible, most recently a reliable business partner. A university graduate who was partner that keeps its promCross-organisational collaboration employed by Lodam on normal ises and consistently delivers is very much supported by a strong conditions as part of a job rotaabove the bar in terms of sense of team and family spirit, tion arrangement quality, service and value. and we are therefore continuously • We accommodate employInclusiveness working to improve this. ees with special employment We believe in individualism needs. At the moment, one of with a respect for diversity In the years to come, improved our young production workers and the many cultures that cross-organisational collaboration comes from a school for young come together to work under through improved organisational people with special mental our roof. We are driven by cohesion will remain a focus point. health challenges. good attitudes, the mutual desire to achieve job satisfacDiversity / Inclusiveness tion and our preparedness for Inclusiveness is one of our values. change. This value is multifaceted and also includes training and educating Good business acumen people to become strong members We are driven by sound of the workforce. business practices in all daily decisions, both internally and externally. All decisions These are examples of how we should be ethical and to the contribute: benefit of the company as a • Under an agreement with the whole. local university (SDU), we offer four student jobs each year for students of engineering • Every year, we offer four internships for students of engineering Page 29 People responsibility goals The indicators below relate to Furthermore, they give an idea of Lodam’s ability to maintain and Lodam’s ability to retain employimprove employee well-being, ees, recruit new employees and motivation and job satisfaction. create new jobs. Target Description 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Comments 2017 No. of 82 employ91 employ102 employ101 employ103 employAn inemployees ees at 1 Janees at 1 Janees at 1 Januees at 1 Januees at 1 Janucrease of uary 2013 uary 2014 ary 2015 ary 2016 ary 2017 3% An increase An increase An increase of Target was an An increase of 26% of 11% 14% increase of of 2% less than 5% Staff turnover 2.66% 6.9% 6.8% 11.9 6,8% About 5% Measured as the (3% of whom no. of employees retired) who left the company compared to Above target, the average no. of which was employees. below 5% Sick leave 1.52% 1.31% 1.7% 1.66 3,0% Not to Incl. long-term sick exceed leave. The target was (excl. long 1.8% not to exceed term sick leave 1.5% 1,4%) No. of physical 0 0 1 0 1 0 Lodam focuses on injuries preventive activities. No. of psycho0 0 0 1 case of 2 cases of 0 Lodam focuses on logical injuries, stress-related stress-related preventive activities. e.g. stress sick leave sick leave All managers have attended a course on how to prevent and spot stress at an early stage. Agreed and 85%: 86%: 80% 80% 80% The final 20% (of accomplished accomthe target figures) competence 67% ac67% accom61% accom70% accomplished are courses that development complished plished and plished and plished and and cannot be accomand 18% 19% sched19% sched10% schedscheduled plished for various scheduled uled uled (1 May uled (1 Juni reasons (cancelled (1 May 2014) (1 May 2015) 2016 2018) by the organiser, postponed etc.). Notes: These indicators follow the calendar year, except for the competence development goal. Page 30 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Page 31 Anti-corruption Lodam strives to maintain strong Gifts from Lodam, including busiethical standards and to be a comness partner care, are also based pany of good standing and integrion the reasonability principle. We ty. Lodam’s anti-corruption policy do not give individual Christmas is based on the UN’s Convention gifts, but we may give gifts to show against Corruption as well as our our appreciation of special efforts, obligations under the tenth prinalso based on the reasonability ciple of the UN Global Compact principle. Moreover, we prefer to initiative: Businesses should work give gifts to a group of people inagainst corruption in all its forms, stead of just one person. The gifts including extortion and bribery. that Lodam or a Lodam employee Corruption is defined by Transparmay receive are accepted only if ency International as “the abuse of they comply with the reasonability entrusted power for private gain.” principle; if not, they are returned. Furthermore, all the gifts received Within our supply chain, we ensure are donated to Lodam’s Christmas that our partners work against lottery, in which all employees can corruption as well, by asking our participate. “Lodam has an internal suppliers to comply with our Supgift policy based on the plier Code of Conduct (see pages Our focus area has been and will reasonability principle.” 25-27), which includes a paragraph continue to be on awareness and on corruption and bribery. understanding of this issue. The instruction held for all employees Lodam has an internal policy includes information on grey areas regarding gifts. Gifts to and from between corruption and building external partners must respect a relationships and what the reasonreasonability principle, whereby ability principle means. they do not act as a means of persuading someone to do something which is dishonest, illegal or represents a breach of confidence. Page 32 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Results goals and actions (May 2016 April 2017) Goal: Continued communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all employees. b. Special annual instructions to employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Result: a. An annual general instruction was held in 2016. The instruction is part of Lodam’s general internal training programme. b. Special annual instructions to employees with many external contacts were held in 2016. Participation is registered. c. No incidents have been registered (as per 1 May 2017). Goals and actions (May 2017 April 2018) Goal: Continued communication of Lodam’s anti-corruption policies: a. An annual general instruction to all new employees. b. Special annual instructions to new employees with considerable external contacts (sales managers, purchasing officers etc.). c. Registration of incidents of corruption, if any. Page 33 96% of all Lodam employees feel good about the way Lodam contributes to society. Page 34 Lodam report on social responsibility 2017 Final words and facts Lodam’s report on social responefforts within the framework of UN sibility is one of five accountings Global Compact and to demonFacts that Lodam accomplishes each strate our social responsibility year. The other four are our finantowards customers, suppliers and Date of issue of this report on cial statements, our quality assuremployees. social responsibility (Commuance accountings, our customer nication on Progress, ref. the UN satisfaction survey and the Great As a socially responsible company, Global Compact): 14 Juli 2017 Place to Work® employee survey. Lodam will continue to implement These are accountings in which we and incorporate the ten principles Company name and address: measure ourselves in relation to our of the UN Global Compact initiaLodam electronics a/s targets and goals. tive into our strategies and our daily Kærvej 77 work. DK-6400 Sønderborg The overall purpose of the report on social responsibility is to report VAT/CVR no.: DK21340006 on Lodam’s continued, prioritised Bank: Sydbank A/S, CVR no.: DK12626509 No. of employees on date of issue: 107 Management: Anna Marie Damgaard Kristensen, Managing Director Henning H. Kristensen, Managing Director Board of Directors: Christian Wehrle Gianbattista Parlanti Rainer Große-Kracht Frank Hartmann Date of signing the UN Global Compact: 13 March 2012 This report has been printed using environmentally friendly ink on FSC-certified paper in a limited number of copies. See www.fsc.org. Page 35 Copyright ® 2017 by Lodam electronics a/s. All rights reserved. Innovative and energy saving climate control When it comes to climate control Lodam is one of the most experienced you can turn to. For more than four decades we have developed, produced and implemented electronic solutions dedicated to optimising applications like: • Compressors • Condensing units • Heat pumps • Air conditioning • Refrigerated truck and trailer • Reefer applications We know the importance of reliable, energy-efficient operation – and constantly push technoVer. 7.0b 12.07.2017 logical boundaries to bring you the most innovative and forward-thinking solutions. As part of the BITZER Group we are backed by one of the world’s leading players in the refrigeration and air conditioning industry. This alliance provides us with extensive network and application knowhow and allows us to stay at the forefront of climate control innovation. And to help ensure comfortable surroundings for humans and reliable protection of valuable goods anywhere in the world. Lodam electronics a/s For more information visit: Kærvej 77 Tel. +45 7342 3737 6400 Sønderborg Fax +45 7342 3730 www.lodam.com Denmark lodam@lodam.com
