CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CLIPPER Clipper Group CSR Report 2016 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO statement 3 Sustainable Development Goals 4 CSR activities and reporting at Clipper 5 Human rights and labor standards 5 Working in Clipper offices 5 Diversity / Women in management 6 Trainee education 7 Employee satisfaction 7 Employee retention rate 7 Working on Clipper vessels 8 Seafarers’ retention rate 8 Safety and reporting culture 9 Other Human Rights related considerations 9 A note on Western Sahara 9 Responsible ship recycling 10 Environment 10 Climate Policy by Danish Shipowners’ Association 10 Ballast Water Convention ratified 11 Fuel efficiency 11 Review of speed percentage 12 Consumption of electricity on vessels 12 Trim optimization 12 Improved vessel performance with COACH 12 Anti-corruption 13 Anti-corruption training program 13 Fighting corruption in Argentinian ports 13 Clipper Group CSR Goals 2015-17 14 2 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 CEO STATEMENT Clipper strives to make a positive impact on the surrounding communities and it is a priority to us that our business activities are based on sustainable and ethical principles. Throughout the existence of the company, we have carried out numerous activities to this effect, and in recent years, we have established a more structured process for framing these activities: • CSR Policy adopted in 2014 • CSR Strategy with goals for progress 2015-17 developed in 2015 • Member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) as of January 2016 In many CSR matters, we work closely together with other Danish shipowners through the Danish Shipowners’ Association, and we are active members of the Association’s CSR Committee. I am proud to present this CSR report, which is our first report within UN Global Compact framework. To us, participating in UNGC does not signify a change of mindset, but rather a continuation of what we have always been doing, within a more structured process and reporting model. As a participant of the UNGC, we commit ourselves to making the UNGC principles an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations, and organizational culture, and to communicate annually about the progress made. Peter Norborg Group CEO Clipper Group 3 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Apart from the UN Global Compact, we have also scrutinized the ambitious Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), adopted by the UN in 2015. Shipping is an international industry with a large impact on the environment and the many societies in which we operate globally. As a shipping company, this makes the SDGs extremely relevant to us. In the present report, we will not relate specifically to the individual goals, as we wish to keep the structure and scope of our current CSR Strategy. However, we believe that these four goals are especially relevant to us: Goal no. 2 – End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Agro products such as grain are among our most important cargo types, and we do see it as our mission to facilitate world trade and global development. In 2016, agricultural products and fertilizers accounted for about 50% of the cargo we transported. Goal no. 9 – Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable economic industrialization and foster innovation. As a shipping company dealing with global trade, this goal is extremely relevant to us. On one hand, we form part of the world’s infrastructure at sea. On the other hand, we carry a number of products such as steel and cement used in the building and production industries. In 2016, steel products accounted for almost 10% of the cargo we transported. Goal no. 13 – Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. All shipping companies should involve themselves actively in the fight against climate change. Although shipping is the most environment friendly mean of mass transportation when it comes to CO2 emissions per transported ton, our industry does stand for 2.2% of global CO2 emissions. Clipper supports the climate policy developed by the Danish Shipowners’ Association, which takes an ambitious CO2 approach for the global shipping sector. Goal no. 14 – Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development. As with Goal no. 13, this is highly relevant to a shipping company and closely related to our general climate approach. In the present report, we report on four different environmentally related goals, comment on the present international measures concerning ballast water treatment and present our vessel performance monitoring system, COACH. 4 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 CSR ACTIVITIES AND REPORTING AT CLIPPER CLIPPER CSR POLICY As a significant player in the maritime industry with a global presence at sea and on shore, we recognize our social and environmental responsibility: • We never compromise the safety of our employees at sea or ashore • We recognize our responsibility towards the environment, and endeavor to constantly reduce our environmental footprint We build our CSR activities upon our CSR Policy, adThe present report covers the four main areas of the 10 opted in 2014. We describe our CSR activities and set our UNGC principles, which is also the structure of our CSR goals in our CSR Strategy. In our 2015-17 CSR Strategy, we Strategy: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anfocus on employee issues and safety, measures to reduce ti-Corruption. In our strategy, we have merged the areas fuel consumption as well as anti-corruption measures. In Human Rights and Labor as we see these areas as very the following, we will report and comment on our progmuch interconnected. ress within these areas. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Clipper supports and respects the protection of human headquarters. We wish to keep Clipper an attractive rights, on board our vessels, in our offices and in society workplace in every respect and for every employee, in general. to the benefit of both the individual employees and Clipper as a company. Human rights are an integrated part of our decision making and we have in this section provided a couple of exWe offer fair and globally aligned working conditions, amples illustrating this. It is furthermore vital for us that including competitive salaries, pension and health our employees’ human rights are protected. This is in insurance, and in many countries more holidays than is our opinion of special relevance for our line of business our legal obligation. when it comes to safety, right to join trade unions, right to reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic Our managers have annual or biannual development holidays with pay, and protection against discrimination. reviews with their employees, where performance as well as personal and professional development and Working conditions for employees on shore and at sea job motivation are discussed. To the extent possible, differ significantly and we have therefore focused on we support our employees in their development with different areas for those two groups. training opportunities and new tasks and responsibilities. WORKING IN CLIPPER OFFICES We take pride in having a flat hierarchy, frontline decision-making and a high level of responsibility to the Towards the end of 2016, Clipper employed 224 people individual employee. In turn, we expect everybody to in our offices in 9 countries around the world (excluding take charge of his/her own tasks as well as cooperation Seatruck Ferries). Of these, 125 worked at our Copenhagen across the company. 5 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 Diversity / Women in management Clipper believes that diversity at all levels of the organization gives us the largest possible recruitment base and creates an innovative and inclusive work environment. CLIPPER DIVERSITY POLICY Encouraging diversity is about providing equal opportunities for all candidates and ensuring that the right person • We believe that diversity at all levels of the is always chosen for the job, based on his/her capabilities. organization gives us the largest possible reIn 2014, we adopted a Diversity Policy, published on our cruitment base and creates an innovative and corporate website, clipper-group.com. inclusive work environment In the period 2015-17, we have focused our efforts on • We therefore always take diversity into acincreasing the number of women in management, as we count when recruiting and promoting employbelieve this is where Clipper has the largest improvement ees potential, as we believe it is important to have access to the best talent in any position. Female underrepresenta• Encouraging diversity is also about providing tion, in business and technical divisions as well as on manequal opportunities for all candidates and enagement level, is inherent to the entire shipping industry suring that the right person is always chosen and not only an issue for Clipper. for the job, based on his/her capabilities and without taking his/her gender, sexual orienIt is important to us to ensure that there are no barriers tation, nationality, religion, race or political within our company that hinder women from joining or opinion into consideration being promoted due to their gender. In our organizational survey, we have, therefore, included a question about “equal career opportunities regardless of gender”. We have still not reached our goal of a 9.0 rating (on a 1-10 scale) but obtained in 2016 a score of 8.3, indicating to us that there are no grave problems with equal gender opportunities in Clipper. The gap between men’s and women’s perception is lower than in 2014, but slightly higher than in 2015, and women still rate the question lower than men (7.9 vs 8.5). We follow our action plan, developed in 2014, for increasing the number of women in management. Action plan: Action plan: Chartering Action plan: Trainees & Operation Managers Managers & Leaders Goal Goal Goal • Take in the same number of male • Create a critical mass of female Char• Percentage of female managers and female trainees, on average tering/Operations Managers should equal percentage of female employees Attraction Attraction • Wording and visuals in job ads etc. • Wording and visuals in job ads etc. Attraction less masculine less masculine • When recruiting for management or • When recruiting, at least one female board positions, at least one female Retention candidate should be invited to first candidate should be invited to first • Present an alternative to locker room interview interview culture: Hook up female trainees with other female employees (same floor/ Retention Retention office), until critical mass is obtained • Kill the myth: Shipping is a business • Mentoring scheme • Introduce alternative staff club events for (true) men • Active role models (when such exist) • Present an alternative to locker room culture: Hook up female trainees with other female employees (same floor/ office), until critical mass is obtained • Introduce alternative staff club events 6 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 Trainee education We have set the ambitious goal that 25% of our people Clipper participates in the shipping trainee education managers shall be female by the end of 2017, but so managed by the Danish Shipping Academy under the far, we have not seen progress, and the share of female Danish Shipowners’ Association, and we are represented people managers in Clipper is still only 12%. This should on the steering committee of the Academy. In September be compared to the overall share of female employees in 2016, three trainees graduated from Clipper and were all Clipper, which end 2016 was 28% (a reduction from 32% hired in full-time positions, one in Chartering and two in in 2015, which we attribute to a number of new hirings in Operations. At the same time, we took in three new trainour Bulk and Fleet Management departments, which are ees, who are now following a rotation program in various traditionally male-dominated). departments in Clipper as well as their education within the Danish Shipping Academy. As a medium-sized company currently with only little growth, we have few natural changes at management For the first time in 2016, a student from the new Bachelevel, and we do not believe it is possible for us to achieve lor in International Shipping & Trade at Copenhagen Busiour ambitious goal by 2017. We do, however, believe it is ness School started an internship with Clipper, working important to keep focus on increasing the number of femainly in Business Controlling & Reporting. In addition, male employees at entry level positions in our line of busiwe hired one finance trainee and one IT trainee, who will ness, notably among trainees. We are content that one both complete their education at Clipper simultaneously out of three hired shipping trainees in 2016 was female as with attending school. Entering 2017, we had all in all well as one out of three graduated shipping trainees. three male trainees, two female trainees and one male CBS intern. We have hired three new shipping trainees We aim to provide female mentors for female trainees, commencing September 2017, one female and two male. and through our global recruiting policy we commit to invite both male and female applicants for first interviews in Employee satisfaction all recruitment processes – if at all possible, and especially in regard to management positions. In addition, we have We focus on attraction and retention of highly skilled and included gender distribution in our monthly HR reports, motivated staff, and to make our ambitions credible and and we have introduced a new staff culture club. Clipper effective, we need to know the opinion of our employees. also participates in the Danish Shipowners’ Association’s Therefore, we measure employee satisfaction in Clipper on “Women in Leadership” group, where a mentoring scheme an annual basis. for female talents across companies are being prepared. The results of the organizational survey in 2016 were very Female board members positive and at the same high level as in 2015. All main objective indicators (satisfaction, loyalty, engagement, In accordance with Danish legislation, the shareholders reputation) scored well above our ambitious goal of 8.0. and board of Clipper Group A/S have set the goal that We are very content to be able to keep a highly motivated one female board member shall be appointed before and dedicated workforce, despite the challenging market the end of year 2016. The board currently consists of situation and many changes to our organization. 4 male board members. The goal has not been fulfilled as there has not been a need to replace any of the 4 Employee retention rate board members during the target period. Retention rate is another important measure of employee Clipper Group A/S has in 2016 adopted a recruitment satisfaction and engagement. It can vary quite substanpolicy for board members. The policy states that the tially from month to month, team to team and country Chairman shall propose at least one female candidate to country. In December 2016, Clipper’s overall retention for vacant board positions. The chairman of the board rate was 91.1%, meaning that only 8.9% of our employees has throughout the target period had meetings with chose to leave in 2016. This is a slight decrease from 2015 potential female candidates in order to be better able (93.8%) but still satisfactory and well above our goal of to propose a female candidate for the shareholders 90%. once a board position becomes vacant. The retention rate measures the percentage of employThe shareholders and the board of Clipper Group A/S ees still working for Clipper after 12 months, and thereby have decided that the target period for appointing 1 how large a part chooses to resign from Clipper (employfemale board member shall be extended to the end of ment contracts terminated by Clipper are not included in 2018. this count). 7 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 WORKING ON CLIPPER VESSELS encourage a work environment which facilitates knowledge sharing and communication. We provide daily news feeds from the crew members’ national spheres and are in progress of installing crew internet on board our vessels. Vessels in scope of this report We continuously train and advise our crew through safety Clipper’s fleet consists of vessels that are either campaigns and seminars and wish to create a culture owned, chartered or managed by Clipper Group. In where everyone takes responsibility for the well-being of addition to these, Clipper Fleet Management has a himself as well as of his colleagues. number of vessels in technical management that are owned by third party owners and not in commercial Crew members have the right to be organized, which is management by Clipper (9 out of 34 vessels). arranged under our collective bargaining agreement and paid for by Clipper. The collective bargaining agreement is When it comes to safety, retention rates at sea and negotiated between IMEC (International Maritime Emenvironmental issues, this report covers all vessels in ployers’ Council) and ITF (International Transport Workers’ Clipper’s technical management. Federation). Seafarers’ retention rate Clipper is responsible for the crew on all the vessels that The retention rate among seafarers improved through we have in technical management with Clipper Fleet Man2016 at all levels and is extremely high among both Senior agement. By the end of 2016, this amounted to 34 vessels, Officers (96%), Junior Officers (99.6%) and Ratings (90%). and all in all nearly 1,400 seafarers worked on our vessels. We are very satisfied with this high retention rate, which These seafarers were employed through crewing agenwe believe is due to a combination of the general worldcies located in Russia, Ukraine and the Philippines, and wide employment trend and Clipper’s maintained focus on were mainly of Russian, Ukrainian, Chinese and Philippine the personal and professional development of our crew. nationalities. The retention rate measures the percentage of seafarers still working for Clipper after 12 months, and thereby We support the personal and professional development of how large a part chooses to resign from Clipper (seafarers our crew through systematic feedback as well as shorewhose contracts were terminated by Clipper are not includbased and onboard training. Frequent communication ed in this count). between land and sea is essential to our success, and we 8 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 During 2016, we introduced a new Personal Performance of events per million man hours. We have had very few Feedback system to all seafarers. The intention was to serious incidents on board our vessels in 2016, which is create increased focus on individual development and very satisfactory. performance and thereby improve the general job satisfaction. The last indicator we have chosen for safety standards is port state control deficiencies per inspection. Port In September 2016, we held the annual Senior Officers’ state controls are internationally agreed inspections of Conference at Clipper in Copenhagen with 55 Senior Offiforeign vessels. The investigations involve checking comcers and a number of office staff from Clipper Fleet Manpliance with the requirements of international convenagement participating. The aim of these conferences is to tions, checking that the vessel is manned and operated in train the officers in our systems and processes, but even compliance with applicable international law, and verifymore importantly to strengthen cooperation and commuing the competency of the vessel’s master and officers, nication between vessels and office. Focus in 2016 was and the vessel’s condition and equipment. Port state conon safety issues and the Personal Performance Feedback trols thus cover both environmental, work environmental system. We were pleased to see that the officers rated and safety matters and is a sound overall indicator of how the conference 4.71 on a 1-5 scale. responsibly Clipper Fleet Management is performing. We are satisfied to have seen a small decrease in deficiencies, Safety and reporting culture going down from 0.88 to 0.82 deficiencies per inspection. We want our crew to maintain high safety standards by adopting our safety culture both while on board and ashore. Clipper vessels should be as safe workplaces OTHER HUMAN RIGHTS RELATED as Clipper offices, and we constantly work to minimize events and incidents. For the last couple of years, we CONSIDERATIONS have worked with a campaign focusing on five basic safety rules (“Take Five”). In 2017, we will substitute this A note on Western Sahara campaign with the so-called Safety Delta concept, which entails a survey of the safety culture on board the indiClipper has in 2016 looked carefully into the situation in vidual vessel, followed by a score and relevant tools and Western Sahara, a “non-self-governing territory” south of games to improve any weak spots. Morocco. The reporting of events is a good indicator of a healthy The political situation in Western Sahara is full of conflicts safety culture, and we have therefore set high goals for and largely unresolved since 1975. However, we believe that event reporting (minimum 6 events reported per vessel it is for politicians, not private companies, to resolve the per month). An increase in reported events is not indicconflict. We have followed the Danish Ministry of Foreign Afative of a decrease in safety, but illustrates potential fairs’ recommendations that encourage private companies safety hazards and concerns and allows us to address to “exercise special care when engaging in areas of undeterthese proactively. Compared to 2015, we have unfortumined sovereignty such as Western Sahara, and ensure that nately seen a decrease in event reporting: 63% of our their commercial activities do not harm the local populavessels reported minimum 6 events in 2016, compared to tion” (motion to resolution V79, 31 May 2016). We have 77% in 2015. This decrease can be explained by fact that entered into a dialogue with our partners to verify that the we have taken in a large number of vessels (13) during extraction of phosphate rock (and thus the transport of it) 2016 and have started collaboration with a new crewing benefits the local population. We have met with the mining manager. Right after takeover of a vessel, reporting is company in Western Sahara, visited the mine and studied typically given less priority than solving immediate vessel the documentation made by third parties. Our studies have issues. However, our goal is to reach 100% and we expect convinced us that the mining activities and the company’s a significant increase in event reporting during 2017 once social activities do indeed benefit the local area. the Clipper safety and reporting culture have been more deeply rooted on board our new vessels. We continue to monitor the situation in Western Sahara and observe any changes in the recommendations of the Foreign While we aim for a high number of event reports, we Ministry, in close cooperation with the Danish Shipowners’ naturally aim for as few serious incidents as possible. We Association. are therefore pleased that our incident frequency has decreased significantly since 2015 (1.33 down from 1.72). We measure the so-called lost time incidents, where seafarers have been unable to perform their work for more than 24 hours, and this number signifies the number 9 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 Responsible ship recycling We wish to ensure that any recycling of Clipper’s vessels is recycling within the Danish Shipowners’ Association, and we done in a responsible way safeguarding the environment are pleased to see that the Danish government has decided and the workers working on the recycling. Following our exto ratify the Hong Kong Convention, which we fully support. perience with the recycling of the multipurpose vessel M/V We are also following closely the development in the EU, Clipper Concord in 2015, we formulated a Recycling Policy in where a number of ship recycling yards are in the process of December 2015 for future reference. The policy is published being approved on the so-called EU whitelist. on our website, clipper-group.com. Clipper operates a modern fleet and the recycling of the M/V Clipper Concord was an exceptional case. We do not expect to recycle any more vessels in the near future. However, we continue to participate actively in discussions about ENVIRONMENT Although shipping is the most eco-friendly form of mass According to this policy, international shipping must reduce long-distance transportation, Clipper does acknowledge its absolute CO2 emissions in pace with the rest of the that our environmental footprint is substantial. Our objecglobal economy. Shipping’s emissions should be reduced tive is to constantly increase energy and fuel efficiency for sufficiently to ensure that the sector’s share of global all vessels in our technical management. At the same time, emissions is kept below the current level of 2.2%, thereby we need to closely follow the international environmental contributing with its “fair share” to the Paris Agreement’s regulations and prepare for any changes needed on board goal of staying below a 2-degree temperature rise. It our vessels or in our processes. should be the task of IMO (International Maritime Organization within the UN) to ensure the regulation and enforceWe maintain a high-quality fleet and every vessel has an inment of this goal. dividual maintenance schedule, managed through our Plant Maintenance Schedule system (PMS). One important part In 2017, we will spend time preparing for the new EU of the maintenance of a vessel is the drydocking, carried reporting system for CO2 emissions, MRV (Monitoring, Reout at least every five years. Here the technical manager porting, Verifying). Vessel-specific plans must be submitted has the opportunity to meticulously survey and improve by August 2017, and we will use our vessel performance the vessel according to its individual maintenance plan. monitoring system, COACH, for the reporting. During 2016, Clipper Fleet Management took in 13 new We hope that CO2 reporting will become global, not vessels in technical management, whereas 9 vessels left EU-specific, in the future. our care. We have put a lot of effort into scrutinizing the new vessels’ machinery performance and improve it where needed. 4 of the 13 new vessels were drydocked during 2016 along with 2 vessels already in Clipper’s technical management. Climate Policy by Danish Shipowners’ Association During 2016, we participated actively in the development of the Danish Shipowners’ Association’s Climate Policy, which was presented in December 2016, and which we fully support. The policy is based on a detailed study entitled “CO2 Emissions from Global Shipping – possible reduction targets and their associated pathways”, commissioned by the Shipowners’ Association and undertaken by the London-based consultancy agency UMAS. 10 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 Ballast Water Convention ratified Apart from CO2 emission goals, ballast water treatment was at the top of the environmental agenda in shipping in 2016, and will continue to be so in 2017. The IMO Ballast Water Convention was ratified in 2016 and will be brought into effect in September 2017. This means that all vessels in drydock after September 2017 must have ballast water treatment systems installed in order to minimize the global spreading of invasive species. Only a few systems have been approved so far and future investments are considerable. A few Clipper vessels already have ballast water systems on board. As for the rest, we are analyzing each vessel individually, including 3D scanning of engine rooms, and are in the process of making individual plans for each vessel, dependent on existing equipment, docking plans etc. Fuel efficiency The fuel used for propulsion is the single largest contributor to our vessels’ environmental footprint. It is our aim that our vessels operate at optimal speed at all times, i.e. consuming as little fuel as possible while taking cost vs. available time into consideration. Our vessels’ speed and consumption are closely monitored by COACH, which is installed on all vessels in Clipper’s management and pools. Apart from speed and consumption, many additional parameters are monitored in COACH, allowing us to identify abnormally high energy use and take appropriate actions. Fuel efficiency does not come down to just technical improvements, such as paint or ship design. Communication, processes and people play a huge role in increasing efficiencies. We continuously measure our performance, experiment with new ways of increasing fuel efficiency and keep in close dialogue with the officers and seafarers on board our vessels. Clipper Fleet Management is certified in ISO 50001 (Energy) and 14001 (Environment). Among the environmental focus areas included and controlled in our ISO certification and vessel specific SEEMP plans (Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan) are: • Voyage planning (speed setting) • Ship handling (trim optimization, ballast optimization, heating on bunker tanks/storage tanks, heating on settling and service tanks, auto pilot setting) • Machinery and equipment (diesel engine performance monitoring, auxiliary engine load, exhaust gas boiler/economizer, cooling water pumps, main engine lubrication oil pump, engine room ventilation, cargo hold ventilation, incinerator usage, lights, navigational equipment) • Hull and propeller (anti-fouling, underwater polish) 11 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 In our 2015-17 CSR Strategy, we have chosen to set specific shifted to bulk vessels. It therefore no longer makes goals for three areas, namely speed percentage, electricity sense to set an average target for trim optimization for consumption and trim optimization. the entire fleet. Review of speed percentage Improved vessel performance with COACH By monitoring the daily reporting of speed and consumpCOACH is a vessel performance monitoring system detion (speed percentage), we can ensure that we note and veloped by Clipper. It tracks performance and monitors can react upon any deviations in a vessel’s performance. individual vessels with the purpose of improving fuel Such deviations can for example be an indication of a consumption. fouled hull or a misaligned engine. The average speed percentage in 2016 was 95.0%, which is lower than 2015 The set-up is simple and no hardware is installed. Once (96.4%). Notably some of the vessels taken into technical a day, the crew on board the vessel reports data such as management during 2016 show a lower speed percentposition, bunkers and consumption to COACH. In 2016, age, and we expect the average to increase again in 2017. COACH made several improvements to its calculation modules, and especially the accuracy of windand wave A new or newly drydocked vessel has a speed percentage resistance was improved by adding hourly positions to of 100%, and the closer the speed percentage is to 100%, the algorithms. Assisted by a monitoring team onshore, the better the vessel is performing. In Clipper, we use COACH analyses the vessel’s performance and compares COACH to monitor speed percentage. it to a mathematical ship model and weather conditions. Comparing data with other vessels using COACH makes it Consumption of electricity on vessels possible to look for patterns and deviations. For example, it is possible to calculate potential gain in fuel efficiency By monitoring the daily electrical load on board our vesafter a longer port stay if the vessel had its hull cleaned of sels, we can train our staff to switch off equipment when fouling before the next voyage. not needed. This is a tangible way to ensure that our staff has high focus on reducing our environmental footprint. In 2016, the Danish Shipowners’ Association launched navigatingresponsibly.dk, a portal promoting industry In 2016, the consumption of electricity on our vessels solutions to environmental and climate challenges. COACH regrettably increased by 1.11%. We have observed that was selected as a best-practice example for using data to some of the newly added vessels have a significantly largimprove vessel performance and optimize energy effier electricity consumption than expected. However, we ciency at sea. In 2016, COACH also joined Green Ship of expect this to change once the crew have become more the Future, a dedicated network of shipping companies, familiar with these vessels. aimed at making shipping even more environmentally friendly through innovation and technology. Trim optimization A vessel is designed for a given draft condition and any Case: Clipper Lasco deviation from this draft might increase the fuel consumption. By using trim optimization, vessels can save In summer 2016, COACH performance reporting and fuel e.g. by moving ballast or fuel or loading the cargo speed percentage parameters revealed poor main differently. Not all vessel types benefit equally from engine performance and worsened hull condition on frequent trim optimization, which is primarily done on Clipper Lasco, a 28,000 dwt logger from 2004. This multipurpose vessels, due to many different cargo types prompted a visual inspection of the underwater hull that these vessels carry. On bulk vessels, it is difficult to which revealed layers of fouling and damages to the control trim, and the effect of trim optimization is minihull’s anti-fouling coating. mal. Hull cleaning and propeller polishing were arranged, The target set in our 2015-17 CSR Strategy was to perbut following many idling days, COACH alerted of a form minimum one trim optimization per voyage, but we dropping speed percentage again, and another hull have chosen to cease measuring on this target. This is due cleaning was arranged. With the help of COACH, we to the fact that the nature of our fleet has changed sighave identified the problem very precisely, can moninificantly since we developed the strategy in 2014. At that tor the running conditions of the engine, and can plan time, we had mainly multipurpose vessels in our technical the right procedure for getting Clipper Lasco back on management, while our focus by the end of 2016 had track. 12 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 ANTI-CORRUPTION As an international shipping company sailing worldwide, Clipper is exposed to requests for facility payments and Fighting corruption in Argentinian ports similar corrupt practices. An anti-corruption policy was adopted by the Clipper Board in August 2012. The policy MACN is a global business network currently consisting confirms that Clipper has a zero tolerance towards tradiof around 75 members within the maritime industry tional bribery such as kickbacks. who work towards a maritime industry free of corruption, enabling fair trade to the benefit of society at Facility payments (small payments for services that the large. Clipper has been a member since the foundation company is already entitled to) are a separate challenge, in 2012. and given some of the areas we operate in, Clipper is not yet able to implement a zero tolerance policy in this reAn example of MACN’s work, in which Clipper has pargard. In some areas of the world, facility payments are an ticipated, is an initiative in Argentina, commenced in integrated part of the social structure and a zero tolerance 2014. Bulk ship owners, operators and agents have for policy would create a number of irresolvable deadlock years experienced significant demands for facilitation situations. payments in Argentinian ports in relation to the clearing process of cargo holds for loading of agricultural Anti-corruption training program products. This clearing process entails an inspection by the SENASA (Agricultural State Agency), based on It is a high priority for Clipper to actively fight facility paywhich SENASA will give permission to load the cargo. It ments in whatever form or shape those appear. In 2015, has shown to be extremely difficult to obtain this perwe therefore commenced a global anti-corruption training mission without paying considerable amounts of cash program for all our employees on shore as well as Senior to SENASA, or, alternatively, facing delays of several Officers. This program continued in 2016, where we trained days, costing even more. 22 Senior Officers and 42 office staff, including the Clipper Fleet Management, Chartering and Operations teams. We Seeing that collective action was needed to solve the expect to complete the first round of the training in 2017, issue, MACN decided to partner with the Argentinian but will ensure continuous training of new employees going law firm Governance Latam. So far, this project has reforward. The training material and an online test were desulted in several reform actions targeting the SENASA veloped by the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), inspection system, and new regulation has been subof which Clipper continues to be an active member. mitted that includes improvements such as: creating a new Technical Appeals Tribunal for digital complaints, establishing a trustworthy whistleblower hotline and defining objective criteria for rejecting holds. Although the new regulation has not yet entered into force, these measures have already had a huge effect, and the demands for facilitation payment have almost disappeared, for Clipper as well as for our partners in MACN. In February 2017, it was furthermore decided that private companies should inspect cargo holds instead of SENASA inspectors. New demands and corruption issues will undoubtedly appear as this one has disappeared, but we do see it as an important victory in MACN’s fight against corruption. 13 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 CLIPPER GROUP CSR GOALS 2015-17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Sign up for UN Global Compact during 2015 2015: Membership prepared 2016: Joined Jan 2016 Prepare format for and file annual communication on progress in 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2015: Format prepared 2016:  Filed May 2017 WE SUPPORT HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS: ON SHORE DIVERSITY/WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION 33% of all employees shall be female (end 2017). Carry out organizational surveys in 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2014: 33% 2014: Carried out Oct 2014 2015: 32% End 2016:  28% 2015: Carried out Sep 2015 2016:  Carried out Sep 2016 25% of all people managers shall be female (end 2017). Maintain ratings of above 8.0 on all 4 objective indicators. 2014: 12% 2015: 14% 12% 2014 / 2015 2016 8.3 End 2016:  Satisfaction 8.0 / 8.2  8.3 1 female member shall be nominated to the Board of Clipper Group A/S by the end of 2016. Loyalty 8.1 / 8.2  2014: 0 female members of the Board 2015: 0 female members of the Board End 2016:  0 Engagement 8.9 / 9.1 9.0 In Organizational Survey, rating of question “In Clipper, Reputation 8.1 / 8.5 8.5  we have equal career opportunities regardless of gender” shall increase to 9.0 end 2017 (overall). In addition, the gap between male and female rating of this question shall RETENTION RATE ON SHORE decrease. 2014 / 2015 2016 On shore employee retention >90 in 2015, 2016 and 2017. All employees 8.3 / 8.4  8.3 2014: 88.6% 2015: 93.8% 91.1% 7.9 End 2016: Female 7.7 / 8.1  Male 8.7 / 8.5  8.5 TRAINEE EDUCATION Hire min. 2 shipping trainees/year of which min. 1 female 2014: 3 hired, 1 female 2015: None hired in 2015 2016:  3 hired, 1 female All admitted shipping trainees must graduate 2014: 3 out of 3 trainees graduated Sep 2014 2015: 1 of 2 trainees graduated Sep 2015 2016:  3 of 3 trainees  graduated Sep 2016 14 CLIPPER GROUP CSR REPORT 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS: AT SEA RETENTION RATE AT SEA SAFETY/LOST TIME INCIDENTS Senior officer retention >90 in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Lost time incidents frequency rate to decrease in average 2014: 93% for each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2015: 93.3% End 2016: 96.0% 2014: 1.9 frequency rate 2015: 1.72 frequency rate 1.33 Junior officer retention >85 in 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2014: 81%  2016:  frequency rate 2015: 98% End 2016: 99.6% SAFETY/PORT STATE CONTROL DEFICIENCIES Rating retention >80 in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Port state control deficiencies to be below 1.0 for all 2014: 85% relevant vessels in average during 2015, 2016 and 2017. 90.0% 2015: 89% 2014: Deficiencies/inspection 1.05 End 2016: 2015: Deficiencies/inspection 0.88  2016:  0.82 deficiencies/inspection SAFETY/EVENT REPORTING SHIP RECYCLING POLICY Ensure that all vessels report at least 6 events per month in average. Prepare and adopt ship recycling policy during 2015. 2014: 24% 2014: In progress 63% 2015: 77% 2015: Approved Dec 2015 2016:  2016: of all vessels  Adopted ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION REVIEW OF SPEED PERCENTAGE ANTI-CORRUPTION TRAINING Continue to monitor, analyze and take action on Carry out training of all employees on shore and senior deviations in the speed percentage at any time. officers on vessels in our technical management. 2014: 95.5% 2014: Outstanding 2015: 96.4% 2016: 95.0% speed percentage 2015: 33 employees trained 2016:  64 employees/senior officers trained CONSUMPTION OF ELECTRICITY MACN MEMBERSHIP Average consumption of electricity on vessel to decrease Continue active membership of MACN. for each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. 2014: Active membership 2014: 2% reduction per year 2015: Active membership Active 2015: 2.22% reduction  2016:  1.11% increase 2016: membership TRIM OPTIMIZATION BIMCO ANTI-CORRUPTION COMMITTEE Perform minimum one trim optimization per voyage. Continue participation in BIMCO sub-committee 2014: 85% of all voyages on anti-corruption. 2015: 68.6% of all voyages 2014: Active participation 2016: Target closed 2015: Clause adopted Dec 2015 2016: Completed due to change in fleet composition 15
