TM 5328 Yacht Haven Grande Unit 15, St. Thomas INSPIRE INSPIRIN G BFUTURE THE ETTER LEADERS FOR A BETTER WORLD VI 00802-5008 May 15, 2017 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to report back on the progress made by Real Leaders in its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact, since signing our written commitment to do so one year ago. Furthermore, we would like to express our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles for a further year. We have made the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and have engaged in collaborative projects worldwide to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, and particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. We have taken practical actions to implement the Global Compact principles. As a global media company and the world’s first sustainable business & leadership magazine, we have adopted the 17 Sustainable Development Goals as our publishing template. On our website (www.real-leaders.com) and in our print publications, we have categorized our content against the 17 goals as a way of clearly showing, and educating, our audience around the types of action that can be taken to achieve each goal. This has included an interview with Executive Director of the UN Global Compact, Ms. Lise Kingo that was distributed to our global audience. All our print magazines have a dedicated upfront page (www.real-leaders.com/digital/business-and-peace/#8) that outlines all 17 Sustainable Development Goals and acts as a guide to the stories we feature. Each story in the magazine is flagged with a relevant SDG logo to highlight the action business can take to achieve the SDG’s. Real Leaders is committed to educating and inspiring business leaders around the world by showing them how to run their companies according to responsible and sustainable business practice. Real Leaders has promoted and implemented the Global Compact principles in both print and digital formats, that have been viewed by the following audiences: 1. The Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates, Bogota, Columbia 2. The Young President’s organization (YPO) a network of 25,000 CEOs in 130 countries who control $6 trillion in spend. 3. Whole Foods stores across the US. 4. The Global Leadership Summit, Vancouver, Canada 5. 800,000 website viewers 6. 120,000 social media followers on Facebook and Twitter During the past year, Real Leaders has attended UN Global Compact meetings, to support it and to keep abreast of the latest Global Compact initiatives, to enable us to spread these principles to our global audience of more than 1 million readers, supporters and affiliates. These meetings have included: Real Leaders Inc. is a registered B Corporation in the state of Nevada “Inspire The Future” · www.real-leaders.com TM INSPIRE THE INSPIRIN G BFUTURE ETTER LEADERS FOR A BETTER WORLD • UN Global Compact Leaders Summit, New York, June 2016 • Margaret Fenwick, UN Global Compact Office, New York, January 2017 • Women’s Empowerment Principles Forum, New York, March 2017 Real Leaders has actively promoted the four issue areas of the Global Compact principles: Human Rights Real Leaders publishes an annual special edition, themed around human rights and peace, for The World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates. The publication highlights the work of Nobel Peace Laureates and features stories on business and world leaders who promote human rights and peace through their business. The magazine is given out to Nobel Laureates, attendees at this prestigious event, and our global readership on our website: www.real-leaders.com/digital/peace-2017 Labour The Real Leaders website and magazine have dedicated sections that highlight stories on fair labour practice, inclusive economies and decent work: http://real-leaders.com/my-journey-to-becoming-an-impact-investor/ http://real-leaders.com/business-leaders-ready-tackle-social-challenges/ http://real-leaders.com/social-entrepreneurs-taking-lead/ Environment The Real Leaders website and magazine have dedicated sections that highlight stories on how business can take action on climate change, care for the oceans and promote responsible use of terrestrial ecosystems: http://real-leaders.com/fashion-brand-made-ocean-trash/ http://real-leaders.com/the-food-chain-revolution-that-will-change-the-way-people-shop/ http://real-leaders.com/scientists-gather-for-urgent-meeting-on-significant-arctic-changes/ Anti-corruption The Real Leaders website and magazine have dedicated sections that highlight stories on good governance, the changing role of the economy towards social impact, and the promotion of peace, justice and strong institutions: http://real-leaders.com/exaggerated-truth-telling-commonplace-not-admirable/ http://real-leaders.com/which-of-these-three-would-you-trust-the-least/ http://real-leaders.com/5-ways-brands-can-fight-fake-news/ In short, Real Leaders encourages and inspires our global audience to adopt the SDGs. We act as a recruiter for the SDGs by encouraging companies to become signatories to the Global Compact. In addition, each of the four executives of Real Leaders have personally committed to promoting one of the Social Development Goals: Gender, Youth, Partnerships for the Goals and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions. Real Leaders is firmly committed to promoting and supporting the principles of the Global Compact for the following year and beyond. Mr. Mark Van Ness Founder, Real Leaders Real Leaders Inc. is a registered B Corporation in the state of Nevada “Inspire The Future” · www.real-leaders.com
