Building better companies T USTAINAB ILITY REPOR REVIEW & S 2016 ANNUAL TM Investindustrial is a Group All trademarks, brand names of independently managed and logos (including any Table investment, holding and word, name, symbol, design, financial advisory companies. colours or combination thereof) reproduced in this report are of Contents protected by applicable national and international laws and should not be used or copied without the legitimate owners’ permission. COVER IMAGE: The iconic Grande Papillon armchair designed by Naoto Fukasawa for B&B Italia, and the Spun floor lamp designed by Sebastian Wrong for Flos. This document has been prepared for information purposes only on the “Office”, “Professionals”, “Chairman”, “Managing Principal”, “Partner”, I Strategic Commentary 4 basis of a series of conditions. Neither the whole nor any part of the “Principal”, “Senior Partner” and “Senior Principal” in this document information in this report may be used for any other purpose without the have been used only for practical ease of reading and do not intend II A Leading European Investment Group 8 prior written consent of Investindustrial. While it has been prepared in to imply any specific reference to an entity or a legal definition of any good faith, no representation is given as to the accuracy or achievability activity of control by any company or individual with respect to other III Case Studies 22 of any values applied herein, nor should any valuations be treated as companies. Terms such as “control”, “ownership” and their synonyms Investindustrial’s estimate of the eventual investment outcome. The are also used for case of reference and illustrative purposes only and IV Portfolio Developments 36 assumptions on which these values have been prepared are necessarily may not imply, from a juridical perspective, full or partial control of subjective and have not been subject to third party verification. certain companies due to limitations by any shareholders’ agreements, V Responsible Investing 50 By your receipt of this document, you acknowledge that you are aware co-investment vetoes and other third party rights, management stock of the restrictions imposed by the laws of various countries on the option and any other incentive scheme. In addition, shares in portfolio VI Our Foundations 68 purchase and sale of securities by any person who has received such companies are held by the applicable investment and/or holding information and on the communication of this information to others. company of the relevant fund and rights over such shares are exercised VII Summary Group Information 74 We are not in the position to determine whether any of the information by the board of directors of the investment and/or holding company in this report is insider information within the meaning of the laws of in an independent manner. References to “Lugano” or “Switzerland”, any country, as such determination could be made only in the light of the “Barcelona” or “Spain”, “London” or “the UK”, “Luxembourg”, circumstances in which any disclosure was considered. Nothing in this “Netherlands”, “Shanghai” or “China” and “New York” or “the USA” report should be construed as advice or solicitation to buy or sell any when used in the context of Investindustrial’s activities (whether together securities. The information and opinions in the report are given in good with the words “team” or “office”) are intended to refer where the faith. However, we do not make any warranty as to their completeness context requires, to the respective independently managed advisory or or accuracy. They are also subject to change without notice. References investment companies as applicable. The Investindustrial website and to names of portfolio companies are intended to be made, where the any other company’s website, information and links contained therein are context requires, to the applicable holding company/subsidiary of the not part of this document and should not be considered as incorporated relevant Fund. The terms “Group”, “Firm”, “Investindustrial”, “BI-Invest”, by reference herein. For any queries on the information contained within “Our”, “We”, “Us”, “Portfolio company”, “Investee company”, “Team”, this report, the reader should contact Investindustrial. Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Andrea C. Bonomi, Founder and Managing Principal of Investindustrial at the Aston Martin Headquarters in Gaydon (UK). STRATEGIC COMMENTARY Growth through selective acquisitions The leadership position Investindustrial We are pleased to have welcomed three new companies to has established by focusing primarily on the portfolio in the last year, having been acquired in transactions for Southern Europe, and opportunistically a total enterprise value of more than €2 billion. Artsana, based in on other geographies, has been achieved Como, northern Italy, and the opportunity to further internationalise its leading babycare brand Chicco. Valtur, Italy’s largest holiday through a long-term dedication to the resort operator, was acquired with a long-term view of growth and design and implementation of industriallyconsolidation in the northern Mediterranean hospitality sector. driven transformations of select quality Lastly, specialty chemicals producer Reichhold was merged with Polynt to form a truly global leader. companies. Investindustrial also worked actively together with the management teams to complete a number of add-on acquisitions in 2016, such as the high-end kitchen brand Arclinea for B&B Italia and the French Building Better Companies is the motto that drives our LED lighting specialist KKDC for Flos. organisation and the companies we invest in and work with. As long-term owners, we are partnering with companies and managers New milestones reached and goals set in the area that have the potential to lead their industry while making a of sustainability positive impact. This approach has enabled our 85-person strong organisation to support 12 companies as of the end of 2016, Investindustrial places great importance on long-term portfolio with aggregate global sales of €5 billion. EBITDA grew by 11% to company health and sustainability. We operate with a prudent reach €838 million. More than 18,500 people are employed by the companies, which is an increase of one thousand jobs (+5%) approach to financial leverage in order to give companies room to grow, making significant ongoing investments to achieve this. In 2016, Investindustrial’s profitable portfolio companies performed strongly with in the year. an 11% increase in EBITDA delivering a 17% margin and an increase of approximately Investing for product-driven growth 2016 Portfolio figures 1,000 employees. In aggregate, the 12 companies as of year-end have invested €1.9 billion (including expansion capex) in the businesses since Sales (€m) EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) Total Employees (nr.) Investindustrial’s entry, of which approximately €500 million By Year in 2016 alone. Many of these investment programmes started 838 18,533 5,075 757 16,494 17,577 to come to fruition during 2016, for example with Aston Martin’s 4,925 4,980 688 launch of the new DB11 sports car, the launch of Sergio Rossi’s first new collections, or the completion of Ferrari Land within the 16.8% destination resort PortAventura. 14.9% 14.0% +3% -2% +10% +11% +7% +5% A key contributor to Investindustrial’s long-term success is the significant and 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 continuous upfront investment the Firm has made in best-in-class advisory Investment companies as of December 2016 generated sales Investments generated an aggregate EBITDA of €0.8 billion in 2016, At the end of 2016 the total workforce of the portfolio companies of approximately €5.0 billion in 2016, 2% below prior year. a 11% increase compared to the prior year. more than 18,500 employees representing an increase of 5% and functional specialist teams. compared to the prior year. 4 5 Strategic Commentary // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 The DB11 launched in 2016 is the first new model produced by Aston Martin after Investindustrial invested in the company. In addition, we want to make sure that our companies can Significant interest cost savings across the portfolio measure and be mindful of their carbon emissions and that they actively work to reduce their footprint while making a positive Investindustrial’s dedicated debt capital markets team has taken impact to society and their nearby community. advantage of the benign credit markets in the last year. Including two transactions in the first half of 2017, a total of €3.2 billion We reached several sustainability milestones during 2016 through of debt has been arranged for refinancings or new acquisitions, a close engagement with investee companies, including via an with five transactions exceeding €500 million each, generating annual ESG Summit. In having our dedicated ESG team work closely an annual cost saving across the portfolio of nearly €50 million. with the companies in the production of their CSR reports, we are now able to report a consolidated view of the portfolio’s Investing in talent greenhouse gas emissions (594k tCO2e) as well as a number of other important environmental, social and governance performance Investindustrial made 19 new senior appointments at investee indicators. Whilst carbon neutral as an organisation for the last companies, including two CEOs and two CFOs, demonstrating the eight years, Investindustrial can now use the aggregate portfolio rigorous approach to the recruitment of best-in-class managers emissions data to offset the emissions of our share as an investor as we build better companies together. in the portfolio companies, thus meeting our own expectations. Investindustrial appointments also included two senior business In the sustainability section of this document you will be able development professionals, focused on embracing technology to read more about how we actively work our with companies enabling opportunities and evaluating add-on acquisitions in North to improve ESG performance, benchmark best practices America. The North American market remains of key strategic and set goals, as well as how we are developing a proprietary importance to Investindustrial, representing the highest growth strategy to achieve carbon neutrality. The Investindustrial region for Investindustrial’s companies and accounting for €1.3 billion Foundation amplifies the Firm’s efforts in sustainability by focusing in revenues, taking into account the recently concluded combination on environmental protection and conservation, as well as the of Polynt and Reichhold. promotion of education and diversity. Conclusions Beyond our environmental focus remains our commitment to Invest for children (www. investforchildren.org), a second corporate With €6.5 billion of raised fund capital, of which €2.1 billion is foundation set up in 2000 and dedicated to supporting underequity available for new investments, Investindustrial commands privileged and differently-abled children. Contributing a compelling leadership position as a European mid-market to the community is an integral part of being a responsible longinvestment group, with a particular focus on Southern Europe. term investor and Investindustrial and the team have committed This has been achieved through a long-term dedication to the to contributing a further €5 million by 2020 to Invest for children design and implementation of building better companies. A key to continue its work on improving the quality of people’s lives. contributor to Investindustrial’s long-term success since inception in 1990 has been the significant upfront and ongoing investment in best-in-class advisory and functional specialist teams. We continue to work relentlessly to drive positive change and results throughout our portfolio and look forward to reporting on further progress next year. 2016 KEY EVENTS €2.1bn €2.1 billion of equity for investments €2.0bn Selective investments completed for €2.0 billion €4.6bn Refinancings 17% A highly profitable portfolio At the end of 2016, Investindustrial had approximately During 2016, Investindustrial and its co-investors made In the last 2.5 years the Group debt team has supported six Investindustrial has a solid portfolio of profitable €2.1 billion of equity to make further acquisitions. investments mainly in three companies Artsana, Polynt and refinancings and four issues of acquisition debt for a total companies with an overall EBITDA margin of 17%. Investindustrial remains balanced between a high quality Valtur accounting for a total enterprise value of €2.0 billion. consideration of €4.6 billion. During 2016 the EBITDA margin grew by 13% private market portfolio and capital available for compared to the prior year and the growth was mainly new investments. due to the contribution of Aston Martin and Polynt. 6 7 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 A LEADING EUROPEAN 1978 The Financial Times INVESTMENT GROUP A history with a consistent strategy Providing industrial expertise, operational focus and global platforms to accelerate value creation and international expansion. 2012 The Financial Times Investindustrial is one of Europe’s leading independent in portfolio companies are held) by the applicable investment investment groups which provides industrial solutions and capital or holding companies of each fund. Decisions over investments to medium-size companies that are leaders in their fields. and divestments, including the exercise of the voting rights Founded from an industrial conglomerate, today Investindustrial over the shares of the portfolio companies, are made by the 2012 The Economist has a dominant leadership position in Southern Europe with applicable investment or holding company board of directors the longest history (established in 1990), the deepest track record in an autonomous and independent manner, consistent with (52 portfolio investments), the largest team (84 professionals the applicable corporate governance rules and by-laws. It is the across three continents), and has become the largest private equity responsibility of the management of each portfolio company investor of institutional capital (€6.5 billion of raised fund capital) to operate that company on a day-to-day basis. in this region. Investindustrial uses proprietary networks developed over several cycles to identify high-quality, often complex, investment opportunities in sectors well-known to the Firm and pursues a 2016 Recognitions of consistent, industrially-driven investment approach to build better Investindustrial excellence companies. Active ownership and operational improvement remain at the core of Investindustrial’s value creation strategies which typically focus on accelerating growth and profitability Firm of the year in Italy through globalisation and/or industrial repositioning. (Private Equity International, winner) Investindustrial advocates the use of moderate leverage, commensurate with each company’s growth and capex ambitions, Italian Firm of the Year to build sustainable businesses. This approach resonates well with (Private Equity Exchange, winner) industrial trade buyers, often a preferred exit route for portfolio companies. Investindustrial has demonstrated discipline across Spanish Firm of the Year cycles by continuing to focus on the quality end of the mid-market. (Private Equity Exchange, Silver Award) Investindustrial funds are managed in the interest of the limited Fundraising & Investor Relations partners by investment managers authorised and regulated by the (Private Equity Exchange, Silver Award) Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom and therefore in an autonomous and independent manner from the other Group companies. Investments and divestments are made (and shares 38 Originated from Operating 84 professionals Industrially a successful as a Firm on three driven years of investments industrial group since 1990 continents approach in leading brands and companies 8 9 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Polynt’s diversified product offering has applications across a range of industries including automotive (the new Aston Martin DB11 pictured below). An investment strategy refined from success and experience from previous partnerships such as... INVEST DRIVE IN QUALITY MARKET BUSINESSES LEADERSHIP Quality management team Create international leaders Focus on reinforcing through organic growth research and development and new acquisitions Optimisation Maximise profitability and rationalisation by leveraging synergies of product mix and developing restructuring or cost-cutting plans Improvement of working Capture international capital management growth opportunities Business line diversification ...was applied to the 2016 portfolio of CAPTURE CREATE leading brands and companies GLOBAL TOMORROW’S OPPORTUNITIES LEADERS Capture international sales Integrate product growth opportunities that development, production are not easily accessible for and supply chain mid-market companies capabilities with international Use the Group’s global distribution capacity network to facilitate access Capture both geographical to new markets and product growth Increase competitiveness opportunities in emerging markets Building a digital strategy by adapting manufacturing adequate to changing market and R&D locally and customer behaviors 10 11 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2016 Sales(1) (%) Leading European footprint with By Region a growing international presence Rest of the World Investindustrial has considerable international exposure and 13% Italy combines a global vision with capital and local insight to drive growth initiatives in its companies. 31% Spain Investindustrial’s portfolio companies have a truly global 16% footprint, with more than half of the 2016 sales coming from Rest outside Southern Europe. North of Europe America 24% Since inception, non-European countries have contributed 16% to 73% of the growth of portfolio companies’ sales. (1) Sales weighted by shareholding of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2016. 2016 Sales Variance (%) By Region since Investindustrial entry Italy 13% 25% 100% -11% 25% Spain 48% Rest of Europe Rest 98% of the portfolio growth since of the world inception has come from markets outside of Southern Europe and 73% of this growth has been driven North from non-European countries. America Investindustrial Managing Principals and NYU Clinical Professor Tensie Whelan at NYU Stern School of Business during an ESG session in New York (USA). Chicco, part of the Artsana Group, is a leading international baby-care brand acquired by Investindustrial in 2016. 12 13 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Total Investindustrial Companies Employees (%) Investindustrial is a global By Region By Sector provider of employment Rest of Industrial America the World Manufacturing Investindustrial’s portfolio companies employ The companies in which Investindustrial invests endeavor 5.4% 4.3% 11.7% to maintain and improve training and further develop the knowapproximately 18,500 employees, based mostly in how of their employees. In 2016, the total workforce reached Europe, across a wide range of sectors and countries. approximately 18,500 employees of which approximately 7,500 Consumer, Retail Rest are outside of Southern Europe. Manufacturing and commercial of Europe and Leisure Investindustrial considers the skills of its portfolio companies’ activities are present across 36 countries and five continents. 65.4% Spain 29.2% employees as an asset to be developed and shared while respecting and safeguarding individuals. Furthermore, the Group One of our portfolio company, Aston Martin, selected St. Athan 29.1% Business is committed to offering equal opportunities in employment and (Wales) as the second manufacturing location for the new crossItaly Services in career development, avoiding every form of discrimination, over vehicle and up to 1000 new jobs will be created across 32.0% 22.9% including discrimination based on race, sex, sexual orientation, St. Athan and Gaydon between now and 2020. Across the supply St. Athan (Wales) has been selected age, nationality, religion and personal beliefs. chain and local businesses a further 3,000 jobs will likely be as the manufacturing location for created as a direct result of these investments. the production of the Aston Martin DBX cross over expected for 2019. Investindustrial investments have a direct presence NETHERLANDS RUSSIA through manufacturing facilities or subsidiaries SWEDEN BELGIUM in 36 countries. NORWAY FRANCE GERMANY POLAND TURKEY CANADA UK ROMANIA SOUTH KOREA USA GROUP PRESENCE IN: CROATIA JAPAN ANDORRA MEXICO ARGENTINA MOROCCO SWITZERLAND GREECE AUSTRALIA NETHERLANDS BELGIUM NORWAY MEXICO PORTUGAL ANDORRA BRAZIL POLAND INDIA CHINA CANADA PORTUGAL SPAIN UAE CHINA ROMANIA CROATIA RUSSIA BRAZIL ITALY CYPRUS SINGAPORE FRANCE SPAIN CYPRUS GERMANY SOUTH AFRICA ARGENTINA MOROCCO HONG KONG GREECE SOUTH KOREA HONG KONG SWEDEN INDIA SWITZERLAND ITALY TURKEY SOUTH AFRICA MALTA SINGAPORE MALAYSIA AUSTRALIA JAPAN UAE MALAYSIA UK MALTA USA 14 15 2016 Investindustrial’s advisory A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT team members at work. A leading investment advisory team in Europe Investindustrial professionals represent 15 nationalities and 17 Investindustrial is one of the largest and most languages (with 39% of employees speaking 3 languages or more), experienced groups of investment professionals reflecting the importance the Firm places on being a transparent focused on Europe. and dynamic organisation with global views and capabilities. Investindustrial operates through a series of investment funds, Investindustrial has developed a team of functional specialists holding companies and financial advisory firms, each who support the Firm’s investment activity: business development managed independently and established in the United Kingdom, professionals, an equity markets team, debt markets specialists, Spain, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, the United legal transactions team, investor relations and syndication team States and China. Talent management is a key strategic goal of as well as technology and digitalisation. This exceptional resource Investindustrial which has a team of 84 professionals combining pool is led by a senior team of nine Managing Principals and Senior local insight with global perspective. Having the right people at Principals. the right place at the right time is critical to building successful companies. To recruit and retain talented people with the Investment and divestment activity is decided and undertaken highest ethical standards and to create an attractive workplace by the applicable holding and investment companies pursuant to in which to develop them is vital for Investindustrial. their respective board of directors’ instructions and decisions. See under “Governance” for more details. Certain Group companies Investindustrial professionals, who typically remain with the are authorised and subject to the supervision of the Financial Firm for many years, have demonstrated major achievements Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom, the Commission de in their professional and academic past and are therefore best Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg and the Federal placed to nurture and integrate the high-calibre incremental Authority for Financial Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland. personnel improvements that are regularly made to the Firm. Investindustrial Employees (nr. and %) By Age and Gender Distribution By Years of Employment at Investindustrial 13 17 10 32 4 23 6 9 3 3 Total 84 (100%) 17 38 6 16 5 16 5 14 Total 100% 17% Women 33 (39%) Women 39% 31% 19 31% 35% Men 51 (61%) 45% 37% Men 61% 22 67% 11 77% 10 9 21 100% 83% 69% 3 63% 69% 65% 4 55% 23% 33% 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60+ 0-2 3-5 6-10 10+ About 40% of Investindustrial’s employees are women and this percentage increased with recent hires as a long-term commitment to having a more balanced gender distribution in the Firm. By Educational Programmes 7 offices High school or other educational University programmes Degree 19.1% University Degree plus 60.7% 17 languages MBA e PhD 20.2% 15 nationalities 16 17 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 The headquarters of B&B Italia at Novedrate (Italy) designed by Renzo Piano and Richard Rogers in 1973. An organisation tailor-made for active ownership throughout the investment process Investindustrial leverages proprietary networks to source The team’s experience combines strong local investment insight attractive investment opportunities typically unavailable to the with a global perspective which is leveraged to ensure the successful broader market. Since inception the vast majority of portfolio execution of the industrially-driven approach. As active investors investments have been sourced through proprietary channels, Investindustrial works closely with key management throughout the including family and corporate vendors, Public-to-Privates and ownership phase to drive product growth and/or market expansion. public situations, a deliberate course of action which has yielded This includes actively securing industrial, branding and financial attractive entry multiples. partners from inside, or selectively from outside, our network. These proprietary relationships which have been developed over Investindustrial allocates resources to a concentrated group many cycles, are inherently interlinked and underline Investindustrial’s of investee companies but actively seeks to mitigate risks, and reputation as the preferred partner for high-quality mid-market control returns, by holding a portfolio of assets that exhibits businesses in Southern Europe and opportunistically in Western natural diversity. Target companies are typically in growth or Europe. mature phases of their lifecycle with the level of support required categorised in the following ways: consolidate position as local The industrially driven, responsible and active ownership approach leader, strategic repositioning, international expansion, accelerate of Investindustrial creates a natural allegiance with corporate growth through acquisition and/or new products and markets. players who are looking to acquire high quality strategic assets. As part of the value creation process Investindustrial identifies Investindustrial provides hands-on support to portfolio companies potential trade buyers with which there may be valuable synergies through the team’s breadth and depth of expertise. The ability and actively engages in dialogue throughout the holding period. to deliver on often complex operational and organisational plans Strategic buyers have accounted for nearly two thirds of is underpinned by the broad and deep internal sector expertise Investindustrial exits to date. developed across many business cycles and is actively supported by the internal business development team. Gabriele Del Torchio (Member of the Investindustrial Advisory Board and former CEO A unique network of Industrial Advisors of Ducati) and Rupert Stadler (CEO of Audi). To help its portfolio companies achieve their full potential, and The Industrial Advisory Board provides industry expertise, views, in support of the active ownership approach, Investindustrial can opinions and strategic advice on industrial and business plans count on the valuable commitment of its Industrial Advisors. to the boards of the investment managers and holding companies. Its members act as consultants and do not take investment or These seasoned executives bring industrial expertise in a wide divestment decisions. range of sectors and are closely linked to the Group’s industriallydriven operational model. They are an integral part of Investindustrial’s business model and industrial approach, providing competence from operational The Industrial Advisors concentrate their advice on maintaining and strategic issues in their fields of expertise. best practice corporate governance, stress testing industrial plans and identifying global value creation opportunities. The Industrial Advisory Board is chaired by Andrea C. Bonomi and is composed of five seasoned executives who bring valuable insights in a wide range of industries. Industrial Advisory Board Members are appointed from a network of more than 50 Industrial The Industrial Advisory Board Advisors. The broad network of Industrial Advisors has specific industrial expertise in its sectors, a history of strong relationships with Investindustrial, and is coordinated by the Industrial Advisory Board. 18 19 A Leading European Investment Group // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 An internationally recognised Selective Investindustrial Investindustrial accelerates sustainable investment approach recognitions digitalisation and technological change Investindustrial’s leadership as a successful investor has been recognised by several institutions. Some examples of 2016 Since inception in 1990, Investindustrial has invested in recognitions are the following: numerous companies that have themselves been at the cutting Italy Spain edge of development, and other more traditional businesses which have incorporated new technologies both to defend and gain market share. Today, and increasingly so in the future, Investindustrial has been recognised as the scalable technology is a powerful tool for portfolio companies best private equity Firm in Italy at Private Equity Fundraising & Investor Relations to accelerate internationalisation; and a disruptive element for International Awards 2016. those not adapting. In March 2017, Investindustrial was recognised as the Best Private Investindustrial is determined to capture the benefits of Equity Firm in Italy in the 2016 Private Equity International Awards. technological innovation for its portfolio companies and for Italy Spain This is the eighth time in the last twelve years that Investindustrial the Group itself through a proactive approach and a dedicated The investment Investindustrial will continue to make in Firm of the year Firm of the year has been recognised as the winner in this category, underlining in Italy Investindustrial in Iberia Investindustrial business development team. The Group’s technology and the technology team follows similar investments made in other the dominant position the Firm has built in Italy, in Southern digitalisation centre of excellence is based in the New York office, areas of business development in recent years (corporate Europe and as a leading European investment group overall. complementing the other business development activities development, debt, investor relations & syndication, legal Investindustrial is honoured that Private Equity International and Italy Spain carried out from London and Shanghai. The team provides & compliance, risk management). The technology team thousands of voters from the industry have again acknowledged PRESS RELEASE advisory services supporting due diligence reviews and further strengthens the exceptional pool of resources which PRESS RELEASE the success of the Firm’s industrially-driven and hands on benchmarks the digital strategy of new investments and add-on Investindustrial can provide to portfolio companies to support INVESTINDUSTRIAL INVESTINDUSTRIAL HAS BEEN RECOGNISED HAS BEEN RECOGNISED AS AS approach to private equity investing in the European mid-market. THE BEST PRIVATE THE BEST FOR THE SECOND PRIVATE EQUITY FOR THE FIRM EQUITY IN BOTH FIRM SECOND CONSECUTIVE CONSECUTIVE ITALYIN BOTH YEAR AND SPAIN ITALY AND SPAIN YEAR acquisitions. industrial and international growth ambitions. Italy Spain Italy Spain 1st March 2011 –1Investindustrial st March 2011 –has been recognised Investindustrial has as been Best PrivateasEquity therecognised FirmPrivate in bothEquity the Best Italy Firm in both Italy and Iberia in the 2010 Private and Iberia in Equity the 2010International Awards Private Equity for the second International consecutive Awards year. consecutive year. for the second This recognition of This ourrecognition industrial approach to private of our industrial equity means approach a great to private deal equity to us, aespecially means great dealin to us, especially in view of the substantial view of number of votes cast the substantial across number the industry of votes globally. cast across the industry globally. So, once again So, we oncewould again like towe thank all like would of you with whom to thank youhave all of we with had whom pleasure the we have hadof the pleasure of working during representing andrepresenting and 2010 and for working during 2010 andsupport. the continued for the continued support. *** *** Investindustrial is a leading Southern European investment group with approximately €2.1 billion of Investindustrial is a leading Southern European investment group with approximately €2.1 billion of AWARDS 2009 AWARDS 2009 assets under management, which provides industrial solutions and capital to mid-market assets under management, which provides industrial solutions and capital to mid-market companies in Southern Europe. Its mission is to actively contribute to the development of the companies inPrivate Southern Europe. Its mission is to actively Best contribute Private Equityto the development of the companies in which it Best Equity invests, by creating growth opportunities and offering global solutions companies in which it invests, by creating growth opportunities and offering global solutions firm in Italy vision. Certain companies of the through an entrepreneurial pan-European firm in Iberia Investindustrial group through an entrepreneurial are authorized by, and subject pan-European vision. Certainthe to regulatory supervision of, the FSA and companies of the Investindustrial group JFSC in the United Investindustrial Investindustrial Kingdom and theare CSSF authorized by, and subject to regulatory supervision in Luxembourg. of, the FSA and the JFSC in the United Kingdom and the CSSF in Luxembourg. For further information please contact: For further information please contact: Carl Nauckhoff Tel +41 91 2608326Carl Nauckhoff Tel +41 91 2608326 Email: cn@investindustrial.com Email: cn@investindustrial.com Investindustrial was awarded “Best Italian LBO Fund” at Private Equity Exchange Awards 2016. In December 2016, Investindustrial was recognised as the Best Italian LBO Fund at the 15th Edition of the Private Equity Exchange Awards hosted in Paris. Investindustrial was pleased with the award given the high calibre of the competition, which comprised other prominent private equity Firms operating in the region. The Private Equity Exchange Award is one of the largest European private equity summits and attract more than 1,200 industry participants. The category winners were selected by a jury including leading institutional investors. In the same event, Above are some examples of what portfolio companies have recently developed through their digital strategies. Investindustrial received the Silver Awards as Best Spanish LBO Flos redesigned its website and customer experience for the US market. PortAventura is developing a new CRM system to maximise the full life-cycle Fund and Best Fundraising & Investor Relations. value of the consumer and is analysing all the different technologies that might enhance the customer experience in the entertainment park. Sergio Rossi launched the new e-commerce website globally. Artsana is developing a 360 degrees strategy involving e-commerce, CRM and mobile. 20 21 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CASE STUDY: “Aston Martin Lagonda is 103 years old and is one Aston Martin of the most desirable brands in the world. However it required a major investment to launch An iconic sports car its new generation of models. The investment programme initiated by Investindustrial, in brand with a conjunction with the companies other Kuwaiti shareholders, has allowed Aston Martin rich 103-year heritage management to reposition the company and return it to profit after a decade of losses. The DB11 is the first tangible fruit of that labour and the tremendous uptake from our customers following the launch at the end of 2016 is a testament to the hard work that has been undertaken in partnership with Investindustrial and other shareholders. The company is now in a much stronger overall position and, with the emerging line of next generation sports cars and a sports utility vehicle, it is ready to embrace its Second Century.” Aston Martin 2016 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 17% Andy Palmer, Aston Martin CEO Sales growth 29% EBITDA growth 45% EBITDA Margin growth 13% Harnessing the valuable automotive sector investment expertise, Investindustrial made a bold but carefully planned investment in Aston Martin in 2012. Aston Martin (www.astonmartin.com), established in 1913 and Since Investindustrial’s entry, the Aston Martin business plan has headquartered in Gaydon (UK), designs, manufactures and been based on three distinct phases: distributes luxury performance motor cars. Aston Martin is one of the most exclusive sports car brands in the world, operating Existing range: while developing the future generation with a global dealer network which currently covers over 150 of vehicles, the company focused on cash flows by efficiently locations. Its iconic status and global footprint has been built managing its existing product range and by launching through its performance and elegant design, successfully special editions; marketed by featuring as James Bond’s car in many 007 movies New sports cars: introduction of an entirely new range of over the past 50 years. The group includes a JV which restores sport models from 2016 to 2018 (DB11 replacing DB9, Vantage and trades heritage Aston Martin vehicles in the historical replacement, Vanquish replacement); The new DB11 is the first new model produced factory in Newport Pagnell (UK), and the dedicated cross-over Range expansion: launch of the DBX SUV in 2019. by Aston Martin after Investindustrial invested factory in St. Athan (Wales). in the company. 22 23 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Managing the Existing Range while Developing the Introducing New Sport Cars Sales (£) EBITDA (£) and Margin (%) New Generation By Year By Year 593.4 100.9 Since Investindustrial’s entry, the company has successfully In September, production of the DB11 began which signalled 91.1 519.2 510.0 managed the run-off of the old generation of cars, while the start of phase two of the industrially-driven business plan. 461.2 468.4 69.5 17.5% 69.7 71.6 investing each year on average £130 million into new models. The car has received very positive media reviews, praising 17.0% In Q3 2016 the DB9 ended production and the DB11 was it for its performance and beauty. launched. 15.1% 14.9% At year-end, the DB11 order book covered the planned unit sales 14.0% Supporting the launch of the new line of sports cars, the brand for practically all of 2017. appeal and positioning have been further improved through numerous successful initiatives: With the DB11 launch, key improvements were made in the factory to combine advanced technologies, for example in bodywork, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 A pre-DB11 concept car, the DB10, featured in the most with Aston Martin’s traditional exquisite craftsmanship, for recent James Bond movie, Spectre; example in interiors. Special editions models, such as the Vulcan, Zagato Model Range Expansion A Luxury Brand and GT8/12, were successfully launched and all promptly Further new model launches include V8 and convertible variants sold out; and new Vantage and Vanquish vehicles, all scheduled for Phase three of the business plan is based around the sports Aston Martin’s status as a luxury brand has never been stronger. A partnership with Red Bull Racing was secured production by 2018. The result will be a very modern range of utility vehicle (SUV) programme, with the DBX cross-over vehicle The launch of the DB11 and the strong early support the vehicle for the development of a hypercar, the Valkyrie; and sports cars further enhancing the traditional Aston Martin expected to be launched in 2019, as announced at the Geneva has received from customers old and new is a testament to the Formula One sponsorship, with the Aston Martin logo brand attributes. Motor Show in 2015. The issue of £200 million of preference brand’s heritage, global presence and pricing power. featuring on Red Bull Racing cars. shares in 2015 ensures that the development and manufacturing facilities have been fully financed. Through strategic licensing agreements the company is expanding With regards to the other product ranges, the Vantage and its product portfolio to other luxury segments. Vanquish models remain in production until their respective As part of the DBX production, an agreement has been reached replacements are introduced. with the UK and Welsh Government for the acquisition of the In September, the 37-foot Aston Martin AM37 powerboat made factory in St. Athan (Wales), a former hangar in a military airport its world debut at the Monaco Yacht Show, marking the luxury with ample space for future developments. A sale and leaseBritish brand’s entry into the nautical world. The new day-cruiser The Valkyrie hypercar back agreement was signed in 2016 with construction works is offered in two versions with the AM37S expected to reach developed in partnership beginning post year-end in 2017. speeds of 50 knots. Sharing creative expertise and specialist skills, with Red Bull Racing. a partnership allowed Quintessence Yachts to engineer the Aston In choosing St. Athan, a strong partnership has been developed Martin design into an innovative powerboat for the yachting world. with both the UK Ministry of Defence, which previously operated the site as a Royal Air Force base, and the Welsh Government, In 2016, Aston Martin also announced a partnership with G&G, which is providing valuable support in the recruitment of the a property group, for the design and branding of a 66-storey luxury 750 employees required at the facility. residential tower in Miami. Initial recruitment began in September, with the hiring of 40 people. The workforce will be trained in Gaydon on the DB11 production line and is expected to grow, resulting in the creation of 3,000 jobs in the local area as a result of the investment. The DBX product has now been substantially defined and the engineering and design work are proceeding at full speed. The powertrain portfolio will include a hybrid and/or an electric variant in addition to a traditional V8. The start of production of DB11 at Aston Martin headquarters in Gaydon (UK). 24 25 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CASE STUDY: PortAventura “After the successful experience with Gardaland, A European leader the largest Italian theme park, it is a great pleasure for me to continue partnering with in the leisure Investindustrial on PortAventura. During seven years of close collaboration, PortAventura and entertainment has undergone a significant transformation – from a theme park into Europe’s second largest integrated destination resort. A strong industry repositioning plan has been implemented based on strengthening the product offering, delivering a carefully crafted commercial strategy and optimising the cost base. The company’s commitment to unique attractions and premium experiences ensures that it continues strongly along the path to long term value creation.” PortAventura 2016 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 46% Sergio Feder, PortAventura Executive Chairman Sales growth 47% EBITDA growth 160% EBITDA Margin growth 76% Building on the successful previous investment The acquisition was made possible through the close relationship with La Caixa, Europe’s leading savings bank, and its in Italian theme park operator Gardaland, majority-owned investment company Criteria Caixa Corp. Investindustrial acquired PortAventura in 2009. Since Investindustrial’s entry, PortAventura has performed well PortAventura is a fully integrated, family oriented destination despite a very difficult economic environment. The company’s resort with a balanced business model which encompasses the positive performance is a result of the industrially-driven full range of entertainment, hospitality and events offering. approach of Investindustrial and the introduction of a proven The entertainment segment comprises three gates: one theme management team from Gardaland led by Sergio Feder. The park “PortAventura Park”, one water park “PortAventura Caribe key drivers of the outperformance to date are the successfully Aquatic Park” and “Ferrari Land”. Guests can enjoy an abundance repositioned commercial strategy, improvements in the park of daily shows, special events and have an extensive choice offerings of shops and food, the addition of a new kids’ area of food, beverage and retail options. The hospitality segment and the tallest rollercoaster in Europe, the opening of a themed comprises five themed hotels and cabañas (with four to five star aquatic park, and an efficiency programme that has significantly accommodation) as well as a 4,000 person capacity convention increased the profitability. The opening on April 7th 2017of Ferrari centre hosting conferences and events all year long. The resort Land, a theme park dedicated to the prestigious automotive also benefits from a number of ancillary services and facilities and racing brand, demonstrates the company’s commitment to Ferrari Land, opened in PortAventura at the beginning of 2017, offers many including three golf courses and a beach club, included in the unique attractions, after PortAventura entered a European-wide attractions including the highest and hotel packages. exclusivity agreement with Ferrari for attractions of this kind. fastest vertical accelerator in Europe. 26 27 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 A successful Sales (€m) By Year Brand partnerships with Ferrari development strategy and Cirque du Soleil 206.7 191.9 193.9 Since Investindustrial’s entry at the end of 2009, PortAventura 172.8 179.3 179.4 PortAventura is continuing to strengthen its position in the has performed strongly: EBITDA has almost tripled to €95 million 140.3 143.2 premium tourism segment by increasing the international image with a best-in-class margin of 46% and the number of visitors and branding of the park. has increased by 18% as a result of new park offerings and a relaunched commercial strategy. The management of the company Ferrari Land has focused on the following areas in recent years: Post-year end, in April 2017, Ferrari Land opened to the public. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The new site, within PortAventura, is a themed amusement park New Park Offerings: the new kids’ area, SesamoAventura, and dedicated to the luxury automotive brand. PortAventura has a the new roller-coaster, Shambhala, have continued to attract European-wide exclusivity agreement with Ferrari, ensuring the both repeat and new visitors throughout 2016. In 2013, attraction is the only one of its kind in the region. PortAventura opened the doors to its refurbished attraction, the Costa Caribe Aquatic Park and more recently to the Angkor Ferrari Land is built on a total surface area of 75,000 square Boat ride attraction. EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) meters and benefits from several rides (including the highest and fastest vertical accelerator in Europe), restaurants, large By Year Marketing Strategy: the company has refocused on traditional simulation areas for car racing and shops. values, entertainment and family. As a result, the company is achieving a substantial increase in visitors from abroad (~ 50% 94.6 The park has a total capital investment of €88 million and 85.0 85.7 of international hotel guests in 2016). 75.9 further enhances PortAventura’s position as a leading European 68.7 45.8% 59.0 42.3% 44.3% 44.2% destination resort. In the hotels business, the company has worked very closely with 36.4 42.1 34.1% 38.3% major tour operators both in Spain and internationally to develop 29.4% Cirque du Soleil 25.9% a cohesive marketing strategy to increase hotel bookings since Cirque du Soleil will perform its Varekai show at PortAventura 2009. In addition, the implementation of a new website, booking in 2017. This branding partnership follows those reached with engine and the introduction of call centre best practices, have 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cirque du Soleil for the inaugural Kooza and Amaluna shows in significantly improved yield, with direct bookings having increased 2014 and 2015. from 30% of total bookings to 43% in 2016, in line with best practices in the hotel industry. Piero Ferrari, the son of the brand’s eponymous founder, Enzo, officially opened Ferrari Land on April 7th 2017. PortAventura is the largest destination resort in Southern Europe. 28 29 29 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CASE STUDY: B&B Italia Internationalisation of a leading design furniture company “The strong desire to guarantee the continuity of this extraordinary company in a way that will ensure its further growth and expansion at the international level in keeping with its mission and history led us to consider the partnership with Investindustrial. Due to its experience in the high-end design segment, it will be able to provide us with the expertise and resources needed to pursue our long-term strategies of internationalisation and industrial development”. B&B Italia 2016 EBITDA Margin Developments since entry: 20% Giorgio Busnelli, B&B Italia CEO Sales growth 30% EBITDA growth 45% EBITDA Margin growth 11% Investindustrial aims to further consolidate the success is based on a unique combination of creativity, innovation and international expansion of a great designer furniture brand. industrial capabilities aimed at creating timeless products that stand the test of time. In 2015, Investindustrial acquired the majority shareholding of B&B Italia, a leading international design furniture company. The company Technological research has always been a key element of the has an excellent reputation worldwide in the high-end design company’s development policy. The company has an in-house furnishings sector, for both the retail and corporate markets, and has Research & Development centre that works with famous international been known for its strong focus on research and innovation and its designers such as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Piero Lissoni ability to combine industrial expertise and corporate management and many others to support a creative development process that has since its creation 50 years ago. The company operates in over 80 allowed it to set itself apart in the sector as a highly innovative and countries on five continents through a distribution network that technologically advanced company. Its numerous awards include four includes seven directly managed stores, 71 third party mono-brand Compassi d’Oro (the most prestigious industrial design award), the stores and over 800 multi-brand stores. B&B Italia is known as a most significant of which was the first award of this type ever given to leader in the contemporary design furniture sector at the international a company rather than a product in 1989 for the “ongoing integration level with an authentic collection of iconic furniture that has work to combine aspects of technical and scientific research with contributed to enriching the history of Italian design. B&B Italia’s those needed to ensure product functionality and character”. 30 31 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Strong progress Sales (€m) The Arclinea acquisition – stepping By Year since entry with international growth into the kitchen 184.5 Flagship Stores 159.7 In September 2016, B&B Italia acquired a 70% stake in Arclinea, The acquisition also generates significant potential synergies: 141.5 an Italian leading high-end designer kitchen brand, with a 30% As of December 2016, the company operated seven flagship stores shareholding remaining in the hands of the founders (Fortuna Arclinea will have the opportunity to accelerate its international and had achieved significant expansion of third party mono-brand family). expansion by leveraging B&B Italia’s strong distribution stores network, increasing from 59 stores to 71 since entry. platform; Arclinea represents B&B Italia’s first majority acquisition in its Cross-selling opportunities within B&B Italia’s stores; In June 2016, the agreement for the acquisition of the B&B 50 – year history, achieved within the first year of Investindustrial More competitive positioning in order to secure new profitable Italia / Maxalto store in Paris, France (Rue du Bac) from its local ownership. Founded in 1925 near Vicenza by the Fortuna family, contract projects; distributor was signed. A renovation led by Antonio Citterio was Arclinea is a luxury brand with a top of the range positioning and Simplify access to high potential markets such as Asia undertaken during summer 2016 and the new 700 square meters 2014 2015 2016 a strong fit with the B&B Italia and Maxalto brands. Arclinea has and the US. flagship store opened in September. a strong international presence, generating approximately 50% of its sales outside Europe and one third in North America. Despite the short timeframe since the acquisition, a number In July 2016, a new 800 square meters flagship store was opened of synergies have already been identified such as the opening of EBITDA (€m) and Margin (%) This acquisition allows B&B Italia to widen its portfolio of products an Arclinea flagship store within B&B Italia’s flagship store in at 135 Madison Avenue Manhattan, New York. The architectural By Year by entering into the luxury design kitchen segment, as part of London and the opportunity to bid for a large contract project in concept of the store, designed entirely by Antonio Citterio, has set a new benchmark in the high-end design furniture industry. the strategic growth plan formulated at the time of the investment the US, as a result of the new combined product offering. 36.9 which is based on a more integrated product proposition. Furthermore, the flagship store in Shanghai has undergone a 30.1 complete renovation. The 750 square meters store, entirely 25.5 20.0% designed by Antonio Citterio, was opened post year-end in Principia, designed by Antonio Citterio, February 2017. In addition, the set up process of a local operating 18.8% is one of the lines of Arclinea 18.0% which was acquired by B&B Italia in 2016. branch in Shanghai with a dedicated team of four people is currently ongoing. Contract Business 2014 2015 2016 The repositioning strategy of the contract business has already achieved significant and encouraging results through the acquisition of several important and profitable projects worldwide, such as: Digital Apple has chosen B&B Italia as furniture provider for its new B&B Italia’s website is currently the most visited website amongst 260,000 square meters headquarter in Cupertino, California. all the high-end design furniture corporate websites, with An order was made to furnish all 623 lounges of the building approximately 2 million unique visitors per year. After one year with the iconic Charles sofa, designed in 1997 by Antonio Citterio. of work, at the end of 2016 a new version of the website went live with a number of new key features. In 2016, the Bulgari Hotel in Dubai (the biggest Bulgari hotel in the world) chose B&B Italia as furniture partner. In 2016 B&B Italia celebrated its 50th anniversary with the release of a film dedicated to the first 50 years of life of the company, An agreement was signed for the provision of furniture to 100 presented in all the major world capitals (e.g. New York – Morgan Bentley dealers. Library, London – Tate Modern Museum, Milan – La Triennale). 32 33 Case Studies // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CASE STUDY: Artsana A leading international consumer goods company “The partnership with Investindustrial welcomes an exciting new phase for Artsana. With the support of Investindustrial, we have developed a quality, industrially-driven plan for the company in the years ahead. The plan leverages our existing strengths – such as the Chicco brand and our best-in-class manufacturing capabilities – and Investindustrial’s global network. Together we are well positioned to achieve further international growth by thinking about our operations even more strategically.” Claudio De Conto, Artsana CEO Investindustrial plans to open up new markets for a company with impressive existing international presence alongside professionalising the existing business. Artsana, founded in 1946 in Como, Italy by Pietro Catelli, is a leading Artsana also owns significant retail assets, including i) 50% of international consumer goods company, focusing on baby-care Prenatal Retail Group, a retail JV between Artsana and Giochi Preziosi, and self-medication products through the Chicco and PIC brands, with which is the largest European toys and baby-care retail chain with €1 billion in sales. The Group also includes minor health & beauty sales of approximately €900 million and 550 direct point of sales brands, such as Lycia, sold to Sodalis in December 2016, and Control. (under the brands Toys Center, Prenatal, Bimbo Store and King Jouet); Over the years the business expanded by applying advanced and ii) the baby-care Dutch retailer Prenatal Netherlands. manufacturing technologies, developing the PIC brand into other Investindustrial made the investment in Artsana in 2016 with the aim The Chicco Next2Me side sleeping crib, product categories and launching the Chicco baby care brand in 1958. of accelerating the growth and the international expansion of the one of the company’s successful recent company. product launches. 34 35 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENTS As of the end of 2016, Investindustrial’s portfolio was well balanced across three main industry platforms Investindustrial’s business and consists of a concentrated group of 12 portfolio companies to which significant resources are dedicated on an ongoing basis. focus and global drivers 1 2 3 Consumer Business Industrial Retail and Services Manufacturing Leisure Platform Platform Platform Leading providers of critical or high valueadded services. The Global leaders in the design and manufacturing of specialty products. Leading companies companies are typically The underlying markets which operate in markets beneficiaries of a growing are mature and often with long-term growth global outsourcing trend. consolidated with high underpinned by positive Their asset-light capital barriers to entry for new trends in demographics structures give them a competition. New markets and consumption patterns. high cash conversion rate are key in offering future The underlying industries and an ability to expand growth opportunities need to be mature but internationally without and possibilities for are often still fragmented, undertaking major capital operational improvement. giving the companies investments. attractive opportunities to consolidate their markets. Growth is typically scalable on an international level. 36 37 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Global growth drivers and As of the end of 2016, Investindustrial’s portfolio comprised 12 investments, balanced across the three industry classifications industrial opportunities with a stronger emphasis (>50%) on consumer brands ripe for internationalisation. Each of the three industry platforms have different growth drivers Sales (%) EBITDA (%) By Sector and opportunity sets, as summarized below. Business Industrial Business Industrial Services Manufacturing Services Manufacturing 17% 20% 14% 26% 57% Consumer, 66% Consumer, CONSUMER, SERVICES Retail and Leisure Retail and Leisure RETAIL AND INDUSTRIAL In this section sales and EBITDA are considered weighted by Investindustrial’s shareholding AND LEISURE CONCESSIONS MANUFACTURING and considering the portfolio companies owned as of December 2016. EBITDA Margin (%) By Sector 18.9% Globalisation Economies of scale Globalisation GLOBAL 13.5 % 16.3% GROWTH 12.6% of consumer trends Outsourcing Growth in new markets Aging population Increased need Cost efficency DRIVERS Changing consumer for information and purchasing behaviour communication technology Global need for Industrial Consumer, Retail Business Total infrastructure investments Manufacturing and Leisure Services 16% overall EBITDA Margin Add-on acquisitions Expanding service Improving operational INDUSTRIAL Employees (nr.) Capturing growth offering into adjacent fields efficiency of mid-market companies OPPORTUNITIES By Sector opportunities Synergistic add-on in new markets acquisitions Relocation of manufacturing 2,160 18,533 to more value added 4,245 Improving Capturing growth jurisdictions 12,128 the marketing mix in developing markets Add-on acquisitions Product development High visibility Industrial Manufacturing on concessions Business Services The Key’n Go service of Goldcar Consumer, Total allows customers to save Retail and Leisure time during their car collection. 38 39 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2016 main events in Consumer, 1 Consumer, Retail and Leisure Retail and Leisure During 2016, Investindustrial completed the acquisitions of Investindustrial’s Consumer, Retail and Leisure sector currently Goldcar, the pioneer in the value leisure car rental segment Artsana, a leading international consumer brands group, and comprises the following companies: in Europe Valtur, a leading all-inclusive resort operator, and exited Stroili Perfume Holding, leading producer and marketer Oro to Thom Europe, the holding company of Histoire d’Or, Artsana, leading international infant care and healthcare of perfumes and cosmetics a leading European jewellery company. Aston Martin is a leading luxury car manufacturer and one company PortAventura, leading European destination resort of the most exclusive sports car brands in the world. Established Aston Martin, leading luxury sports cars manufacturer Sergio Rossi, leading international luxury shoes brand in 1913 and headquartered in Gaydon (UK), Aston Martin designs, B&B Italia, Italy’s leading high-end design furniture brand Valtur, leading hospitality group in Italy manufactures and distributes luxury performance motor cars. Flos, leading Italian high-end lighting brand, known globally Its iconic status and global footprint has been established through for its original design Luxury Shoes its performance and elegant design and through the successful 4.5% Perfumes and marketing as James Bond’s car in many 007 movies over the past Cosmetics Artsana, founded in 1946 in Como (Italy) by Pietro Catelli, is a 50 years. The final quarter of 2016 marked a key turning point Hospitality Sales (%) 4.5% leading international group with well-established consumer in Aston Martin’s 103-year history, as production started for the first By Segment 5.7% brands in infant care, self medication and cosmetic products and model of the new generation of cars, the DB11 which was presented Entertainment solutions through a number of consumer brands, most importantly at the 2016 Geneva Motor Show. The DB11 constitutes the basis At year-end 2016, Baby 7.3% Chicco (infant care) and PIC Solution (self medication). Chicco, for other future sport car models that will be introduced in the near nine segments represent Healthcare differently from its competitors that typically focus on one product future to completely renew the current model range, before the Investindustrial’s 34.8% category, is an “umbrella brand” covering all baby-care product subsequent expansion with the announced SUV. At the beginning Consumer, Retail and PremiumLighting categories (juvenile, nursing, toys, apparel and shoes) with 380 of 2017, Aston Martin started conversion of the St. Athan (Wales) Leisure sector. 7.9% mono-brand stores globally. PIC has a leading market share in all facility ahead of SUV production in 2019. In addition at the end of Premium Luxury Sports Cars product categories in which it operates in the pharmacy channel March 2017 Aston Martin priced a refinancing transaction to replace Furniture Car Rental (pen needles for diabetes, venipuncture, diagnostic, dressings), its senior secured notes and subordinated PIK notes due 2018, in 10.5% 13.2% 11.6% coupled with advanced manufacturing capabilities. Investindustrial a successful and oversubscribed dual-currency issue on the back of acquired Artsana during 2016 with the aim of leveraging on its strong financial performance following the DB11 launch and Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) its strong product portfolio in order to further consolidate the the continued overall execution of Investindustrial’s business plan. By Year By Year international leadership of the company by developing an expansion www.astonmartin.com plan based both on organic growth and add-on acquisitions. 1,357 1,408 18.4% 18.9% 1,250 17.7% www.artsana.com On April 6th 2017 the former military site of St. Athan was formally handed over from the Ministry of Defence to Aston Martin by Secretary of State Sir Michael Fallon at a ceremony including Aston Martin President and CEO +9% +4% +4% +3% Dr. Andy Palmer, Secretary of State for Wales, Alun Cairns, and Welsh First Minister, Carwyn Jones. With the commencement of these works, Aston Martin St. Athan is on target to commence production of the company’s new SUV, the Aston Martin DBX, in 2019. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) By Year By Year 266 250 12,128 11,275 222 10,702 +13% +6% +5% +8% 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 In 2016 sales increased by 4% while earnings increased by 6%, The total number of employees increased by 8% in 2016 demonstrating the strength of the industrially driven plans. reaching approximately 12,100 people. 40 41 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 B&B Italia is the leading Italian high-end design furniture brand, Flos is the leading Italian high-end lighting brand, known globally Goldcar is the leading leisure-focused car rental company in Perfume Holding produces and markets perfumes for a number globally recognised for its iconic products. The company has a for its unique design and technological innovation, both in the the Mediterranean and operates in 13 countries: Spain, Portugal, of well-known brands. The license portfolio includes Ferrari, unique product portfolio and has been awarded with many design decorative and architectural segments. Since its founding in 1962, Italy, France, Greece, Croatia, the Netherlands, Morocco, Iceberg, Liu Jo, Bikkembergs, and Sergio Tacchini. In addition, prizes over the years. B&B Italia has developed longstanding Flos products have been recognised with a number of design Andorra, Malta, Romania, Cyprus and Mexico. The company is the group owns the Atkinsons, I Coloniali and Morris brands. partnerships with world-renowned designers and architects such awards and are collection items for leading museums such as a pioneer in the value segment of the car rental industry, having The company has a direct presence in Italy, Germany, UAE, as Antonio Citterio, Naoto Fukasawa, Gaetano Pesce and many the MoMA in New York, the Victoria & Albert Museum in London established the business model followed by its competitors. USA, UK, Russia and Singapore. The company is consolidating others which have positioned the company at the forefront of and Le Centre Pompidou in Paris. Flos’ long-standing relationship Goldcar is present in Southern Europe’s key tourist airports and its strategy of creating the first alternative to multinational technological innovation. State of the art integrated design, R&D with world-renowned designers, such as the Castiglioni brothers, railway stations through 87 offices, benefiting from the strength perfume companies through the development of its owned and manufacturing capabilities have allowed B&B Italia to combine Philippe Starck and Antonio Citterio, is a unique feature of the and resilience of the Mediterranean tourism market (which brands and through the acquisition of small-medium size brands high quality with process efficiency. The company has captured company. The company is continuing its strategy of international accounts for 40% of the global industry). In 2016, Goldcar and companies. In particular the company is focusing on the different and complementary styles through two renowned and and product expansion following the acquisition of Lukas Lighting opened twenty three new offices and the operational presence development of the Atkinsons brand in the niche perfumery established brands – B&B Italia (contemporary innovative) and in the USA, a company specialised in the design, manufacturing was expanded in four new countries (the Netherlands, Mexico, segment (the opening of the first shop in London is expected MAXALTO (classic traditional) – which comprise its Home division, and installation of customised lighting solutions, and Ares, the Cyprus and Romania). Several initiatives were launched in order in September 2017) and in the launch of the new I Coloniali and additionally provides bespoke design furnishing solutions leading Italian company in the premium outdoor lighting market. to increase brand perception, direct channel penetration and products for skincare, body care and hair treatment. Perfume through its Contract division. During 2016 B&B Italia acquired Additionally, at the beginning of 2017 Flos completed the improve customer service at all levels, including the launch of Holding is continuing to focus on capturing growth in existing Arclinea, a leading high-end Italian luxury kitchen brand; this acquisition of KKDC France, the sole distributor in France for a new website with higher transparency and a dedicated Help markets and product segments that leverage the established acquisition allowed B&B Italia to widen its portfolio of products by high-quality linear LED products and solutions. These transactions Centre. The management team was reinforced at all corporate international distribution network and on developing the new stepping into the luxury design kitchen segment and to further enable Flos to cover all key premium lighting products and are levels and the Board of Directors was strengthened with acquired licenses. consolidate its leadership in the luxury furniture market. In 2016 generating significant synergies with Flos’ operating model. experienced independent directors with specific focus on digital. www.perfumeholding.com the company also further strengthened its international network www.flos.com www.goldcar.es with the opening of the redesigned flagships stores in New York and Paris. www.bebitalia.com Designed in 1969 by Gaetano Pesce, Atkinsons is one of the owned from the outset the up brands that Perfume Holding is focusing series has been an outstanding on developing internationally. expression of design. 42 43 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sr1, one of the latest collection of Sergio Rossi shoes. PortAventura is the largest destination resort in Southern Established in 1964, Valtur currently operates 16 resorts Europe and the number two in Europe by number of rooms. (12 seaside and four mountain) across Italy and Croatia. The Investindustrial invested in PortAventura at the end of 2009 company owns three of the resorts and operates the rest and offered the support of the former managers of Gardaland, under lease agreements. Valtur is a well-recognised brand and who now work closely with the company. In recent years the the clear leader in the resorts chain category in Italy with a company has implemented a development strategy based significant market share and is the fourth largest hotel group on product innovation (a new aquatic park, Costa Caribe, a overall in Italy by number of keys. Investindustrial acquired new kids’ area, Sesamo Adventure, the tallest rollercoaster the company in the first half of 2016 with the aim to create the in Europe, Shambhala, and the longest boat ride circuit premier Mediterranean all-inclusive hospitality group. Valtur in Europe, Angkor), a new marketing strategy focused on operates in a growing and fragmented industry with a rising traditional values, entertainment and family, and improvement demand for affordable luxury resorts. The Southern European of efficiency. PortAventura owns and manages 5 hotels region is one of the most visited destinations in the world with 2,100 room providing an integrated holiday offering for with approximately 215 million of international visitors (similar families. At the beginning of 2017 Ferrari Land opened within number of visits as the entire Asian region) in addition to local PortAventura. Ferrari Land is the sole Ferrari theme park in population. Europe and includes Red Force, the park’s signature ride – now Since Investindustrial’s entry, a new management team has the tallest and fastest roller coaster in Europe reaching a been hired including a new CEO, CFO, COO and CCO, a height of 112 metres and a speed of 110mph. Ferrari Land has rationalisation of the pre-existing resorts base is on going and been developed within a tasteful of an Italian town and contains the company is now starting to be positioned to benefit from two simulator attractions (Flying Dreams and Racing Legends) the relaunch programme. and a unique exhibition showcasing Ferrari’s history. www.valtur.com PortAventura also has an agreement with Cirque du Soleil which performs at the park over the summer months. www.portaventuraworld.com Sergio Rossi is a prominent Italian luxury footwear brand, long known for its high quality production. The company has built its credibility on its unique craftsmanship and on the creativity that characterises its designs. Sergio Rossi has a significant international presence across EMEA, South East Asia, Japan and America with over 63 stores (a mix of directly operated stores and franchised stores). Sergio Rossi has a modern and best-inclass factory located near Rimini on the north-eastern coast of Italy (within an industrial region with very strong shoemaking heritage in Italy). After the acquisition by Investindustrial at the end of 2015, a new management team has been recruited as part of the brand re-launch and repositioning strategy and the first complete collection designed by the new management and design teams (the Fall Winter 2017 collection) was unveiled during the Milan Fashion Week on February. The company is focused on successfully implementing its strategy of international brand repositioning and sales growth. The Valtur Tanka Village, located in Villasimius (Italy), www.sergiorossi.com overlooks one of the most beautiful views in Sardinia. 44 45 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2016 main events 2 Business Services in Business Services Investindustrial’s Business Services sector comprises the following companies: SNAITECH, leading Italian operator in sports Following the 2015 integration of SNAI and Cogetech, Snaitech Emeru, with approximately 1,100 ambulances, is a leading provider betting & video lottery became the largest listed group in Italy dedicated to the entertainment of outsourced emergency transportation services in Spain and in Emeru, leading Spanish ambulance services company sector with a leading position in sports betting, virtual events and Europe. Emeru operates a non-cyclical business in a highly fragmented horse races. The integration is an industry-shaping transaction for the sector with more than 90% of its core market already structured Italian market: the new group has the largest betting network in Italy as medium-long term contracts (two to ten years). Emeru is today a with almost 700 shops and owns the rights for approximately 900 leader in patient transportation, with the fleet equipped with dispatch, Sales (%) betting corners as well as the concession to operate more than 10,000 communications and tracking technology, and manned by highly By Segment video lottery terminals. The gaming industry has high barriers to entry trained personnel who receive over 30,000 hours of annual training. Sports Betting & arising from its concession nature and thus provides good revenue After having invested at the end of 2010, Investindustrial continues At year-end 2016, Videolottery two segments represent visibility. During 2016 the group executed a refinancing transaction to support the company in renewing key services in core markets, Investindustrial’s Business 72.2% which provided the company with greater financial flexibility and developing a stronger and more diversified backlog with high quality Emergency Services sector. Transport Services significant interest cost reduction. Today the group is well placed to services, diversifying the company’s geographical footprint and benefit from the ongoing trend towards online due to its strong brand internationalising the business through selective and complementary 27.8% awareness and leading market position. add-on acquisitions especially in the UK. Emeru has strengthened its www.snaitech.it management team since Investindustrial’s entry with a new CEO, a CFO and a Managing Director in the UK. The company operates in line with international best practices. Since entry, four add-on acquisitions have been completed in the UK, Canary Islands and Balearic Islands. www.emeru.net Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) By Year By Year 484 14.7% 458 422 12.9% 13.5% One of Snai’s sport betting points. -6% -8% -12% +5% 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) By Year By Year 4,068 4,245 71 3,530 59 57 -17% -3% +15% +4% 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 In 2016 sales decreased by 8% while earnings decreased by 3% The positive integration with COGETECH increased earnings improving the EBITDA margin by 5%. margin which reached 13.5% in 2016. 46 47 Portfolio Developments // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Polynt Group, an integrated global player in the coating and composite resins industry with a variety of end markets: construction, transportation, housing appliances, electrical, marine, food and others. 2016 main events 3 Industrial Manufacturing in Industrial Manufacturing The Industrial Manufacturing Sector comprises the following company: Polynt, global leader in the production of specific polymer intermediates and derivatives. The Polynt Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of composites and coatings resins as well as intermediate and specialty chemical polymers. The end markets are primarily construction, electric/electronics, transportation and, to a lesser Sales (%) extent, household applications, paints and sporting goods. The By Segment group continues to strengthen its leadership position in Western markets, further expanding into new geographies and At year-end 2016, also successfully recovering sales volume and profitability. one segment represents Following the acquisition of PCCR (the North American coatings Investindustrial’s Speciality chemicals and composites resins business of Momentive Specialty Industrial Manufacturing 100% Chemicals) and CCP Composites (a company specialised in sector. composite resins) in France, Polynt became a truly global player with a manufacturing presence in Europe, Asia and North America and a critical mass from which to further consolidate the market. The North American acquisition is further evidence of the ability of Investindustrial portfolio companies to implement international expansion plans, both organically and through acquisitions. During 2016, Polynt reached an Sales (€m) EBITDA Margin (%) agreement for a merger with Reichhold (the global supplier to By Year By Year the composite and coating industry) which was completed, post year-end, in May 2017. Today Polynt has been repositioned to 716 693 12.6% 645 be a global specialty player with a worldwide footprint and 9.9% business presence. Polynt is expected to significantly benefit from the synergies of the new merger and registered record 6.0% profitability in 2016 while being positioned for further attractive strategic opportunities through combinations with other -3% -7% +64% +27% specialty chemicals leaders. www.polynt.com 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 EBITDA (€m) Employees (nr.) By Year By Year Rosario Valido (CEO of Polynt) during a visit at the Shang Changzou 2,262 2,234 plant in China. 2,160 81 69 43 +58% +19% -1% -3% 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 In 2016 sales decreased by 7% mainly due to the operating Earnings margin increased by 27% to reach 12.6% environment while earnings increased by 19% due to the while total employees decreased by 3% to 2,160 people. synergies related to the add-ons. 48 49 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 RESPONSIBLE INVESTING Building better companies Investindustrial firmly believes that managing ESG issues is a Mission statement vital part of creating value for its stakeholders and of developing more sustainable, long-term strategies for its portfolio companies. To maximise returns for our investors In accordance with this belief, Investindustrial was the first private in a manner that reflects our Firm values. equity operator with a focus on Southern Europe to subscribe to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles (www.unglobalcompact. To pursue a sustainable, industrially-driven org) in 2008 and then subsequently to the Principles for strategy to build better companies for Responsible Investment (PRI – www.unpri.org) in 2009. the long-term. As a member of the UN Global Compact, Investindustrial adheres To work relentlessly towards leaving no trace to its ten principles which include, but are not limited to, respect (environmentally) whilst leaving a positive for human rights, ensuring appropriate labour conditions, respect mark (socially). for the environment and the application of anti-corruption measures. Investindustrial uses these principles as guidelines and requires all of its portfolio companies to do the same. PRI, an initiative launched in April 2006 at the New York Stock Firm values Exchange by the UN Secretary-General and coordinated by Team the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the UN The most important asset is our people and the Global Compact, presents its own six interconnected principles experiences we accumulate as a team. which act as a franchise for global best practices in responsible investment. Investindustrial fully supports and incorporates these Relationships measures into its own mission statement and values as well as Strong and supportive relationships, whether its everyday approach to business. with our managers, investors, team or our broader community, form the bedrock for our success. Entrepreneurial Ambitious targets coupled with our hands-on, industrially-driven approach reflect our innate entrepreneurial spirit. Finance Respectful Initiative Respecting the environment in which we operate Innovative and the people who we impact is more than financing for sustainability just being a good corporate citizen but is central to running best-in-class business. BAL COM LO THE CT G PA The Goldcar Blue fleet: electric, hybrid and LPG gas vehicles available WE SUPPORT in selected destinations. 50 51 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Investindustrial’s ESG Evolution Investindustrial Foundation In 2016 Investindustrial strengthened its ESG Team and in doing so, became more Annual ESG Summit engaged with the designated ESG Managers in each of the portfolio companies Investindustrial has a long history in addressing ESG issues starting in 2000 with the establishment of its corporate Portfolio company ESG The main focal points for the ESG Team in 2016 included foundation Invest for Children and then more actively from benchmarking analysis supporting the investee companies with the publication of their 2008 onwards. CSR report (resulting in the majority of companies producing Portfolio company ESG KPIs a report), providing industry research and analysis via the Portfolio company carbon footprint benchmark mapping exercise, organising an ESG Summit and assessment assisting in the development of KPIs beginning with the 2015 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.1 assessment and reporting of key ESG metrics. Carbon Neutral Policy Annual Report Corporate Responsibility 2015 THEME PARK 2015 Best-Practice Benchmarking HOTELS WATER PARK GOLF BEACH CLUB Expanding to new horizons Dedicated ESG Team Corporate Social Responsibility Report CONVENTION CENTRE The ESG Team conducted a set of benchmark mapping analysis Majority of portfolio companies produce with a subset of portfolio companies. The purpose of this exercise AnnuAl RepoRt 2015 stand-alone sustainability reports was to better understand the industry sector by reviewing the ESG practices, policies and reporting of competing or like-minded S U STA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O RT AT 31 D E C E M B E R 2 0 1 5 businesses, and from that to establish best practices and market norms in terms of both metrics and initiatives. First stand-alone sustainability report The initial, desk based research was shared with the ESG managers by a portfolio company via onsite meetings in which the ESG team and those managers could examine the information to determine what was relevant and value added for their businesses, and what could be incorporated into their strategies by way of KPIs. ESG meeting in Bovezzo (Italy) at Flos headquarters. Incorporation of sistematic ESG DD Below is an example of a benchmarking mapping exercise analysing in the investment process the car rental industry. This list is illustrative and not exhaustive. Introduction of the CSR Toolkit and Benchmark Mapping Analysis Company A Company B Company C Company D Company E first portfolio company with a dedicated ESG section Environmental Dry cleaning or waterless car wash Metrics / Hybrid or electric car availability Investindustrial subscribes to the Principles for Responsible Investment Initiatives Quality fleets (new models, sub-12-g/km CO2 emissions, bio-fuel cars, cars that average 28+MPG) (PRI) Solar Energy Investindustrial becomes a carbon neutral company Minimise used tire waste BAL COM LO THE CT Improve sustainable driving via online training G PA Fuel and oil recycling program WE SUPPORT Investindustrial signs the UN Global Compact Spill Prevention Control and Prevention system 1st Annual Review and Sustainability Report Giving back to the community via different programmes, donations and volunteer work Introduction of external ESG consultants in the pre-investment DD stage Social CO2 emissions customer offset programmes Metrics / Appointment of ESG Officer Process for reviewing pay to ensure it is Initiatives competitive or above market Disclosure of ESG activity on the company website System for measuring customer satisfaction Significant successful Underway and progress Activity either not reported 52 results achieved being made Initial or minor activity or not occurring 53 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Annual ESG Summit ESG Data collection In 2016 Investindustrial held its annual ESG Summit. Investindustrial believes that 2016 was a milestone year for its requires companies to report on their total GHG emissions The Summit brought together the dedicated ESG representatives company managers understanding and accepting the significant including: direct emissions (scope 1), indirect or upstream energy from each of the portfolio companies with an objective to create role that ESG issues play in the success of their businesses. emissions (scope 2) and other indirect emissions (scope 3). a forum for learning (best practices, ideas, academia, industry A more detailed account of what is covered per scope is reflected specialists) and to establish a beneficial networking opportunity For the year ending 2016, Investindustrial tasked each portfolio in the chart below. for the investee companies’ ESG managers both at the event and company, as well as itself, to report on key ESG metrics in order ongoing. to create a basis from which the managers and Investindustrial When collecting and assessing the data most of the investee can develop KPIs to address issues and monitor progress going companies, in addition to Investindustrial, worked with external With KPIs in mind, the 2016 ESG Summit focused on how to launch forward. ESG consultants. Not only did this process result in valuable data a comprehensive approach to ESG data collection and reporting. from which the businesses can identify issues and opportunities Many ideas and contacts were shared and best practices were The metrics chosen reflect some of the more familiar or readily as well as benchmark progress, but it also unveiled the systems presented by some of the more seasoned ESG managers at the reported ESG topics, including greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and processes required to improve future accountability. Summit. which is the key metric addressing climate change. The data presented in the table at the end of this section is the For the GHG emissions assessment, Investindustrial required all first step in transparent and accurate reporting, which is expected of its investee companies to use a methodology that was in to evolve and improve over time. This data is presented by company, Investindustrial ESG team and the ESG professionals from across the total portfolio accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the world’s most with the aggregated data for key metrics provided on the relevant meeting at the 2016 ESG Summit. widely used GHG accounting standard. This methodology ESG introductory pages. “Exchanging different experiences added “The network is an important asset to Emissions Data Collection Scope value and brought fresh and new ideas.” achieve our reporting goals.” Elisabetta Scotti (CFO Flos) Matteo Celoria (Senior Controller B&B Italia) SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 Working session at the ESG Summit. Fuels Electricity Purchased goods and services Bioenergy Heating, Cooling and Capital goods Steam Refrigerant & Other Fuel-and-energy related activities (not included in scope 1 or 2) Passenger Vehicles Upstream transportation and distribution Delivery Vehicles Waste generated in operations Business travel Employee commuting Upstream leased assets Downstream transportation and distribution Processing of sold products Use of sold products End-of-life treatment of sold products Downstream leased assets Franchises Source: Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s paper Investments “Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard” and UK DEFRA’s environmental reporting guidelines. 54 55 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Investindustrial ESG KPls At the core of Investindustrial’s conviction in ESG issues is the need to reduce carbon emissions, which has societal benefit and commercial value. Investindustrial, carbon neutral since 2009, Having met the objective of both measuring and publishing the Firm and portfolio company ESG metrics, Investindustrial aims to take a fresh approach to reducing carbon emissions by pursuing innovative and bold measures. is now in a better position to define medium-long term KPIs for itself. These objectives fully reflect the Firm’s mission statement and are supported at both a Firm and portfolio company level as well as through the corporate foundations. In 2016, Investindustrial created a Carbon Neutral Policy that Whilst Investindustrial’s primary goal is carbon reduction and provides guidelines to improve the carbon footprint of its ultimately carbon neutrality, this is not always immediately portfolio companies. Investindustrial believes that by taking possible. As such Investindustrial is in the process of developing the first step in measuring its carbon footprint, the investee carbon reduction projects to offset GHG emissions in order Material ESG Reference Objective Year to Status companies are now furnished with vital information that to achieve carbon neutrality at an investment programme level. opportunity KPI reach will allow them to act on crucial carbon emissions issues and issue identified objective reduction opportunities via carefully structured KPIs, as GHG 2009 Investindustrial has done for itself. Carbon neutrality at an Investindustrial level 1. Achieved emissions GHG Carbon neutrality for the Sponsor shareholding of the active 2015 Achieved emissions investee companies 2 in the portfolio. Investindustrial Portfolio provides its portfolio Company A GHG Carbon neutrality through a proprietary carbon capture/ a) 2017 Under review companies with carbon emissions displacement project at an Investindustrial 1, Sponsor and Fund b) 2027 footprint guidelines. level executed according to the below steps and timeline, and certification of carbon capture/ displacement into carbon credits as soon as feasibly possible: Portfolio Investindustrial uses Portfolio companies Environment a) Definition and implementation of project strategy (2017) provide Investindustrial Company B certified projects b) Carbon neutrality via the project’s production of carbon capture (both proprietary and or displacement (2027). with the relevant data existing) to off-set on their GHG emissions its carbon footprint Renewable Reduction of electricity consumption for Investindustrial and its 2018 In progress at an investment energy active investee companies 2 by replacing 50% of their electricity Portfolio programme level. 2020 requirements with renewable energy by 2018, 75% by 2020, Company C and 100% by 2025. 2025 Investindustrial calculates the carbon Energy Creation of KPIs, for active investee companies 2, that are 2017 In progress footprint of the Firm consumption challenging, yet achievable, and address the reduction of energy consumption. Specific targets to be set at a company level. and all the portfolio Portfolio companies and develops Company ... Reporting Investindustrial and the majority of its active investee companies 2 to: a) 2015 a) Achieved its own offset strategy. a) publish a CSR report; b) Achieved b) 2016 b) assess and report their GHG emissions. Reporting Investindustrial and all of its active investee companies 2 to: a) 2017 a) In progress a) publish a CSR report; b) In progress b) 2017 b) assess and report their GHG emissions. Investindustrial supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals Governance Diversity Increase the number of women on the board of all Investindustrial 2020 In progress entities and active investee companies 2 to 33% (base year 2016 for the entire portfolio is 19%). Given the size and variable nature of the portfolio, Investindustrial a project to meet 100% or more of its offsetting needs in the Governance Establish an Environmental Policy, Diversity Policy, and a Corporate 2018 In progress seeks an innovative solution to carbon offsetting that is sustainable, long-term. In the interim, Investindustrial will continue to invest in Policies Governance Policy for Investindustrial and all of its active investee flexible and most effective over time. After careful consideration established and reputable global carbon reduction programmes companies 2. of multiple options Investindustrial decided that, not dissimilar to to meet its offset requirements; however, as Investindustrial’s own Sustainable Through our corporate foundation Invest for Children, increase the 2012 Achieved its portfolio investments, it should be both owner and manager of project matures, there will be less and less reliance on external Philanthropy number of differently-abled young people placed into the ordinary workplace year-on-year by 5%. the initiative and will work with experienced practitioners to develop offsetting. Sustainable Sponsor the advancement of ESG measurement and accountability 2017 In progress Social Philanthropy via collaboration with academia and industry specialists. Employee Implement structured programmes for staff rotation between 2019 In Progress SHORT to MEDIUM to Training offices and company sponsored higher learning (university lectures, MBA,…). MEDIUM LONG TERM : Offsetting TERM : Offsetting via established, via proprietary GLOBAL CARBON CARBON reduction 1 Investindustrial includes Investindustrial Private Equity, StrategicCapital and Thalia. The Private Equity Firm has been carbon neutral since 2009 and StrategicCapital reduction programmes programmes since its inception in 2014. Thalia was acquired at the end of 2013 and became carbon neutral from 2015. 2 Active investee companies is defined as those companies that have been in the portfolio for at least half of the stated year. 56 57 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENT Reduction of water and energy consumption Investindustrial is committed to minimising any environmentally The below pie charts reflect the data captured for each portfolio harmful effects from its entire portfolio and has therefore company and Investindustrial in aggregate and the following turned greater focus on data capture from the investee pages feature important environmental initiatives taking place companies to better understand how they perform on key across the portfolio. environmental issues. Carbon Footprint * (1) Water consumption is one of the focal points in PortAventura’s tCO2e environmental efforts given the crucial role water plays in large scale resorts. Over time the management at PortAventura 594,428 tCO2e has pursued multiple approaches to reduce consumption B&B Italia of this vital resource which includes: improved operations 0.7% Flos (controlling potential leaks, impermeability tests, automatic Snaitech PortAventura 0.5% 100% watering in the parks and plumbing equipment with saving Emeru systems), improved infrastructure (water network that of portfolio companies 0.9% 2.2% 1.2% Sergio Rossi have dedicated separates wastewater from rainwater allowing the main 0.2% Perfume Holding ESG Representatives park lake to collect almost all of the rainfall in the park) and improved environmental awareness with staff and visitors. Artsana 0.1% 3.0% Investindustrial As a leader in sustainable management PortAventura is always looking for ways to optimise its systems and more Aston Martin 0.1% recently enacted the following changes: 83% 3.8% Polynt of portfolio companies have Installation of new meters to increase control over 70.1% Risk Management drinking water consumption. Goldcar Systems in place Installation of a grill at the base of the piglet fountain, 17.2% in the SésamoAventura area, to take full advantage of recreational water. Connection of the special water effect for the three Electricity Consumption (2) Water Consumption (3) Total Waste (4) elephants on the Angkor attraction to the channel kWh m3 t of the attraction itself, to save drinking water. 359,965,964 kWh 18,656,777 m3 70,032 t B&B Italia B&B Italia Artsana Flos Goldcar Snaitech 1.2% Sergio Rossi 0.4% 1.2% 0.5% Perfume For 2016, PortAventura met 100% 0.8% 0.3% Holding 3.0% Snaitech Aston Martin of its electricity consumption via renewable Valtur Goldcar B&B Italia 0.4% The Rapid Race slide at the PortAventura Flos 2.5% 1.8% Goldcar energy sources. Caribe Aquatic Park which is more than 50,000m2 3.8% 0.7% Valtur 0.3% PortAventura in area features 17 rides. Aston Martin 0.5% 3.2% 0.2% 5.1% Emeru 5.5% Emeru Aston Martin 0.1% 0.3% 0.2% Artsana Perfume Holding PortAventura 5.3% Artsana For this purpose, researchers of the design collection work 0.2% 5.5% with designers to: 7.1% Snaitech Polynt PortAventura Polynt Polynt 9.0% 76.3% When considering energy consumption, Flos goes beyond their design and produce lighting systems which are sold 10.1% 66.8% 87.5% own internal optimisation plans (energy audits, internal energy without lamps and can be used both with traditional supply from an integrated system of waste to energy) to think lighting sources and with LED; (1) about the impact their product has on customers. Flos’ primary produce new lamps directly conceived to be powered GHG emissions data was not available for Valtur. (2) Electricity consumption data for Investindustrial is not reflected as it is insignificant when considered on an aggregate basis. Also, 100% of PortAventura’s electricity objective is to match energy efficiency requirements and by LED or OLED source; consumption is supplied via renewable energy. advantages with design and aesthetic expectations. review and remake iconic lamps in order to shift (3) Water consumption data not available for Sergio Rossi and Flos and insignificant for Emeru, Investindustrial and Perfume Holding when considered on an aggregate basis. (4) Waste data not available for Valtur and insignificant for Investindustrial and Sergio Rossi when considered on an aggregate basis. to the LED technology. 58 59 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Responsible materials Durability Flos monitors its consumption and is committed to using B&B Italia produces high quality products with exceptional standpoint through “timeless” design that reaches beyond recyclable and non-toxic materials and to reducing the packaging durability, which results in longer periods of furniture ownership generations and trends. of its products in order to decrease its environmental burden. and therefore a reduction in energy, materials and emissions Flos’ usage of materials has always been characterised by in the context of the overall product lifecycle. B&B Italia’s success From a production standpoint, B&B Italia continuously pursues a high degree of innovation and reinvention and its new, Cradleis based on a unique blend of creativity, innovation and industrial ecologically friendly measures by adapting its factories and, to-Cradle certified Soft-Architecture product line is the result know-how that leads to the creation of products that “are valuable when possible, improving its efforts to produce sustainable goods of in-depth research on the use of eco-friendly materials. in time”. through processes and with materials that are environmentally supportive. The company is sensitive to themes of eco-sustainability At present, Flos addresses the most pressing environmental In 1966, new innovation in the form of moulded foam polyurethane not only from a regulatory standpoint, but also as an avenue of challenges, such as the need to substitute toxic and nontechnology revolutionised the industrial production of upholstered research and over the decades has made efforts to minimise the recyclable materials with more sustainable alternatives, furniture and significantly lengthened the products’ lifetime hazards arising from the presence of toxic substances in glues and by channelling its efforts and focus on less impactful and more compared with existing industry standards. solvent-based paints. innovative techniques. For example, the company has chosen to employ recycled timber rather than solid wood for its products, Cooperation with leading international designers is another “Things that stand the test of time” has been the company’s motto and to replace crystals, which contain lead, with glass, which reason why B&B Italia is able to provide lasting products, not only for almost forty years and fully reflects the corporate philosophy is 100% recyclable. Flos also uses water-based coatings versus in qualitative and functional terms, but also from an aesthetic today. solvent-based ones. Conscious that functional longevity is essential for the sustainability B&B Italia’s Fat-Sofa Outdoor armchair which respects the designer’s idea of lightness, of its products, Flos also takes into consideration the durability transparency and puts the furnishings in an open of materials throughout the conceptual design process and the “dialogue” with the surrounding environment. selection of materials and suppliers. Material selection and the possibility of substitution across product lines, further enhances the efficiency and environmental accountability of the company. The Soft Spun lamp features in Flos’ Soft-Architecture product line which is the result of in-depth research on the use of eco-friendly materials. 60 61 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SOCIAL Training and Diversity Investindustrial strives to be the employer of choice and invests in companies that share the same values and who, in turn, invest in their workforce and workplace. Employee and community focused initiatives at Investindustrial and at investee companies are featured on the next page. Post year-end the global Investindustrial advisory team held The participation across the team was high and was attended and an offsite in New York where they attended a lecture at the NYU supported by all the Managing Principals and Senior Principals. Stern School of Business hosted by Tensie Whelan, Clinical Total training hours for the global advisory team was over 125 hours. Headcount (1) Employee Training Hours (1) Professor of Business and Society. The session included a general Employees Hours lecture on sustainability in business followed by case studies on individual portfolio companies, for which required reading was 18,617 employees 226,556 hours completed in advance. Sergio Rossi Sergio Rossi 2.8% Flos 0.6% Perfume Holding Perfume Holding Valtur Flos 0.5% 3.2% B&B Italia B&B Italia 1.0% Investindustrial 3.9% 0.9% Investindustrial 0.8% 3.3% 0.5% 0.2% Valtur Artsana Snaitech Aston Martin 4.5% 21.5% 4.4% 18.3% Goldcar Goldcar 4.9% 7.7% Snaitech 6.1% PortAventura Emeru Emeru PortAventura 11.2% 17.9% 16.7% 8.0% Investindustrial advisory team participating in a lecture on sustainability Polynt at the NYU Stern School Business. Aston Martin 11.6% Artsana Polynt 16.0% 16.4% 17.3% Strategic philanthropy Aston Martin has been an active contributor to its employees and local community through the years by 92% 92% supporting sports teams and events, of companies of the companies and in fundraising for charities, often have a pursue through the donation of specific money can’t buy experiences. Workers Council charitable giving As an aspirational brand, Aston Martin also supports local schools, colleges and businesses to inspire the next generation of engineers and designers. One such example is the sponsorship of the Goodwood Marshals Apprenticeship Scheme, training the next generation of marshals for the iconic circuit. More recently the company aligned its corporate giving with its brand heritage by each year selecting two corporate charities that fit the company ethos, heritage and brand. In addition, a single Aston Martin proudly supports The Prince’s Trust, a charity (1) employee charity is selected annually by the employees reflecting focused on helping disadvantaged young people. Numbers relate to aggregate employees of portfolio companies held by investment companies indirectly participated in by funds managed by Investindustrial, in addition to individuals directly employed by Investindustrial and its affiliates. their current interests and passions. In 2016 a DB10 was auctioned in aid of the charity. 62 63 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE Investindustrial Governance Policies and oversight play a crucial role in minimising downside risks within an organisation and define how Investindustrial drives strategy and growth in its portfolio companies. Noted below is the percentage of portfolio companies engaged on each Investindustrial’s multi-layered an entity regulated and or holding company board of the featured governance points. approach to governance aims supervised by the Financial of directors in an autonomous at a stringent segregation Conduct Authority in the and independent manner, and allocation of roles United Kingdom pursuant consistent with the applicable and responsibilities among to the EU Alternative corporate governance rules Aggregate Portfolio Company Data advisory teams, general partners and investment Investment Fund Manager Directive and has in place and by-laws. It is the responsibility of managers of the funds, arrangements to deal the management of each investment and holding appropriately with conflicts portfolio company to operate CODE DIVERSITY WOMEN companies and, ultimately, of interest. the company on a day-to-day OF CONDUCT POLICY ON BOARDS management of each portfolio Investments and divestments basis and implement rigorous company. are made (and shares in compliance system and portfolio companies are held) procedure. 100% 46% 19% The general partners and by the applicable investment investment managers manage or holding company of each Investindustrial expects that each of the funds in the fund. portfolio companies apply interest of the respective a rigorous and conservative limited partners and Decisions over investments approach to Corporate therefore in an autonomous and divestments, including Governance based on clear HEALTH ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE MANAGEMENT and independent manner the exercise of the voting roles and with full accountability. & SAFETY POLICY POLICY POLICY from other funds and Group rights over the shares of the companies. The investment portfolio companies, are made manager of the funds is by the applicable investment 100% 62% 77% Corporate Governance Model EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ANTI-CORRUPTION CORPORATE Limited Partners Possible Co-investors MEMBER IN CHARGE POLICY GOVERNANCE POLICY OF CSR 46% 100% 69% General Partner / Investment Manager Fund Investment / Holding Company Portfolio Company Fund management Investment / divestment Day-to-day Funding of the applicable decisions management CSR investment / holding company Responsibility to comply with laws REPORT and regulations 85% Industrial Advisory Board and Industrial Advisors Advisory Companies and Teams Business development, investor relations, investment scouting, monitoring and Industry expert views and opinions on strategy and business plans operational advice, due diligence support 64 65 Responsible Investing // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Portfolio ESG Data Reporting Below is the ESG Data collected for Investindustrial and its portfolio companies. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 GHG emissions (tons) Scope 1 80 268 12,472 1,352 3,979 6,656 276 52 2,344 238 – 7,801 416,614 Scope 2 68 271 204 4,352 8,085 759 1,026 1,602 1,096 – 9,001 Scope 3 400 109 1,323 1,587 7,775 2,121 101,338 280 100 – 800 – Total GHG emissions (tons) 549 539 12,785 7,027 5,565 22,516 3,157 102,417 4,225 1,434 n/a 17,602 416,614 ENVIRONMENT Electricity Consumption (Kwh) 68 703,800 1,129,645 10,944,507 36,212,297 19,623,555 1,708,484 2,566,000 4,462,747 3,054,000 13,796,279 25,390,694 240,373,888 Energy Consumption met via 0% 0% 1% 32% 79% 0% 0% 0% 0% 34% 0% 0% 0% Renewable Energy (%) Water Consumption (m3) 0,4 4,462 5,888 462,627 1,034,048 32,848 n/a 63,149 56,056 n/a 600,400 69,383 16,327,916 Paper Purchased (tons) 4 2 7 39 17 n/a 995 78 161 2,8 n/a 30 n/a Total Waste (tons) 20 245 76 6,336 3,545 1,231 363 164 833 34 n/a 3,732 53,454 Current Risk Management Systems n/a Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Yes Yes Yes and Procedures (Yes/No) Environmental Manager on staff n/a Yes Yes No Yes Yes No Yes No No No No Yes (Yes/No) Female % 39% 75% 28% 48% 67% 16% 47% 40% 36% 71% 44% 69% n/a Male % 61% 25% 72% 52% 33% 84% 53% 60% 64% 29% 56% 31% n/a Total Employees 84 184 3,114 1,131 1,490 2,976 595 914 607 515 840 4,007 2,160 SOCIAL Employee Training (hours) 432 1,147 40,469 9,916 25,319 41,500 2,092 17,366 1,804 1,472 8,772 37,080 39,188 Abenteeism14 (%) 1.3% 2.1% 5.9% 2.9% 3.5% 1.3% 1.0% 2.6% 4.0% 3.9% n/a 3.9% n/a Voluntary Turnover (%) 15 9.5% 0.9% 1.9% 7.3% 10.2% 9.6% 6.9% n/a 17.1% 4.2% 1.0% 11.6% n/a Workers Council (Yes/No) n/a Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Philanthropy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes Code of Conduct/Ethics (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Diversity Policy (Yes/No) No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No No No No No Female Board Members (%) 22% 20% 0% 36% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 57% 11% 0% GOVERNANCE Health and Safety Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Environmental Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes No Yes No No No Yes Yes Waste Management Policy (Yes/No) No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes Yes No Yes Yes Yes Executive Committee Member No Yes Yes Yes No No Yes No Yes No No Yes No in Charge of CSR (Yes/No) Anti-corruption Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Corporate Governance Policy (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No No Yes Yes CSR Report (Yes/No) Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No Yes No 1 Investindustrial: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: refrigerant gas losses and company vehicles; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: water, per km available for each vehicle model in Goldcar’s fleet and, in certain cases, an average of the total fleet emissions. Total waste reported for Spain and non-hazardous waste waste, staff commuting and business travel. The Total Waste figure reflects all offices. reported for Portugal, Italy, France and Greece. No available data for Croatia. 2 Perfume Holding: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: as for heating the workplaces + company fleet emissions; Scope 2: electricity consumption. 9 B&B Italia: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for heating and other purposes, fuels used for Company’s car fleet (long term leasing), 3 Emeru: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: gas, fuels used for ambulance fleet, fugitive emissions air conditionng systems; Scope 2: electricity refilling of air conditioning systems; Scope 2: electricity consumption (B&B Italia SpA only); Scope 3: business travel. Total waste reflects data from B&B Italia SpA only as does consumption; Scope 3: water, paper and chemical products consumption. Total waste figure reflects waste generated by all the companies. the %age of Female Board Members. 4 Snaitech: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope across the company entities SNAITECH + SNAI Rete Italia + Trenno: Scope 1: methane for heating, diesel, LPG for 10 Sergio Rossi: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for heating and other purposes, fuels used for Company’s car fleet (including long term heating, diesel and petrol for road haulage; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: air and train travel for most of the year. leasing), refilling of air conditioning systems; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: business travel. Employee headcount by gender reflects headcount at the end of the 5 PortAventura: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: transport of own fleet and the combustion of fossil fuels (ACS/heating boilers), fugitive emissions year. In terms of Governance policies, Sergio Rossi is currently implementing a new set of policies from those previously followed when part of fluorinated gases from refrigeration equipment; Scope 3: treatment of municipal waste and consumption of drinking water. Employee headcount by gender reflects the of the Kering group. average FTE for the year. 11 Valtur: The employee numbers by gender only inlcude the average, not the peak, number of employees in Italy and Croatia. 6 Aston Martin: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: gas usage, stationary combustion from comfort heating and other industrial applications; petrol 12 Artsana: All figures reported are based only on Chicco operations in Italy and Spain with the exception of ‘Total Employees’ which is at a Group level. GHG emissions figure usage for production, engineering and prototype vehicle; product movement; production parts movement; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: business travel. Employee includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for heating and other purposes, fuels used for Company’s car fleet (including long term leasing), refilling of air conditioning headcount by gender reflects only permanant employees. systems; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: business travel. Employee headcount by gender reflects only Chicco operations in Italy and Spain. 7 Flos: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: fuels used for Company’s car and truck fleet, refilling of air conditioning systems; Scope 2: electricity 13 Polynt: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope for EMEA only: Scope 1: emissions generated by the production processes. Employee headcount is for the global operation. consumption + district heating purchased from a waste to energy plant; Scope 3: business travels by air and train, logistics of purchased goods and logistic of sold products. 14 The absenteeism rates are calculated as the total days lost due to sickness over the number of total working days for the workforce (this will vary from company to company Employee figures by gender reflect Flos and Antares only. depending on holiday policies, etc). 66 8 Goldcar: GHG emissions figure includes the following by scope: Scope 1: R-22 emission factor, diesel fuels within premises; Scope 2: electricity consumption; Scope 3: gC02 15 Voluntary turnover is calculated as the number of departures for the year over the end of year employee headcount. 67 Our Foundations // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 OUR FOUNDATIONS Investindustrial’s long history of engaging in ESG issues began The Investindustrial Foundation is primarily focused on the in 2000 when the Firm established its corporate foundation, promotion of education, diversity, environmental protection Invest for Children, whose mission is to help differently-abled and conservation, and the promotion of arts, culture, heritage people and underprivileged children achieve a better quality of life. and science. Annual end of year prize giving dinner NYU Clinical Professor Tensie Whelan at NYU Stern School of Business presenting the business for Aura Foundation with over 180 participants. case for sustainability to Investindustrial’s professionals. The Investindustrial Foundation is sponsoring Ms. Whelan and her team in a pioneering study in the automotive industry. 68 69 Our Foundations // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sustainable philanthropy Investindustrial approaches philanthropy in the same way it does its portfolio, which is to invest in quality organisations that have a strategic approach and vision Invest for Children operates in Europe with a special focus to grow over the long-term with a positive impact. on Southern Europe, is a full member of EVPA (European Venture This is how Investindustrial defines sustainable Philanthropy Association), and is audited by KPMG. philanthropy. Investindustrial believes that financial and industrial investors should have a major role in making the world a better place to live. Invest for Children aims to better understand diversity and works to integrate people of different abilities and challenges into the workplace and society, thereby achieving a better quality of living. Over the years Invest for Children has positively impacted the lives of thousands through the projects it sponsors in different fields including sport, work, education, medical and community. Some of In 2016, the Investindustrial Foundation focused its efforts these projects are summarised below. on two pillars of its broader remit: environmental protection and conservation, and the promotion of education and diversity. In regards to the environment, and also educational advancement, the Investindustrial Foundation started working with the NYU Stern Center for Sustainable Business, headed by Professor Sloan-Kettering Tensie Whelan, and will be sponsoring her team as they pilot Invest for Children is co-operating with the Memorial Sloana new methodology in the automotive industry. The team’s project Kettering Cancer Center (www.mskcc.org) to support innovative analyses the investment companies make in addressing material treatments for retinoblastoma, a tumor that occurs in the retina. sustainability factors in their organisations and then establishes The Center has 470 beds, is located in New York City and is the key metrics for benchmarking and assessing these investments the oldest and largest private institution committed to exceptional ongoing. patient care, leading-edge research, and superb educational programs. Invest for Children is supporting the Center through For diversity and education, in this case professional education a donation as well as: and development, the Investindustrial Foundation considered the offering optical coherence tomography equipment, underrepresentation of women in private equity. With this, developing online educational resources for retinoblastoma Investindustrial became a supporter of Level20 (www.level20.org), patients, a not-for-profit organisation formed and seeded by a Group of 12 financing the artificial eye fund, senior women in private equity, representing GPs and LPs, to inspire supporting the patient free care program. women to join and succeed in the private equity industry. Photos are taken from the 2016 This follows Investindustrial’s support, since inception in 2012, of National Special Olympic Games in Reus, Spain. D Club, an organisation that aims to increase the visibility of women in finance and support their development into senior roles. D Club was co-founded by former Investindustrial Senior Vice President, Other key programmes sponsored Arabella Caporello, currently General Manager of the City of Milan, by Invest for Children and has an advisory board on which Andrea C. Bonomi serves. In 2016 Invest for Children sponsored the National Special Olympics Games in Reus (Spain). More than 1,500 people, from 13 countries, participated in the event which provides people with intellectual disabilities a platform where they can learn and Luisa Rossello, Senior Vice President, addressing investors at the 2016 AGM enjoy competing in individual and team sports. Since 2013 Since 2015 Since 2010 on PortAventura ESG achievements. www.specialolympics.cat www.gigisplayhouse.org www.uu.se www.downtv.org 70 71 Our Foundations // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Invest for Children’s Aura Foundation Project Pioneer in placing differently-abled persons into quality jobs Restaurant Director, Manuel, Since 2012 Aura Foundation has been supported financially and The aim of this programme is to integrate people with special and Quim J. at Restaurant Rossini. operationally by Invest for Children which has enabled them needs, mostly with Down’s syndrome, to the ordinary labour to achieve their target of doubling participation in all programmes market via the Supported Employment methodology. earlier than expected, and to better position themselves for the future. Invest for Children is committed to financially supporting To date, over 120 leading companies have joined Aura Foundation’s the foundation and to offering managerial and strategic initiative to facilitate the integration of differently-abled people consulting skills to allow the foundation to achieve its mission. into the working environment. Since 1989 more than 170 young people have joined the ordinary working world and in 2016, 29 The Aura Foundation (www.aurafundacio.org) was established renewals and 29 new contracts were added. in October 1989, through the initiative of professionals from the area of integration education. Aura Foundation is the first Aura Foundation is audited by KPMG on an annual basis. programme of Supported Employment, a pioneer in the implementation and development of this methodology. Contracts signed By Year Victor López starting Salva A. signing his employment contract to work at Balmes, work at COAC. a local seafood restaurant. Participating Companies 273 244 209 182 157 143 133 121 114 101 107 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 72 73 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Sales (€ M) SUMMARY GROUP By Sector Variance 2015 2016 €m % INFORMATION (1) Business Services 1,120 1,012 (108) -10% Consumer Retail and Leisure 2,674 2,775 101 4% Industrial Manufacturing 1,281 1,193 (88) -7% Total 5,075 4,980 (95) -2% EBITDA (€ M) By Sector Variance 2015 2016 €m % Business Services 135 142 7 5% Consumer Retail and Leisure 495 546 51 10% During 2016, Group sales decreased by 2% while EBITDA increased Industrial Manufacturing 127 150 24 19% by 11% due to the positive contribution across all industry platforms Total 757 838 82 11% and in particular from the consumer, retail and leisure sector. Net Debt Ratios Variance 2015 2016 X % The overall financial position of the Group remained substantially stable Senior Debt/EBITDA 2.7x 2.8x 0.1x 4% Mezzanine/EBITDA 0.4x 0.4x 0.0x 0% with a senior debt / EBITDA ratio at 2.8x and a mezzanine / EBITDA Employees (nr.) ratio at 0.4x. By Sector Variance 2015 2016 Employees % Total number of employees increased by 5% reaching approximately Business Services 4,068 4,245 177 4% 18,500 people. Consumer Retail and Leisure Industrial Manufacturing 11,275 2,234 12,128 2,160 853 (74) 8% -3% During 2016 Investindustrial and its portfolio companies(2) assessed Total 17,577 18,533 956 5% for the first time on an overall base their carbon footprint, estimating GHG Emissions (tCO2e) By Scope total GHG emissions for approximately 594,000 tCO2e. 2015 2016 (1) Scope 1 N.A. 452,131 Scope 2 N.A. 26,465 Scope 3 N.A. 115,832 (1) 2016 is the first year in which all portfolio companies, excluding Valtur, Total N.A. 594,428 assessed their carbon footprint. (1) Aggregate numbers considering 100% of the companies present in the portfolio at the end of 2016. Investindustrial’s funds typically own a majority position. Step by step…a recent modelling of Sergio Rossi’s Sr1 collection. 74 75 Summary Group Information // ANNUAL REVIEW & SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Investments by date for the past five years Our investors While Investindustrial itself is the single largest provider across business cycles by focusing on long-term value creation, On average Investindustrial takes five years to make ten to 12 investments ofcapital, approximately fifty institutional investors from around an approach shared by our high quality investor base. in leading, high quality European mid-market companies. the world form the capital and client base of the Group. The strong support our investors have shown us throughout During the first quarter of 2016, Investindustrial finalised the the recent recession has started to be rewarded as the impact of As illustrated below, this has been the case over the last six years. raising of its sixth investment programme at more then the European recovery feeds through into portfolio companies €2.0 billion. and as attractive new opportunities emerge from the investment Investindustrial ended the year with approximately €2.1 billion landscape. of capital available in addition to the capabilities of its Furthermore, this support now places us in a privileged position co-investment partners. The Firm’s objective is to remain active to take advantage of restored M&A activity in the region. 2016 Breakdown of Investors (%) Funds Middle East of Funds and Asia Pension Funds/ 14% Governments 5% 38% 2015 Europe 54% Banks/ North Insurances/ America Other Financials Endowments/ Foundations/ 41% 17% Family Offices 31% 2014 Emeru staff in operation. Approximately two thirds of the capital that Investindustrial manages is on behalf of pension funds and universities, benefitting workers and students across the world. 2013 2012 2011 76 77 The partially post-consumer recycled paper used for printing this document has resulted in CO2 emissions of approximately 4.0 tonnes. Since 2009 Investindustrial reviewed its overall carbon footprint and invested in renewable energy projects to offset the emissions and achieve carbon neutrality. FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT US AT info@Investindustrial.com www.investindustrial.com www.investindustrial.com
