CYBERCOM SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Getting healthier with digital exercise | Meet our Makers of tomorrow Conversations about our digital future | What happens in the Innovation Zone ? How the net positive works | Diversity and skills development The hottest tech trends | Cybercom safeguards online banking services The Connected World: the road to a new tomorrow About Cybercom Makers of tomorrow Cybercom is an innovative IT consulting firm that enables leading companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. Our consultants and the solutions they create take us all the way from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the Caribbean islands, streaming media and autonomous cars in Europe, national e-IDs, secure card payments, as well as health apps for the care sector, connected cranes and elevators and intelligent industrial robots. Cybercom was founded in 1995. Today, the company’s areas of expertise span the entire ecosystem of communication services and IT security. We are a highly diverse company, with employees ranging vastly in age and of numerous nationalities. We are creating the world of tomorrow in unison, we are creative, fearless and inquisitive – always ready to challenge the status quo. We turn our words into action and empower change. We are the #Makers of tomorrow. Find out more at www.cybercom.com Our vision Our business concept Our values We help our clients to capture We want to be our clients’ most the opportunities of the connected INNOVATION trusted business partner in the world. We provide innovative and PASSION connected world. sustainable solutions by combining technical edge and strong TRUST business insight. Contents Contents 2 Cybercom in numbers Overview of financial numbers, where we are and our clients 10 3 CEO’s comment Partnerships, collaborations and turnkey solutions 6 The global goals 3 UN sustainability goals 10 Outlook Megatrends 12 Client cases A selection of our innovative solutions 20 Interview Claudia Olsson and Peter Tyreholt on our digital future 22 How we add value Our contributions to a sustainable society 24 Cybercom’s process How we create net positive businesses 28 Clients Meet our Head of Sales, Bo Strömqvist 12 20 30 Innovation Zone Interview with Daniel Kullgard, Innovation Leader at Cybercom 32 Employees Meet three of Cybercom’s Makers of tomorrow 38 Targets and outcomes Find out how we have managed in achieving our seven targets jaform.se 42 Interview Human rights lawyer Parul Sharma 44 Corporate responsibility Cybercom’s internal environmental efforts 44 46 Chairman’s comment 32 The right path forward 47 Code of conduct Our code of ethics and code of conduct in brief 48 GRI information Dialogue with our stakeholders 52 GRI Index List of our GRI indicators About the report: Cybercom presents an annual sustainability report in accordance with Focus & boundaries: The information presented refers to Cybercom Holding AB and its GRI. This is Cybercom’s sustainability report for 2016. The report is prepared in accordance group companies. Subsidiaries and joint ventures are accounted for on the basis of Cyberwith the GRI G4 international guidelines for sustainability reporting, Core option. In 2011, com’s ownership interest. Any organisational boundaries are mentioned in connection with Cybercom signed up to the UN Global Compact and complies with its ten principles for the reported information. Many aspects of sustainability have an impact beyond Cybercom’s responsible business. This report is Cybercom's annual communication about how we are legal framework, such as with our clients and suppliers. Cybercom regularly reports for each living up to, and working with, these principles. material sustainability aspect where it has its influence in the company's value chain. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 1 About Cybercom CYBERCOM IN NUMBERS 69 Business with % 1,353.9 67.8 SEKm SEKm Profit after depreciation sustainability effects Sales and amortisation 2 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About Cybercom 1,203 45 20 Employees Nationalities Assignments in 20 countries Our clients A selection ALMA MEDIA ASSA ABLOY ERICSSON SWEDISH DEFENCE MATERIEL ADMINISTRATION (FMV) H&M HUSQVARNA We are here IKEA KONE SWEDISH ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY MTV OY OPETUSHALLITUS1 OUTOTEC SWEDISH POLICE AUTHORITY SWEDEN SAAB FINLAND SWEDISH TAX AGENCY DENMARK SONY MOBILE POLAND TOMTOM INDIA VOLVO DUBAI VÄESTÖREKISTERIKESKUS2 SINGAPORE 1) Finnish National Agency for Education *) The operations in Dubai and Singapore were subject to an MBO on December 31, 2016 2) Finnish Population Register Centre FIVE-YEAR REVIEW DISTRIBUTED VALUE 2016 Operational performance and key figures1 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Operating income, SEKm 1,353,9 1,259,6 1,262,9 1,195,1 1,339,2 Operating profit/loss after depreciation and 67.8 38.3 65.8 60.2 0.3 amortisation, SEKm2 Total assets, SEKm 895,0 879,4 1,265,9 1,228,7 1,354,2 *SOS Barnbyar, Universeum, Hello World! Average number of employees 1,217 1,169 1,222 1,180 1,367 Number of employees at end of year 1,203 1,218 1,307 1,267 1,335 Operating margin, % 5.0 3.0 5.2 5.0 0.0 • Employee benefits, incl. social charges 59.4% Equity/assets, % 48 44 73 70 60 • Other external expenses 37.2% 1) In conjunction with Cybercom Holding’s acquisition of com Group, while the figures at 31 December pertain to • Investment activities 1.8% Cybercom Group, a new Group was formed on 1 December Cybercom Holding. The figures for 2014 and earlier pertain • Net finance income/expense 0.4% 2015. Accordingly, the multi-year summary was prepared to Cybercom Group. using a mix of the former and the new Group. The figures 2) Operating profit after depreciation and amortisation • Tax 1.1% for the 2016 financial year pertain to Cybercom Holding. pertains to profit before impairment losses on goodwill and • Charitable donations 0.04%* For 2015, the figures for the full period pertain to Cybera capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 3 CEO’s comment The world is suffering from a water shortage, and we are even seeing water-related challenges nearby in the Baltic Sea. Our oceans are growing increasingly polluted and filled with plastic. Water – clean water – is a prerequisite for sustaining life on Earth. Each and every litre we conserve makes a difference. Together, we can act to preserve and harness the oceans and marine resources in a sustainable way – SDG 14. PARTNERSHIPS, COLLABORATIONS AND TURNKEY SOLUTIONS 4 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CEO’s comment B acked by tailwinds from a strong market, Cybercom four areas of expertise: Digitalisation, IoT, Security and Cloud is experiencing a highly positive trend. We are Services, which we regard as the most pivotal in helping our growing our share of sustainable business, our clients with their digital transformation. This focus is what lies clients are more satisfied and our leadership index behind allowing our Region International team (the Singapore is high. Our positions in the Nordic region and and Dubai offices) to take over our operations centred on Poland are strong. We are halfway through our stramobile networks, in continued collaboration with Cybercom tegic plan for 2016-2018, and see solid progress towhen joint business opportunities arise. In my assessment, ward our goals (p.38–39). Our new executive team in Finland this independence provides the best means forward for them, has successfully reversed the trend from previous challenging our clients in the region and us. I foresee partnerships and years. In Denmark, Sweden and Poland, we are experiencing collaborations becoming an increasingly key element in the robust growth and strong profitability. future of business, including internally at Cybercom, where the Embrace Collaboration – one of three main prongs of our Agenda 2030 strategy – generated positive outcomes at several levels of our Cybercom is embracing the fourth industrial revolution in organisation during the year. order to drive development toward Agenda 2030. Despite the political turmoil around us, I have noted substantial interest Makers of tomorrow and robust initiatives among our clients to improve sociFor me, each and every employee is a fantastic asset. Together, ety using the opportunities afforded by digitalisation. Our we are driving development forward for both Cybercom clients include many of the world’s leading corporations and and our clients. The business that we have secured and the organisations and they are becoming increasingly involved in solutions that we created in 2016 have taken us all the way achieving the Agenda 2030 goals. At Cybercom, innovation, from e-services in the Nordic public sector to mobility in the digitalisation and a reduced environmental impact go hand in Caribbean islands, autonomous cars in Europe, national hand with IT security, transparency and privacy. We endorse e-IDs, secure card payments, health apps for the care sector, the UN Global Compact because we want to be involved, drive connected cranes, elevators, industrial robots and other social developments and take responsibility – this serves as smart IoT solutions. Our numerous assignments are exciting, our guide in both the short and long term. challenging and performed on a daily basis worldwide. IT is a universal language with no nationality, which builds Innovation toward a sustainable horizon bridges across continents and catalyses a migration that We foresee many new business opportunities in using our enables growth. knowledge to guide our clients into new business models Cybercom currently engages staff from more than 45 in which products become services, the circular economy countries. Our industry will suffer from a deficit of more than takes root, privacy is protected, the exchange of knowledge 50,000 IT professionals in the Nordic region alone within a few is strengthened and democratic solutions are created locally years. As such, migration serves as an opportunity for us and and globally. Our passion lies in being inventive, in always gains a clear purpose within the framework of our sustainabilthinking anew, and incorporating security and quality into ity efforts. Attracting and retaining employees is our greatest the solutions we develop. This has led to actions such as challenge. We are engaged in this issue and in sparking an introducing Innovation Zones at our offices, where we create interest in technology and the sciences. We collaborate with prototypes and test our way forward. Our clients expect us to organisations including Hello World! and Universeum in order proactively take responsibility that goes beyond the technolto achieve improvements. We are also focused on enhancing ogy. We have continued to develop turnkey concepts in areas our brand to clarify what it is we specifically create – please including compliance, cloud solutions and V2X wireless comfeel free to have a look at our client cases and videos at munications (autonomous cars). All of these solutions have cybercom.com. grown successfully during the year. Our agile team is also a factor in our success, particularly among our major industrial Endless possibilities on our continued journey clients where we are involved in the forefront of areas such as In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our fantastic em5G development. In line with our strategy, we are deliberately ployees, partners and inspirational clients who made 2016 an working with key select clients and expanding our presence important year. We have endless possibilities to continue to with them. help our clients and Cybercom advance using digitalisation. I am proud and inspired to be able to stand at the helm on our Focus and partnerships for the future continued journey. We are delivering our full array of services to an increasing number of our clients, which solidifies our partnerships and Niklas Flyborg our ability to be more efficient in our delivery. Our focus is on President and CEO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 5 The global goals 3 UN sustainability goals Good health and well-being Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Physical inactivity is one of the ten biggest risk factors for premature death. Cybercom has developed a mobile app called Moverex that supports physical activity on prescription to deal with this. Find out more on page 12 The UN has adopted 17 global goals, known as Technology and innovation are important in helping companies, cities and societies Agenda 2030, that world leaders have pledged progress in this direction. Digitalisation is an accelerator in the development toward to achieve. These goals aim to: a smarter future. The technology we have today is adequate, but we must harness it in an intelligent way, which requires changes among organisations, regulations • End extreme poverty and habits. In light of this, Cybercom took part in roundtable discussions at the UN • Reduce inequality and injustice in the world Global Compact Private Sector Forum during the year. • Solve the climate crisis Cybercom plays a key role in explaining to its clients and decision-makers what underlying solutions are necessary to enable smart sustainability solutions. Without encryption, compression algorithms, cloud storage and real-time data, we could not create smart buildings, smart mobility or smart consumption patterns. We believe this to be the infrastructure of tomorrow for global sustainability. Listed below are a few examples of the contributions made by Cybercom in 2016. 6 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 The global goals 4 5 8 9 Quality education Gender equality Decent work and economic Industry, innovation and growth infrastructure Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Achieve gender equality and empoweducation and promote lifelong er all women and girls. Promote inclusive and sustainable Build resilient infrastructure, promote learning for all. economic growth, employment and sustainable industrialisation and Cybercom’s goal is for women to decent work for all. foster innovation. In partnership with the Finnish represent 30 percent of our staff, National Agency for Education, Cybersince women represent 30 percent of Coop MedMera Bank enlisted help in Cybercom has developed an entire com has developed a solution that those who graduate with technical securing its online banking services IT system for Husqvarna’s robotic allows users to apply online for all degrees. We also highlighted the imwith Cybercom’s IdentityHub service Automower Connect lawnmower, searchable educational programmes portance of diversity in a filmed social to manage customer logins and which gives customers full control of in the country. experiment using our own AR-based multi-method authentication using the machine using an app. True Colors app. Single Sign-On. Find out more on page 13 Find out more on page 16 Find out more on page 36 Find out more on page 17 11 13 17 Sustainable cities and Climate action Partnerships for the goals communities Take urgent action to combat climate Revitalise the global partnership for Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient change and its impacts. sustainable development. and sustainable. Cybercom is a partner in a project Cybercom has been a signatory of Cybercom has helped load handling using its OsCar solution that was inithe UN Global Compact since 2011. company Hiab to develop a solution tiated by the French government and Find out more on page 4 to connect the company’s cranes. the EU in collaboration with Renault This allows customers to monitor and Peugeot, under which a large their equipment in real time and thus number of cars will be equipped with optimise the structure and use of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS). their fleets. Find out more on page 14 Find out more on page 13 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 7 Sharing made easy A 8 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Connectivity makes it easier to share things with each other. You can save money while giving nature a much needed break. B ❝ Servicification is an incremental advance in achieving circular recycling systems in which we value access rather than ownership. ❝ In ten years, many people will have opted to move out of cities as technology enables a completely new way of teleworking. For instance, Instead of a linear system in we can easily participate in virtual which we create something that meetings using VR and AR technolis ultimately disposed of, it can be ogy. However, the biggest trend in reused several times. I find that terms of cities is urbanisation, with more and more companies are more megacities emerging. This will interested in this, particularly in require us to optimise our space, areas where connected techwhich is one of the catalysts of the nology enables something that sharing economy. was previously impossible. Claudia Olsson, Peter Tyreholt, Future and Technology Analyst, Business Developer, Cybercom Exponential and was named Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum in 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 9 Outlook Megatrends Globalisation, urbanisation and digitalisation are three megatrends that have an impact on us and our environment. Growing cities create new markets, which prompts the need for brand new business models and solutions. Meanwhile, trends in health and personal well-being are gaining an increasingly prominent role in public discourse. Excessive screen-time can make EAT us passive, an overly sedentary lifestyle could become a new major health scourge and excessive food production is depleting our planet’s resources. Today’s rapid developments undeniably provide numerSustainable ous new opportunities, but they also yield sustainability risks. food production O Digitalisation needs to be anne of the greatest chaltable. For our food management lenges facing humanity to become more sustainable, the chored by regulations and legislatoday is providing a earth’s resources must be used tion. Security, privacy and a greater growing global popumore efficiently and in a more lation with healthy and environmentally compatible way, understanding of the world around nutritious food while transportation must be reduced, also working within and packaging must become more us are all essential ingredients for safe environmental boundaries. environmentally compatible and being able to safely navigate the digThe EAT Foundation was lead to less refuse and food waste. launched in March 2016 by Dr The EAT Stockholm Food Forum ital, urban and globalised world. Gunhild Stordalen, among others, is an annual event that gathers with the aim of reforming the experts in order to steer the food On the following pages you can global food system so as to be system towards greater sustainaread about some of the trends, able to supply a growing global bility, health, safety and fairness population with quality food from within the boundaries of our challenges and solutions influencing a healthy planet. EAT is pursuing planet, and to provide a basis for the development of guidelines how we can collectively change our world – both today and in the for consumers and the private how we eat. sector concerning sustainable future. and healthy food from farm to ➔ www.eatforum.org 10 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Outlook GDPR Security in a connected Our health Europe A T lthough the fact that sugar is unnecessary he new GDPR, General is nothing new, it has generally been seen Data Protection ReThe hottest as fairly harmless. The impression that has gulation, will impose tech trends at emerged in studies over recent years is that more rigorous standlarge quantities of sugar can cause direct ards on the handling the Mobile damage to the body. of personal data, and World Congress “It is not a matter of counting calories, but may often entail major of being aware of the fact that different types of calories changes for companies in terms in Barcelona have different effects on the body,” says Ann Fernholm, a of IT systems. Companies must science journalist whose dissertation focused on molecular promptly begin reviewing what 5G biotechnology. She has used her background to immerse personal data they process and The fifth generation mobile herself in the issue of diet and how sugar affects the body. cataloguing their systems in order network has quickly evolved “The type of sugar known as fructose, which is found in to define what measures need from concept to more concrete white sugar, is processed by the body in the same way as alto be taken. On a broad level, solutions. cohol. It is absorbed by the liver, and when we overconsume this may involve taking outdated sugar such as by drinking soft drinks and eating systems out of operation, and Artificial Intelligence (AI) establishing and implementing and Machine Learning (ML) have sweets, the liver starts to produce fat, which processes. The regulation within accelerated in the past five years disrupts blood lipids and ultimately causes EU, which is adapted to today’s and are often used for product fatty liver. This was previously most commonly connected society, entails more and features from the major players, associated with alcoholism. Nowadays, about stricter rules than under the Swedsuch as Amazon, Google, Faceone in ten Western teenagers has fatty liver ish Personal Data Act. There will be book and Apple. and the numbers are even higher for the adult population in the US, for example,” says Ann. more severe sanctions for violations than before, which may result in Augmented Reality (AR) “Sugar consumption in the Western world has fines of up to EUR 20 million or 4 enhances reality by making essentially seen a constant rise since the midpercent of global revenues. objects visible in a real environ1800s, from about 4 kilos of sugar to the current consumption Cybercom is helping its clients ment, and has gained substantial levels of 48.5 kilos annually per capita.” to gain clarity as to their current traction in recent years. “If you examine sugar from a sustainability perspective, it gets even worse,” says Ann. “We talk about the status and what must be done to achieve compliance before the regThe Internet of Things (IoT) importance of reducing consumption of red meat to save ulation comes into effect in May allows products and devices to the environment, and that is important. Yet sweets have 2018. Our information security be connected to cloud services more of an unnecessary climate impact. We grow sugar consultants are collaborating with and managed, updated and used beet in fertile soil, but then we discard all of the vitamins, legal experts under an established regardless of their location. minerals and fibre that are healthy for our bodies. We proprocess in order to assure clients’ duce white sugar using an energy-intensive process – pure systems based on the framework Low-Power Wide-Area calories that cause fatty liver, obesity and type 2 diabetes.” Networks of the new regulation. Cybercom’s According to a study conducted by the Swedish Institute Wireless networks based on Compliance Portal enables compafor Food and Biotechnology, the production of marshLPWAN and LoRa in particular, nies to swiftly begin the important mallows has just as much of a climate impact as pork prohave really flourished this year. task of cataloguing their processes duction. Swedish consumption of sweets and soft drinks and IT systems that manage percurrently causes enormous greenhouse gas emissions. Robotic technology sonal data. Göran Dahlberg is the “And we must remember that all of the calories from and drones, including everything Head of Cybercom Secure Services. soft drinks and sweets are empty calories, while pork from social robots, commercial “We are in the process of contains vitamins and minerals, such as iron, which our robots and autonomous drones cataloguing our own systems at bodies need.” used for deliveries and surveilCybercom and helping numerous “Exercise is an antidote to sugar, and a high sugar intake lance, to industrial robotic arms. clients. It is important not to panic can be partially offset by exercise. Yet those who consume ahead of these efforts, despite large quantities of sweet junk food will ultimately suffer Virtual Reality (VR) being on a relatively tight timeline. poor health, regardless of how much they exercise,” says user interaction has made It is a matter of pursuing long-term Ann Fernholm. “By taking a more proactive approach to imsignificant progress, and an legal compliance and taking the proving our well-being, society could save enormous sums increasing number of applications right course of action from the of money every year on sick leave and healthcare costs.” beginning.” are based on VR. ➔ http://ettsotareblod.se or annfernholm.se ■ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 11 Client cases Getting healthier with digital exercise M ost people are aware that exwith themselves, swap tips with others on ercising is important. It makes social media, share success stories and us healthier, more alert and we encourage one another. One of the most live longer. Yet not everyone is powerful motivators is feeling acknowledged aware that avoiding exercise and knowing that someone cares about what is comparable to smoking in you are doing. For this reason, the person terms of health effects. There is who issued the prescription can also send substantial scientific support to suggest that messages and coach the patient.” prescription of physical activity has positive The National Board of Health and Welfare effects on a number of medical conditions, inrequires PAP prescriptions to be monitored, cluding hypertension, cardiovascular disease, which in the past has meant that the patient stroke, diabetes and breast cancer. The field of must be called in for additional meetings. psychiatry has also established that exercise Moverex eliminates the need for this since helps combat mental illness. At the same time, patients can be monitored using the app. the estimated cost to society of inadequate There are numerous advantages for the physical activity is six billion kronor per year. county council: healthier patients and cost The concept of physical activity on presavings thanks to fewer meetings. scription (PAP) has been around for 15 years, “The project is based on a key element of yet is nonetheless deployed rather sparCybercom’s core values, and we believe that ingly in the care sector. Of all the patients using digital resources is the right approach prescribed physical activity, only about half in solving many of the problems facing the adhere to their prescription. world today. By making it easier and more Cybercom has fun for patients to monitor their prescribed Commissioned by Blekinge County Council, physical activity, we hope to improve patient developed an Cybercom developed a motivational service health, which can reduce costs for society and app that can help called Moverex. Patients are equipped with the healthcare sector,” says Johan Persbeck. an activity bracelet that measures their pulse An initial pilot project was conducted in motivate patients and thus level of activity, and this informa2016 and the results surpassed our expecwho have received tion is transmitted to a smartphone app tations. Motivation increased substantially containing the physical activity prescription. among the pilot subjects, which resulted in a prescription to The app ensures that the patient maina reduction in both medication levels and engage in more tains a sufficiently high pulse while exerciswaistlines. Two pilot projects are currently ing (at least 60 percent of their maximum), in progress under Blekinge County Council, physical activity. provides reminders, and displays their proand more county councils are lined up to gress toward their weekly goal. In addition run trials of the app.” to the patients personally being able to monitor their progress, their care providers can Physical activity on prescription (PAP) also see the results and so provide coaching and motivation to help them achieve the • PAP allows patients to be prescribed some form of prescribed level of exercise. Cybercom’s physical activity in addition to, or in certain cases as Johan Persbeck is among those who have a replacement for, pharmaceuticals. worked on the development of this solution. • This activity then becomes part of their treatment and is adapted to each individual’s circumstances “We have drawn inspiration from sources and preferences. such as the world of gaming, which is adept • A prescription for physical activity can be issued by at triggering the reward system. Patients are all licensed healthcare professionals. ➔ www.folkhalsomyndigheten.se/ motivated and prompted to get involved • All county councils have offered PAP since 2008, far/inledning/fysisk-aktivitetusing elements of the pleasure derived from although only a tiny fraction of doctor visits result och-halsa/ gaming. For instance, patients can compete in a PAP. 12 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Client cases Easier to apply for educational programmes in Finland The Finnish National Agency for Education has consolidated most of the country’s university programmes under one umbrella and has enabled students to apply via its website at Opintopolku.fi. The aggregated digital solution makes the application process more fluid for students, and increases the chances that young people will go on to higher education. The solution was developed by the Finnish National Agency for Education in partnership with Cybercom, which is also in charge HIAB’S DIGITALISED CRANES MAKE of maintaining the site. “During the development phase, CITIES MORE SUSTAINABLE we integrated a number of application services that were T previously independent of one he management of Hiab, a load way. Based on this information, the customer another. This simplifies the handling company, realised early can optimise the structure of its fleet and application procedure for students and substantially reduces on that connectivity and the Instreamline the planning of what jobs are being maintenance costs,” says Laila ternet of Things (IoT) would soon done, as well as when and where. Puranen, Application Manager at become powerful forces for the the Finnish National Agency for industry to contend with. They Rafal Sornek, Vice President Technology Education. identified two major global trends and Quality Development at Hiab, is satisinfluencing the logistics industry: sustainability fied with the partnership. Using Opintopolku.fi, applicants will and urbanisation. “Cybercom helped us to make the first also be able to apply for financial aid Hiab’s end customers include contractors, steps in our Connectivity journey and they from the Social Insurance Institution of Finland during the same process, thus freight companies and leasing companies. Hiab stayed focused on creating customer value further streamlining the application assumes that customers often know very little from the very beginning and throughout process. about the actual use of the loading equipment the entire journey. Taking this journey Saku Haarala at Cybercom Finland is – the business that generates its revenues. Hiab alone would certainly be interesting, but Service Manager for the service. identified the need for a visionary and expewhat’s the point in discovering neighbour“In addition to improving the applirienced partner to draw up product and service ing islets when the big ocean is calling?” cation procedure, we foresee a major development strategies based on global trends. positive impact on the environment The company selected Cybercom, which has “In the future, optimisation will become even by reducing traditional post and paper provided Hiab with advisory services, project more important as limits are imposed on used for application documents and admission decisions,” notes Saku management, software development and service resources in order to meet global sustainability Haarala. design. Initially, the project involved formulating targets,” maintains Peter Tyreholt, a Business their ambitions and strategies, and identifying Developer at Cybercom. which new customer values they could accom“We have provided Hiab with concrete modate through their services. assistance in adopting an abstract approach in One of the solutions that Hiab developed in everything from connecting its products to how partnership with Cybercom was to connect all of to generate customer value from this. It’s a relathe products and link them to an interface that tively complex journey for a traditional product allows the customer to monitor their equipment company, but they have succeeded very well.” in real time. The initial customer value lies in the Thanks to digitalisation, Hiab has also been end customer gaining an updated overview of able to launch service contracts to guarantee how their cranes are being used and in what that the equipment works well. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 13 Client cases TECHNOLOGY FOR om – osCar City AUTONOMOUS CARS 14 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Client cases INTERVIEW Entertain the thought. It is time to go home and you order a car to the office, get in and settle into your seat. Once you arrive, you get out and the car drives away – no garage needed and you do not need to think about finding a parking space. D riverless cars allow transportation and cities to be planned in from accidents ahead, slippery road conditions and parked cars to the speed of other Advantages of a completely new and revoluvehicles and pedestrians, all while processautonomous cars tionary way, since technology ing this information exponentially faster is infinitely better at driving than human drivers,” says Kristian. • Autonomous cars require less street cars than humans are. Science Initially, the V2X systems (Vehicle to surface, and traffic lights and signs fiction? No, probably not. This everything) will primarily be used for Adbecome superfluous as the cars are debate has evolved from disvanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS), communicating with one another cussing whether we will have autonomous prior to being developed into fully autonoand an incorporated, overhead cars to when they will become a reality. mous driving. This means, for example, that framework. drivers could be assisted with braking before • When traffic flows efficiently, An autonomous car is controlled by an they manage to react to external factors, thus without congestion and jams, energy automatic driving system that does not need avoiding collisions. consumption will decline dramatically. a physical driver. Most auto manufacturers • Asphalt parking lots can become ❝ are currently working intensely on projects residential areas and verdant in this field, and even companies like Google parklands once parking no longer and Apple are in the race. becomes necessary in proximity to “We are heading towards an era when the destinations. autonomous cars will be the new norm,” WE ARE HEADING • Nine of ten accidents are caused says Kristian Palm, Head of Business Unit at by humans, so traffic accidents will Cybercom, who is involved in the developTOWARDS AN ERA WHEN essentially be eliminated. ment of the new technology. AUTONOMOUS CARS WILL An example of a key role for Cybercom is as integration and software development BE THE NEW NORM partner in the SCOOP@F project. This project was initiated by the French government Cybercom possesses extensive experience and the EU in partnership with auto manuin software development and products for facturers Renault and Peugeot. In the years mass-produced vehicles, not least in the to come, a vast number of new cars will be form of more than 30 million installations equipped with Intelligent Transport Systems of the BlueGo application framework, Cy(ITS). ITS is based on wireless technology bercom’s proprietary Bluetooth software for that enables cars to communicate with one advanced vehicle infotainment systems. another via Vehicle to Vehicle (V2V) and with This type of service will become more overhead traffic systems through Vehicle to relevant once drivers no longer need to Infrastructure (V2I). focus their attention on driving the car. Cybercom is also pursuing the new, propriThe systems are key pieces of the puzzle in a etarily developed communication software world of autonomous cars, as they can take product, OsCar, which, like SCOOP@F, is into account the events around them on the being integrated into cars in order to enable roads and process the trajectory, speed and communication with other cars, infraintentions of other vehicles. structure and other factors in the vehicle’s “They obtain information on everything surroundings. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 15 Client cases A ll TV viewers in Finland are familiar with channels MTV3, Sub and AVA, which are provided by the country’s largest media company MTV. Thanks to its new online TV service MTV Katsomo, viewers can watch programmes from their channels at any time on any device. The solution is based on the cloud service Amazon Web Services (AWS). As a development and maintenance solution for its cloud platform, MTV has selected Cybercom and its Passionate Support AWS service. The service includes infrastructure, design of AWS environments, implementation, maintenance and round-the-clock service. “Our experience of Cybercom as a cloud services partner is excellent. Our partnership with Cybercom CLOUD SERVICES and the skills of its consultants in cloud platforms mean that we can focus on our core business and FOR FINNISH MEDIA develop new digital services,” says Risto Koivula, CTO at MTV Corporation. COMPANY Husqvarna Group is a world-leading producer of outdoor products including chainsaws, trimmers, robotic lawnmowers and garden tractors. Given Husqvarnas clear focus on userdriven product development it was a natural step to integrate the Internet of Things (IoT) into the product range. Its first launch was the Automower® Connect robotic lawn mower. In order to retain an experienced partner in the development project, Husqvarna turned to Cybercom, which developed the entire IT system, including both back-end and front-end components for the robotic lawn mower. The Husqvarna Automower® Connect was launched in 2015 and was a resounding success. The solution gives the end user peace of mind and convenience by enabling remote control and monitoring of the robotic mower using an app. It offers full control of the Robots mower from any location. The user can start, stop and park the Automower® Connect, view and modify the clip settings and receive alerts and track the mower’s GPS position – with a smartphone. The IoT solution also improves security through mow notification of the owner if the mower is moved outside a designated area. The security feature also makes it possible to track the lawnmower. Since Automower® Connect was first launched, Cybercom the lawn has continued to provide development and maintenance support for the IoT system and has been involved in Husqvarna’s organisational transition from having a clear focus on products to an increasingly distinct focus on services. 16 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Client cases Cybercom safeguards Coop MedMera Bank’s online services Coop MedMera Bank was looking for a soluHW tokens, 3DSecure for debit-card payments and federated login. Björn Lindeberg, Business Manager at Cybercom, says: tion capable of managing customer logins and “There is vast potential in customised applications in which the authentication using several different methods user has a secure digital identity. Two-factor authentication was previously technically complicated, but IdentityHub’s use of the fedvia a single login procedure. After searching the eration principle and open standards creates new opportunities.” market, they selected Cybercom’s proprietarily CLOUDeID is the cloud version of IdentityHub. “There are several advantages to hosting services in the cloud,” developed IdentityHub service. explains Björn Lindeberg. “It is easier to get started and easier to I update the services. Meanwhile, the solution still delivers on the dentityHub is a unified platform built on the concept of idenoperation’s requirements concerning digitalisation and maintaining tity federations. The service manages various login methods, security. We are increasingly noting that customers do not want to and connects user catalogues and applications or cloud maintain the services themselves – only offer them – in which case services. The service offers the “one user, one login” feature, we opt to locate this type of solution in the cloud.” known as Single Sign-On. Having a single login platform for all applications and serCarita Weiss is CIO at MedMera Bank and was in charge of develvices creates considerable flexibility and results in lower costs oping the services for Coop. for companies. IdentityHub supports a large variety of differ“We have worked in intense and close cooperation with Cyberent authentication methods, including Bank-id and Mobile Bank-id, com in the past year, and I consider them a valuable partner. They one-time text message passwords, professional identity cards, are flexible, reliable and they solve our problems swiftly.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 17 Secure and connected A ❝ We have worked in intense and close cooperation with Cybercom in the past year, and I consider them a valuable partner. They are flexible and reliable, and they solve our problems swiftly. Carita Weiss, CIO MedMera Bank 18 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 We always consider both the function and the security of our solutions. This creates reassurance for both you and your customers. Using Cybercom’s own cloud-based IdentityHub service, MedMera Bank gained a more secure and more flexible login for its online banking services. Ide yHub B ntit ❝ There is vast potential in customised applications in which the user has a secure digital identity. IdentityHub creates new opportunities. Björn Lindeberg, Business Manager Cybercom SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 19 Interview A C O N V E R S AT I O N A B O U T Our digital future We meet Future and Technology Analyst Claudia Olsson and Business Developer Peter Tyreholt at Cybercom to discuss the future and what digital technology will mean for our society. C laudia and Peter, what opopinion. If you instead measure your results adapt the legislation and try to remove some portunities do you foresee every time and get rapid feedback, then of the barriers then we can be more effective with the connected world you’re also able to make corrections early on. at a significantly lower cost. Healthcare is a in the future? A good example of this is the world of apps good example. Many healthcare appointClaudia: New technology and the internet, where rapid developments ments do not currently require a physical could, for instance, contribare driven by instant feedback. The steeper presence but, despite this, digital appointute to an improved quality the learning curve, the better the things we ments by video were long impossible due to of life in the healthcare can build – and that has a positive impact on regulations. Nowadays, a number of county sector, where there is greater our world. councils are even replacing their healthcare scope for taking a proactive providers for digital appointments, which approach to keeping patients What barriers need to be overcome for saves substantial resources for society. Anhealthy. We can also improve psychiatric technology to achieve its full potential? other barrier is the major focus on technolhealth using technology. If you look at the P: Many of the barriers are there for a reaogy, when instead we should be discussing education system, courses will increasingly son, such as legislation, privacy and security. customer value and what we are looking to be based on the individual’s circumstances So although the technology may already achieve. Only then can we choose the right and knowledge to offer the right level. At the exist, it’s often a matter of timing. If we can technology. wider social level, safety will improve, such C: It is also becoming incredibly impor❝ as through autonomous cars on the road. Of tant to convey the value of sharing data. course another incredibly important issue Regardless of whether we look at healthcare is sustainability, which is an area where techsystems or traffic systems, there are vast nology gives us the opportunity to better optimisation gains to be made for society as conserve our resources. Ultimately, we will WE WILL IDENTIFY NEW a whole. In Silicon Valley, I have often seen also be able to strengthen our democratic SOURCES OF PROTEIN IN THE autonomous cars driving around. This can systems using technology, and allow for feel disconcerting since we’re used to having secure digital voting. FUTURE, RANGING FROM eye contact with a driver, but we also know Peter: Another aspect is that, in the that autonomous vehicles are safer than future, we will be able to measure the VARIOUS TYPES OF 3D-PRINhuman drivers and implementing them results everything we do to a greater degree, TED AND LAB-GROWN FOODS, will save many lives. This needs to be clearly and ensure we are doing the right thing. conveyed so that more people are willing to Today, many things are done on the basis of SUCH AS MEAT AND MILK. adopt the technology. 20 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Interview Claudia Olsson runs the consultancy Exponential, which assists Peter Tyreholt is a Business Developer and Senior Advisor companies and governments in matters of strategy, analysis and at Cybercom with a background in several start-ups within implementation. Claudia also serves as Associate Faculty at the futureapps, connectivity and telecoms. based university Singularity in Silicon Valley and was named a “Young Global Leader” by the World Economic Forum 2017. Could the Western world be overtaken possible for making deliveries. Volvo’s In-car in food management. Today, much of this is by developing nations due to being Delivery concept, which delivers packages based on centralisation and economies of stuck with antiquated mind-sets and to the boot of your car in the office car park, scale to enhance efficiency and reduce costs. outdated technology? is interesting in terms of deliveries, as are However, just as AirBnB has revolutionised P: I certainly think that’s a possibility. food deliveries straight to your refrigerator the housing industry by creating an effective Several of the companies I’m currently using a digital one-time code for a security platform that allows you to rent to the right working with have a long history, which used alarm on the front door. people for a small administration fee, this to be a competitive advantage. Now that all C: When it comes to drone technology, same approach can be implemented in the data suddenly needs to be shared and all IT there are clearly safety issues over urban food industry. and business systems communicate with deliveries that need to be overcome. It is Local small-scale producers have had a one another, this heritage instead becomes currently more common to use autonomous tough time reaching a wider market, but as a considerable disadvantage. This allows flying vehicles in areas such as agriculture, an example, ICA, a Swedish grocer, has now new operators that have based everything forestry and surveillance. Further down built a platform that allows all shops to buy on modern technology right from the very the line, countries that lack traditional local products, and allows local producers beginning to easily overtake us. Many established infrastructure may be potential to be listed in the system despite having African countries are already way ahead of markets for drone deliveries. In many cases, limited production. Sweden in terms of mobile-first solutions, drone technology may even be faster to C: I see three distinct food trends. First, the mobile money and mobile banking systems implement for transportation than building safety aspect of using blockchain technology like M-Pesa. traditional road networks and transport and other secure database technologies to systems. However, making this possible be able to track where food comes from and How likely is it that we will see drones requires improvement to technological skills what additives are in it. I also think we will delivering packages to us? and investment in knowledge transfer in identify new sources of protein in the future, P: I think it will be challenging to use emerging areas. ranging from various types of 3D-printed drones in densely built urban environments and lab-grown foods, such as meat and milk, but, if we look beyond cities, this is already a Food production is currently a significant to new types of crops produced through reality. The Finnish postal service, for examproblem and could lead to even greater technological advances in synthetic biology. ple, is using drones to send medicine out to burdens on our world in the future. The third strong trend that I believe in is islands on a trial basis. Inner-city transporWhat opportunities are available? functional food. In the future, food will have tation routes can be optimised using effiP: There are considerable advantages to be more properties than it currently does, such cient logistics, and other solutions are also gained from developing digital technology as healing characteristics. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 21 How we add value The road to a new tomorrow CONNECTED Industry D igitalisation affects not only the characAt Cybercom we believe it is important to take teristics of products, but also the relevant responsibility for how people, the environment business models, often in the form of servicification, whereby companies increasand society are affected by our operations and, ingly offer services rather than products. ultimately, the operations of our clients. The Achieving success often requires a fundamental shift in the perception of how to create value for the end greatest potential of a consulting company is customer. When a product is connected, allowing our ability to influence our clients and, by extenthe collection and analysis of data, it becomes possible to optimise and streamline its use. Individsion, their users and end customers. Cybercom ual contexts become connected contexts, where drives development in the right direction and at everything is optimised in systems rather than in an individual product. Key sustainability impacts include an increased pace. We address our clients based greater security and reduced energy consumption. on four key societal trends that we monitor, and To ensure its long-term competitiveness, industry 4 must embrace sustainability and digitalisation, two where we are experts from a connected perspeckeywords in future corporate positioning. With our tive. We approach these trends using our innovaadvisory services, we help companies with feasibility studies and implementation to position their services tive, secure and effective solutions to contribute in the connected world. to profitability and sustainable development through, for example, cost savings, energy savings and, above all, reducing the consumption of finite resources. 22 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 How we add value CONNECTED CONNECTED CONNECTED Consumer City Citizen T B S he spread of digitalisation changes the y around 2050, just over 70% of the earth’s ociety faces a huge challenge in the form of relationship between companies and population will live in urban environments the expectations of its citizens for digitalisaconsumers. A company no longer sells a covering an area three times bigger than tion, apps, communication in many different product, but rather a solution to a customer in 2000, according to a UN report*. This channels, paperless forms, and the ability to problem. What were previously associated means that a substantial number of the easily interact with the community. This services could tomorrow become more profitable cities of tomorrow have not even been built yet. places completely new demands on public than the product itself. Business models are changUrbanisation yields significant opportunities to make authorities in terms of mind-set and the building of ing, and companies need to adapt to existing trends the cities of the future more sustainable in terms systems, not only for ease of use, but also for such as social media and online commerce. But new of energy consumption, infrastructure and waste security, identity management, and compliance, trends like smart homes are also rapidly emerging. It management. Digitalisation enables us to make which must all be managed from a totally new is likely that different ecosystems of owners and parbetter use of our resources, intelligently, sustainably, perspective. One important trend is the aging ticipants will emerge. For example, security solutions and in an ethically defensible way in urban life. population, with a rising dependency ratio. Should installed in homes could become ecosystems that Smart homes are the close perspective, and many we use digitalised solutions such as health can also be carriers of connected services from other smart homes create the building blocks of a smart monitoring and automation? This is an interdisciplisuppliers, such as health monitoring or secure transcity, with even more efficient functions. The city benary challenge with ethical, technological, political, fer of single-use codes for locked doors for home comes a device, able to control how it uses energy, economic, and business perspectives brought to the deliveries. Cybercom is able to deliver the technical to avoid traffic jams or manage electric driverless fore, and as advisors we must be able to handle solutions for future ecosystems, and manage them cars that communicate with each other and with every aspect. in flexible cloud services. their surroundings. This will also affect corporate business models and the relationships between the customer and industry, which the city must embrace and become a part of. We have an important role to play in this as an enabler, with the combination of our understanding of the connected world and our technical expertise. *UN report on urbanisation: http://cbobook.org/ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 23 Cybercom’s process Global challenges are Contributing with a net creating new business positive imInnovative start-ups, technological developments and a pact on society digital generation are today challenging many traditional Cybercom has developed a process that helps companies to achieve a net positive impact industries and established truths. We all need to think on society. Cybercom’s delivery has a strong innovatively and responsibly. Cybercom is making a confocus on implementing the strategy and providing support throughout the implementribution with its newly developed Sustainable Digitalisatation phase. tion Advisor service. Within the framework of our advisory services we help our clients to understand how they The net positive The net positive is an approach whereby can contribute to a net positive impact on society. companies focus on developing products and services that give more to society since their use after the point of sale exceeds what they take to manufacture. This differs from a The net positive is a new way of doing • There is dematerialisation, whereby more traditional perspective of sustainability business. It simply means giving back more consumers receive the same or similar that addresses only a company’s negative to the environment or society than an orgaservices, but with less consumption of environmental impacts. This is particularly relevant for companies that need to grow nisation takes out, with an overall positive natural resources. rapidly in order to deliver the solutions neednet effect. We can already see today that ed by society. organisations that strive to become net One sector that has experienced these positive strengthen their brands, deliver trends is the music industry, which has strong earnings growth and attract the best been completely remodelled after consuGlobal sustainability filter talent. Every organisation must choose its mers began to subscribe to digital services According to the UN Population Division, own unique path, but the objective is the instead of buying CDs. A similar developthere will be 11 billion people on Earth in same: profitable organisations that improve ment is taking place today in areas such as 2100. Cybercom has developed a method the world. transport, real estate and food. What enaby which we can examine whether business models, innovations or products can support bles this development is digitalisation and, a future sustainable society with 11 billion The reason Cybercom is aiming to create used in the right way, this is an important inhabitants. more net positive operations is based on a tool for us to solve our global challenges. few clear trends. Cybercom’s processes for creating net positive activities includes the proven • More and more companies realise that methodology of the Business Model Canthey can contribute to the UN’s global vas, where we add a strategic sustainability sustainability goals, such as by becomfilter. We help our clients to shift their ing net producers of renewable energy focus from internal sustainability issues to or creating products that have a positive external business opportunities. Including environmental impact. the net positive approach allows greater advances in companies, making them • There is strong servicification in many dare to think bigger and in new ways. Our fields, which means a shift from products experience is that this leads to innovative to services. services and new revenue streams. 24 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Cybercom’s process Global sustainability filter 2. Evaluation 3. Opportunities • Identification of trends, changes in • Compilation of the company’s future technology, business models and values range of products and services with a net positive impact • Review of internal and external conditions for the development of new services • Development of an implementation plan and a strategy to ensure successful • The company’s potential to generate net delivery of new products, services or positive solutions is evaluated based on business opportunities various scenarios Global sustainability filter Sustainable 4. Implementation Digitalisation • Implementation of identiAdvisor fied business opportunities. Cybercom’s consultants ensure that everything works in practice 1. Inventory • The delivery may, for example, consist of: • Evaluation of a company’s • New digital services, existing range of products earnings models or business and services opportunities • Analysis of how the company Attracting good talent • Updated business model contributes to the UN global Strengthening brands • KPIs measuring the impact sustainability goals Increasing participation among employees on the wider world New customers Greater revenues Input resources New socially relevant innovations New partnerships SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 25 Cybercom follows its clients out into the world A Smriti Gopinath, Karin Walgeborg, Software Consultant Key Account Manager at Cybercom at Cybercom 26 By staffing projects using a range skills and Cybercom provides application manageexperience from different geographical ment, development and support to security areas, we are able to offer a high quality company ASSA ABLOY’s IT department delivery at a favourable cost and improve and to its global product development the awareness of different cultures and departments. The services consist of enrich ourselves, both as a company and as blended delivery, in which experts from individuals. We call this blended delivery, Sweden, Poland and India supply various and this becomes possible when Cybercom components of the project based on their acts as the interface with its client and is skills and experience, and this has led to imresponsible for the day-to-day contact and proved availability, lower costs and greater strategy. flexibility for ASSA ABLOY. B ❝ The delivery from Cybercom allows flexible and cost-effective adaptation to ASSA ABLOY’s IT needs. Jens Nielsen, CIO at ASSA ABLOY 27 OUR VISION: TO BE OUR CLIENTS’ Most trusted business partner IN THE CONNECTED WORLD way of development, testing and efficient INTERVIEW How is Cybercom achieving its vision? operational services. We are also able to Bo Strömqvist is Head of Sales at Cybercom and is in deliver cost-effective solutions from our offices in Poland and India. Good examples charge of our largest manufacturing industry clients. of clients who use our lifecycle services include IKEA, where we enjoy a high level Y of confidence and focus on innovative adou have increased the satisfied launched. The ability to develop qualitative visory services and development, and ASSA customer index (SCI) from 69 to software is pivotal for clients in all indusABLOY, where we deliver development and 73 in the past year, and are now tries. Another good example is that we management using a combination of on-site six points above the industry support our clients in reaching their own and offshore deliveries.” average. What do you believe is customers in a more intelligent way, and behind this increase? thus provide professional business developIn what fields do you foresee possible “A high level of customer satisfacment and advisory services.” growth potential moving forward? tion is paramount for us in terms of retaining “The strong digitalisation trend that and raising our clients’ confidence in us. You employ a concept for universal is underway is going to accelerate even Innovation and sustainability are gaining an solutions, whereby Cybercom is present faster, so Cybercom’s positions in digitalincreasingly central role among our clients, throughout the process. isation, security and cloud services are with the aim of bolstering their competi“Most of our clients are driven by highly relevant to our clients. Specifically, tiveness, and in this regard Cybercom is very two primary forces: demands for we foresee a continued strong trend in well-positioned and able to meet our clients’ greater innovation and lower what is called the Internet of Things, exacting demands. That is one explanation overall costs. We address both which is the core of what we do here behind the positive trend.” of these perspectives with at Cybercom. Another prominent our lifecycle services. Using trend is the need for secure systems Your vision is to be your clients’ most initial advisory and business development. We have experienced trusted business partner in the connected development services, we a particularly significant increase world. How are you achieving this? help clients transform and in the area of compliance, where we “A concrete example is that we help our develop their operations, create offer several proprietarily developed clients bring their products to the market greater customer value and increase their services that are highly popular among our faster each and every day, which is imperarevenues.” clients. The new EU directive concerning tive in today’s fast-paced world. We provide “Of equal importance is reducing the the processing of personal data – known as skills, resources and support in the process overall costs of product development and the General Data Protection Regulation, or of transitioning from the concept stage to management. In this regard, we can encourGDPR – in particular will occupy many of a finished product or service that can be age clients to improve product quality by our clients in the years to come.” 28 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 A partner throughout Results of Cybercom’s 2016 Customer Satisfaction Survey 69 73 91 the entire project lifecycle With our advisory services, we help our clients to understand how to benefit from connected society. Our knowledge of the ➔ % opportunities and challenges of digitalisation means that we can put the right solutions into practice. Cloud services allow us to optimise and assure a high level of service around the clock, every day of the year. Our experience in developing systems for innovaSCI increased to 73, com100% of our 91% will probably tive business models allows us to deliver the solutions required for pared with 69 in 2015, and clients would or certainly continue the digital future. is now 6 points above the recommend us. to use us. sector avarege of 67. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 29 Innovation Zone In the Innovation Zone, employees and clients have the opportunity to jointly evaluate and test new ideas, develop working prototypes using new and exciting technologies, and run pilot projects in an agile, creative environment. INNOVATION ZONE BECOMES CYBERCOM’S HUB Daniel Kullgard, Innovation Leader at Cybercom Innovation Zone W e saw the opportunity “This truly adds to fostering a shared to highlight a standard corporate culture. A variety of skills, technoloccupational problem ogies and customer experiences are brought for the consulting together, creating new things in the Innoworld and transform it vation Zone, while also working together to into a valuable investadvance Cybercom – that means a great deal ment for the future,” in terms of our sense of community.” says Daniel Kullgard, The Innovation Zone also serves as a Innovation Leader, who key component in Cybercom’s onboarding has been working full-time on developing process. All new employees who are not SMART HELMET Cybercom’s Innovation Zone concept since involved in client assignments spend their In partnership with a client, the Innovation Zone last September. initial period here in order to directly particihas developed a smart helmet in order to improve With just over 1,200 employed consultpate in a creative context. safety and quality at construction sites. The smart ants, there are always some who are behelmet enables many key functions, such as tween projects, and at Cybercom we saw an Cybercom currently runs about 50 projects seeing if the wearer is in the right place and holds ability to leverage this unutilised resource, within the framework of the Innovation the relevant qualifications to handle machinery while also enabling our employees to develZone, and has also introduced several proand equipment, and that the individual has evacop their skills. jects that go beyond the walls of the office uated a risk area in the event of an incident. “We opted to not see this as downtime, in order to further diversify experience and instead allowing everyone who is in between approaches to work. assignments an opportunity to work togethMany students write their thesis or underer in a business-development team,” says take an internship in connection with the Daniel Kullgard. “The team pursues new Innovation Zone, whereby the students work technologies that we think will be of signifalongside the consultants, which gives both icant interest, and above all in areas where parties a great opportunity to get to know Cybercom wants to gain strength in the one another. future. This is the basis for the Innovation There is naturally also a clear sustainabiliZone, and it has proven highly rewarding. ty perspective in the Innovation Zone. “While we are developing our employees’ GOOGLE TANGO A good example is the Internet of Things skills, it is also a matter of creating sustainTango is a technology platform developed by (IoT). A few years ago, there were not many ability in our business model. We naturally Google that enables mobile devices to define clients who were willing to make investwant to ensure that our society invests in their position in relation to the space around ments in development and IoT technology. future-proof sustainable technologies. To them, without using GPS or other external Today, the demand for skilled and experiremain relevant to our clients, we must signals. The user experiences are created using enced consultants in this field is considerapossess expertise in, and be able to propose, Augmented Reality (AR). The Innovation Zone has developed an app based on this technology, ble. Because Cybercom has elected to focus new technologies to be able to help them which, among other features, shows what furnion IoT and develop its employees’ skills, create sustainable businesses,” says Daniel. ture looks like in a room. the company is now one of the preeminent solutions-based providers in the field. Cybercom believes in working closely with A great deal of experience-based innoits clients, and the Innovation Zone serves vation work is conducted in the Innovation as an excellent platform for building a deep, Zone, where the focus is on progress by trial long-term relationship. and error rather than by contemplation. “We always try to identify a win-win “We also pursue a very open approach situation,” says Daniel. “We have examined within the projects themselves. Employees several of the new technologies that we are are given the opportunity to test ideas and working with alongside our clients.” new and exciting technologies they are interCybercom has also initiated partnerships ested in, with learning as the primary goal. that involve technology and areas in which The only requirement is that we think that it we are fluent, though in new sectors and DRIVING SIMULATOR will be relevant to our clients in the future.” often with start-up companies. The Innovation Zone has developed a driving Cybercom’s Innovation Zones are currentThe future looks bright for the Innovation simulator for assessing patients’ ability to drive following an acquired brain injury, such as a ly found in nine offices in three countries, Zone, Daniel thinks. stroke. This project is based on an innovation and each Innovation Zone has one employee “Many clients are interested in utilising competition that Cybercom won. The simulator whose primary task is to manage the work. our experiences, and we have noted that the has a steering wheel, software and a screen, “The Innovation Zone has in many consultants are attracted by being able to and the subject is required to steer correctly on a respects become the hub of Cybercom’s freely pursue new technologies along with winding country road and react to the road signs operations,” says Daniel. their colleagues. It’s all about co-creation!” as they appear. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 31 Employees We are Makers of tomorrow With creativity, passion and an appetite for the unknown, we work every day to enable companies and organisations to benefit from the opportunities of the connected world. ploring the boundaries of what our team of agile developers to can be done, and that is exactly come up with ideas on how to what we do when we solve improve its innovation process. problems here at Cybercom. In short, instead of just coming up with great product innovation Do you have any examples ideas, we sat down to develop where you and your team a way of working to capture as have used these Maker many great ideas as possible. We qualities? built it on the agile development I think the project that we did for methodology, where ideas are Gabriel Ibanez Romero is a Universeum, called Hungry Birds, Irfan Kahlid is a product captured and then tested for feaSenior Consultant and head really embodies what it means to developer and leader of the sibility before implementation. of the Innovation Zone in be a Maker. The science centre’s Innovation Zone at Region A true Maker initiative that was Gothenburg. Even as a child, most popular attraction is a rainNorth East. He was one of the highly appreciated by the client he hacked his bike light for forest, where a flock of rare and first to have a computer in and is currently being used by more power. Nowadays he endangered birds live. They gave Pakistan in the 1990s and is Cybercom. is focusing his maker-skills us a clear task – how can we use today building the next on building a connected bird technology to keep track of the generation of telecom What are the most imporfeeder for the Universeum well-being and status of these networks. tant things you learnt in science centre. birds? We equipped each bird how you build innovative with an RFID tag and all feeding How did you become a teams? When did you know that you stations with a sensor so that Maker? One key insight is that with the were a Maker? Universeum could keep track of I have always been inspired by right model for innovation more As a kid I experimented a lot. I them every time they ate their inventions and creative ideas in people get involved in the probought some industrial strength seeds. Digitalised information my surroundings. When I began cess and the results get better. LEDs, built a circuit board and about the entire flock can also working at Cybercom I immediAlmost everyone can contribute fitted it to my bike. be presented to visately felt at home because this is to innovation, but without the It was so strong that itors. We have been truly a place that embraces a kind right context shy or introverted people stopped me working with Univerof problem-solving innovation. employees might not dare to in the streets to ask seum for a long time, offer their thoughts and ideas. if I had a laser on my gaining their trust by Could you describe a project This would be a pity because it is bike! It is all a matter delivering multiple with the Maker spirit? not always the loud people who of curiosity and exgreat projects. One of our clients challenged have the best ideas! 32 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Employees Elisa Patronen is a User Experience and, most importantly, to ask the right to give you new insights and perspectives Designer at Cybercom with a pasquestions. This is a never-ending pursuit, on the future and, in reality, you can sion for testing the unknown and but it opened me up to an entirely new find synergies in the most surprising expanding her knowledge in every way of seeing how everything is concombinations. possible – and impossible – area. nected. I think that experience is what For example, when I began my design truly made me a Maker in practice. studies many people thought I would How did you become a Maker? probably not be able to draw on my It was probably my constant longing to What would your dream project background in statistics in any way. Togain new experiences and to combine look like? day, more and more people have begun solutions that made me a Maker. For My dream is to get involved in nuto see the value in combining statistical me, the fun lies in finding correlations merous types of projects. For me, a tasks with qualitative client insights. in patterns and analogies in seemingly giant project is not the most rewarding Now that so many things have already different things, and applying these in achievement, but rather creating smaller been created in the world, innovation is new situations. When I attended design solutions that lead us in the right direcoften the art of combining existing piecschool, I learnt to fail quickly, try again tion. There are few experiences that fail es of the puzzle in unexpected ways. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 33 Employees DIVER SITY Cybercom’s ability to attract and retain skilled employees is closely associated with the company’s power of innovation and our capacity to offer exciting projects that mean something to wider society. Our goal is to provide Cybercom at the all employees with opportunities to CHARM employment continuously develop and achieve fair in Gothenburg their full potential. 34 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Employees D iversity is a matter of similarities a position at Cybercom or refer the particProject Management, Sales and Leadership. and differences, such as gender, ipants to our business partners or recruitWithin each area, there are a number of age, ethnicity and cultural backment partners who can match them with roles in which employees can hone their ground, yet also of differences in others in their networks. We also participate skills. Within these roles, employees can education, family circumstances, in Talent Without Borders, an initiative for opt to expand their skills in several different values, interests and experinewcomers with software skills, as well as technologies, for example, or specialise in a ences. We believe that diversity the Good Malmö project, which aims to help specific technology. is a decisive factor in Cybercom’s success young people who are currently outside the that creates dynamics and an innovative labour market to find a job. atmosphere in our everyday life, as well as profitability and long-term value creation. Strengthening our competitive edge requires We are always striving to enrich our diverstrong and professional leadership. Cybersity, and a key initiative in these efforts is com’s management has evolved significantly equalising the differences between men and in recent years, and a key goal has been to women, among overall employees and in incorporate more of our employees into management. the leadership team. In 2016, we worked on changing the structure of the leadership ❝ Cybercom’s staff currently comprise 18 positions and implemented a model based percent women, and our goal is for women on Competence Team Leads, as opposed to represent 30 percent of our staff by to traditional consulting managers. Our year-end 2020. During the year we have Competence Team Leads combine their work held a number of internal workshops to as consultants with heading a small team of WE ARE ALWAYS STRIVING TO which employees have been invited to share employees in the same skills area. The team ENRICH OUR DIVERSITY, AND A experiences and come up with concrete leader is primarily charged with motivating and engaging the employees, as well as drivKEY INITIATIVE IN THESE EFFORTS measures on how to achieve our objective of having more female employees. We also offer ing, coaching and supporting skills developIS EQUALISING THE DIFFERENCES internal networks for women and partner ment, both in the team and for each individBETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN, with organisations such as the Royal Instiual. In our Cybercom People Voice employee tute of Technology’s (KTH) women’s network satisfaction survey, 75 percent of employees AMONG OVERALL EMPLOYEES Malvina, whose networking events we have rate the management as 4 or 5 of 5. AND IN MANAGEMENT hosted on several occasions. Boosting Your Development is Cybercom’s Charlotte Siversson Sustainability Ambassador and HR Partner Cybercom In order to achieve a healthy balance training and skills development platform, among our employees and engage in new through which we promote internal opportutraining programmes, we also maintain nities for advancement and describe our ag75 % strong partnerships with universities, ile development process. We believe that the higher-education institutions, and polygeneral view of careers has evolved in recent technic institutions at all of the locations years. Today, we have a more individual defiin which we operate. The Innovation Zone nition of what constitutes a successful career, is a major contributing factor to our ability and the objectives are different for different to accommodate students writing their people. We are more inclined to compare thesis and interns, and to recruit recent careers and development to a climbing wall graduates. than to climbing a ladder. Developing and We also strive to recruit more employees achieving your goals often requires being with international backgrounds and we flexible and capitalising on the opportunities engage in several initiatives including the and challenges that we encounter along the Integration Zone in Linköping, which is a way. Sometimes you have to move sideways partnership with the Chamber of Commerce or even downwards in order to then continue of East Sweden and the Swedish Public on your chosen path. Employment Agency, under which we offer In our Cybercom People Voice newcomers an ability to use internships as a Cybercom has identified five principal employee satisfaction survey, a full way to establish themselves in the Swedish areas for development in which employees 75% of employees rate the managelabour market and gain references from can enhance their skills – Technological ment as 4 or 5 of 5. Sweden. We hope to be able to offer them Development, Business Development, SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 35 Employees Employees in numbers 88 TRUE COLORS % Experiment Percentage of employees with illustrates bias a university degree 11years There are many different factors beThe social experiment involved test hind the low proportion of women in subjects putting on the headset and VR the IT sector, and unintentional bias is goggles. They were then introduced to one of them. Cybercom opted to highfour individuals who talked about their light the issue of unintentional bias professions and backgrounds. Once the and the importance of diversity in the test subjects had taken off the equipment IT sector in a filmed experiment using they were asked to pair each story with augmented reality (AR). the right individual in front of them. Average experience In every case the test subjects guessed The AR-based True Colors app, developed wrong, confirming the stereotypical im5years by Cybercom together with two students pression of professions and interests. from the KTH Royal Institute of Technology, At Cybercom, we strive to create a demonstrates a clear link between people’s workplace for everyone, and diversity attitudes and how we perceive each other. plays a key role in our company’s operWhen the VR headset with the app inations. The innovative app True Colors stalled is directed at a person, that person’s is one approach to this. Cybercom is voice becomes distorted and their image involved in numerous diversity projects is anonymised into a colourful chameleon. throughout Sweden, and is also currently Average length of employment This means the app prevents the user from sponsoring Women in Tech – an initiative 38years identifying or unconsciously judging a perto increase diversity and encourage more son based on how they appear or sound. women to enter the IT sector. Average age 3 % Average sick leave 77 % Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 36 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Employees Composition of Cybercom Kholoud Alsalem Board of directors Managers Other employees AGE NUMBERS AGE NUMBERS AGE NUMBERS <30 0 <30 3 <30 309 Samer Naoura 30–50 7 30–50 89 30–50 642 >50 2 >50 23 >50 137 Recruiting 17% newcomers 33% 26% with IT skills Newly arrived IT specialists are being 67% 74% 83% navigated to quality jobs by way of the recently established association Talent Without Borders. This initiative is sponsored by Cybercom Öresund along with other IT companies in the region. ● MALE ● FEMALE There is a shortage of qualified labour in many regions in Sweden. Meanwhile, newcomers from all corners of the world possess tremendous skills and experience. This waste of talent and competence prompEmployee survey ted the idea for Talent Without Borders. Along with several other IT companies, Cybercom Öresund is involved in the non-profit association aimed at supporting ENGAGEMENT LEADERSHIP newly arrived refugees who primarily possess skills in software development. Under this programme, they receive support in adapting to the local business culture, communications and leadership. For example, the association organises courses and provides networks that match 66 70 59 75 75 63 potential employers and talented individuals. Cybercom offers coaching in areas such as UX and Java, as well as agile approaches and methods. The first group of eight hand-picked 2016 2015 IA* 2016 2015 IA* candidates started the programme in 2016, and this has resulted in several recruitments RESPONSE RATE: 77% *) INDUSTRY AVERAGE to date. Cybercom has employed two of the participants, Kholoud Alsalem and Samer Naoura. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 37 Targets and outcomes Our targets Cybercom has identified seven target areas: growth, profitability, sustainable business, client base, assignment types, recruitment and business ethics. We believe these are critical, and they guide our operations and our day-to-day activities. Growth Profitability Sustainable business Target Cybercom shall strive to achieve Cybercom shall be one of the Increase the amount of sustaingrowth of 5% annually over the more profitable companies among able business with our clients business cycle its comparable competitors and that contributes to sustainable achieve an operating margin of development and responsible use 10% of finite resources 7.5 Outcome % 5.0% 69 % 49 % 5% (3%) operating margin 2016 2015 Comment Strong market in Europe and a Operating profit after depreciaRelates to Cybercom’s ten largest high level of demand among our tion and amortisation pertains to clients key clients profit before impairment losses on goodwill and a capital loss on the sale of a subsidiary 38 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Targets and outcomes Client base Assignment types Recruitment Business ethics Key clients shall account for 70% Even distribution of consulting Net recruitment of at least 5%, High ethical standards shall be a of sales, the ten largest clients services and turnkey assignments/ with a gender distribution of 30% part of our DNA and permeate all 50%, and no individual client shall projects since 30% of technical graduates our activities and all our business account for more than 15% are female 27% (34%) 63% (66%) 70% of employees, including the ■ Key clients 58% board, have completed certifica■ Ten largest clients 44% (41%) ■ Turnkey assignments/projects Female 18% tion in anti-corruption and the ■ Largest individual client ■ Consulting services Male 82% code of conduct 14% (14%) Net recruitment -1.2% 23 key clients A large proportion of the growth The proportion of females has The training is reviewed annually in the public sector is from consultincreased by 1%. Net recruitment ing services has been impacted by reduced operations in Finland and in Singapore, where an MBO took place on December 31, 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 39 More with less A Y C E 40 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 B Cybercom should act responsibly in all countries and in all contexts Connectivity creates smarter in which we operate. Management has defined our responsibility products that require fewer and leads the work of focusing on sustainable business, engaged employees and a high level of ethics. Head of Communications and resources. This means a cleaner Sustainability Accelerator Kristina Cato drives the dialogue into what world. is material alongside an annually selected team of Sustainability Ambassadors, here Bassil Salameh, Amanda Brynolf, Martin Gråberg, Anders Ohlsson, Marta Chojnacka, Johan Billman and Elisa Patronen. B M R C O SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 41 Corporate responsibility PA R U L S H A R M A “The international sustainability practices of Swedish companies have to improve,” says Parul Sharma, a human rights lawyer who was recently named the most powerful woman in the Swedish business community by financial weekly Veckans Affärer. She believes there is a shortage of knowledge, PS skills and monitoring, and that the requirements imposed by companies are still far too lax. ACQUIRE KNOWLEDGE, IMPOSE REQUIREMENTS & VERIFY 42 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Corporate responsibility I n recent years, Parul Sharma has ruption coordinators, or ILO coordinators. tremely clear that in a country like India you become one of the most influential This is something that we must adopt and cannot impose the responsibility on the people in the business community observe. ” enslaved women; it has to be imposed on in terms of CSR, and her verdict of us as clients and as the responsible parties. Swedish companies is harsh. “To be She believes, for example, that anti-corWe must learn more about correlation, like perfectly honest, there has been a lot ruption is a sensitive topic for Swedish understanding where the environmental of nonsense surrounding CSR!” companies. risks lie in allowing human oppression. How At the UN level, CSR, or corporate social “It’s a bit like discussing sexuality with do your economic and social behaviours responsibility, has been defined as a discipeople who are very religious! Corruption afimpact the environment and the climate?” pline comprising four components that infects all sustainability issues, and corruption Parul believes that regulations and legislavolve human rights, anti-corruption, labour challenges also need to be addressed head tion in Sweden still leave a lot to be desired. rights and environmental responsibility. on in Sweden, which does business in so “First and foremost, we need nationally Parul believes that many companies have many high-risk countries.” binding legislation that requires companies interpreted these provisions as if they can “Sweden is currently ranked as the world’s to conduct due diligence using the entire select the elements they enjoy working with third-least-corrupt country, but that only CSR spectrum on every facet of their busiand integrate into the company’s approach applies nationally. How things look beyond ness, right down to each supplier.” to human rights. Several countries, including France, ❝ “I am sorry, but you do not have the right already have such legislation. Parul feels that to do that. That’s like saying we have picked a the new Swedish law requiring sustainability few articles from the legislation that we find reporting, which comes into effect next year, could be a step in this direction. exciting! I’m equally baffled every time I hear it. We are obligated to comply with the full NOT MONITORING “I am hopeful, but also feel there is a lack spectrum,” she concludes. The approach of companies to the Codes YOUR SUPPLY CHAIN of discourse concerning the innovation of new skills, which is troubling.” of Conduct is also criticised. CONSTITUTES SUB­ So what can a company do if it wants to take “There is an incredible amount of confidence in these Codes of Conduct and I don’t STANDARD BUSINESS its share of responsibility for the global goals know whether this is naiveté or laziness. You throughout its supply chain? Parul believes can talk about it until the cows come home, AND A DEGRADATION sustainability is a matter of inspection – just but it means nothing unless the codes have like a car, compliance must be monitored, real substance, as well as repercussions tied OF HUMAN RIGHTS. inspected and undergo service on a regular to them.” basis. the country’s borders goes unreported. “Not monitoring your supply chain As the daughter of two Indian immigrants Environmental regulation bodies are not constitutes substandard business and a Parul Sharma had an Indian upbringing in infrequently the most corrupt of all,” Parul degradation of human rights. Unless you a Swedish environment. After upper secreveals. can perform substantive check-ups, you ondary school, she opted to study law and “They are often easy to buy. But if we begin should not be conducting business in fragile applied to the criminal law programme, but thinking about how bribery and corruption countries.” soon became more interested in human affect the environment and the climate, then Parul is currently helping companies perrights. Between her internship at the I think we have made good progress.” form check-ups on their operations. To date, Swedish Embassy in India and her work at She feels that we must increase our undershe has performed more than 160 audits the European Commission’s Delegation standing of how social behaviour affects the on supply chains in high-risk countries and in New Delhi, she came to understand environment, and recalls an incident that high-risk industries worldwide. what real injustice meant and how you can made a significant impression on her. “During the course of my work, I have bechange its causes. Today, she is a lawyer “Fourteen years ago, we were at a cement come increasingly aware that audits are only with the law firm Vinge and serves as Chair plant in India where a group of women were about a third of the work. Suppliers often do of the Swedish government’s delegation sitting and mixing cement by hand. The water not understand what is encompassed and for the implementation of the UN goals, was running from a tap the whole time and, what must be done to meet the requireAgenda 2030. like a good Swedish inspector, I approached ments. The monitoring work itself is both What would you say is the greatest them and asked why they didn’t turn off the where the costs lie and results are generated, sustainability challenge facing Swedish tap between refills to conserve resources. ” provided it’s done properly. Training courses companies today? in partnership with suppliers, monitoring “Skills and knowledge regarding susThe women became furious and scolded of results and hand-holding throughout tainability are two areas that still require a her. Did she not understand that if they the monitoring programme are hugely great deal of work, particularly concerning turned off the tap all the time, they would important.” social issues. Nowadays, many companies, lose several minutes of working time every “We simply have to look beyond quarterly municipalities and organisations have envihour, and that they were paid for the number reports if we want to be able to look the next ronmental coordinators, though we seldom of blocks they produced? generation in the eyes and say that we did see human-rights coordinators, anti-cor“Right then and there, it became exwhat we could.” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 43 I N T H E S P OT LI G H T: CYBERCOM’S INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES Rashin Kabodvand, Competence Team Lead of the Java Team at Cybercom in Stockholm Corporate responsibility E N V I R O N M E N TA L C E R T I F I C AT I O N Cybercom develops innovative, secure and effective solutions that add to profitability and sustainable development for our clients and society at large. OUR RESPONSWe are also always striving to reduce our own environIBILITY mental impact. In 2017, Cybercom secured environmental certification and our internal practices are moving forward High ethical standards should permewith steps including employee training. ate our business and our operations. Our actions are governed by our code Cybercom has always had a major focus on “By increasing environmental awareness of conduct in all countries in which internal environmental aspects, and one among our employees at every level, we we operate, and business ethics are of our sustainability goals for 2016 was to create an approach throughout the organa standing item on the agenda of the secure environmental certification for the isation that influences everything we do,” management team. entire company. In 2016, Rashin Kabodvand, says Rashin. Competence Team Lead for the Java Team, “Environmental certification involves Our actions and one of Cybercom’s Sustainability Ambasimplementing effective processes for the From 2014 our employees must comsadors, was placed in charge of planning and consumption of resources and compliance plete an online course on anti-corruppreparing for environmental certification. with the prevailing environmental legistion. The training is based on our code “Since 2008, we have been environmentallation. As an example, we review Sweden’s of business ethics and conduct, and ly certified in Region Mid and have long been environmental code twice a year and make includes various possible dilemmas to aiming to secure environmental certification sure we are in compliance.” consider. Cybercom experienced no for the entire company, which is why it is parincidents of corruption or discrimination ticularly gratifying that we finally achieved The greatest direct impact of the environin 2016. our certification goal,” says Rashin. “In early mental certification is that we have intro2017, an external environmental certification duced waste separation at all our offices in Information security audit was performed that went unexpectSweden. All employees must also complete For Cybercom, information security edly well, and we passed the audit with no an online environmental training course, means our ability to ensure the necessary deviations. This means the entire company and by year-end 2016, 70 percent of our confidentiality, integrity and availability has secured the ISO 14001 Environmental employees had undertaken environmental of our internal systems and information, Management Certification.” training. Another key element of Cybercom’s and the systems and information of our environmental practices is transportation. clients. Cybercom’s systems and clients’ Although Cybercom’s greatest potential “ We must reduce our use of cars,” exsystems should be managed in a safe lies in enhancing offerings to clients that plains Rashin. manner, and the effect of any security add to sustainable development for the “We have catalogued the public transport incidents should not risk serious damage companies and their end-customers, it is options for all our offices, and we are conductto our own business or the business of also imperative that the company lives up ing activities to make it easier for employees our clients. Cybercom undertakes systeto ambitious environmental targets and to not use their cars. These include fitting the matic information security efforts based actively works to improve its own environchanging rooms at all our offices with showers on our information security policy. mental practices. so employees can run or cycle to work. Cybercom has also written an environmental policy Client privacy ❝ that outlines how to generate business that is Cybercom works actively to ensure comsustainable in the long term.” pliance with the existing regulations for However, our efforts will obviously not protection of privacy as well as the new, end simply because we have now secured tougher rules that must be complied BY INCREASING ENVIRONMENTAL environmental certification. with by 2018 in accordance with the AWARENESS AMONG OUR EMPLOY“This is a relentless effort and we are EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, constantly striving to improve and to meet GDPR. This work is conducted both EES AT EVERY LEVEL, WE CREATE our environmental goals and comply with internally and on assignment for clients. AN APPROACH THROUGHOUT THE regulations,” says Rashin. New SustainaCybercom has not experienced any bility Ambassadors will also take over from losses of client data in 2016. ORGANISATION THAT INFLUENCES my colleagues and I, and will continue to EVERYTHING WE DO. pursue ongoing and new projects!” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 45 Chairman’s comment THE RIGHT PATH FORWARD CHAIRMAN’S COMMENT C ybercom was taken private by JCE Group which creates a stronger Cybercom and thus beneand Tequity in December 2015 and we can fits us, Cybercom’s employees and our clients. now close the file our first financial year as As a shareholder, I am inspired by the 17 global an unlisted company. Over the past year, sustainable development goals that the UN, the we have resolutely continued to pursue countries of the world and key companies signed in our strategy and are now in many ways a differ2015. We know that the technology currently availent company than we were just a year ago. I am able suffices in achieving every goal, yet we must pleased to state that we experienced a substantial all make an effort and turn our words into action. increase in demand for our services and that we I know that corporate drive can take us a long way are more competitive than ever before. We have and that those of us in the business community also continued to strengthen our brand, which have a key role to play in taking responsibility is pivotal to retaining and attracting our and helping achieve the goals. This goes talented employees, who represent the for all industries and in particular our key to our success. Backed by tailwinds industry – the IT and telecom sector. Our from a positive market, we are now innovative solutions enable, for example, well-equipped to further advance our more secure online banking services, positions. This has been particularly digital services used by citizens when apparent from our clients, as we are now communicating with authorities, autonsecuring a greater number of good and exomous cars and even connected cranes citing projects than perhaps ever before. The fact that add to optimisation and efficiency enhancethat we have together achieved our current position ments. Cybercom has been a signatory of the UN is thanks to hard and determined work, but we have Global Compact since 2011. more to give! Our goal is to constantly improve in order to JCE Group and Tequity are jointly providing supcreate profitable growth. Cybercom aims to become port to Cybercom and its management in efforts to even more client-oriented, agile and focused. The safeguard the company’s future opportunities. This company’s foremost assets are its employees, our involves corporate responsibility – taking long-term talented consultants. I am proud of our knowledge responsibility for how we impact our environment. base and what we have achieved in unison over this Our values as owners are entrepreneurship, profesperiod. Together we are making a difference for a sionalism and dedication. It is important to always better future! act with professionalism; to make decisions while keeping an eye on a resilient horizon and based on Hampus Ericsson respect for the individual and how our decisions affect society and the environment, in the short CEO and Chairman, JCE Group term and in the future. As Cybercom has the ability Main shareholder and Chairman, to serve as both an influence and an inspiration, it is Cybercom Holding important that our words lead to action and exceed our clients’ expectations on sustainability. We are Corporate governance information is available convinced that this is in demand among clients, ➔ at www.cybercom.com 46 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Code of Conduct Cybercom’s code of business ethics and conduct is based on the Code UN Global Compact and its principles on human rights, labour, of Conduct the environment and anti-corruption. The code was introduced in brief in 2004 and has over the years been adapted to the world we live in. Cybercom’s board reviews the code annually. In 2012, a code was also drawn up for Cybercom’s suppliers to sign. 1. Comply with laws and show respect for each other and for 6. C orruption and other prohibited mains in force even after the project regulations Cybercom’s business partners and business practices has been completed. Cybercom has All Cybercom employees are responwill take responsibility for combating Cybercom complies with the Swedish clear guidelines for the handling of sible for acting in compliance with discrimination. Cybercom works Anti-Corruption Institute’s Code of confidential information. laws and regulations applicable to unabatedly to combat discriminaGifts, Rewards and other Benefits Cybercom’s operations and deliveries. tion. This permeates the company’s in Business, and works actively to 9. Protect our clients’ and partners’ In the event of an individual issue policies and processes during, for excombat corruption and unethical confidential and patented demanding it, they will seek legal ample, recruitment, setting of wage practices. Employees must not give information advice. Cybercom applies the Swedrates, and skills enhancement. or receive gifts, benefits or bribes Cybercom requires all employees to ish Code of Corporate Governance. Cybercom offers salaries that that constitute a breach of this code. sign a confidentiality agreement in Cybercom presents and reports comply with the minimum wage, as Cybercom is politically independaccordance with Cybercom’s security corporate information in compliance laid down in national legislation, with ent and does not sponsor political policy. There are clear rules for the with applicable laws and regulations. correctly prepared employment conorganisations. Cybercom is opposed handling of, and access to, material tracts. Cybercom also ensures that to any form of money laundering and belonging to Cybercom. 2. Human rights working hours are compliant with has taken the relevant measures to Cybercom respects human rights as local legislation. Cybercom seeks to prevent financial transactions that are 10. Take a professional pride in laid down in UN conventions. Everygive all employees time for rest. of criminal intent. the consultancy role body in the organisation must show Cybercom shall not in any way Freedom with accountability and respect for the integrity and dignity utilise forced labour and will always 7. Promote accurate disclosure focus on the individual are important of all people. Cybercom will not in ensure that the working relationship in financial reports and other contributory factors in Cybercom any way contribute to the violation of between employee and organisation public communications being able to attract highly skilled human rights. is at the employee’s own free will. Cybercom shall be transparent and staff. Cybercom seeks to offer all provide relevant information when so employees the opportunity for per3. Labour law and working 4. Health and safety required. This means that the comsonal and professional development. conditions Cybercom shall provide a healthy and pany shall always provide fair and A workplace that is open, creative Cybercom supports freedom of safe workplace in compliance with correct information. Cybercom’s goal and flexible sets the course for being association and the right to collective internationally acknowledged standis for all communication to contribute able to offer clients professional and bargaining. ards. Cybercom works proactively to to a stronger brand. attractive products and services. Cybercom does not permit child prevent accidents and work-related labour. Cybercom applies the princiillnesses. All employees are offered 8. Properly use company assets To sum up, Cybercom shall always ple that a child is a person younger health and safety training when and and confidential information conduct itself ethically in its dealings than 15 years of age unless national if required. All business decisions shall be with all its stakeholders. Cybercom states an older age, in which case the made with the good of the company shall be characterised by profesolder age applies. Cybercom applies 5. Environment in mind. All consultants will be sionalism and integrity. Cybercoms the definition of child labour as laid Our aim is to minimise the company’s professional in their relationship code of conduct is available in full at down by the International Labour negative environmental impact. with Cybercom and will not pursue www.cybercom.se. Organisation (ILO). Cybercom respects the precautioncompetitive activities. Cybercom does not tolerate any ary principle and seeks to actively Client trust is of vital importance forms of discrimination. All employcontribute to reducing negative to Cybercom. All employees will ees have equal rights and must never environmental impact through treat client information in complete be subjected to unjust treatment due responsible measures and technologconfidentiality. Information about to gender, sexual orientation, ethnic ical advancement. Cybercom always Cybercom’s clients may only be used origin, religion, beliefs, political affiliacts in compliance with laws and in the implementation of the project ation or disability. All employees must internationally recognised directives. in question. This confidentiality reSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 47 GRI information GRI INFORMATION Dialogue with stakeholders various shareholders and with union repreour sustainability ambassadors. Employees can Cybercom has identified its employees, clients, sentatives. The aim was to identify the main also discuss and obtain information on health shareholders and unions as its key stakeholders issues for Cybercom based on the sustainability and safety issues or on business-related issues based on how much they are affected by or issues that most affect and are affected by our through the health and safety committees or affect Cybercom. activities and where we can make the biggest through their immediate manager. In 2013 and early 2014 we conducted difference. See also forums and formats for dialogue in a number of interviews and surveys with Cybercom's employees can comment and the table below. employees in Sweden and Finland, with clients ask questions to management through the from different sectors, with representatives of employee survey and through contacts with Stakeholder group Issues Dialogue Outcome Clients Offer, quality, delivery, security Client survey, interviews Sales training, business system in the Swedish management, privacy, business ethics, operations for quality, environment and data securilabour conditions, climate perforty that will be integrated throughout the group. mance, procurement procedures The system is based on the established standards ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO 14001 (environment) and to some extent ISO 27001 (information security) Employees Skills development, working Employee survey, interviews Training, management conferences, environment, corporate culture, employee events /meetings on vision, values diversity and equality Investors/shareholders Profitability, corporate responsibility, Annual general meeting, board work, Code of business conduct and ethics, business ethics interviews, investor meetings sustainability report, corporate governance report Suppliers Suppliers' environmental work Suppliers' code of conduct, procurement, Compliance with code, sustainability focus negotiations Trade unions Labour law, employment conditions, Workplace meetings, board meetings, Support in wage bargaining and negotiation of skills development, work environinterviews/surveys layoffs ment, codetermination, board matters 48 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI information Material sustainability aspects per GRI G4 Economics Cybercom's sustainability aspect GRI G4 aspect SEKk 2016 2015 2014 Business ethics Generated direct economic value Anti-corruption & anti-competitive Anti-corruption Revenues 1,353,925 1,259,598 1,262,887 behaviour Distributed direct economic Dedicated employees & employee Employment, occupational health value development & safety and training Employee benefits -766,570 -782,933 -824,303 Financial stability Economic performance Other external expenses -480,000 -408,590 -345,921 Sustainable products & services Products & services and product & Charitable donations -549 -575 -521 service labelling EBITDA 106,806 67,500 92,142 Sustainability in Cybercom's culture Investment activities -23,363 -23,873 -26,373 Net finance income/expense -5,588 -2,621 -2,490 Information security Dividends 0 0 -9,022 Privacy issues related to IT Customer privacy Corporation tax paid by country1 Diversity & equality Diversity & equal opportunity and Denmark 0 0 0 non-discrimination Finland -3,503 -925 -3,567 Smart use of resources Energy and emissions India -754 -573 -1,637 The table shows which aspects of sustainability that Cybercom has assessed as material in terms Italy 0 -1 0 of their impact on the company and how they are deemed relevant to our stakeholders and their relationship with the aspects of GRI G4. Korea -1,163 -809 -123 Paraguay 0 0 0 Poland -2,730 -1,755 -472 Below we outline supplementary information about the GRI indicators we report and the methods, assumptions, and conversion factors used Rwanda -187 0 -1,350 to calculate them. Senegal 0 0 -4,775 Singapore -466 185 24 External assurance Sweden 4,215 -1 -319 Our sustainability has not been subject to external independent Taiwan -126 -121 -94 assurance. Tanzania -431 -802 -582 Chad -583 -546 -383 Germany -10 0 0 ANTI-CORRUPTION Economic value retained 63,687 35,658 40,979 Percentage trained in anti-corruption, SO4 2016 2015 1) In countries where the company has paid withholding tax during the year, these amounts have Board 100% 100% been included in the amount of tax paid. Executive management 100% 100% The table shows Cybercom's generated direct economic value, and how this is distributed between different stakeholder groups. Other employees 70% 54% Corporate governance Board of directors The general meeting of shareholders is the During the year the board has focused primarcompany’s supreme governing body. It is at the ily on the company's strategy, business plan meeting that shareholders have the opportuand budget, the company's financing and nity to exercise their influence. Shareholders industry trends. The board monitors managewishing to attend a general meeting must be ment performance through monthly reports registered as shareholders in the transcript or which include reports of financial results, key other copy of the entire share register, accordperformance indicators, development of prioriing to ownership status, five weekdays before ty activities and so on. the meeting, and notify the company of their intent to participate not later than on the date specified in the notice to the general meeting. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 49 GRI information Employees Key figures and indicators relating to the number of employees relate to December 31 for each year. 2016 2015 2014 Total number of employees at Employees Female Employees Female Employees Female Cybercom on Dec 31 (number) (percentage) (number) (percentage) (number) (percentage) Number of permanent employees 1,185 17% 1,200 17% 1,287 17% Of which full-time 1,154 17% 1,200 17% 1,238 16% Of which part-time 31 29% 0 0% 52 37% Number of temporary employees 18 33% 18 28% 20 15% Total number of employees 1,203 18% 1,218 17% 1,307 17% 2016 2015 2014 Employees Female Employees Female Employees Female Employees by country (number) (percentage) (number) (percentage) (number) (percentage) Sweden 748 20% 765 18% 825 19% Finland 164 12% 193 10% 250 11% Poland 253 18% 209 16% 167 17% India 23 13% 28 25% 31 29% Singapore 2 50% 13 8% 19 11% Denmark 13 8% 10 10% 15 7% Total number of employees 1,203 18% 1,218 17% 1,307 17% 2016 2015 2014 Employees Female Employees Female Employees Female Composition of the company (number) (percentage) (number) (percentage) (number) (percentage) Board of directors 9 33% 9 33% 9 22% Under 30 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 30–50 7 14% 7 43% 7 29% Over 50 2 100% 2 0% 2 0% Managers 115 26% 97 20% 80 29% Under 30 3 33% 1 0% 0 0% 30–50 89 22% 75 17% 64 30% Over 50 23 39% 21 29% 16 25% Other employees 1,088 17% 1,121 17% 1,226 16% Under 30 309 18% 276 18% 334 19% 30–50 642 16% 696 15% 763 14% Over 50 137 20% 149 21% 129 19% 50 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI information 2016 2015 2014 Staff turnover Female Male Total Female Male Total Female Male Total New recruitment during the year 280 237 332 Under 30 34 119 153 12 89 101 28 142 170 30–50 24 95 119 24 109 133 30 121 151 Over 50 1 7 8 0 3 3 2 9 11 Percentage of new recruits 23% 19% 25% People who left during the year 294 332 279 Under 30 12 50 62 7 58 65 9 66 75 30–50 27 166 193 42 186 228 25 149 174 Over 50 8 31 39 9 30 39 7 23 30 Percentage who ended employment 24% 27% 21% Collective bargaining Sick leave 2016 2015 2014 agreements 2016 2015 2014 Percentage of sick leave for each country Percentage of employees covered Sweden 3.4% 2.6% 2.3% by collective bargaining agreements 77% 77% 80% Finland 3.0% 1.5% 2.4% Poland 2.0% 1.6% 1.8% Development reviews 2016 2015 2014 India 0% 2.4% 2.6% Percentage of employees given development review Singapore 0.4% 0.1% 3.0% Female 89% 89% 83% Denmark 1.9% 0.0% 0.1% Male 84% 81% 83% Average Cybercom 3.0% 2.2% 2.4% All employees 85% 83% 83% Cybercom had one reported work-related accident in 2016, relating to a minor incident. Excl. new recruits Training hours/Employee 2016 2015 2014 Female 17 34 26 Male 18 26 22 All employees 18 27 22 Environment Energy We annually review the electricity consumption at our offices and in our which we operate, except Poland. To convert energy from MWh to GJ, own data centres. Cybercom buys renewable electricity in all countries in use the conversion factor of 3.6. Electricity consumption in Cybercom’s offices & data centres 2016 2015 2014 Total electricity consumption (MWh) 2,356 2,230 2,610 Electricity consumption in relation to sales (MWh/SEKm) 1.7 1.8 2.1 Virtual communications 2016 2015 2014 Number of Skype meetings 90,086 57,792 18,172 Greenhouse gas emissions We measure and annually monitor our greenhouse gas emissions from reported to us by a travel agent. We do not make our own conversions employee air travel. Greenhouse gas emissions are reported directly from other greenhouse gases to CO2 and therefore have no overall value by our travel agents in each country. For our operations in Singapore, for Global Warming Potential (GWP). We do not use a Radiative Forcing greenhouse gas emissions are calculated based on distance travelled, Index (RFI) for emissions from air travel. Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel in relation to the company’s sales 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Carbon dioxide emissions from air travel (tonnes of CO²) 272 343 640 599 451 903 Carbon dioxide emissions1 in relation to sales (tonnes of CO²/SEKm) 0.20 0.27 0.51 0.50 0.34 0.61 1) Data excludes Cybercom’s joint venture in India. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 51 GRI information GRI Index The following list makes reference to the GRI indicators that Cybercom has chosen to report and to the ten principles of the Global Compact. General standard disclosures Pages/remarks Global Compact Principle G4-1 Statement from the CEO about the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability p.4-5 G4-3 The name of the organisation Cybercom Group AB G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services p.22-23, 28-29 G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Stockholm G4-6 Countries where the organisation has significant operations p.3 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p.0, 46 G4-8 Markets served p.0, 3, 22-23 G4-9 Scale of the organisation p.3 G4-10 Total number of employees p.50 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p.51 Principle 3 G4-12 Organisation's supply chain p.45 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period p.5 G4-14 Whether the precautionary approach is addressed p.5 Principle 7 G4-15 Externally developed initiatives to which the organisation subscribes p.5, 6-7 G4-16 Memberships of associations p.5, 35 G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements p.3 G4-18 Process for defining the report content p.48-49 G4-19 Material aspects identified p.49 G4-20 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation p.1 G4-21 Limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation p.1 G4-22 Effect of restatements of information provided in previous reports p.1 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods No significant changes G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p.48 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders p.48 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement p.48 G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded p.48 G4-28 Reporting period p.1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report spring 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle p.1 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report p.53 G4-32 In accordance option & GRI content index p.0, 52-53 G4-33 External assurance p.49 G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation p.49 G4-56 Organisation’s values codes of conduct etc p.0, 47 Principle 10 52 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI information Specific standard disclosures Page Global Compact Principle DMA Economic performance p.3, 5 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 49 DMA Employment p.35-37 G4-LA1 Employee turnover p.51 DMA Occupational health & safety p.35-37 G4-LA6 Absenteeism & work-related injury p.51 DMA Training & education p.35-37 G4-LA9 Employee training p.51 G4-LA11 Development reviews p.51 DMA Diversity and equal opportunity p.35-37, 47 Principle 6 G4-LA12 Composition of organisation p.37 DMA Non-discrimination p.35-37, 47 Principle 1, 2, 4, 5 & 6 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination No incidents reported in 2016 DMA Anti-corruption p.45, 47 Principle 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption No incidents reported in 2016 DMA Customer privacy p.45, 47 Principle 1 G4-PR8 Number of losses of customer data No incidents reported in 2016 DMA Energy p.45 Principle 8 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation p.51 G4-EN5 Energy intensity p.51 DMA Emissions p. 45 Principle 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions p.51 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity p.51 DMA Products & services p.24-25 Principle 9 G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services p.24-25, 45 DMA Product and service labelling p.28-29 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction p.28-29 For more information about this report and our sustainability work, please contact Kristina Cato, kristina.cato@cybercom.com Production: Cybercom in cooperation with Narva. Photography: Mattias Bardå (page 17: Jann Lipka). Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet, Mölnlycke 2017. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 53 Nordiska Miljömärkningen Svanen • Färgkod PMS 354, Fyrfärgskod C-91%, M-0,0%, Y-83%, K-0,0%. MILJÖMÄRKT Trycksak 3041 0250 • Standardfärger enligt SS 019100 – 019103 Blankt papper: 1080G10Y Matt papper: 354U-1070G NCS: 0879-G07Y NCS: 1368-G04Y • Miljömärket bör ej understiga 8 mm och ska minst ha den storleken att texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” och underliggande licensnummer är tydligt läsbara. • När märket understiger 2 cm i diameter kan den förklarande undertexten utelämnas på produkten (Trycksak), om den finns med märket på förpackningen. Text på märket: • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” följer märkets rundade form på ovansidan. • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” med versaler och teckensnitt Helvetica, rak, halvfet. Teckentäthet och teckengrad anpassas till märkets storlek. • Texten under märket ”Trycksak” skrivs horisontellt under siffergrupperna (341 000). Teckensnitt helvetica, rak används med versal som begynnelsebokstav, f ö gemener, och anpassas i storlek till märket • För tryckning på Svanen på andra nordiska språk studera Regelverket för nordisk miljömärkning. Cybercom är ett innovativt IT-konsultbolag som hjälper ledande företag och organisationer att ta tillvara på den uppkopplade världens möjligheter. Våra konsulter och de lösningar de skapar tar oss hela vägen från nordisk offentlig sektors e-tjänster till mobilitet i Karibiska ö-världen, streamad media och förarlösa bilar i Europa, nationella eIDs, säkra kortbetalningar samt hälsoappar till sjukvården, uppkopplade lyftkranar och hissar och smarta industriella robotar. Cybercom grundades 1995. Idag täcker bolagets expertisområden hela ekosystemet inom kommunikationstjänster och IT-säkerhet. Vi är ett mångfaldsrikt bolag med stort åldersspann och många nationaliteter. Tillsammans skapar vi morgondagen, vi är kreativa, orädda och nyfikna – alltid redo att utmana status quo. Vi går från ord till handling och möjliggör förändring. Vi är #Makers of tomorrow. VI HJÄLPER FÖRETAG, ORGANISATIONER OCH MYNDIGHETER Cybercom är sedan 2015 ett privatägt bolag. Huvudägare är JCE Group AB och Tequity AB. Mellan 1999–2015 var Cybercom noterat på Stockholmsbörsen. Cybercoms hemmamarknad är Norden och Polen, därtill erbjuder bolaget global leveranskapacitet för lokala och internationella affärer. I vår kommunikation använder vi oss främst av digitala kanaler. Hållbarhetsredovisningen är den enda trycksaken som vi producerar på koncernnivå. Tel. 08-578 646 00 | www.cybercom.se Cybercom Group AB | Box 7574 103 93 Stockholm Bydgoszcz I Göteborg I Helsingfors Jönköping I Karlskrona I Kista I Köpenhamn Linköping I Lund I Łódz´ I Malmö Mumbai I Stockholm I Sundsvall Tammerfors I Warszawa I Östersund
