CSR REPORT 2016-2017 Mission & Vision To become Leader in Lebanon in the fields of garbage collection, sweeping and recycling. To achieve customer satisfaction and response with zero percent defect, become as well a valuable member in the social community. Values People • We believe employees at NTCC are the most valuable asset and their interests and the company’s are one. • We value diversity and equality as human beings and everyone has the right to live a descent life. Community • Our success comes from the success of our NTCC is committed to the following SDGs community and it is our duty to serve it by being responsible citizens and respecting the laws. • We partner with whoever has an opportunity to give back to our community economically, educationally, as well as environmentally. Ethics • We respect all people and treat each other with honesty, transparency , and openness. • We believe team work is the proper path to success. We promote Gender Equality We sponsor with the following where no position is restricted NGO’s: to any. In 2016-2017, 2 Lebanese Scouts Human females were recruited as security guards. We opened doors for Truck Driver female Association Al Ria’yah Sidon Orphans Association Rights applicants. Red Cross Eye Center Activities We have a no smoking policy at Sharhabeel Youth Head Office. Association Ahluna We are open to recruitment of Rotary Club people with disabilities Hani Issam Ali Hassan depending on position. Medical Center Sidon Children Library We restrict employment of Association children (below 18 years old). Zakat Al Huriya Sports Club We are partners and the main Al Bahr Mosque Foundation supporter for educational NGO Culture & Science Foundation which provides free education for different categories of society. We support Equal Employment We cover University Tuition for Opportunity; recruitment policy employees continuing Masters & procedure allows for internal Level Education. Labor recruitment as much as external recruitment where any Employees are paid Bonus at employee can apply for an the end of year. Activities open vacancy. We provide Lunch for Office Annual Lunch is done on NTCC’s anniversary for all Employees Free of charge, employees to meet as one cafeteria Kitchen & cook for a team. Grants & Trophies are home like ambience. distributed based on years of service at NTCC. Employees have freedom of association & complain. In In 2016, Incentive program 2017, drivers requested was made for Garbage rescheduling of shifts and it Collection teams to motivate was granted to them. them. Extra Money for every extra ton of garbage collected. We offer Salary Advance (NonInterest Short Term Loan) for employees to support their living needs. We provide immediate no-cash medical treatment for employees (medicine-Lab TestHospital) at certain affiliates at company expense. Employee pay 5% only when NSSF pay back. We partnered with Saida We sponsored economical Schools Network to train events; Environmental students to recycle. Weekly we collect recyclables free and deposit the money from sale of -Saida International Festival Activities -Jezzine Festival recyclables back to the network to fund small projects for -Bramieh Festival improving the city. Our fleet was inspected in 2017 by Environmental Experts under the order of Environmental District Attorney and reported 100% compliance. We partner and sponsor projects with Municipalities & NGOs to initiate recycling projects. We bring in technology to improve for a cleaner city. Beach Cleaner was introduced to our fleet that filters beach sand from small residues. We participate in all campaigns for cleaning the area we are in: ‫حملة إحياء األحياء‬‫ حملة الشاطىء األزرق الكبير‬We strictly follow Lebanese Labor Law & NSSF Law. We applied for NTCC By Laws to Anti-Corruption Ministry of Labor to cover all unmentioned points. This act nourishes transparency. Activities We refuse bribery and extortion in all forms. We have special team to audit quality and any violation to report to top management to take corrective action from inside or outside company. We installed GPS to all our vehicles to control garbage collection service.
