2017 P R O G R E S S O N S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T CONTENTS A Message from our President Who is MaCher? Sustainable Development Goals Certified B Corps: Having a Purpose Beyond Profit People Core Values and our CRAFT Culture Developing our Culture Team Member Benefits Community Engagement Planet Our Strategies and Priorities Our Sustainability Objectives Prosperity Client Impact Partnerships Communication Channels Stakeholders Peace *This report is based on our fiscal year beginning July 1, 2016 and ending June 30, 2017 A MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT Welcome to our second Progress on Sustainability Report. As you review our progress, you will find many examples of how MaCher and our team members work with multiple stakeholders to do right by the Earth, positively influence others and create one of the best places to work. MaCher’s tag line “the brand behind the brands” seems more appropriate than ever. As we celebrate our 25th year in the United States, we are honored to work with many of the world’s leading brands. Our products and services help consumers share great experiences. We seek no recognition other than the joy of building partnerships between people and organizations to help improve the lives of others and take better care of our environment. Importantly, in 2016, MaCher became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We believe the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) will improve the lives of people everywhere. The UN General Assembly acknowledges and encourages the role of tourism in the SDGs and has named 2017 the “International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development.” Sustainable tourism plays a critical role in being a true ‘force for good’ at economic, social, cultural and environmental levels, globally. We are proud to be part of this community, through our extensive work within tourism and other sectors. I hope you will consider supporting the 17 SDGs this year and long after. If you need any support in how you can make this happen, we are happy to help you. As a Certified B Corp we measure our impact on our workforce, the communities we serve and our environment and set improvement targets. The B Lab Impact Assessment allows us to measure our progress in over 250 aspects of our business. MaCher accomplished a significant 12 point improvement over our last assessment, more details and comparison with past years can be viewed in our B Lab MaCher Impact Report. We are participating in the B Corp Inclusion Challenge to take action to move toward an inclusive economy. I am thankful to the team at B Lab, as well as the more than 2,200 certified B Corps that freely help and encourage us every day. We have collaborated with many clients, industry associations and some new non-profits this year who do such incredible work. Recognizing the often untapped talent of our team, we’ve taken serious steps to introduce and encourage pro bono skilled volunteering for team members to help other organizations in need. It’s incredible to see how much value our team place on these volunteer opportunities and I am thankful to Tourism Cares and The Taproot Foundation for educating us and giving us the confidence to proceed. These partnerships remind us that people matter. It simply thrills me to see how our team members are growing and actively participating to ensure our entire business operates with purpose and passion. This involvement helps our clients and numerous stakeholder groups accomplish meaningful results far exceeding anything that is on our balance sheet. Derek Hydon President 3 WHO IS MACHER? We are strategic thinkers driven by a desire to seek out innovatively responsible ways to design, manufacture, reuse and recycle custom products and packaging. MaCher custom designs and manufactures branded products, packaging, and merchandise. From ideation to execution, our mission is to craft branded merchandise that inspires consumer loyalty and advocacy. We create solutions that are authentic to our clients’ brands; strategically helping them increase sales, launch new products, gain and retain customer loyalty, and raise their brand awareness. MaCher gives back; our purpose is to use business as a powerful force for good, benefiting all our stakeholders…not just our shareholders. 4 S U S TA I N A B L E DE VELOPMENT G O A L S Our objectives and progress reporting are aligned to the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development under 5 categories: People Planet Prosperity Partnerships Peace The “5 Ps” are the pillars that support the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals which were launched in 2015, and aim to mobilize efforts to end all forms of poverty, fight inequalities and tackle climate change. We have developed our own set of tools and methods to gauge our contribution towards these global goals, and by doing so are better equipped to create positive change for the future. 55 Below are some examples of our contribution to these goals: SDG3 Good Health & Wellbeing SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth SDG13 Climate Action In 25 years, 100% of all MaCher Mother’s We ensure all China suppliers meet SA 8000 We encourage all employees to reduce their returned to work. They have been supported to develop, maintain, and apply socially environmental impact, one of which is our by our effective paid maternity (and paternity) acceptable practices in the workplace. Green Commute program. leave and flexible return to work policy. SDG5 Gender Equality SDG10 Reduced Inequalities SDG14 Life Below Water 68% of MaCher’s team are female, represented We have undertaken the B Lab Diversity and We support Heal the Bay, who aim to protect across all departments and leadership positions Inclusion challenge to promote empowerment our coastline, revitalize our urban waterways, within MaCher. and inclusivity within our workplace and those and advocate smart water policies. of our partners. SDG6 Ensure Access to Water SDG11 Sustainable Cities & Communities SDG15 Life on Land and Sanitation for All We volunteered 190 hours in 5 cities, to We offset our carbon footprint by 120%, In 2017 we partnered with DIGDEEP, who are transform and revive tourism related by donation to The Conservation Fund to working to ensure that every American has public spaces. responsibly manage our forests, plant trees and clean, running water forever. reclaim land. SDG7 Affordable and Clean Energy SDG12 Responsible Consumption SDG17 Partnerships for the Goals We are working towards LEED Certification and Production We partner with organizations to create a ripple and we upgraded our facilities to be more We reduce waste in packaging and are effect to improve social and environmental energy efficient. building a Life Cycle Assessment calculator outcomes, globally. for all our products. 6 CERTIFIED B CORPS: H AV I N G A P U R P O S E B E YO N D P R O F I T As stewards of sustainability, MaCher has always put people before profits. Over the years our team has expanded our knowledge and resources to make a difference in areas we care deeply about. We believe that by giving back to the community, the environment, and the partners we work with, our business can achieve greater success. In 2014, MaCher USA became a certified B Corporation. Certified B Corporations are a global movement of for-profit companies using business as a force for good. B Corps meet rigorous standards of performance, accountability and transparency. B Corps look to “B the Change” in the world we live in and openly communicate and share sustainability best practices. Our goal is that all MaCher stakeholders benefit from our work, and that our B Corp Scorecard will continue to improve, along with our ability to positively influence others. We use the B Corp certification process to annually benchmark our progress on set goals while playing an active role to help grow the B Corp movement. 2200+ B Corporations 50+ 130 1 unifying Countries industries goal 7 PEOPLE MaCher strives to provide the best workplace, do right by the Earth and positively impact others; this includes any person, party, or stakeholder influenced by our business. We promote practices that help evolve and strengthen our workplace. Our team members come from diverse backgrounds and we are proud that our average employee tenure is almost 5 years. 8 C OLL ABOR ATION Teach & learn through shared insights CO R E VA LU E S A N D R ES PEC T O U R C R A F T C U LT U R E Each other, our environment & our communities How we CRAFT our culture has a direct impact on the happiness of our team and is a key ingredient in sustaining our success. A UTH ENTICIT Y Be yourself We believe, with an authentic and well-defined company culture, we will attract the right talent, minimize turn-over, and increase engagement, productivity, creativity, sales and profit. We define “the best workplace” as a community built on a foundation of trust and respect, where F AMILY PRIDE everyone is free to be themselves and learn from Embrace & build MaCher’s family culture each other as we celebrate our shared successes, as well as, lessons learned. MaCher conducts a quarterly employee engagement survey that seeks on-going feedback to create action plans to achieve a T RUS T minimum 80% team member happiness rating. Maintain clear, honest & open communication In our last survey, 92% would recommend MaCher as a great place to work. 9 D E V E L O P I N G O U R C U LT U R E MaCher fosters an environment that values individual and group differences within its workforce. This year we engaged in the B Corp Diversity and Inclusion Challenge which incorporated best practices to ensure a more diverse and inclusive workplace. This included diversifying our offerings, our partnerships and our hiring strategies through: Creating our website to be accessible to those who are visually impaired. Forming a team to organize employee trainings on diversity and inclusion in the workplace. “Managing Unconscious Bias” training was provided to team members in July 2017. Adopting inclusion focused recruitment practices. MaCher signed-up for an Applicant Tracking System (ATS) in partnership with Fitzii. This ATS has the capability to turn-off identification of names and locations of the applicants effective April 2017. Changing our traditional paid Easter holiday to provide everyone with their choice of religious or other public holiday day effective April 2017. 10 TEAM MEMBER All full-time MaCher team BENEFITS members receive the following benefits: MaCher provides numerous benefits + Company profit share for to its employees beyond salary. We are all team members constantly striving to provide our team with the highest quality benefits. + Long and short term disability coverage + Access to long term financial planning + Benefits package available for part time team members 100% + Charity matching donations + Dental and vision company paid care reimbursement 401k retirement plan + Generous paid vacation + Health Employee Assistance Program (EAP) 2.5 paid + Remote work when applicable volunteer / pro bono days each year + Maternity and paternity leave + Performance bonus 20 hours + Car purchase contribution for all minimum professional vehicles over 40mpg development + Emergency travel assistance + Sponsorship of employee team 100% company paid sports + Green Commute financial incentives medical insurance + Office hydroponic vegetable garden + Choice of a religious holiday or other public holiday 11 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 789 HRS contributed in kind 1.3% revenue donated 56,234 products donated 637 HRS volunteered by MaCher team 39 charities supported 12 PLANET MaCher engages in sustainable business practices to help protect our environment while utilizing resources responsibly and with integrity. By actively participating in the initiatives outlined in this section, we aim to lessen our short and long term impact on the Earth and contribute to a cleaner, healthier, and safer world for future generations. 13 O U R S T R AT E G I E S A N D P R I O R I T I E S Driven by the desire to grow our business while maintaining a purpose beyond profit, we plan to prioritize the following: • Remain fully committed to the B Corp standards measurements and focus on improving our score in a sustainable nature • Positively influence our clients by proposing sustainable solutions including waste reduction and increased reusability of their products. • Educate our team and clients on the latest sustainability focused innovations • Create a healthier working environment and reduce our environmental impact on the Earth We intend to accomplish these goals through five key strategies: 1. Facilitate team member education and professional development 2. Focus on sustainable design 3. Host or facilitate peer learning round tables 4. Develop and expand partnerships with industry associations and not-for-profits 5. Adopt and establish sustainable better practices 14 O U R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y O B J E C T I V E S 2016 GOALS 2017 PROGRESS Reduce the environmental impact of our US In 2017 we increased our renewable energy usage operations and increase our use of renewable by 2%. We also had a 5% energy reduction and 32% 2018 – 2020 GOALS TOOLS & METHODS energies. water usage reduction per employee over the 12 month period. Increase our B Corp score to 101 by recertification, Provide tools for sustainability initiatives to be used September 2018. for increasing client, employee and partnership 95% of our products being reusable and/or 93% of products produced this year were considered engagement. recyclable by June 2017. All single use items 100% reusable or recyclable. sustainably sourced or fully offset, by June 2019. 95% of our products being reusable and/or Offer our customers a recycled/recyclable or Accomplish LEED B+MO certification in 2017. Created policies and procedures to obtain LEED recyclable by June 2018. sustainable solution with every presentation of a Implement recommendations from ECHS audit. certification. single use item. Due to a delay in office remodeling, implementation timeline has been pushed out to 2019. New product development team to present quarterly Provide 2 FYI educational sessions to the team on product ranges for our clients that have a focus on sustainable new products. 100% recycled or a full carbon offset of all shipping Tracked 100% of shipments and used 70% of recycled utilizing sustainable materials and design for 2018. Define plans for a circular economy by 2018. materials by June 2017. content in packing materials and applied full carbon offset for balance of materials. 100% of MaCher marketing items to be sustainably Define standards and create an implementation and sourced and/or a high level of reusability by June measurement plan. Expand from 18.5% to 25% of team utilizing the 26% of our employees currently engage in our green 2018. green commute program. commute program. Reducing the number of polybags used for samples Create a system to audit, measure and reduce poly Expand our partnerships with B Corps and other Actively participated in Peer Learning Exchange with and bulk production by June 2018. packing on bulk production. sustainability programs. other B Corps and engaged B Corps in preference over other suppliers. By June 2018, have a workable Life Cycle Assessment Continue partnership with Clean Agency and build Partnered with DIGDEEP Organization, who provides that we can offer an environmental offset to our an internal/external education program around it. access to clean running water in America and clients on all orders. education on water resources. Define and document core supply partners’ Defining our standards and create an Increase our B Corp certification score by 10 points Increased our B Corp score by 12 points to 96 points. environmental impacts by June 2020. implementation plan. by September 2016. Transparent communication with supply partners to understand processes and conduct interactive By June 2017, offer our clients a full product life cycle Engaged Clean Agency to help with the final stages trainings. calculator to educate on the trade-offs between of building our workable Lifecycle Assessment. Environmental impact evaluation during supplier on product strength, waste, and sustainability. boarding. Completion expected by December 2017. 90% sustainably sourced office consumables by June In August 2016 we created and implemented a 2017. purchasing policy to ensure at least 90% of our office consumables were sustainably sourced. 15 PROSPERITY TEAM DEVELOPMENT FINANCIAL SUCCESS INTERNAL CSR TEAM NOT-FOR-PROFIT AND PROFIT SHARE SUPPORT Team members are encouraged Volunteer team meets monthly to invest in their own professional All MaCher team members participate in to establish and implement our MaCher supports and serves on boards development with a minimum a company profit sharing program. Sustainable Development Goals. and advisory committees of non-profits. commitment of 20 paid Our combined economic contribution professional development was over $400k in 2016/17. MaCher hours per employee per annum. actively participates in B Local Los Angeles, a quarterly peer learning group attended by 20 local B Corps. INDUSTRY ENGAGEMENT PARTNERSHIP COMPLIANCE MaCher actively participates in State and MaCher is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) organization, which is Federal lobby initiatives which support dedicated to driving ethical improvements in global supply chains specifically in the areas of using business as a force for good in labor standards, health/safety, the environment, and business practices. both the travel and beauty industries. We also share better practices within our In addition, our own Supplier Code of Conduct is based on SA8000, which is the United Nations industry and cross-industry. universally accepted doctrine on human rights. We routinely maintain updated audit records, schedule regular factory visits, and share the vision with our suppliers to make an impact and continually improve business by adopting better practices. 16 C L I E N T I M PA C T We are proud of our journey to date and grateful to a number of our clients who have taught us the importance of measuring sustainability practices in business. Many of MaCher’s activities are inspired by the practices of clients and other stakeholders. Our business has continued to grow in every performance metric, suggesting a happier environment for our team coupled with mutual passion for our clients who share these values. Clients have increased confidence in our ability to help their business. The image to the right is an example of an upcycling collaboration project we did with The North Face. By producing a blanket using fabric and print swatches that would have otherwise ended up in landfill, we created an entirely new vision of the possibilities of rethinking and repurposing waste. 17 PA R T N E R S H I P S MaCher understands the importance of partnerships. We take great pride in the variety of far-reaching philanthropies, associations and organizations with which we have been lucky enough to cultivate a relationship. We believe in “better together” and understand the vital role our partnerships play in establishing and maintaining the success of MaCher. 2 0 1 7 PA R T N E R S H I P S N E W PA R T N E R S 18 C O M M U N I C AT I O N CHANNELS Our sustainability story and KPIs are communicated through a variety of internal and external channels, including (but not limited to): • Team Member CSR Training • Annual Progress on Sustainability Report • Website • New Hire Orientation • Company, Department and Team Member Annual Sustainability Goals • Public Speaking and Facilitation • Association and Not-For-Profit Involvement • Industry Roundtables • Supply Partner Visits • Logistics Supply Chain Collaboration • Social Media 19 S TA K E H O L D E R S MaCher defines our stakeholders as those who directly influence and/or are influenced by our dayto-day operations. We are committed to encouraging and responding to the advice and input from our stakeholders who contribute greatly to the success of MaCher. Our stakeholders include: • Team Members • Clients • Supply Partners • Our Local Community • Travel, Beauty and Retail Industry Associations • The B Corp Community • Charities and Not-For-Profit • Owners 20 PEACE MaCher operates within the guidelines of the UN Global Compact, believing that our business and stakeholders are a powerful force for good and able to give our all, to help others along the way and leave the planet in a better place. Through extensive work with our clients and industry partners, we encourage travel and tourism as a way to gain respect and understanding of other people and cultures. We know that peace is highly correlated with economic opportunity for all. MaCher’s contribution to peacemaking largely involves meaningful employment. MaCher contributes directly to supporting better futures for tens of thousands of workers through our factory and supply chain workforces around the globe. We also believe in creating peace of mind for all our stakeholders. Our products often start with raw materials that must be harvested, processed, weaved, sewn, and manufactured. We promote and encourage transparency, accountability and inclusiveness throughout our supply chain and comply with strict supplier operating agreements that we are happy to provide on request. 21 T H A N K YO U 1518 Abbot Kinney Blvd Venice, CA 90291 +1 310 581 5222 info@macher.com
