BASE Technologies Ltd. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Date: 21.11.2017 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY We provide reliable solutions while maintaining a relentless focus on commitment and uncompromising standard of quality. Our partners, clients, employees and all stakeholders chose to work with BASE Technologies for our unique business values and everybody wins culture. What do we do? Is a question that loads our FAQ a lot and we respond to that by saying humbly and yet truthfully that We do amazing things Our people do amazing things to help businesses, government, nonprofits and different communities to solve their toughest challenges. We, BASE Technologies, are an entity with unique combination of EPC Contracting and Systems Integration ability. We do wide range of consulting and provide technology services. We envision being one of the strongest integrated providers of a wide range of services including Consulting, Designing, Engineering, Procurement, Construction with Fabrication and Systems Integration. VISION To harness the full potential of technology for the benefits of humanity and to ensure the best use of it. OUR COMITTMENT We continue to align our operations and strategies with the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. Signing the Global Compact affirms our long-standing commitment to strive to conduct business responsibly, and where possible, we actively encourage our business partners and other key stakeholders to join the initiative. Our Communication on Progress (COP) is made available to stakeholders through the UN Global Compact website (www.unglobalcompact.org) and our own corporate internet site (www.basetechnologies.net). Page 1|9 Sustainability Philosophy of BASE Technologies Sustainability, or sustainable development, is often defined as acting in a manner that meets the needs of today without hindering future generations. Since 2012, BASE Technologies Ltd made a conscious decision to embark on a pioneering journey towards implementing, measuring and reporting sustainability. Sustainability is more than just an initiative for BASE Technologies it is a philosophy that permeates right through the company influencing every single activity and decision. We are committed to this philosophy and to continuous improvement on our road towards total sustainability. We seek to create a world class service providing brand that will motivate customers, employees, suppliers and communities to partner with us for mutual long term benefit. In its pursuits to achieve sustainability, BASE Technologies has cultivated new markets and forged new partnerships in a diverse array of market sectors ranging from Power Infrastructure, Telecom & IT Infrastructure, Renewable Energy and Aerospace & Defense, Government Sales & Purchase. Progress is benchmarked against realistic internal and external business targets. Reliable measurement is essential to guarantee continued monitoring, careful evaluation, committed implementation and tangible results. Continuous improvement is our aim, and to this end we have accredited ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems and ISO14001 Environmental Management System in place to ensure we continue to develop and improve the businesses into the future. To complement these systems, OHSAS 18001 – Occupational Health & Safety Management System for employees to work in a safe and sound work environment and ISO 27001 – Information Security Management System have been Input from stakeholders & shareholders alike will be actively sought and encouraged to ensure that we continue to implement best practices. We strive to exceed stakeholder expectations and improve the quality of life through our services and actions, and we will communicate transparently our vision, objectives and performance. Page 2|9 THE TEN PRINCIPLES The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from:  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights  The International Labor Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development  The United Nations Convention against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption: HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3|9 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. BASE Technologies works with organizations who share our commitment to human rights. BASE Technologies Code of Conduct encourages engagement with key human rights issues such as child labor, discrimination and working conductions throughout all its operations. Since the beginning, BASE Technologies Ltd has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases, incidents or breaches of BASE Technologies Code of Business Conduct, and in particular none related to human rights abuses. BASE Technologies Ltd Policy on Human Rights The objective of this policy is to minimize risks to BASE Technologies from a breach of international Human Rights standards by the company or by association with business partners and suppliers. It aims to protect the business by providing a framework of fundamental principles of Human Rights by which BASE Technologies Ltd will be guided in the conduct of its business. Human rights can be defined as basic rights that allow individuals the freedom to lead a dignified life, free from fear or want, and free to express independent beliefs. BASE Technologies Ltd supports the principles of Human Rights set out in the Bangladesh Labor Law 2013 and Bangladesh Labor Rules 2015. This Policy applies to all BASE Technologies Ltd operations, including wholly or majority owned subsidiaries and associated companies where BASE Technologies Ltd has management control. While we do not have a direct influence over our business partners’ operations, we look to engage with them and demonstrate our own internal standards. Where local legislation conflicts with this statement, we will comply with the law while seeking to promote best practice through our own conduct. The role of companies and Human Rights has no single universal set of principles. We continue to monitor international developments and adhere with best practice such as the UNDHR and UN Global Compact whilst being mindful of national and cultural differences. Page 4|9 Statement of Principles BASE Technologies Ltd respects and supports the following:  The right to equal opportunity and non-discriminatory treatment – as per our company’s code of conduct: all employees are bound by the equal opportunity policy of the company. They are obliged to behave in a respectful manner towards their colleagues and strictly refrain from any kind of discriminatory behavior, harassment or victimization. This applies to all aspects of the workplace from the recruitment and evaluation processes to interpersonal relations between employees. The company has no tolerance for this kind of behavior and disciplinary actions will be taken when appropriate.  No forced or compulsory labor – None of the employees are forced to work at BASE Technologies. Employees work here for their need and are free to leave the company at any time with prior notice.  A safe and healthy workplace – Our workplace is safe and secure for all the employees which is supported by our OHSAS 18001 certification.  Pay workers a fair wage – In accordance with the Bangladesh government’s minimum wage rate, we provide our employees above the minimum wage rate.  No bribery – As per our Company’s code of conduct: employees are actively discouraged from accepting gifts from clients or partners and strictly prohibited to accept briberies for the benefit of any external or internal party. Such behavior may invoke legal actions that will be damaging for both parties responsible.  Forgery, Falsifying Documents and Records Improperly creating or reproducing, or falsifying a signature or initial, or creating false documents for personal or group benefits will not be tolerated under any circumstances.  Against Human Rights Abuse Ensure that the company’s services and products are not used to abuse human rights.  Compliance with Law All employees must protect the company’s legality. Legal guidelines refer to all environmental, safety and fair dealing dictations of the local and international law as well as the company policies. In addition to these, all employees are obliged to refrain from unlawful or offensive behavior against the company where its finances, products, partnerships or public image are concerned. Continual improvement: Focus on Gender equality: To bridge prevailing gender gap and further enforce gender equality, females are given preference while recruiting and developing potential. Page 5|9 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. BASE Technologies respects the freedom of its individual employees to join, or chose not to join, legally authorized, trade unions, associations organizations. As of the end of 2015, none of BASE Technologies employees have taken the option to join legally authorized, trade unions, associations or organizations. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. BASE Technologies states it will not use forced or compulsory labor. All BASE Technologies employees work for the company as a result of need or want. No one is forced to work for BASE Technologies. BASE Technologies is solely based in Bangladesh and abides fully with Bangladesh Law and as such prohibit the use of any forced labor, including slavery, servitude or prison labor. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor. BASE Technologies recognizes the rights of children. BASE Technologies does not employ child labor. BASE Technologies is solely based in the Bangladesh and abides fully with Bangladesh Law with respect legal age for employment. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. BASE Technologies states the right to equal opportunity and non-discriminatory treatment. BASE Technologies views as unacceptable any form of harassment, or unfair or unlawful discrimination based on race, age, gender, color, sexual orientation, disability or national origin, whether by employees, temporary employees, managers, customers, vendors or BASE Technologies visitors. Page 6|9 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies BASE Technologies is a forward thinking, environmentally conscious company, and we have made a pledge to reduce any kind of environmental pollution, if any, as far as practically and economically possible. Moreover as renewable technologies have become ever more efficient and cost effective, BASE Technologies investigates where such technologies can be implemented to offset our primary energy usage. A recent achievement of BASE Technologies is the Solar Irrigation Pump Project completed in Hoibotpur of Chuadanga District in Bangladesh. The project was a part of Corporate Social Responsibility initiative taken by BASE Technologies. The technology is completely environment friendly since there is no need of diesel or electricity to run the motor of the pump. The power needed to run the motor is generated by solar technology which is completely pollution free and greatly reduces total cost of irrigation per season. Environmental Management System Certification: BASE Technologies received ISO14001 certification pertaining to environmental management standards. ISO 14001 is an internationally agreed standard that sets out the requirements for an environmental management system. It helps organizations improve their environmental performance through more efficient use of resources and reduction of waste, gaining a competitive advantage and the trust of stakeholders. The environmental management system helps organizations identify, manage, monitor and control their environmental issues in a “holistic” manner. Other Certifications: We also have OHSAS 18001 certification which is an occupational health and safety management system and ISO 9001 certifying that BASE Technologies complies with International standard of Quality Management System Requirements. Recently we have achieved ISO 27001 certification a specification for an information security management system (ISMS). An ISMS is a framework of policies and procedures that includes all legal, physical and technical controls involved in an organization’s information risk management processes. Page 7|9 Continual Improvement BASE Technologies is continuously improving the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the environmental management system to enhance environmental performance.  Being paper less – Everyone at BASE Technologies is encouraged to reduce consumption of paper by using soft copies instead of hard copies and by using electronic media instead of print media.  Low Power Consumption – Employees and workers at BASE Technologies are instructed to save electricity wherever possible and whenever possible. For example: Printers & Photocopiers are only turned on while printing and photocopying, lights of the toilets are only turned on when needed and during the day lights are only used when needed otherwise turned off.  Low Water Consumption – Every employee in BASE Technologies are well aware of saving water and use water very consciously for daily usage.  Overall Hygiene – Our work place is neat and clean all the time with well-trained and dedicated maintenance staffs. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A bribe is an inducement or reward offered, promised or provided in order to gain any commercial, contractual, regulatory or personal advantage. Our Policy against anti-corruption/bribery BASE Technologies commits to having a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and to develop and implementing or maintaining a broad-based, anti-corruption program to guide the behavior of their employees. The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and other forms of corruption are the responsibility of all those working for BASE Technologies. The Company is required to keep financial records which will evidence the business reason for making payments to third parties. We therefore declare and keep a written record of all hospitality or gifts accepted or offered, and ensure that all expenses claims relating to hospitality, gifts or expenses incurred are submitted in accordance with the expenses policy and specifically record the reason for the expenditure. The Company encourages openness and will support anyone who raises genuine concerns in good faith under this policy, even if they turn out to be mistaken. The Company is committed to ensuring no one suffers any detriment or unfavorable treatment as a result of refusing to take part in bribery or corruption, or because they report something in good faith. If they believe they have received any such treatment, they should raise the issue initially with their Manager and if it is not remedied, and they are an employee, they should raise it formally through the grievance procedure. Page 8|9 As per our code of conduct policy, Employees are actively discouraged from accepting gifts from clients or partners and strictly prohibited to accept briberies for the benefit of any external or internal party. Such behavior may invoke legal actions that will be damaging for both parties responsible. Any employee who breaches this policy will face disciplinary action, which could result in dismissal for gross misconduct. Continual Improvement: CoC Companywide communication & enforcement To enforce and create awareness for BASE Code of Conduct, BASE citizens will be educated via discussion and presentation sessions. The sessions will clarify, communicate and set examples of behaviors expected of BASE Citizens. BASE Technologies is currently working on developing and implementing a whistle blowing policy, where employees will be encouraged to speak up if they are aware of any such integrity breach. BASE Citizens will be active participants in Values communication sessions where the company core values will be further highlighted. The objective of this will be to ensure BASE Citizens have their conduct aligned with the company values. Page 9|9
