EIZO CORPORATION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Contents Contents 01 Seven Promises 6: Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Corporate Information / Financial Highlights 02 Corporate Governance 25 President ’s Message 03 Risk Management / Compliance 26 Corporate Philosophy / EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises 05 Outside Directors Dialogue 27 Our CSR Approach and Materiality Analysis 06 Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2016 07 Seven Promises 7: Broadminded Corporate Culture Laying the Foundations for a Motivating Workplace 29 Seven Promises 1: Creating New Value Work Style Innovation / Human Resource Development 30 Wherever You Look, You See EIZO 08 Securing Safety and Health 32 EIZO Solutions 09 Competitive Advantages of EIZO 11 Appendix Protecting Intellectual Property that Enhances Value 12 GRI Guidelines (Version 4) Content Index 33 Quality Management Policy / EIZO’s Quality Assurance System 13 Comparison Table for the United Nations Global Compact / Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement 34 Seven Promises 2: Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Environmental Policy / Environmental Management System 14 Environmental Targets / Performance Report 15 Basic Product Development Sequence / Green Procurement / Compliance with Environmental Standards and Legal Requirements 16 Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations / Environmental Risk Management / Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions 17 Collection and Recycling of Used Products 18 Seven Promises 3: Operating as an International Corporation 19 Development and Production Network – Coherent Development and Production System / Sales Network – Group Companies and Distributors 20 Editorial Policy for the CSR Report Seven Promises 4: Open and Fair Trade 21 • Editorial Policy: We have compiled an explanation on topics we • CSR Promotion System: CSR activities come under the responsibility consider important and a report on the impact and effects of of the General Affairs Division, are supervised by the operating our business activities on society and the environment, using officer responsible for CSR and implemented by all Group Seven Promises 5: Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders the GRI Guidelines as reference. companies. They are also subject to a management review by the • Scope of the report: EIZO Group Exceptions to the scope of CSR Committee, comprising the heads of each department. Relationship with Each Type of Stakeholder 22 coverage are explained in the notes to the relevant sections. • Contact information: EIZO Corporation General Affairs Department Relationships with Customers Tel: +81-76-274-2406 23 • Period covered: April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017 (FY 2016) • Issue date: October 2017 Relationships with Shareholders / • Issue date of previous report: October 2016 Relationships with the Local Community 24 • Issue date of next report: October 2018 01 Corporate Information EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Corporate Information Financial Highlights Company Name EIZO Corporation ⃝ Sales and Percentage Breakdown by Category (Consolidated) Business Activities Development, design, manufacture and sales of total visual solutions and related services (millions of yen) 80,000 78,284 Established March 6, 1968 72,576 74,878 4,527 4,973 President Yoshitaka Jitsumori 8,872 15,279 18,408 60,000 Address of Headquarters 153 Shimokashiwano, Hakusan, Ishikawa 924-8566, Japan 15,127 6,870 6,956 Group Sales 78,284 million yen (FY2016) 6,649 6,355 5,470 Other 40,000 5,548 Amusement Group Employees 2,238 including temporary workers (consolidated, as of March 31, 2017) 23,408 26,097 V&S (Vertical & Specific) Group Companies 17 (EIZO Corporation and its 6 domestic subsidiaries and 10 overseas subsidiaries, as of September 1, 2017) 20,793 Creative Work 20,000 Healthcare 15,585 17,991 16,822 B&P (Business & Plus) 0 Development, EIZO Support Network Corporation (Japan) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Production and Sales EIZO Medical Solutions Inc. (Japan) Irem Software Engineering Inc. (Japan) EIZO MS Corporation (Japan) ⃝ Operating Income (Consolidated) ⃝ Ordinary Income (Consolidated) EIZO Engineering Corporation (Japan) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) 8,000 8,000 EIZO GmbH (Germany) 7,033 7,105 EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) 6,000 6,000 5,698 5,081 EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. (USA) 4,472 4,704 EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (China) 4,000 4,000 Sales EIZO Inc. (USA) 2,000 2,000 EIZO Nordic AB (Sweden) EIZO Europe GmbH (head office in Germany and branch offices in Belgium, Czech Republic, Italy 0 0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 and the Netherlands) EIZO AG (Switzerland) EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) ⃝ Net Income Attributable to Owners of ⃝Basic Net Income (Consolidated) EIZO Austria GmbH (Austria) Parent (Consolidated) Other EIZO Agency Corporation (Japan) (millions of yen) (yen) 6,000 5,661 300.00 265.54 5,000 250.00 4,202 197.10 4,000 200.00 3,321 155.80 3,000 150.00 2,000 100.00 1,000 50.00 0 0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 02 President’s Message EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Realizing a Prosperous Future Society through the Value of Images as Only EIZO Can Abundant Opportunities for Serving Society operational efficiency and quality and most of all, In addition to high image quality and reliability, EIZO contribute to addressing social issues. We believe this is provides a type of quality that in the process of making Images are everywhere, such as on desktops at how we will contribute to society in a way that is unique as products and using products does not burden people home or the workplace, at train stations to provide service an “imaging professional.” and impact the environment.This was our objective right information, at convenience stores from surveillance from the start of developing, manufacturing and selling cameras, on airport ticket machines and in hospital EIZO Quality Is More than High Image Quality our products, and we remain committed to this as our exam rooms. All sorts of information come through and Reliability company continues to evolve. PCs and networks in the form of such images, and this To deliver the best products in the world, EIZO is where EIZO is of service. Where images are used, we EIZO is not only responsible for the products delivered values the powerful bonds it has with people working at provide the optimal visual environments to help improve to customers but also for the processes of creating these group companies and sales and procurement partners in users’ convenience for their purposes and needs, boost products and its services, as well as after-delivery service. countries and regions across the world. It is therefore only 03 President’s Message EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 natural that we respect human rights and all cultures while Japanese companies to be a problem and have been Maintaining DESIGN 2025 Initiatives to maintaining fair and open relationships. urging our employees to keep an inventory of their tasks Achieve Sustained Growth Since these are key priorities we must continue to and streamline their operations while also taking action to revisit, they have been clearly laid out in the EIZO Group eliminate overtime. Today various initiatives are underway We must maintain sound growth so that we can serve Principles of Conduct, and we have organized the content across industries in Japan to reform the way people work, customers by solving their problems under increasingly of our CSR report so that it correlates with the Seven and we have launched a project to push forward our diverse circumstances and can contribute to addressing Promises stated in the principles. ongoing efforts related to this issue. Through this project, social issues for years to come. To that end, we will we have begun reviewing our operations at the individual scrutinize the company with the viewpoint that our future EIZO’s Work Style Innovation to Ensure the level as well as across departments from the perspective business model is not necessarily a simple extension of our Health of Employees and the Company of the internal operations toward forging ahead with bold current business, and continue to actively implement the reforms. Our goal here is to achieve zero overtime, which DESIGN 2025 initiative in fiscal 2017 in light of our future We have long considered the low productivity of we know will in practice be difficult. In other words, we growth strategy. Moreover, we will be guided by our intend to be a sound company in terms of both business slogan, “Seeking greater breadth and depth” as a shared performance and employees with no overtime work. policy for this fiscal year. And we will strive to expand Rather than simply tightening overtime restrictions, the breadth and depth of our business by engaging in maximizing productivity within standard business hours activities uniquely aligned with EIZO’s strengths, while will make way for higher employee satisfaction, and in seeking results that only EIZO can achieve as a visual turn lead to company growth while maintaining the high professional. quality and reliability of our products. We will continue to broaden our connections with Another one of our initiatives is applying a mechanism society as a Visual Technology Company, providing whereby the results of increased efficiency are in effect solutions for social issues by leveraging our imaging returned to our employees. For instance, if they have more expertise and contributing to the creation of a prosperous private time and effectively use it to revitalize themselves society. or engage in self-development, the quality of their life and We welcome the comments and feedback of our work will certainly be enhanced, enabling them to enjoy stakeholders in response to this report. their jobs even more. And I hope this will further enrich our broadminded corporate culture. September 2017 Yoshitaka Jitsumori President, EIZO Corporation 04 Corporate Philosophy/ Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Corporate Philosophy We establish the following “EIZO Principles of Conduct” as guidelines for each EIZO Group employee and as a commitment to our stakeholders. Through the pursuit of imaging solutions We pledge to conduct our business in accordance with these Principles. 1. We will supply high-quality products and services loved by customers through with advanced technologies, creating and offering new value by unique technologies and ideas. 2. We will promote our manufacturing and business activities in consideration of we enrich people in their professional reducing their environmental burdens. 3. We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and mindset. and personal lives. 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. 5. We will seek to build and maintain strong bonds of trust with our stakeholders (business partners, employees, shareholders, and the local community). 6. We will strictly respect and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the law as a good corporate citizen. 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate culture. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact EIZO became a participant of the United Nations Global Compact As a corporate participant, EIZO will engage in an ongoing effort to (UNGC) in September 2012. Through this voluntary initiative, realize the UNGC’s ten CSR principles in the areas of human rights, member corporations cooperate in the development of a global labor, the environment and anti-corruption, under the personal framework for sustainable growth by demonstrating responsible, leadership of the company’s president. creative leadership in their actions as good corporate citizens. 05 Our CSR Approach and Materiality Analysis EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 We applied the following process to identify the material issues that EIZO must address through its business. EIZO’s Approach to CSR ■ Organizing issues Our business activity in itself constitutes our most important social responsibility. We are aware Organizing material issues for CSR with a panoramic view of the EIZO Group’s value chain that our social responsibility lies in engaging in business with integrity, which includes contributing Organizing activities with key stakeholders see page 22 for details to society with products, solutions and services, returning all the benefits produced through our business to society, and complying with laws and regulations while respecting human rights. In addition, with the view that participating in and supporting regional activities constitute part of our social responsibility, we enthusiastically engage in such activities. In this context and as the basic policy underlying our CSR, we uphold the EIZO Group Principles of ■ Evaluating materiality Evaluating the issues to be addressed along two axes: materiality for stakeholders Conduct, which serve as both a guideline for the EIZO Group and our promise to stakeholders. (degree of societal expectation) and materiality for the EIZO Group ■ Extracting aspects Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Extracting material aspects using the GRI G4 Guidelines as reference EIZO will identify the areas where it can contribute to achieving the SDGs adopted in 2015 by the United Nations and will present its related efforts in the CSR Report. High Material issues •Product responsibility •Society Materiality for stakeholders Product and service labeling Anti-corruption Anti-competitive behavior •Environment Compliance Products and services •Labor practices and decent work •Economy Diversity and equal opportunity Economic performance •Human rights (degree of societal expectation) Procurement practices Human rights evaluation Low High Materiality for the EIZO Group (degree of contribution to the task and our own growth) ■ Reconfirming Principles of Conduct Reconfirming they are represented in the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises see page 05 for details 06 Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2016 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 The following table shows the major results of our activities in fiscal 2016 as well as newly disclosed information. Seven Promises Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2016 and Newly Disclosed Information Report Fiscal 2017 Activity Goals Page We will continue striving to provide products and services Activity that contribute to addressing social issues, by creating and Creating New Value We focused on ease of use from the perspective of users and also introduced a new design and functions, such as an P.9-10 presenting new value through our pursuit of unique ideas ultra-slim, fully flat design and Work-and-Flow for greater efficiency in image reading and for saving work space. and technologies. Activity Environmental Consideration P.15 We attained Environmental Targets for all items except “reduced fuel consumption.” We will continue creating products and promoting business for Our Products and Business activities with the aim of reducing environmental impact in Operations Disclosure accordance with our environmental targets for fiscal 2017. P.18 We began disclosing Scope 3 data. We will implement education and other activities for Activity Operating as an International employees in and outside of Japan to broaden their We expanded sales activities to emerging countries where growth of particular markets is expected and assigned local P.19 Corporation sales personnel to Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and India to enhance our approach to customers. perspectives and global mindset as members of an international corporation. Activity We will continue to conduct open and fair trade as a matter Open and Fair Trade We obtained an agreement on the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct in the form of the Supplier Declaration from all P.21 of course while seeking to establish relationships of trust business partners involved in procurement. based on mutual prosperity with our suppliers. Activity P.23 We conducted a customer survey to measure satisfaction levels with our sales and support staff. Strong Bond of Trust with We will strive to forge even stronger bonds with our Stakeholders Disclosure stakeholders through ongoing dialogue. We continued to introduce initiatives that contribute to local communities, not only at the head office in Japan but also P.24 at overseas Group companies. Strict Respect and Compliance Disclosure P.27We will maintain our efforts to raise awareness of with both the Letter and Spirit of We organized and published the content of a discussion among outside directors on our corporate governance. P.28 compliance among employees. the Law Disclosure We will seek to balance employee happiness and corporate We expanded disclosure of quantitative information, including the status of employment and initiatives for promoting P.29growth by improving operational efficiency and productivity Broadminded Corporate Culture women’s careers. Also, we worked to improve the description of our program for having children visit the workplace as P.31 so that employees can work with a sense of satisfaction, well as educational programs for young employees. achievement and well-being. 07 EIZO Corporation We will supply high-quality products and services loved by customers Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value CSR REPORT 2017 through creating and offering new value by unique technologies and ideas. Our products are used around the world in a variety of fields, with different specifications and functions in visual solutions required for each one. Beyond listening and responding to customer requests in each of those fields, we relentlessly pursue proprietary technologies and ideas toward creating and offering new sets of values that extend our promise to consistently deliver products that customers appreciate. Wherever You Look, You See EIZO Visual solutions enrich every setting of daily life. EIZO, as a “Visual Technology Company,” delivers a sense of security and inspiration with its systems that add unique value to visual displays. Office Home ● Professional photography, printing, design, ● For business video production and other creative work ● Digital photos, illustrations, games, etc. Marine vessels ● For marine chart display, etc. Airport ● Air traffic control, etc. Hospital Railway Factory Educational facilities Security room ● For diagnosis, including display ● Railway platform monitoring, ● For incorporation into ● For library search systems, ● For monitoring, security of electronic charts and image digital signage systems for production and inspection schools, etc. and surveillance reading, therapy, treatment, etc. onboard installation, etc. equipment, etc. 08 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Case Study Schön Klinik in Germany EIZO Solutions Introducing a Surgical Panel with In-built 47-inch Monitor to Achieve Highest Level of Operations For the Business & Plus Markets Schön Klinik is a major medical institution that manages 17 hospitals, including Schön Pursuing User Comfort and Energy Conservation to Raise Computer Work Efficiency Klinik Vogtareuth, where an operating room was and Energy-Saving set up in October 2015. The hospital has planned to In addition to ergonomics-based design for continuous stress-free use, we provide the most advanced surgery in the world. provide functions that enable Auto Brightness Control to reduce backlight brightness EIZO met its needs with a customized Surgical Panel and minimize power consumption during suspension, as well as other power saving with an in-built 47-inch monitor installed in the wall. functions, to raise work efficiency and save energy during long work hours. This has created an environment where surgeons can easily check the screen from the operating table and Case Study Treasury Unit, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation provide accurate treatment. Creating a Comfortable Working Environment with FlexScan EV2450 The Treasury Unit moved into a new building that had been completed in July 2015, and Column Jordan Breast Cancer Program—Supporting Early Detection and Screening as part of its replacement of equipment, one thousand EV2450 monitors were installed in its dealing room. Dealers spend a considerable amount of time concentrating on screens so they A workshop on enhancing diagnostic imaging of breast cancer was held in Jordan in March can immediately respond to market fluctuations. EIZO 2017, and EIZO provided its support by leasing RadiForce RX850 and RX650 medical monitors. proposed a solution for their visual environment for About 260 radiologists and other medical practitioners attended the workshop, and EIZO received seamless viewing of several monitors, with extremely a certificate of gratitude from the JBCP for its support that contributed to raising breast cancer awareness and improving the early detection rate. thin bezels and large screens with reduced blurring The RX850 is a super-high resolution 8-megapixel color monitor capable of displaying eight and flickering. The users have remarked on how much million pixels of information onto a 31.1-inch wide screen. It has been cleared by the U.S. Food and easier it is to stare at the screens over many hours and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in digital mammography and tomosynthesis. that they are experiencing much less eye strain since Digital breast tomosynthesis is a technique for capturing images of the breast aimed at the early the monitors were introduced. detection of cancer. Compared with the two-dimensional imaging technique used in conventional digital mammography, digital tomosynthesis provides a three-dimensional tomographic image of the breast from various directions. Used in combination with digital mammography, it is expected For the Healthcare Market to facilitate detecting and locating minute calcifications that Constructing Optimal Visual Environments to Keep Pace with Advances in Healthcare are the early signs of breast cancer. In today’s increasingly advanced and complicated healthcare systems, not only In addition to the RX850, EIZO has obtained FDA approval healthcare doctors but also nurses, clinical engineers and other healthcare professionals for marketing its 5-megapixel monochrome monitors, the GX550 and GX540, as displays for digital mammography and are cooperating in the treatment of patients. It is therefore essential to create environments tomosynthesis in the United States. that facilitate information sharing and cooperation. Moreover, there is now a much greater need to refer to a diverse array of medical data during operations due to the spread of operating rooms hybridization, minimally invasive surgeries, and robotic surgeries. EIZO For the Creative Work Markets provides consulting services to propose comprehensive visual solutions that encompass Raising Work Efficiency by Displaying and Maintaining Accurate Colors image display equipment and image control software, as well as network layout, toward We are committed to accurate color reproduction and seek to enhance efficiency and the construction of the optimal visual environment that meets operating room needs and accuracy in every creative setting by offering monitor solutions that facilitate achieving and development of innovations in visual environments for medical care. maintaining accurate color display. Our ColorEdge series of color management monitors and 09 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value the exclusive calibration software ColorNavigator 6 installed with the monitor enable users Maritime to adjust the displays. Furthermore, using ColorEdge monitors that have been pre-calibrated EIZO provides display monitors that meet various standards for ships with high reliability for a specific purpose allow several users to work under the same display environment. under the harsh environment inside vessels as well as excellent display performance. Our This means that when several users are working at the same time, their entire workflow, products are used in pilothouses and for various onboard applications such as surveillance from production to referencing, is supported by a uniformly correct color display, thereby and monitoring instruments and are thereby contributing to ensuring safe navigation. boosting the efficiency of their work. Security & Surveillance Case Study Q-TEC, Inc. As the need for security and surveillance broadens, we contribute to enhancing public Chosen as the Final Confirmation Monitor for Video Production safety with products that feature superior display performance under varying conditions. Q-TEC is an editing and post-production company for audiovisual products such as These include IP monitors that can be directly linked to surveillance (IP) cameras and television programs, commercials, films and promotional videos. At its video production monitors mounted with proprietary technology for improving visibility. studio, EIZO’s 4K color management monitor, the ColorEdge CG318-4K, is being used for the final Factory Automation review of images and CG before delivery to a client. We provide products that withstand dust and dripping water and ensure clarity of Stable color reproduction and faithful reproduction display as well as a variety of housings to flexibly respond to diverse needs for incorporation of the DCI-P3 standard used in digital cinema enables into equipment and systems. users to work under the correct color specifications starting from the production stage. Case Study Tokyu Corporation Ensuring the Safety of Platforms Color Management Workshops Tokyu Corporation selected the DuraVision FDX1513, EIZO’s LCD monitor for railways, EIZO periodically holds free workshops to provide customers with opportunities to in 2016 as a surveillance monitor for observing passenger movement in and out of print their own photographs using our Quick Color Match software, which simplifies the carriages on trains that travel between Shibuya color matching process. The goal of these workshops is to instruct the general public on and eastern Kanagawa Prefecture. By providing how to match the colors of a photo print to reduce monitors that feature excellent durability and high reprinting time and cost, essential for enjoying visibility regardless of the weather, under well-lit creative work. We held the workshops in Sapporo, or shaded conditions, we ensured a stable visual Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Osaka and Fukuoka in environment for observing the opening and closing March 2017 with a total of 155 attendees, who of carriage doors. experienced the joy of matching colors. For the Vertical & Specific Markets For the Amusement Market We flexibly respond to diverse needs that vary with each purpose and environment, and Enlivening the Market by Providing Products Supported by Our Technological Excellence we support critical operations with high reliability and display functions. We design and manufacture LCD monitors installed in pachinko equipment, capitalizing on the EIZO Group’s advanced ATC (Air Traffic Control) visual display technology. Our products enliven the amusement We support the important mission of ensuring safety in the sky by providing the total market by offering a realistic expression of images and stories solution for visual environments required by ATC. This includes monitors, graphic boards and video with a strong gaming feel, and they become customer favorites ©SANYOBUSSAN CO., LTD. recorders used in air traffic control towers, control centers and training & simulation facilities. year after year. 10 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Excellence in Development and Quality Competitive Advantages of EIZO Development Since its founding, the EIZO Group has consistently focused its technology and passion In the course of creating visual display products, we have gained the full spectrum of on creating visual display products. We continue to concentrate our energy and efforts on technologies required for developing monitors. This in turn has enabled us to quickly deliver developing products that are a step ahead of the times by using advanced devices and new, cutting-edge products and high-quality products with enhanced functionality. pursuing cutting-edge technologies. Our goal is to deliver reliable, high-quality products that both satisfy and inspire our customers. The outcomes of these accumulated efforts are Quality EIZO’s competitive advantages: our business model, excellence in development and quality, ◦Consistent quality control through 100% self-development and self-production and our global network. We have always been committed to 100% self-development and self-production. One of our competitive advantages lies in our ability to integrate quality control, from Business Model development and manufacturing to after-sales service, and we remain committed to By developing new products with the added performance and functions required in working in concert Group-wide to further enhance quality. various fields, we have built on our core competence of software, hardware and peripheral technologies developed through our work on monitors for the Business & Plus (B&P) market ◦Development of environmentally sound products in order to expand into the Vertical & Specific (V&S) market. Leveraging the technologies, We have a proven track record of incorporating the principle of environmental procurement and production synergies among our business units has enabled us to create preservation into product development, and since the early years of our company, we have advanced products with proprietary features to further develop and expand our business. been highly regarded in Europe, where environment-related standards are particularly This unique business model has been the major driver of our growth. stringent. As public concern for the environment grows, we will work harder to develop environmentally sound products by, for example, actively participate in the formulation of ⃝Business development leveraging the synergies among business units environmental standards. Marine Vessel Security and Solutions ◦Rigorous attention to quality control Surveillance Amusement ATC Solutions Monitors Solutions The key to the success of our products is the stringent inspections we conduct on Creative Work Business & Plus Healthcare the image quality of our monitors at different stages, from Solutions Solutions Solutions Solutions development to production. We make every effort to ensure that the image quality of all our products is reviewed at the highest level of accuracy from the perspective of the user, through measures such as confirming some inspection criteria by human eye in addition to machine. Global Network Core Competence We leverage our extensive capabilities by generating synergies in development, Software Hardware production and sales among our 17 Group companies worldwide. For details on our Peripheral Technologies global network, please refer to page 19. 11 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Centralized Management of Intellectual Property for the Entire Group Protecting Intellectual Property that Enhances Value We have centralized the management of all intellectual property (including patents, design rights, and trademarks) owned by the Group and encourages the creation of We actively seek to obtain patents and design rights for the technologies and intellectual property group-wide.We have also established a system to facilitate the use designs created through product development. of intellectual property and the sharing of related information among Group companies. Our recent focus has been on attaining patents and design rights in countries and regions where we expect product sales to grow such as China, India and Russia, in Creating Intellectual Property and Obtaining Rights addition to Japan, Europe and the United States, our current main markets. Overall, our We have introduced a survey and application procedure for patents and designs to goal is to construct a global network of intellectual property. our product development process with the aim of preventing missed opportunities for We also believe that trademarks, including the names of our company and identifying new core and peripheral technologies created during the process. products, are key to protecting and enhancing EIZO brand value. We therefore strive to It is our goal that each patent or design application technology is effectively utilized obtain and maintain trademark rights in all the countries where we sell our products. as a powerful patent or design right which is useful in our business. To achieve the goal, we strategically select target countries for the applications and develop a network of ⃝Number of Patents Obtained by the EIZO Group patents and design rights centered on application technologies. 350 In addition, we regularly assess the value of patents and design rights in order to 331 296 309 55 appropriately manage our intellectual property. 300 ■ Other countries 280 32 9 ■ Europe 3 250 ■ United States ■ Japan 232 8 90 93 91 86 Encouraging the Creation of Intellectual Property 200 183 56 We have established and manage an incentive program for employee inventions to 7 23 24 31 40 150 139 45 21 encourage employees to produce patents and designs. We also have an internal awards program 131 125 6 116 9 6 17 for inventors and creators of patents and designs that have contributed to our business. 9 37 37 100 37 34 14 164 170 155 150 14 14 147 12 114 50 61 71 68 82 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal Year) Beyond creating intellectual property, we also exercise the utmost care to ensure our products and applied technologies do not infringe upon any third-party intellectual property rights. In the event a third party is found to have infringed upon intellectual ⃝Areas the EIZO Brand Has Penetrated (Countries with Trademark Protection) property rights of EIZO, we demand that appropriate action be taken to protect these rights. ■ Countries with Trademark Protection 12 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Planning and Development Process EIZO is engaged in the planning and development of high-quality products based on its Quality Management Policy core competencies, which include video signal transmission technology, development and processing technology for display devices, image processing algorithms and environmental The EIZO Group is committed to continually fulfilling customers’ expectations by proposing and offering high quality products, services, and solutions. We therefore: compliance. We maintain complete compliance with the rules, laws and regulations of each country as well as various certification standards at the development stage, while also 1 Aim to develop high quality products by pursuing the world’s highest level of technology. rigorously assessing risks for each market and application. Moreover, we verify processes based on reliability standards that reflect diverse events including 2 Carry out our responsibility for environmental preservation by actively reducing the effects on the environment in every business activity from product development to manufacturing cases from both in and outside the company. to sales and service. To offer a rapid, flexible response, which includes 3 Set the quality target which are carried out and reviewed by all the employees in every customizing products to meet customer needs, we maintain business activity. close collaboration with our development partners and 4 Establish a quality management system, review it periodically, and continually improve it to suppliers throughout product planning and development. sustain its validity and suitability. 5 Respond to the trust of both medical professionals and patients by providing medical Manufacturing Process equipment with assured quality, effectiveness and safety. At left are the comments of an employee involved in 6 Comply with legal and social requirements. manufacturing EIZO products. Each employee works with a strong commitment toward the manufacture of products having superior quality and reliability and that can be used with confidence. To achieve and maintain high product quality, we provide specialized employee training for each task at the Training Center EIZO’s Quality Assurance System inside the manufacturing site. In addition, we are automating the production lines at our new factory building to raise the efficiency PDCA Cycle Under our Quality Management Policy, we seek of production while reducing employee workload. We are also to deliver a sense of security and excitement to actively utilizing IoT to monitor product quality in real time to Stop looking for the reasons why customers and other people who depend on EIZO you cannot do it. Think seriously about how you can facilitate quick feedback. do it!! products. We do this by constructing an integrated Act quality management system encompassing the Sales and After-Sales Service Process entire process, from planning and development to EIZO conducts its sales and after-sales services through Group companies and distributors, Check manufacturing, sales and after-sales service. constantly sharing the latest necessary information with them throughout our global network. Additionally, we have obtained certification To ensure that customers can use our products with confidence, we organize user training Do under the international quality management seminars. We also seek to minimize customer inconvenience when responding to their queries standard ISO 9001, and ISO 13485 for medical or to malfunction reports by creating a support system that enables us to promptly take action. Plan equipment, and use these standards in our We will continue to strive to accurately understand the expectations of customers for ongoing, voluntary efforts to enhance each process our products and services. At the same time, we will reflect their opinions in the rigorous in the Group’s quality management system. management of product safety while promptly disclosing information and developing new products. 13 Environmental We will promote our manufacturing and business activities Seven Promises 2 Consideration for Our EIZO Corporation Products and Business CSR REPORT 2017 Operations in consideration of reducing their environmental burdens. We are conscious of the importance of environmental preservation as a common issue for all humankind, and are committed to do our utmost to protect the environment in all aspects of our corporate operations, with particular emphasis on efforts that result in environmentally sound product specifications. Environmental Management System Environmental Policy We, the EIZO Group, are aware that our products have an impact on the environment. After establishing an environmental management system under our Environmental In our product development work we therefore consider friendliness to the Policy, we obtained ISO 14001 certification* in July 1998. Since then we have environment to be part and parcel of product quality. We endeavor to supply our implemented measures for waste reduction and reduced resource and energy customers worldwide with products developed to common specifications that meet consumption. We have also taken a step farther in light of a number of factors, including or exceed the environmental requirements of individual countries as well as our own environmental standards. We are conscious of the importance of environmental society’s movement toward environmentally sound products and growing public preservation as a common issue for all humankind and pledge to do our utmost to interest in eco products, by operating our environmental management system, which protect the environment in all aspects of our corporate operations. emphasizes environmental targets centered on environmentally sound products. * EIZO MS Corporation, EIZO GmbH, EIZO Technologies GmbH, and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. have also 1 We endeavor to constantly remain up to date on and to strictly adhere to environmental laws and obtained certification. standards applicable to our corporate operations and products, as well as other environmental preservation requirements of society at large. We determine environmental objectives and targets based on a clear understanding of such requirements as well as the environmental impact of our corporate Activities under the Environmental Management System operations and products. These objectives and targets are reviewed on a regular basis to achieve ongoing improvement of our environmental management system and performance. Enhancing the environmental performance of our business operations requires integrating them with our environmental protection activities. To do so, EIZO has 2 2 At the research and development stage, we pay careful attention to the design of our products to environmental protection initiatives in place that comply with the revised ISO 14001:2015 minimize the consumption of resources and energy, ensure ease of recycling, and reduce the volume of toxic substances. Our aim is a continuous raising of our environmental standards. standards under the leadership and control of the director responsible for environmental management . These initiatives are linked with management policies and business strategies 3 3 In our corporate operations we give due consideration to conserving energy and resources. We work to set by top management. The Corporate Safety Section of the General Affairs Department reduce the volume of waste products generated by our operations and to dispose properly of all waste generated. We are engaged in positive efforts to promote the collection and recycling of used products takes responsibility for the promotion of our corporate Raising Customer Satisfaction discarded by consumers. activities while also managing the energy consumption of our facilities and equipment, chemical substances Act 4 4 We constantly monitor the latest information related to the environment through our information and waste. The Certified Standards Section of the Environmental Check Management System Plan network, which includes our overseas facilities and affiliated companies. We endeavor to share information appropriately by disclosing and disseminating details of our own environmental initiatives, and we work Technology Management Department is responsible for with others in common efforts aimed at preserving the environment. Do our products, gathering environmental information from around the world and promoting the development of 5 5 We educate all company members and strive to deepen their awareness of environmental matters, while Stakeholder creating members of a team that will be committed to the effective use of natural resources and energy, environmentally sound products. and to the protection of our global environment. Environmental Management System Audits Our ISO 14001 certification was maintained and updated in fiscal 2016 after a thirdparty institution conducted an external audit. 14 Environmental We will promote our manufacturing and business activities Seven Promises 2 Consideration for Our EIZO Corporation Products and Business CSR REPORT 2017 Operations in consideration of reducing their environmental burdens. Environmental Targets/Performance Report Scope: EIZO Corporation headquarters area, EIZO MS Corporation, and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Environmental SelfFY2016 Environmental Targets FY2016 Actual Results FY2017 Targets Theme evaluation ◦ Assess risks for chemical substances Proper control and reduction of chemical substances Appropriately managed chemical substances through a series of controls, Pollution control ○ ◦ Introduce new format for managing chemicals in products used in our facilities including risk assessment, survey of storage status and employee education (chemSHERPA) Reduced the body dimension and weight of models developed in fiscal 2016 Promote smaller, lightweight and resource-saving products ○ ◦Develop flat monitor products by about 25% and 20%, respectively, compared to conventional models ◦Explore lightweight structure technology Sustainable use of Continue to respond to the reuse of amusement monitor ◦Develop reuse products Conducted full-scale initiative to reuse units and components ○ resources components ◦Reduce industrial waste •Optimize inventory Maintain industrial waste generation below 360 t and Reduced industrial waste generation to below 315.8 t; purchased 6,283 kg of △ •Effectively use waste materials purchase of copier paper below 5,950 kg copier paper, partly due to the start of operations at a new factory building Reduce electricity consumption to no more than 10.125 million kWh/year Maintained electricity consumption at 9.061 million kWh ○ Constrain and manage energy consumption in new ◦ Reduce energy consumption in business activities company buildings and equipment • Reduce overtime (raise operational efficiency) • Comply with energy saving law Climate change Prepare for compliance with the energy saving law Completed compliance with management criteria ○ • Upgrade to energy saving equipment (air conditioning, mitigation and Reduce consumption of fuel LPG: 145 t max; kerosene: 20 production facility, LED lighting, hybrid vehicles, etc.) adaptation Maintained consumption of fuel LPG at 140 t max; kerosene at 18 kl max ○ • Optimize management of servers and client PCs kl max ◦ Develop and expand sales of low electricity consumption Further expand products with lower electricity products Achieved compliance with EU energy label A++ standard for 2 products in consumption ○ the FlexScan series Increase and upgrade products with EU energy labels Environmental protection/ ◦ Appropriately manage the environment of company premises — — — • Greening of premises Biodiversity • Develop waterways around premises preservation Appropriately managed component procurement by including newly restricted substances under RoHS, the latest REACH, restricted substances Continue green procurement ○ Legal compliance under TCO and red phosphorous in the EIZO Green Procurement Standards to ensure that products comply with environmental standards ◦ Respond promptly to environmental rules and standards, such and standards as chemical substance rules and energy standards compliance Obtain ENERGY STAR 7.0 certification Obtained certification for 15 products in the FlexScan series ○ Develop models compliant with TCO Certified Displays 7 Obtained certification for 12 products in the FlexScan series ○ ○: Results exceeding 75%, △: Over 50% and under 75%, ×: Under 50% Status of Group Companies The current status of Group companies is as follows. • EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (ISO 14001 certification: 2011) Environmental targets applied to the EIZO Corporation headquarters area and EIZO MS Corporation (Hakui factory and Nanao factory) were also applied to EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. starting in fiscal 2012 to establish an environmental management system encompassing all three companies. • EIZO Technologies GmbH (ISO 14001 certification: 2012) and EIZO GmbH (ISO 14001 certification: 2009) Both companies operate in accordance with local environmental conditions and regulations, including those for CO₂ emissions reduction, the 3Rs and management of chemicals. 15 Environmental We will promote our manufacturing and business activities Seven Promises 2 Consideration for Our EIZO Corporation Products and Business CSR REPORT 2017 Operations in consideration of reducing their environmental burdens. the same time expanding markets for environmentally friendly products. Basic Product Development Sequence Management of Chemical Content Information In product development, we endeavor to meet the legal requirement and standards as well as Amid growing concern for the environment across the globe, we voluntarily monitor chemical to enhance the environmentally sound quality of our products including compliance with the legal substances toward obtaining certifications for environmental standards in Japan and overseas, and requirement and standards, domestic and overseas legal requirements and standards, industry trends support our green procurement efforts. These efforts include surveying the environmental activities and social conditions. In addition, we conduct product environmental assessments in accordance with of our suppliers and the chemical substances ⃝Flow of Chemical Content Survey our own Environmental Compliance Standards to measure the environmental soundness of products. contained in the parts we procure from them. Request The standards are linked to our system for developing, implementing and meeting environmental We have established a database for collecting Environmental targets for each fiscal year, and are revised every year toward improving the environmental soundness and managing the results of these surveys to Environmental efforts survey Information Database of our products. We also evaluate and control chemical substances throughout our supply chain in line determine which suppliers and materials best align Supplier Chemical substance survey list with our Green Procurement Standards so that they comply with chemical substance regulations. with our values, and we also use the information in (JAMP AIS File) evaluating the environmental compliance of our Material Information Sheet ◦Basic Product Development Sequence own products. Survey response Environmental Objectives, Targets, Criteria Product Development Flow Standards Laws Industry trends Planning Annual Environmental Targets Design Planning Actions for Compliance with Environmental Standards and Legal Requirements the next Environmental Compliance Standards Environmental Assessment (Prototype Assessment) product Actions for the next fiscal year Improvement In our effort to proactively develop environmentally sound products, we observe the legal Commercialization requirements of Japan and other countries and comply with major voluntary environmental standards in each market for our flagship products. In Europe a number of regulations are being enforced, including the WEEE Directive (collection and recycling of discarded electrical and electronic equipment), the RoHS Directive (use of certain Green Procurement hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment), the REACH Regulation (registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals) and the ErP Directive (eco-designing for energyOur Philosophy on Green Procurement related products). These regulations were developed in Europe; however, they have been playing an Our Environmental Policy for preserving the global environment applies to all our business important role in encouraging other countries and regions to take similar steps. Our products comply operations, and respect for the environment is incorporated into product development to create a with these regulations. recycling-based society. We also respond to environmental labeling standards such as TCO Certified Display 7 (international Our Green Procurement Standards were established to guide material procurement and to meet the comprehensive standards for monitors), EPEAT (international environmental standard for PCs/ expectations of customers and society as a whole by maintaining and strengthening our environmental monitors), ENERGY STAR 7.0 (energy efficiency standard established in the United States) and PC Green preservation activities. The standards were also intended to fulfill our social responsibility by enabling us Label (Japanese environmental standard for PCs/monitors). In addition, we are actively involved in the to quickly respond to the evolving environmental rules and regulations in each country. development of TCO, ENERGY STAR and PC Our suppliers’ efforts to reduce environmental impact and preserve the environment are just Green Label. as important to us as their quality, prices, delivery schedule, services and technological excellence. In EIZO will continue to focus on selecting products, parts and materials, including packaging, we place higher priority on those that are developing green products while environmentally sound as well as meeting our quality, function and cost requirements. keeping an eye on the development of These efforts are helping to reduce the environmental impact of our business operations while at environmental labeling. 16 Environmental We will promote our manufacturing and business activities Seven Promises 2 Consideration for Our EIZO Corporation Products and Business CSR REPORT 2017 Operations in consideration of reducing their environmental burdens. Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Environmental Risk Management (Scope of calculations: six areas as listed below) Suppliers in Japan and overseas Facility Management In principle, we ensure compliance with stringent voluntary management standards, including standards not bound by law. Regulatory Compliance Energy usage: CO2 emissions: 101,930 GJ 6,301 t-CO2 We comply with Japanese regulations governing corporate activities such as the Air Energy usage breakdown: Electricity: 9.57 million kWh Waste Pollution Control Act, the Water Quality Pollution Control Act, and the Waste Disposal Waste breakdown: Kerosene: 18.4 kl and Public Cleansing Act by collecting information on revisions and new regulations LPG: 131.2 t Industrial waste: 435.8 t Compressed air: 72,000m3 INPUT OUTPUT General waste: 18.5 t and by regularly monitoring and measuring the status of our response. Our emissions of EIZO Group Copier paper: Wastepaper: 605.5 t air pollutants NOx, SOx, soot and dust are regularly measured in accordance with the Air 8.784 t Recycling rate: 95.6% Water usage: Pollution Control Act and have remained well below the legal limit. In addition, we adhere 24,696 m3 to our own voluntary management standards, even in operations for which there are no applicable laws. No compliance problems were found in fiscal 2016, and no administrative guidance, admonitions, orders or reprimands were received. In addition, no complaints about environmental issues were received from our neighboring communities. Customer ◦Environmental Impact by Area Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions EIZO EIZO MS Corporation EIZO Display EIZO Area Corporation Technologies EIZO GmbH Technologies Total headquarters Hakui Nanao (Suzhou) Co., (Germany) GmbH area factory factory Ltd. (China) (Germany) Since the new factory building in ⃝ Emissions of Greenhouse Gases (Japan, China and Germany) Development and Development Development Development the EIZO Corporation headquarters area Production and and and manufacturing Assembly of Operations (assembly) of of circuit monitors manufacturing manufacturing manufacturing began operating in February 2016, energy (t-CO2) 8,000 CO2 emissions Energy use (GJ) 120,000 boards (assembly) of (assembly) of (assembly) of monitors use has increased along with a rise in 101,930 105,000 monitors monitors monitors 7,000 90,840 90,131 89,119 89,847 Energy usage (GJ) 58,576 28,218 8,745 1,741 1,530 3,120 101,930 CO2 emissions. We are taking action to 6,000 90,000 Electricity reduce energy consumption at the new 5,000 75,000 522.9 283.0 87.7 17.5 14.6 31.3 957.0 Energy Resources (10,000 kWh) Kerosene (kl) 18.4 − − − − − 18.4 building, such as by installing energy 4,000 6,301 60,000 3,000 45,000 LPG (t) 131.2 − − − − − 131.2 saving air conditioning systems and other 5,019 4,582 5,667 5,800 2,000 30,000 Compressed air − − − − 7.2 − 7.2 equipment. Also, we are upgrading to (10,000 m³) 1,000 15,000 Copier paper (t) 4,951 914 252 267 2,400 − 8,784 LED lighting in the other buildings and 0 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Water usage (m³) 19,347 2,255 2,400 694 − − 24,696 applying heat-insulating film on windows to raise air conditioning efficiency. * Calculations of CO₂ emissions associated with electricity use CO₂ emissions (t-CO₂) 3,655 1,740 539 134 84 149 6,301 are based on the conversion factor of Hokuriku Electric Power Industrial waste (t) 227.7 41.1 86.1 − 63.8 17.1 435.8 Since Group companies in Germany Company for Japan and the calculation methods of each country. General waste (t) 14.4 2.3 0.8 − 1.0 − 18.5 were added to the scope of calculations in Waste Wastepaper (t) 301.2 69.8 184.3 − 30.0 20.2 605.5 fiscal 2016, there is no continuity between data for this year and that for fiscal 2015 and Recycling rate (%) 98.5 97.3 99.0 − 80.0 − 95.6 earlier. 17 Environmental We will promote our manufacturing and business activities Seven Promises 2 Consideration for Our EIZO Corporation Products and Business CSR REPORT 2017 Operations in consideration of reducing their environmental burdens. Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances We began trial calculations of Scope 3 emissions in fiscal 2016. We have yet to We closely manage kerosene and organic solvents in compliance with regulations compile data for all categories and to unify the scope of data, but we intend to continue such as the Fire Service Act and the Industrial Safety and Health Act. We do not use any to improve the accuracy of our calculations. substances subject to the PRTR Law*. * Pollutant Release and Transfer Register: Regulation governing the monitoring and promotion of efforts to more effectively CO₂ Emissions Composition manage the release of controlled substances into the environment. Category Scope of Data (FY2016) (t-CO₂) (%) 1 Purchased goods and services 123,099 60.5 Japan 2 Capital goods 5,702 2.8 Consolidated Collection and Recycling of Used Products Fuel and energy-related activities not Energy usage in the EIZO 3 185 0.1 included in Scope 1 or 2 Corporation head office area The EIZO Group has been collecting and recycling used products in compliance Shipment volume of products as with environmental laws and regulations in each of the countries where it operates. 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 621 0.3 cargo owner Waste generated in the EIZO 5 Waste generated in operations 128 0.1 Corporation headquarters area Japan 6 Business travel 507 0.2 EIZO Corporation headquarters • Collection of Used EIZO Products from Homes End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Home Use) Collected in FY2016 7 Employee commuting 743 0.4 Japan In compliance with the Waste Disposal Act and the Law CRT LCD 11 Use of sold products 72,621 35.7 Japan for Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, EIZO Monitors Monitors Volume in weight (kg) 11,461 9,289 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 16 0.0 Japan established its Product Collection and Recycling System for Quantity (units) 464 1,327 Total 203,622 free collection of monitors for home use. Recycled volume (kg) 9,243 8,113 Recycling ratio (%) 81 87 • Collection of Used EIZO Products from Corporate Users Water Use In compliance with the Waste Disposal Act and the Law End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Business Use) Collected in FY2016 We use only groundwater in EIZO Corporation’s headquarters area (affiliated for Promotion of Effective Utilization of Resources, we have CRT LCD Monitors Monitors companies use the public water supply). We monitor water usage and wastewater been collecting and recycling used products for business Volume in weight (kg) 642 1,827 discharge to reduce the risk of subsidence and stress on wastewater treatment systems. use under our Product Collection and Recycling System. Quantity (units) 26 261 We use water in our corporate buildings as well as for a snow melting system and for Recycled volume (kg) 474 1,399 Recycling ratio (%) 74 77 watering plants in the summer. Our manufacturing processes do not use any water. Europe Industrial Waste The European WEEE Directive went into effect in August 2005 toward reducing Our total volume of industrial waste is on ⃝Discharge of Industrial Waste and Recycling Rate environmental impact through promotion of the 3R’s of reduce, reuse and recycle for discarded Recycling rate (%) the rise. A major factor is the increased size of (t) Industrial waste discharged electrical and electronic equipment. EIZO has complied with the directive by establishing a 500 100 packing materials to accommodate larger liquid 98.3 95.6 collection and recycling system for applicable products sold in Europe. 96.9 97.1 97.2 400 80 crystal display panels, procured externally. Since Group companies in Germany were 300 60 United States 435.8 added to the scope of calculations in fiscal 200 40 EPEAT Standards require the provision of collection services for used electric/electronic 311.2 280.5 338.2 2016, there is no continuity between data for 100 246.1 20 equipment based on “Plug-In to eCycling Guidelines for Materials Management” issued by this year and that for fiscal 2015 and earlier. 0 0 the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EIZO has met this requirement FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 by establishing a collection and recycling system for applicable products sold in the United States. 18 EIZO Corporation Operating as an CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 3 International We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and mindset. Corporation In order to ensure the delivery and ongoing worry-free use of our products worldwide, our Group companies and distributors in various countries maintain strong mutual relationships to support customers and achieve sound corporate growth. Our products are well received around the world, with current sales in over 80 countries and territories*1 through our Group companies ⃝Numbers of Employees by Country (as of March 31, 2017, includes temporary workers) and 20 global distributors. Germany USA China Germany EIZO GmbH Sweden United Sweden Switzerland Kingdom Eizo Nordic AB Germany EIZO Europe GmbH (and 4 branch offices*2) Italy Belgium The Netherlands United Kingdom EIZO Limited Japan Austria Czech Republic Japan EIZO Corporation (and 6 companies) (Ishikawa Prefecture) USA EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. Switzerland China USA Total EIZO AG Germany EIZO Display Technologies EIZO Inc. EIZO Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. GmbH ◦Composition of Net Sales by Region (FY2016) North Others America Austria EIZO Austria GmbH Group companies Location of distributors Countries in which EIZO products are sold Europe Japan * 1 As of June 2017 * 2 EIZO Europe GmbH is composed of the head office in Germany and four branch offices in Belgium, Czech Republic, Italy and the Netherlands. Net sales figures are broken down by country or territory where the customers are located. 19 EIZO Corporation Operating as an CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 3 International Corporation Development and Production Network EIZO United – Coherent Development and Production System Group companies and distributors gather once a year at the EIZO Corporation headquarters to participate in technology showcase and general and individual meetings The EIZO Group has three production sites in Japan, three in Germany and one in to deepen their understanding of the United States and China, forming a network that maintains a coherent development EIZO products. They also exchange and production system throughout the Group. This system enables us to apply information on their respective stringent quality control from development to production, promote the creation of activities to broaden their collective development synergies that maximize the strengths of each base, and construct an base of knowledge and forge closer optimal production system for each market and customer. In addition, we promptly ties among Group companies and share information obtained in the course of development and production along with distributors. opinions and requests obtained from markets and customers to incorporate into product development and customer support. Mindset as an International Corporation — Efforts Related to Conflict Minerals We are deeply concerned that some important mineral resources used as raw materials for components of IT and electronic products and quarried in troubled regions Sales Network – Group Companies and Distributors of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its nine neighboring countries are used to EIZO products are sold in more than 80 countries and territories through our Group fund military groups that abuse human rights and destroy the environment. companies and 20 global distributors (as of June 2017). Given this concern, the Dodd-Frank Act of the United States requires that efforts be made to ensure that designated conflict minerals, including tantalum, tin, gold and Direct Sales System in Europe tungsten, are only purchased through legal means with no connection to potential Our business extends to healthcare, graphics and V&S (Vertical & Specific) markets. misconduct. The EIZO Group endorses these requirements and has adopted its own Customers in these markets demand direct, ongoing communication with the policy of using only parts made of raw materials purchased from companies that are manufacturer as well as solid global support. To effectively respond to these specific not involved in any misconduct and that conduct business lawfully. In addition, to fully market environments and diversified sales channels, we have sales subsidiaries in the comply with this policy, the EIZO Group has been reviewing its entire supply chain United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and Sweden. We are striving using the Conflict Minerals Template, a widely-adopted international standard format to achieve further business growth in Europe by reinforcing regional sales in North developed by the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative, of which the EIZO Group is a member. America and Europe. Furthermore, to expand our sales activities into emerging markets, where our specialized markets are expected to grow, we have employed local sales staff in Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and India and are enhancing our approach to customers. One Country/Territory, One Distributor System From the very beginning of selling proprietary products outside Japan, we have adopted a one country/territory, one distributor system, in which a single distributor (or Group company) is responsible for all sales within a given country or territory. This unique system enables us to accurately discern customer needs in each country or territory by distributors or Group companies that fully understand the culture and values of their respective regions and provide optimal products. It also allows us to offer products through sales methods that are appropriate for each country or territory. 20 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 4 Open and Fair Trade We will conduct open and fair trade. Our suppliers are essential partners for ensuring the long-term viability of our business. We therefore ensure transactions are conducted in a fair and equitable manner and strive to forge relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity. Relationships of Trust Based on Mutual Prosperity to actively promote CSR activities, including compliance, respect for human rights, environmental With respect to our suppliers, we are committed to forging relationships of trust based on preservation and safety and health. mutual prosperity to build successful, long-term partnerships, and we strive to conduct transactions Supplier Declaration that are fair, equitable and transparent. We obtained an agreement on compliance with the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct In overseas sales, authority is delegated in each country to Group companies and distributors in the form of Supplier Declarations from all business partners involved in procurement. who are knowledgeable about local culture and values. This has enabled us to actively engage in The suppliers conduct self-checks on the status of implementation and compliance in overseas sales based on a deep understanding of our products. We have sought to expand sales by an effort to improve and enhance their operations. building on the relationships of trust and powerful partnerships developed over time, cooperating with distributors in organizing exhibitions, and providing customer support. Basic Procurement Policy We deal with suppliers on an equal opportunity basis in accordance with procurement policies. Enhancing Employee Awareness In conducting transactions, we select suppliers who meet our standards as listed below. Conducting transactions in a fair and open manner requires each employee to have the Selection Standard for Suppliers necessary level of knowledge and awareness. We seek to deepen employee understanding and ❶ Sound management awareness with a steady flow of compliance information through our intranet and study sessions. ❷ Technological excellence that will contribute to the quality of our products Topics include anti-trust regulations directly related to business transactions as well as procedures ❸ Appropriate quality, prices, and delivery schedules for products and materials to be supplied to us for handling confidential information as required by regulations that prohibit insider trading and ❹ Stable supply capacity and ability to respond flexibly to fluctuations in demand that govern relationships with suppliers. ❺ Compliance with relevant laws, consideration for the environment, and active involvement in environmental preservation Handling of Information Obtained through Suppliers We obtain confidential information from suppliers and customers through proper channels Developing Mutual Understanding with Suppliers and will not seek to obtain or use information that is known to have been improperly obtained or As a manufacturing company that strives to create excellent products that satisfy customers disclosed. We also pay the utmost care in handling information we have obtained and follow the around the world through our primary business operations, we place high priority on controlling appropriate procedures for managing it. quality, delivery schedules and the cost of parts and materials procured from suppliers as well as confirming that supplier operations are environmentally sound. We provide opportunities for Unequivocal Prohibition of Bribery regular exchanges of information to address these issues and ensure we and our suppliers share a We do not offer money or other benefits in violation of the law governing relationships with common understanding of each others’ management policies and technical strategies. public servants and employees of public institutions. Likewise in our relationships with suppliers, we do not offer or accept entertainment, gifts or benefits that violate the law or deviate from generally Materials Procurement Briefing accepted business practices, and we explicitly ensure they understand our corporate stance. We conduct regular briefings with our suppliers to explain our basic procurement policy and request their cooperation. We EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct also share information on the market environment and our future The company established the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct to globally ensure sound direction. Many suppliers attend these briefings, which contribute business operations under the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct. We will pursue CSR through our to a greater understanding of EIZO and to gathering information for business activities along with our suppliers by asking all business partners involved in procurement subsequent incorporation into business decisions. 21 EIZO Corporation Strong Bonds of We will seek to build and maintain strong bonds of trust with our stakeholders Seven Promises 5 4 Open and Fair Trade Trust with We will conduct open and fair trade. CSR REPORT 2017 Stakeholders (business partners, employees, shareholders, and the local community). Ourwill suppliers We areengage sincerely essentialwith partners for ensuring stakeholders long-term the closer to forge bonds viability of trustofthrough our business. communication channels while fulfilling our responsibilities. We therefore ensure transactions are conducted in a fair and equitable manner and strive to forge relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity. Relationship with Each Type of Stakeholder EIZO's StakeEIZO’s Responsibility Objectives Approaches holders ● Developing better products ● Setting up Contact centers as customer liaison points − Responding to questions and inquiries before and after purchase ● Creating and offering products with new value − Listening to customer opinions Customers ● Developing products from the customer’s standpoint In addition to offering products that satisfy customers, we − Preand post-sales technical support ● Responding clearly to questions and inquiries P. 23 listen closely to their feedback and provide useful support. ● Sharing information with relevant departments and considering incor● Thoroughly responding to customer poration into products requests and feedback ● Interacting with customers at showrooms and through direct dialogue ● Providing and collecting information through participation in trade shows ● Providing timely information via the corporate website ● Building relationships of trust ● Sharing information and creating mutual understanding as partners Suppliers We view suppliers as essential and important partners in the ● Fair business transactions ● Establishing selection standards, dealing with suppliers on an equal continuation of our business, and forge powerful relationships P. 21 ● Explaining corporate policy and broadening opportunity basis by sharing management policies and technical strategies. understanding among suppliers ● Holding material procurement briefings We are a company focused on creative development that requires the imaginative ideas and powerful motivation of its ● Motivating workplace environment ● Providing various educational programs Employees employees. We therefore work to create a broadminded corpo● Developing excellent personnel ● Supporting self-development activity P. 29-31 rate climate and a workplace in which employees have a sense ● Promoting work-life balance ● Creating workplaces that reflect employee opinions and sound laof security, and we support our employees in their self-devel● Securing safety and health bor-management relations through consultation conferences opment. We strive to gain the understanding and trust of our shareholdShareholders ● Timely and appropriate disclosure of ● General shareholders meeting (holding informal gatherings) ers by providing fair and accurate information on management information ● Stable dividend payment P. 24 policies, business strategies and financial performance, and by ● Enhanced corporate value ● Investor relations maintaining transparency in our corporate management. We seek to build solid relationships with the local community ● Receiving company visits Local ● Preventing accidents and disasters at each business site to gain their understanding and cooperation in pursuing our ● Sponsoring various events and organizations Community ● Protecting the regional environment business operations. ● Supporting environmental conservation activities ● Cooperating with regional development and promoting P. 24 We are committed to fulfilling our responsibilities as a corpo● Corporation with Local Community and association culture rate citizen. ● Participating in local voluntary activities 22 EIZO Corporation Strong Bonds of CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 5 Trust with Stakeholders EIZO Contact Center (Japan) ◦Calls to the Contact Center (Fiscal 2016) Relationships with Customers The EIZO Contact Center Company and stock Other has been set up as a convenient 0.1% 3.2% Support/Warranty/Recycling We provide product information on our Website, at our showrooms and through means for customers in Japan to 8.7% Functions/ sales and promotional activities. We strive to directly communicate with customers communicate with the company. The Troubleshooting Operational procedures through various channels in order to fully answer questions and respond to customer center provides answers to inquiries 9.2% 36.9% Orders/ requests and feedback. related to product specifications Sales service-related 9.3% and operating procedures as well Consulting/ ◦Feedback System for All Types of Customer Input as questions related to purchasing Product compatibility Product overview 12.3% 20.3% products through telephone, e-mail Customer Liaison and fax. EIZO Contact Center Customer liaison dedicated to ordering Customer liaison for technical support Customer Satisfaction Survey Showroom In fiscal 2016 we conducted a survey to measure the level of satisfaction among Direct sales website customers who come into contact with our sales and support staff. The results, based Website on 323 responses (response rate: 65%), were analyzed and are being used to improve our Distributors sales and support activities. We plan to maintain communication with our stakeholders Sales companies/Retail stores Customers through surveys and by other means. Showroom Customer Liaison Visitors can test the performance of our products while trying out their functions at Each Group company has set up a customer liaison process (including access our showroom, which also serves as a space for communicating with customers. by phone or e-mail) to receive inquiries and questions related to EIZO products and technology. Customer inquiries and requests are promptly shared and appropriately EIZO Galleria Ginza (Japan) addressed within the company, relevant departments and the Group. They are also EIZO Galleria is a showroom located in the Ginza district of Tokyo. Our dedicated utilized to guide product development as well as to prepare information provided to onsite staff introduces products and provides advice to customers who want to know customers. more about them. Here our well-received seminars on a variety of topics also provide information on the operating environments of computers for office and home use Group Company Response and on more effectively using EIZO products. Moreover, the showroom is used as a EIZO Corporation (Japan) •Set up a dedicated liaison for responding by phone, e-mail and fax communication space for other types of events such as exhibitions of photographs EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) •Set up a dedicated liaison for responding by phone and e-mail taken by customers. EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) •Provides customer support and technical support by e-mail •Provides a dedicated liaison for after-purchase inquiries over the phone EIZO Inc. (United States) •Offers an e-mail address for general inquiries Photo exhibition Showroom Seminar room 23 EIZO Corporation Strong Bonds of CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 5 Trust with Stakeholders Relationships with Shareholders Relationships with the Local Community We conduct investor relations activities based on the principle of providing fair and accurate We seek to build and maintain good relationships with the local communities in which we information on management policies, business strategies and financial performance to all operate. Moreover, we will contribute to developing these areas and creating better environments stakeholders. as a community member by sponsoring and funding local organizations and activities. Basic Policy on Information Disclosure ◦Examples of Contributions to Local Communities We disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner in compliance with the Company Name Description of Activity Photos of the Activities •Sponsorship of the public-private partnership program for dispatching local Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and related regulations as well as the “Timely university students to EIZO GmbH in Germany for a six-week training course •Participation in beach cleanups in Hakusan City disclosure rules and other regulations for issuers of listed negotiable securities or valuable •Cooperation with the Ishikawa Keiei Tensho Juku (an educational project for young corporate managers and future entrepreneurs who will bear instruments” of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. We strive to ensure any material information that responsibility for the future of the regional economy) through operational advice and lectures may affect investment decisions is delivered to all market participants in an equitable manner. EIZO Corporation •Co-sponsorship and support for the Orchestra Ensemble Kanazawa of Participation in a beach cleanup Ishikawa Prefecture in Hakusan City (Japan) •Cooperation as an executive committee member and co-sponsor of the ISHIKAWA Ishikawa Kanazawa Spring Green Music Festival General Shareholders Meeting •Co-sponsorship for Zweigen Kanazawa, a soccer team in Ishikawa Prefecture, MILLION STARS We schedule our annual general shareholders meeting while taking the convenience of and the ISHIKAWA MILLION STARS of the Baseball Challenge League •Cooperation with Hakusan City’s job experience program for junior high shareholders into careful consideration. Also, we send school students Zweigen Kanazawa out invitations as far in advance as possible to provide enough time for shareholders to examine the proposed resolutions and the state of our operations. Furthermore, we provide opportunities for EIZO GmbH •Donation to a charity run sponsored by an organization that supports local direct communication with our shareholders, such as by displaying products and holding informal (Germany) hospitals in promoting the early diagnosis and treatment of childhood cancer patients meetings with shareholders on the occasion of the general shareholders meeting. Runners wearing T-shirts with the EIZO logo •Support for equipment used by a local youth soccer team Company Presentations for Investors EIZO Technologies •Donation to activities that support treatments for childhood cancer GmbH (Germany) •Distribution of T-shirts to children participating in a community running event We invite institutional investors to our semi-annual earnings results briefings in •Donation to a community for safe bus transportation of school children Tokyo, where we report on our business direction, activities and performance. We also hold briefings for individual investors to promote a greater awareness of our company. EIZO Rugged Solutions •Co-sponsorship of a children’s science and math fair at a local middle school Inc. (USA) •Blood donation at the company Status of Shares and Shareholder Composition Employees who donated blood along with blood donation center staff ◦Status of Shares (as of March 31, 2017) ◦ Distribution of Shares by Shareholder Type EIZO Inc. (USA) •Donation to a Boys and Girls club in the community (as of March 31, 2017) Shares authorized 65,000,000 •Donation of monitors to an organization that supports children and adults Treasury stock Securities companies with mental disorders Shares issued 22,731,160 1,410,460 shares 261,510 shares EIZO AG (Switzerland) 1 holder 36 holders •Donation to an organization that supports the Special Olympics and sports activities by children with disabilities Shareholders 6,988 General corporations Financial institutions •Donation to and participation in a charity run sponsored by an organization supporting sick children and their parents 3,882,814 shares 6,404,840 shares •Donation of used monitors to a charity supporting senior citizens in the community 62 holders 41 holders EIZO Limited (United •Co-sponsorship of a graduation exhibition held by students at the Central Saint Martin’s Design University Kingdom) •Supply of products and support in color management for photo studios in Individual investors Foreign investors secondary education institutions in the local community and others 5,946,515 shares 4,825,021 shares 192 holders •Design competition jointly organized with a university in which EIZO Participants in a charity run products were provided as extra prizes 6,656 holders 24 EIZO Corporation Strict Respect and CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 6 4 Open Compliance and Fairwith Trade both the We will will strictly conduct open and comply respect fair trade. with both the letter and the spirit of the law as a good corporate citizen. Letter and Spirit of the Law Our We seek suppliers to gain arestakeholder essential partners trust byforconsistently ensuring the generating long-termcorporate viability ofvalue our business. as a Group. In doing this we believe that we must enhance our corporate governance and raise the compliance We therefore awareness of ensure each employee. transactions are conducted in a fair and equitable manner and strive to forge relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity. of operations by directors. We have selected all the outside directors mentioned above as Corporate Governance independent directors as stipulated under the Tokyo Stock Exchange regulations. We strive to be a company that builds and maintains relationships of trust with Management Committee stakeholders who support us and consistently enhances its corporate value. To this end, The Management Committee is mainly composed of full-time directors and operating ensuring sound, transparent and efficient management is essential, as is viewing the ongoing officers and is convened as required to accelerate strategic decision making, respond to enhancement of corporate governance as a vital management concern. important issues and deliberate or report on the status of operations and other matters. On June 23, 2016, EIZO gained approval at the 49th general shareholders’ meeting to transform itself from a Company with Board of Company Auditors to a Company with Audit Operating Officer System and Supervisory Committee, effective that same day, with the goal of further enhancing our We have introduced an operating officer system to separate the supervision of management corporate governance and raising corporate value. and the execution of operations while accelerating the pace of operational execution. ◦Corporate Governance System Shareholders’ Meeting Audit and Supervisory Committee Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Our Audit and Supervisory Committee is composed of four members including three outside Audit and Supervisory Committee 取締役会 Board of Directors’ Meeting 4 directors who are Audit and Supervisory Auditing/ directors. It meets on dates scheduled for each fiscal year and as needed. Its members audit and Committee members supervision Board of Directors Cooperation (including 3 outside directors) (3 directors who are not Audit and supervise the execution of duties by directors in accordance with the audit policy, plans and Supervisory Committee members) Appointment/dismissal other committee decisions. These audits and supervisory functions are conducted through the Report Report Instructions Report Instructions/supervision investigation of operations and assets by attending the Board of Directors and other important President Instructions meetings in cooperation with the Internal Auditing Department and Internal Control Department . Management Committee Inspection Report Instructions/supervision Accounting of accounts Internal Auditing Internal Auditing Operating Officers Internal Auditing System Department (Audit Office) Report Instructions/supervision Auditor Cooperation Departments/ Group Companies The Internal Auditing Department carries out internal audits in accordance with the Basic Annual Audit Plan, based on the Basic Regulations on Internal Audits, which specifies audit policies. All findings of these internal audits are reported to the president. The Internal Auditing Board of Directors Department is composed of two members. An auditor who has wide knowledge of the The Board of Directors, composed of three directors who are not members of the Audit departments to be audited is separately appointed to carry out the audit. and Supervisory Committee and four directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, bases its decisions on frank discussions while also striving to strengthen its Internal Control System supervision of management. The board meets on dates scheduled for each fiscal year and as We established our basic policy underlying a system that ensures directors execute needed. All important matters related to the company’s decisions are discussed, and status their tasks in compliance with the law and the articles of incorporation, along with a reports on the execution of operations are presented on a regular basis. Three of the four system for ensuring the appropriateness of other operations. Under this policy, we have directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee are outside directors (as proceeded to develop related systems and to complete the groundwork for managing of June 22, 2017). They maintain no special interests in the company and therefore act in a highly our internal control system. We have also established in an internal control system for independent capacity. The outside directors participate in decision-making on important financial transactions in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, 25 matters from an objective and impartial standpoint while auditing and supervising the execution and exercise thorough control over our financial operations. EIZO Corporation Strict Respect and CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 6 Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law a standard in decision-making, evaluation and in the actions undertaken through the Risk Management course of our business activities and seek to instill a thorough awareness among all Group officers and employees in Japan and overseas. As part of our development of an internal control system, we have established and operate a risk management system to integrate and centralize the management Strengthening the Information Management System of risks that could affect our business activities. Risk management is supervised by the We ensure the proper handling of important information managed internally, Management Conference and the Risk Management Committee, and risks identified by including confidential information and personal information, in accordance with each department are examined by the committee. Any risk that could have a significant our established guidelines. We have also appointed an information management impact on our business is identified as a material risk by the Management Committee. representative with overall responsibility for establishing a company-wide information Appropriate countermeasures are discussed and implemented. management system. In view of the increasingly global nature of our business, we expanded the scope of risk identification and evaluation to include Group companies in and outside Japan. Internal Whistle-Blowing System To further strengthen our compliance system, we set up a liaison point both inside Business Continuity Plan (BCP) and outside the company to provide answers to questions and advice on problems To be prepared in the event of a major disaster and other incidents, EIZO formulated concerning legal issues or the content of the Principles of Conduct, which may arise in a BCP disseminated throughout the company. Particularly with regard to our BCP for the course of our operations. In addition, we strive to ensure early detection of illegal disaster response, we have established procedures for restoring critical operations activity or misconduct and to prevent misconduct by operating a whistle-blowing and resuming the supply of our products within one month, in addition to confirming system that requires officers and employees to report to the liaison point immediately employee safety and facilitating necessary rescue operations in the immediate upon learning of activities in violation of laws or ethics, regardless of their own aftermath of a major disaster. involvement. We ensure that the privacy of the whistle blower is protected and that the individual will not be placed at any disadvantage for reporting the violation. Compliance We have established an organizational structure for guaranteeing compliance and have been developing measures and systems to ensure effectiveness. We are steadily promoting these measures in accordance with an annual plan from a long-term perspective. Compliance Training For officers and other employees, regulatory and other related information are always available on the corporate intranet, and we regularly provide training material to encourage them to update and enhance their knowledge. We also organize study groups for each job position, such as officers, managers and new employees to establish full awareness of the role and importance of compliance and cultivating an ethical mindset. We established the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – The Seven Promises to clarify our corporate philosophy and action guidelines in concrete terms and to serve as 26 EIZO Corporation Strict Respect and CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 6 Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Ueno: Before I became a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, I was a full-time Outside Directors Dialogue auditor, which made me very aware of the need to ensure internal control for effective corporate governance. I now pay closer attention than before to the depth and subject of audits conducted by the Audit Office. Also, I maintain a more rigorous eye on reports from the Accounting and Finance Department and the General Affairs Department from the standpoint of internal control. Suzuki: With respect to the structure, the Board of Directors, prior to the transition composed of six directors including one outside director, is now seven directors, four of whom are Audit and Supervisory Committee members, including three outside directors. I think this has increased the speed of operational execution and raised the objectivity and transparency of management even further. Ueno: In addition, while it’s not mandated under Japan’s Companies Act, EIZO has one full-time member in the Audit and Supervisory Committee. This individual gathers Eiichi Ueno Masaaki Suzuki Atsushi Inoue Outside Director and Outside Director and Outside Director and information inside the company on a daily basis and reports to us during the Member of the Audit and Chairman of the Audit and Member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee Supervisory Committee Supervisory Committee meetings of the Audit and Supervisory Committee that are held before Board of Directors meetings, and that has added more substance to the information We asked Mr. Suzuki, Mr. Ueno and Mr. Inoue, outside directors who have served we receive. as Audit and Supervisory Committee Members since June 2016, to share their views on Inoue: I agree. The presence of a full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee how governance has changed at EIZO since its transition a year ago to a Company with Member has great significance for EIZO. an Audit and Supervisory Committee. Suzuki: It’s also important that this full-time Audit and Supervisory Committee Member has a voting right as a director on the board. In that sense, I think the structure itself is excellent. As a result ❖ Enhancing Objectivity and Transparency with a New Corporate Structure of the transition, EIZO now has two directors involved in the execution of operations. And four EIZO Corporation transitioned from a Company with a Board of Company Auditors to a Company with other directors are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, three of whom are outside an Audit and Supervisory Committee in June 2016. What are your impressions of this change? directors. This means that some of the important decisions on operational execution are delegated to the managing directors, which seems to be creating a good balance between rapid decisionSuzuki: First, there has been a change in the role we are expected to fulfill. making and supervision. Previously, the main responsibility of the Board of Company Auditors was to Ueno: I would like to move on to our next topic: the future shape of governance. A year has passed determine the legality of the execution of operations by directors. In addition since EIZO became a Company with Audit and Supervisory Committee, and the company has to that, we now oversee the appropriateness of corporate management. The revised the matters to be deliberated on by the Board of Directors. Additionally, it delegates all or activities of the Audit and Supervisory Committee include receiving reports part of the decision-making on the important execution of operations to the managing directors from the Audit Office and do not differ significantly from those of the Board of within the boundaries stipulated by law in an effort to reduce the number of Board of Directors Company Auditors in terms of items covered. However, since EIZO’s Audit and meetings. The board will now meet once every two or three months instead of monthly. In light of Supervisory Committee comprises four directors, I feel our discussions have taken on greater depth this, what are your views on the future of governance at EIZO? than before, with respect to each item, including matters discussed by the Board of Directors and Inoue: There is a limit to what you can discuss within the rigid framework of a meeting, so I think the internal auditing reports. What are your impressions? company should make good use of the system and let us view the records of operational execution Inoue: When I was a company auditor, I mainly focused on checking results from an auditing as needed. For example, EIZO has an online bulletin board system with a variety of posts, which perspective. After the transition, however, I began to take a long-term perspective in evaluating the outside directors can access from outside the company. Since this excellent system is already in management of the company, and my interest in its future plans has grown. place, if the records of operational execution are posted online, we can flexibly provide feedback without being bound by a typical meeting framework. 27 EIZO Corporation Strict Respect and CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 6 Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law ❖ Ensuring Diversity in the Governance System ❖ Developing Human Resources to Become a “Strong Company” Inoue: I come from a technology background, so I’m interested in EIZO’s technical approach to trends in technology and markets, and from time to time I offer my opinions. The market is Inoue: The business performance of the past few years provides evidence that the company has constantly evolving, and I’m impressed by the way the company has been able to consistently been making solid growth. The key to further growth lies in the single issue of cultivating human come up with new approaches. What are your views on the roles we are expected to play, from the resources. perspective of ensuring the diversity of directors? Suzuki: Yes, the company needs globalized human resources. It must boost its drive to develop Ueno: I was an auditor at a bank before I came to EIZO, where I have served as a full-time auditor for human resources in order to nurture a formidable workforce of globalized personnel and add more seven years. Having worked as an auditor for quite a while, I pursue my mission from the standpoint women to the workforce. of ensuring effective internal control. Ueno: We all believe that developing personnel is the decisive factor in the company’s survival. Suzuki: My experience includes managing a financial institution, a paper manufacturer and a real Suzuki: I would like EIZO not just to become an excellent company but also to rise further and estate company. I gained knowledge about finance as a banker, experienced an M&A during my become a “strong company.” This means having an excellent financial constitution and abundant time at the paper manufacturer, and have accumulated practical experience in governance and human resources who can think globally. It’s also a company that is capable of consistently providing compliance as well. I intend to continue offering my opinions to the Board of Directors based on this unique products while significantly contributing to the community so that its presence is itself a background. source of local pride. While EIZO already meets most of these requirements, it still has unfulfilled potential, and I believe it can become an even stronger company by achieving further growth. ❖ EIZO’s Strength Lies in Highly Competent Top Management and Employees Suzuki: As I mentioned in last year’s CSR Report, I have a high regard for EIZO’s top management. Masaaki Suzuki Targets for the fourth Mid-Term Business Plan have been met, and the first and second years of the Outside Director and Chairman of the Audit and Supervisory Committee Profile fifth plan are generally on track. This can be attributed to the successful business model developed Joined Nihon Kangyo Bank (current Mizuho Financial Group Inc.) in 1971. Served as Managing Executive Officer of the based on the president’s broad perspective and foresight. Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. before taking on the positions of Executive Operating Officer of NIPPON Inoue: He has also demonstrated flexibility and deftly shifted the company’s market segments TOCHI-TATEMONO Co., Ltd., Executive Managing Director of Hokuetsu Paper Co., Ltd., President and Representative within about four years. Change is not easy for those who are too persistent with the details, but he Director of Hokuetsu Package Co. Ltd., and Advisor to NIPPON TOCHI-TATEMONO Co., Ltd. Joined the company as has made the switch with outstanding agility and flexibility. director in 2012 and has served as director and chairman of the Audit and Supervisory Committee since 2016. Suzuki: By addressing mid-term needs and envisioning the company ten years from now, he Eiichi Ueno Outside Director and Member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee is looking even further into the future with his DESIGN 2025 message, and young executive Profile candidates are currently developing a business model for the next ten years. I think this point should Joined Hokuriku Bank, Ltd. in 1976 and served as full-time auditor. Joined the company in 2009 as full-time company be highly commended. auditor. Appointed as director of the Audit and Supervisory Committee in 2016. Ueno: And it’s not just the top management; the presence of highly competent executive officers and employees supports the president in getting his message out, while the growth in human resources provides opportunities for Atsushi Inoue top management to set even higher goals. This virtuous cycle has been highly Outside Director and Member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee beneficial for EIZO. Profile Joined Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd. in 1973 and served as executive vice president and head of the Device Business Unit. Joined the company in 2012 as auditor and concurrently appointed senior corporate advisor of Murata Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Appointed director of the Audit and Supervisory Committee in 2016. 28 EIZO Corporation Broadminded CSR REPORT 2017 Seven Promises 7 4 Open and Fair Trade Corporate Culture We will will respect conductbasic open and fair human rightstrade. and value a broadminded corporate culture. Our suppliers EIZO are essential focused partners is a company ensuring the long-term fordevelopment on creative that requiresviability of our business. the imaginative ideas and powerful motivation of all its employees. We therefore take various measures to create a broadminded We therefore corporate ensure culture transactions by developing anare conducted environment fair and equitable in aencourages that the free manner exchange and strive to forge of opinions relationships and a workplace of trust in which employees mutual based onhave prosperity. a sense of security. Much of our top management at overseas Group companies is composed of local personnel, and we pay due consideration to the diversity of each country’s cultures and customs in order to create the most suitable working environments. balance and employee benefit packages. We also maintain good labor-management Laying the Foundations for a Motivating Workplace relations at Group companies under the specific circumstances of each country or company. We undertake various activities to create a motivating workplace environment As a result, the EIZO Group maintains a high retention rate, which contributes to that cultivates excellent human resources for the sake of the long-term growth of our mediumto long-term human resource development and business operations. personnel as well as further corporate development. ◦Turnover Rate of Young Employees (within one year of joining the company): EIZO Group (in Japan) Employment March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 To ensure that EIZO continues to develop cutting-edge visual technology for 0.00% 4.08% 2.56% creating and offering new values as a company focused on creative development, we are expanding our engineering staff and creating a motivating workplace for our Promoting the Careers of Persons with Disabilities employees. Persons with disabilities are engaged in careers at many of our worksites, and as of March 2017, 21 disabled persons are currently employed by the Group. While the ◦EIZO Group as of March 31, 2017 percentage of persons with disabilities of the workforce at the Group companies in Japan Overseas Total Japan does not meet the minimum legal requirement of 2.0%, as the total number Number of employees of Group employees is on the increase, we have been making active recruitment 1,566 484 2,050 (including temporary workers) efforts. These include participation in joint company information sessions for persons Male 836 322 1,158 with disabilities and the acceptance of interns with the intention of hiring recent Female 730 162 892 graduates. We will continue improving our workplace environment and creating work Engineering staff included in the above numbers 299 69 368 opportunities for disabled persons as we expand our business. Average age 39.2 43.7 40.3 ◦Percentage of Employees with a Disability: EIZO Group (in Japan) Average length of service 14.1 11.4 13.5 March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 ◦EIZO Group in Japan as of March 31, 2017 1.92% 2.08% 1.87% Graduate recruits 34 Joined the company in April 2017 Mid-career recruits 31 Joined the company between April 2016 and March 2017 Paying Due Respect to Human Rights Average annual working hours 2,005 FY2016 To curtail behavior that undermines individuality at the workplace and throughout our operations, such as forced labor and child labor, discriminatory remarks or actions, Developing Trust-Based Labor-Management Relations and sexual or power harassment, we have clearly stated our position on the matter in Mutual understanding is the cornerstone of labor-management relations. our Principles of Conduct and conduct educational. In keeping with this fundamental point, we endeavor to develop trust in labormanagement relations by encouraging dialog through the establishment of a consultation conference. These conferences discuss a wide range of topics, from labormanagement agreements and reduction of overtime to ways for improving the work-life 29 EIZO Corporation Broadminded Seven Promises 7 CSR REPORT 2017 Corporate Culture have developed a supportive working environment that includes measures such as reducing working Work Style Innovation hours up to two hours per day for childcare to flexibly meet employee needs. We plan to enhance our programs for supporting employees with childcare or nursing responsibilities by introducing benefits To respond to diversifying work styles and ensure that employees are able to work with a sense of such as childbirth leave for prospective fathers. satisfaction, accomplishment and happiness, we believe in the importance of creating extra time for ◦Number of Applicants (EIZO Group in Japan) employees to refresh their mind and body. To that end, we launched the Work Style Innovation project FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 in Japan to supplement our ongoing initiatives. We intend to balance the happiness of our employees Childcare/Nursing Care Leave 57 56 54 with corporate growth by maintaining the high quality and reliability of our products and services Reduced Working Hours for Childcare or Nursing Care 46 57 63 while significantly enhancing operational efficiency and productivity. We will rebuild the structure and Data for FY2014 and FY2015 have been retroactively revised due to changes in the scope from EIZO Corporation to the EIZO Group in Japan. mechanism of our work through Business Process Re-engineering, plan investments in infrastructure and systems with an eye on the future, such as introducing AI and IoT, while simultaneously changing Family Friendly Day the mindset of our employees who will sustain this initiative. Additionally, as we seek to cut overtime and At EIZO’s head office, we welcome family members of employees to Family Friendly Day encourage employees to take paid leave by raising operational efficiency, we will also introduce a system (Workplace Tour.) The aim is to encourage communication in the workplace and at home, nurture an for paying bonuses to employees who manage to lower their overtime through greater efficiency. open corporate culture and enrich children’s understanding of work through observation and direct experience. Approximately 300 family members Creating Leisure Time have participated over the past 11 years. As one of our initiatives for Work Style Innovation, we will seek to reduce overtime to zero in the EIZO Limited in the United Kingdom is course of normal operations. In fiscal 2017, we are targeting a year-on-year reduction of 30%. implementing similar initiatives including “Bring Your Child to the Office Day.” Bring Your Child to the Office Day Family Friendly Day Although our average rate of taking paid leave for all employees has been higher than the national average in Japan for companies of a similar size, we have been improving this rate each year by introducing measures to encourage employees who have been taking fewer paid leaves to take more Human Resource Development days off. We believe that the extra time created through these initiatives will be beneficial for employees to refresh their mind and body, engage in self-development and social contribution activities, broaden their perspectives and enhance their abilities through such activities. Reinforcing Management Capabilities Management-level employee training is a high priority at EIZO. We ensure the practical usefulness ◦Average Working Hours (EIZO Group in Japan) ◦Rate of Taking Paid Leave (EIZO Group in Japan) of training by setting a theme for each fiscal year, such as strategic thinking, customer development and FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 operational reform. Training is offered to candidates for management positions, and newly appointed 1,954 hours 2,016 hours 2,005 hours 61% 66% 73% Data for FY2014 and FY2015 have been retroactively revised due to managers receive training on compliance, fair job evaluation and effective allocation of work to deepen changes in the scope from EIZO Corporation to the EIZO Group in Japan. their understanding of these areas. Opportunities for Recreation and Exchange A variety of sports and cultural activities have been established within Supporting the Active Participation of Women the company, and employees are enthusiastically engaged. The company EIZO has formulated and released its the Action Plan for Promoting the Role of Women and is provides an environment that supports these activities by, for example, working to improve the working environment so that female employees can play leading roles in the supplementing costs and permitting the use of company facilities. company. The ratio of female managers in the EIZO Group in Japan is currently 2.6%, and to attain our Employees playing futsal target of 5% during fiscal 2019, we are encouraging participation in management training seminars Supporting Childcare and Nursing Care conducted by outside institutions and providing training for selected mid-level employees. In future, we Under the respective laws of each country, we support various programs including maternity leave, will provide various types of support, including an interview program to advance career development childcare leave and nursing care leave, shorter working hours, and leave to care for sick children. We and the encouragement of networking among female employees. 30 EIZO Corporation Broadminded Seven Promises 7 CSR REPORT 2017 Corporate Culture Emphasis on Educating Younger Employees Supporting Career Development First-year employees participate in programs on organizational structure and basic We encourage employee career development by providing a complete and diverse knowledge for corporate etiquette, and receive on-site factory training to learn about range of self-development programs, including language classes, business seminars the foundations of our company. We also conduct a variety of programs specifically for increasing knowledge about such areas as finance and accounting, compliance, targeting first-year employees, including technical training for new engineering staff and marketing strategy, and by subsidizing the cost of distance learning or obtaining to ensure they acquire a broad foundation of knowledge on our basic technologies. certifications. We also provide a comprehensive education program combining on-the-job training (OJT) and Off-JT for young employees to enable them to develop the ability to get Development of Global Human Resources things done well with market insight and a global mindset. For OJT in each department, To develop global human resources, we provide English and Chinese classes in managers draw up three-year career plans in consultation with young employees, Japan as well as Japanese classes at affiliates outside Japan, and we hold seminars providing a basis for a systematic OJT program. Our Off-JT for upgrading the skills of on cross-cultural communication. We also run an exchange program for engineers young employees includes group-based training for acquiring business skills, selling between Group companies outside Japan, in which employees are dispatched for one in stores to identify market needs, and overseas internships that provide short-term or two years, and a trainee program for young core personnel (short-term assignment, assignments at overseas Group companies. about three months). The program aims to increase the number of employees who can work effectively in a different culture and manage technology with a global perspective, ◦Education Programs for Young Employees as well as to cultivate new technological expertise. 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year 5th year+ Expertise seminar (in and outside the company) Voice from a Worksite Technical training for new From August to October 2016, I participated in training Training for young employees engineering Technical staff (one and Off-JT 1: Business skill training at EIZO Inc., EIZO Europe GmbH and EIZO Limited, the Group’s a half sales companies in North America and Europe. I accompanied months) Off-JT 2: In-store sales training the sales and technical staffs for these regions on visits to New Off-JT 3: Overseas internship for selected employees more than 90 resellers and customers in about 50 cities. employee Sales/ training Training Off-JT 4: Customer visiting training The experience renewed my awareness of the strength of after office work (one month) assignment our current business model, which has been instrumental Well-planned OJT: 3-year plan with periodic interviews with the supervisor in building EIZO into a trusted brand in each region and Kiyoyuki Tanaka Business knowledge training country around the world. Also, I was able to understand Global System Solutions (accounting/financial affairs, marketing, compliance, etc.) Department the diversity of our stakeholders and the importance of that Joined the company in 2004 Development of Global Human Resources Common (overseas trainee/temporary assignment, company English conversation classes) diversity through my onsite experience of communication Support for personal development and operations. (correspondence study, acquisition of qualifications, online English conversation, etc.) Looking ahead, I will draw upon what I have learned through the training to create and give shape to our new Fostering the next generation of leaders with job performance, market insight and a global mindset business model for the next decade. Moreover, I will strive to play a part in developing EIZO into a truly global company. 31 EIZO Corporation Broadminded Seven Promises 7 CSR REPORT 2017 Corporate Culture ◦ Fiscal 2017 Targets/Key Actions and Fiscal 2016 Results Securing Safety and Health Management FY2017 Targets/Key Actions FY2016 Results Evaluation Area The ongoing development, design and production of high value-added products • Workplace accidents 0 Achieve zero workplace accidents, reduce requires not only a significant investment of management resources but also a traffic accidents during working hours* Frequency rate 0 consistently safe workplace and efforts to safeguard employee health. Severity rate 0 Key points 8 (2 injured Safety • Fully enforce prevention of workplace someone else, • Traffic accidents during △ Efforts in Safety Management Management accidents during infrequent operations working hours* 5 injured self only, 1 injured by • Fully enforce safety management of newly We investigate dangerous situations and toxicity and implement countermeasures installed equipment and facilities (including someone else) chemical substances) at each worksite using risk assessment methods and strive to prevent workplace • Implement risk assessment • Improve ability to anticipate hazards through accidents and impaired health, in addition to KYT (hazard prediction training) and 5S KYT (hazard prediction training) activities and • Unacceptable risks 0 fully enforce 5S activities activities. We will continue these efforts by identifying and reducing risks through risk assessments and safety screening of newly installed machinery and equipment, and by Implement mental health measures in the • Follow-up on health 98.0% workplace checkups raising awareness on safety through workplace patrols and employee training. Key points • Ensure follow-up measures on health checkups Health • Implement measures against infectious Efforts in Health Management △ Management diseases • Ratio of employees • Promote preventive measures for lifestyle78.3% Our efforts in this area include regular health checkups and preventive checkups related diseases in accordance with specific taking stress check tests health guidance for lifestyle-related diseases, dedicated contact points for responding to employee • Promote mental health efforts through anxieties and concerns, mental health checkups and face-to-face consultations with implementation of stress check tests industrial physicians, and follow-up guidance based on the results of health checkups. • Workplace accident frequency rate: Number of deaths and injuries caused by industrial accidents per million working hours. Used to express accident frequency. We will seek to safeguard employee physical and mental well-being by raising individual • Workplace accident severity rate: Number of work-days lost due to industrial accidents per million working hours. Used to awareness of health management. express accident severity. * Includes commuting traffic accidents. Basic Policy on Safety and Health (Safety and Health Management Regulations) The basic policy on the safety and health of EIZO Corporation is intended to create a healthy and safe working environment for all employees. This is achieved through management of risk factors related to safety and health. Specifically, we constantly strive to identify unacceptable risk factors in the workplace and neutralize them, with the ultimate goal of eliminating workplace accidents. Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2016 to 2018) Strive to maintain and improve a safe, healthy and vibrant work environment, in which every employee is comfortable, in order to enhance business operations. 32 Appendix EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 GRI Guidelines (Version 4) Content Index The EIZO Corporation Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 provides information on the Standard Disclosure items contained in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Version 4). The following table lists the core items of the Standard Disclosures, for which we have received third-party confirmation from Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd. (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo). Indicator Report page Governance Strategy and analysis The governance structure of the organization; any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environG4-34 25 mental and social impacts A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the G4-1 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability 3-4 Ethics and integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 6 Organizational profile G4-3 The name of the organization 2 Specific standard disclosures Report page G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 8-10 Disclosures on management approach G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 2 Reasons why the Aspects are of material significance, impacts that affect judgment, approach to organizational manG4-DMA 8-32 agement, and evaluation of management approach The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant Environmental G4-6 2,18-20 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Materials G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 2 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 17 G4-8 The markets served 2,8-11 Energy G4-9 The scale of the organization 2,19 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 17 G4-10 The breakdown of the employees 29 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 15,17-18 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements − G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 15,18 G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 21 Water G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period Not applicable G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 17,18 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 26 Emissions Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organiza5 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 17 G4-15 tion subscribes or which it endorses G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 17 G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 16 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 15,17 Identified material aspects and boundaries Effluents and waste G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents; whether any entity included in the 2 organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries; how the organization has implemented the Products and services G4-18 6 reporting principles for defining report content G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 15-16 G4-19 All the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 6 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 18 G4-20 The aspect boundary within the organization for each material aspect − Compliance G4-21 The aspect boundary outside the organization for each material aspect − Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environG4-EN29 Not applicable G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 30 mental laws and regulations G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries Not applicable Environmental grievance mechanisms Stakeholder engagement G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechaNot applicable nisms G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 22 G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 22 G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 22 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-27 22 responded; the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 1 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) 1 G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen; the GRI Content Index for the chosen option; the reference to G4-32 33-34 the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 34 33 Appendix EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2017 Social Comparison Table for the United Nations Global Compact Labor practices and decent work Coverage by EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Employment United Nations Global Compact Seven Promises Page G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 29 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 3. We will act as an international corporation with a Occupational health and safety Principle 1 global outlook and mindset. internationally proclaimed human rights. 19,21 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. G4-LA6 32 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a 29 fatalities, by region and by gender Principle 2 abuses. broadminded corporate culture. Training and education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the G4-LA10 30-31 Principle 3 assist them in managing career endings effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 3. We will act as an international corporation with a Diversity and equal opportunity Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and global outlook and mindset. compulsory labour. 19,21 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. G4-LA12 29 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a 29-31 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. broadminded corporate culture. Human rights Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Principle 6 Investment respect of employment and occupation. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 29 Principle 7 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained environmental challenges. Non-discrimination 2. We will promote our manufacturing and Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 8 environmental responsibility. business activities in consideration of reducing 14-18 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Not applicable heir environmental burdens. Society Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 21 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 6. We will strictly respect and comply with 21,25Principle 10 No incidents extortion and bribery. both the letter and the spirit of the law as 26 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken of corruption a good corporate citizen. were reported. Anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes No incidents of corruption Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement were reported. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and No incidents G4-SO8 of corruption regulations were reported. Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Not applicable Product responsibility Customer health and safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety No incidents G4-PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcome of corruption were reported. Product and service labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service No incidents G4-PR4 information and labeling, by type of outcomes of corruption were reported. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 23 Marketing communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Not applicable No incidents G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communicaof corruption tions, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcome were reported. Customer privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Not applicable Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of G4-PR9 products and services Not applicable 34
