The Stories We Love to Tell FY16 Citizenship Report Table of contents 02 We Are Storytellers 03 Letter From Our CEO 04 Letter From Our Corporate Responsibility Director 05 Key Impacts and Progress 08 Rethink Our Global Responsibility 10 Inspire Change Locally 14 Strategize Collaborative Impact 21 Establish Partnerships for Good 26 About This Report 1 We are storytellers. The stories we tell matter. They change how we perceive our world. We find commonality with others from them. As our Global Trust Barometer underscores, purpose impacts trust. Our 2016 Global Citizenship Report focuses on showcasing the difference we make – for our people, our communities and our clients. That’s why, through the craft of storytelling, we create stories with impact. We seek to kindle a citizenship culture that delivers on our trust and brand promise. We strive to ignite a global collective force for good. By rethinking our global responsibility. Inspiring change locally. Deploying a strategy for collaborative impact. And establishing partnerships for good. Edelman is making credible strides along our global citizenship path that always challenges us to do more. We hope these stories engage and enlighten you because we love to tell them. 2 I am extremely proud of the deep commitment to giving back that our employees and agency continue to demonstrate every day. After the horrific shootings at an LGBT bar in Orlando in June, our Orlando office and employees there and elsewhere launched #HealOrlando, a project that in ensuing weeks helped over 30 nonprofits there as well as victims of the attack and their families. Some volunteers worked for days and weeks on end. In July, when 14 Dallas police were killed or injured in a heinous attack, our Dallas office and employees and others within Edelman immediately offered their full resources to local agencies – from the Mayor’s office and police to the area transit authority and convention bureau. And after devastating wildfires in western Canada this summer, our Edelman Vancouver team provided invaluable help to the Canadian Red Cross, including monitoring social media channels 19 hours a day for weeks. This Is Our DNA Throughout the world in FY16, our employees rolled up their sleeves – whether assisting the 9/11 memorial museum in New York on its 15th anniversary, the #62million girls campaign to empower girls around the world to go to school, the UNICEF Sweden drive to recruit world parents for refugee orphans or helping many other projects. In all, our overall giving – including 32,000 hours of professional and general volunteerism, 140 community investment grants and our matching of employee donations – totaled more than $4.6 million. The Time Is Now At Edelman, purpose and profit go hand in hand, which is a key finding of our Global Trust Barometer. The 2016 survey found that 80% of participants, up from 74% a year earlier, believe a business can increase profits and improve the economic and social conditions in their communities. They also believe that businesses improve when they contribute to the greater good and decline when they fail to contribute to it. This dual relationship is vital, especially on the environment front if we’re to save our planet. I am especially proud of our green efforts, and I pledge Edelman’s continued support to the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. We’re pleased to do our part, to accelerate our citizenship efforts and to help lead the way. Richard Edelman is president and CEO. 3 I am proud of the progress we have made in Citizenship in the past six years. Our Citizenship journey has been an evolution, not revolution, in which we incrementally improve year to year in incorporating Citizenship into our culture. Today, Citizenship needs to be integrated into a company’s purpose and strategy, much like any other company function. Our times demand it as governments, communities and companies move on concerted fronts to achieve specific sustainable development and shared responsibility goals. As a result, Citizenship has evolved from a “nice to have” to “a must have” as reflected in our own experience: • Our employees want to volunteer in the communities where we operate and believe we should continue to improve in how we operate our offices sustainably based on our FY16 Citizenship survey. • Reporting frameworks and disclosure standards incorporate supply chain accountability and transparency as part of the evaluation criteria. • Clients use third-party platforms to evaluate the environmental, economic and social impacts of their business partners. • Governments increasingly incorporate sustainable purchasing into their contracts and bid processes and establish requirements from minimum wage and human rights to recycling and energy efficiency. Fresh Approaches Managing these complexities to meet stakeholder expectations in our fast-paced, connected global economy requires new approaches. To better navigate them, we are pivoting to four new missions: Rethink our global responsibility. Inspire change locally. Strategize for collaborative impact. Establish partnerships for good. We believe this subtle pivot lets us move from a “license to operate” to a “license to lead” in Citizenship. Stories We Love to Tell This year’s report tells the stories we love to tell about how we are evolving from a Citizenship function to a Citizenship culture in which we embed Citizenship in everything we do. And I’m proud of the progress we made. We introduced the Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award this year as part of our Culture Awards to recognize the best Citizenship pro bono program globally at Edelman. We shrank our aggregated carbon intensity for our hub offices by 21% from FY11, outperforming our target 5% reduction goal by 16%. We also became the first public relations firm to receive Carbon Trust certification worldwide. Through our Citizenship Score we provide accountability on Citizenship-related policies and projects. For the second year we achieved our goal of reaching a global Citizenship Score of at least 8 out of 10. I hope you will continue to be part of our Citizenship journey and the stories we love to tell. John Edelman is Managing Director, Global Engagement & Corporate Responsibility 4 Key Impacts In order to determine which Citizenship issues are the most significant to Edelman, we review our key impact areas annually, with a more in-depth analysis every three years. This ongoing materiality process allows us to report on those topics that are most critical to our people, our clients and our communities, and map our Citizenship journey for the years ahead. This progress report lets us look back and gauge how far we’ve come and offers a roadmap to future success. In 2016, we reached our overall global Citizenship Score mark of 8/10 or above, but we fell short on overall volunteerism participation and volunteer hours. We met major environmental goals; evolved pro bono plans, launched diversity and inclusion programs; and advanced health and well-being actions. Plus, we determined how to meet those goals that require us to step up our efforts. Overall, of our major objectives, we achieved 10 and partially fulfilled 12 others. An employee survey will help guide us ahead; it underscores that our 6,000-plus employees desire more knowledge about Citizenship and volunteering. As for our 2016 story’s synopsis: We made progress and signaled further advancement. 5 Fiscal Year 2016 Citizenship Performance GOAL ASSESMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our global C-Score in FY16 was lower than the score in FY15, because of lower Global Citizenship Score 8.0 / 10 numbers of volunteerism reported. RETHINK OUR GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY / Business Ethics At least 85% of FTE trained in Intro to Compliance and Ethics. 85% of employees completed the Intro to Compliance and Ethics training module. At least 85% of required FTE trained in Worldwide Anti-Corruption. 79% of required employees completed the Worldwide Anti-Corruption training module. INSPIRE CHANGE LOCALLY / Carbon Footprint & Green Office Policies Achieve on-time, quarterly reporting of GHG data. 86% of offices recorded at least partial environmental data. Reduce hub offices greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions per FTE We achieved an aggregated carbon intensity reduction for our hub offices of 21% employee by 5% by end of FY15 against FY11 (base year) levels. compared with FY11, outperforming our target by 16%. Total group reduction is 22%. Set all network printers to double-sided default. Purchase paper All offices have set printers to double-sided default and purchase regular paper (A4 or with at least 50% recycled content. Letter) with at least 50% recycled content. Collect and responsibly dispose of electronic waste with CloudBlue. 58% of offices had at least one E-waste pickup through CloudBlue in FY16. We reduced our hub offices carbon intensity as a result of Business air travel Reduce business air travel. by 24% compared with FY11. We actively engaged with our local offices to achieve Carbon Trust Certification Build more robust green teams in each office. and launch environmental pilot programs. Improve lighting energy efficiency in the 10 offices with the Initiatives started in our Chicago, Atlanta and Amsterdam offices. This will be a highest GHG emissions. priority in FY17 as part of our Carbon Trust certification goals. We undertook a region by region study of available programs and will use the Standardize employee commuting benefits globally. outcomes to make recommendations going forward. Create a Green Meetings policy for all offices. We created and launched the Green Meetings Guide in all offices in FY16. 6 Fiscal Year 2016 Citizenship Performance GOAL ASSESMENT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION INSPIRE CHANGE LOCALLY / Learning & Development Achieve at least 24 hours of training/FTE. In FY16 134,167 training hours were completed globally; 24 hours/FTE. INSPIRE CHANGE LOCALLY / Diversity & Inclusion Launch of three more affinity groups in FY16: AfricanEdelman’s African American affinity group, Griot, launched in FY16. The Hispanic American, Hispanic and veterans. and Veterans groups are set to launch in FY17. We established a Diversity and Inclusion Leadership Team to outline and lead Set aspirational goals related to diverse hiring and retention. our priorities and actions. INSPIRE CHANGE LOCALLY / Health & Wellbeing In FY16 we created a working group with global HR, Wellness 360 and Global Make global policy recommendations for employee wellbeing. Citizenship and presented global recommendations. Survey Edelman benefits and wellness specialists globally to get a The audit of existing programs was completed by global HR in FY16. sense of what’s in place and where the gaps are. STRATEGIZE COLLABORATIVE IMPACT / Pro Bono & Volunteerism 80% of offices submitted pro bono/volunteerism plans through templates Pro bono and volunteerism plans submitted for each oﬃce. from the Pro Bono & Volunteerism Toolkit. Over 80% of employees participate in volunteerism. 33% of employees participated in volunteer activities in FY16. At least 8 hours of pro bono or general volunteerism A total of 32,854 volunteer and pro bono hours were recorded in FY16: 5.9 hours/FTE. completed per full-time employee. On-time (quarterly) reporting of volunteerism an pro bono hours. 90% of offices reported volunteerism and pro bono hours in FY16. Develop templates that our offices can use to build their pro The Pro Bono & Volunteerism Toolkit was developed and launched in FY16. bono and volunteerism plans. ESTABLISH PARTNERSHIPS FOR GOOD / Supplier Diversity & Sustainable Purchasing Implement a supplier diversity policy in the U.S. Supplier diversity bid policy is in place and is being piloted in 9 US offices. 7 Rethink Our R Global Responsibility For our Citizenship story to evolve, we must continually challenge ourselves to maintain the courage to do the right thing, have the freedom to be constantly curious and, and to pursue excellence by bringing the best of ourselves. We must rethink how we can be a collective force for good in the communities in which we operate. That was a priority in 2016. Our efforts included a global Citizenship survey of employees; new collaborations among offices and outside partners; and fresh initiatives such as the Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award. By carefully assessing our Citizenship outcomes, we can further advance our Citizenship journey and impact local change through our offices worldwide. We can achieve this by staying true to our entrepreneurial heritage and our founder Dan Edelman’s values and principles of success; and through our desire to elevate communication’s role. This is the story of our natural evolution. It reflects our corporate culture of Citizenship. 8 Our Culture C-Score Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award Citizenship – It’s who we are. It’s embedded in our core We first applied the Citizenship Score (C-Score) to our In FY16 we introduced the Ruth Edelman Citizenship values and exemplifies one of founder Dan Edelman’s Citizenship efforts in FY15 to integrate our sustainability Award to our annual Culture Awards. It honors the legacy principles of success to “Give Back.” We challenge goals fully into our business practices. It provides of Ruth Edelman, our founder Dan Edelman’s wife and life ourselves to be a trusted and resilient partner for our accountability on Citizenship-related policies and projects. partner, who supported numerous health organizations clients, our communities and our colleagues, while We base our overall score on each of our offices’ and nonprofits throughout her life. The award recognizes ensuring that we always have the courage to do the performance against 13 key performance indicators. the pro bono project that demonstrates Edelman right thing. Citizenship to the highest extent. Citizenship Scores are updated quarterly and shared with the Our employees appreciate our Citizenship journey. Our company’s senior leadership in order to update them about The award underscores how a communications marketing annual employee survey found they’re more engaged in local office Citizenship progress. strategy can impact a specific societal issue in pro bono the overall process and 80% think Citizenship and partnership with a nonprofit client. It drives collaboration volunteerism are key to choosing Edelman as their While our FY16 score of 8.0/10 is below our FY15 score of across various Edelman practices and offices, and employer. In all, we continually seek to create a 8.2/10, we did reach our goal of 8.0/10 once again. We have encourages the inclusion of non-client facing staff. Please Citizenship culture. assessed how we can continue to improve our C-Score and see page 16 for the inaugural award winner. have begun putting that plan into place. 9 I Inspire Change Locally To inspire a collective force for good, we focus increasingly on executing programs locally with support from global parameters and toolkits. We bring inventive new ideas to projects across the entire Edelman spectrum. This way, our 65 offices work to reach Edelman objectives, then engage with local partners to tackle their community’s goals. Local change is always driven by our employees, Edelman’s core strength. And we strive to encourage local initiatives within our global universe to propel advances in learning & development, diversity & inclusion, health & well-being, and creating greener, more sustainable offices. By motivating change locally, we catalyze a path from influence to leadership. That’s a powerful story. 10 Breakdown of Employees per Region Breakdown of Employees per Region Silent Boomer Gen X Millennial Gen Z Undisclosed Total Female Male Undisclosed Total (Pre 1946) (1946-1965) (1966-1979) (1980-1995) (Post 1995) APACMEA 1,201 539 180 1,560 APACMEA 0 40 246 1255 1 18 1,560 Canada 154 78 232 Canada 0 12 64 156 0 232 Europe & CIS 827 391 1,218 Europe & CIS 1 71 301 845 0 1,218 Latin America 248 96 344 Latin America 0 8 54 280 2 344 U.S. 1,845 810 2,655 U.S. 6 171 654 1824 0 2,655 Total 4,095 1,914 180 6,009 Total 7 302 1,319 4,360 3 18 6,009 11 Learning & Development Diversity & Inclusion Health & Wellbeing With Edelman’s commitment to excellence, it’s important In FY16, we continued a multiyear and multipronged effort At Edelman, we want to provide a safe and healthy that we demonstrate a thirst for knowledge by embracing to ensure our agency possesses a diverse workforce and an workplace that promotes the wellbeing of all our curiosity. Through a widening array of learning options and inclusive work environment that embraces a host of employees. Our most recent Citizenship and Your Voice career paths, and via platforms like the Edelman Learning backgrounds, beliefs and experiences. employee surveys make clear that employees want Institute, the annual Leadership Academy and our Global Edelman to focus on their health and wellbeing, and we’re We established a Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Leadership on it. Finding the right balance between our personal and Fellows program, we enable the personal and professional Team to map out measurable goals, priorities and actions; working lives is key to our wellbeing journey. growth of our employees. launched our third affinity group, Griot (a network for Today, the Edelman Learning Institute is a corporate Edelman’s African American employees and all colleagues Our Global HR, Wellness360 and Global Citizenship teams “virtual campus” that encompasses global online sessions, who are interested in learning more about the community) established a task force, developed an action plan and sent regional seminars, and core skills in-house courses. In and we will be rolling out Edelman Inclusivo, our Latino recommendations to senior leadership with the intent to FY16, our employees completed 134,167 training hours network, and our veterans’ network in fall 2016. Our put the new goals in place globally in FY17. globally as we again achieved our goal of providing at least employee networks were instrumental in convening colleagues for town hall discussions after the shootings in We are determined to create a culture of wellbeing that 24 hours of training per year to each employee. Orlando and tragedies in Baton Rouge, Minneapolis and focuses on the physical and emotional health of us all, The Edelman Leadership Academy enables our leading Dallas in summer 2016. tailored by location to meet the specific needs of talent from across the globe the unique opportunity to individuals, their families and their communities. participate in an intensive educational program conducted We increased internship opportunities for students of color through external partnerships, and sponsored key Current programs include Edelman Escape, Flexible Work by Edelman executives and experts from various fields. industry events to recruit diverse candidates; and worked Arrangements and Family Leave, and Sabbatical Programs. Our Global Fellows program sends DJE employees abroad to revamp our D&I training effort. ‘Wellbeing Wednesday’ has been established by our UK for up to 12 months to gain firsthand experience working Our internal Global Women Executive Network (GWEN), office, to ensure that employees get updates and in different markets. This years’ Fellows transferred from first formed in FY12, was established to increase the invitations to various wellness-related workshops, talks their regions to our offices in Chicago, Johannesburg, number of women in senior leadership positions. Currently and activities on a regular basis. Mumbai, Paris, San Francisco, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Stockholm, and Washington, D.C. 40% of senior leadership positions are held by women, and FY16 onsite activities ranged from health checks and we strive to reach 50%. We will launch of a complete nutritional talks to a session on cultivating resilience. The Global L&D network is championed and supported program to support this goal, including measurable Building on this, we will be extending ‘Wellbeing with senior regional business leads and a network of deans actions such as building a pipeline for executive Wednesday’ to our continental Europe markets in FY17. from each and every office across the globe. recruitment, addressing unconscious bias through training, and advancing our approach to senior-level succession planning and career development. 12 Carbon Trust On the heels of London becoming our first office to achieve the esteemed Carbon Trust Standard in FY15, Edelman as an agency became the industry’s first firm to receive the 20,000 4.04 4.50 certification worldwide in FY16. The award certifies we have reduced our carbon footprint and 3.94 3.91 commit to further annual reductions in the 15 global offices that represent over 70% of our 3.69 4.00 Office copy total carbon emissions. To fulfill previously developed goals, in FY17 we are focusing on 15,000 3.14 3.50 paper use improving lighting energy efficiency and conducting lighting audits in those offices. We have 3.00 already started this process in our Chicago, Atlanta and Amsterdam offices. In 2016, we also Carbon Emissions (tCO2e) tCO2e/FTE 2.50 received a gold Ecovadis rating that puts Edelman among the top 5% of all companies Staff business 10,000 evaluated by the collaborative platform, which provides supplier sustainability ratings for 2.00 air travel global supply chains. 1.50 5,000 1.00 Purchased Green Offices electricity 0.50 In Edelman’s holistic approach to managing its overall environmental impact, we continued to consumption 0 0.00 make significant progress on major goals. Although our total emissions increased as a result of FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 growth, like our recent acquisition in Colombia, by the end of FY15* we achieved an aggregate carbon intensity (per FTE) decrease of 21% vs. FY11 (our baseline year). This exceeds our hub office target by 16%. Contributing to that reduction was a 24% carbon intensity (per FTE) drop in business air travel vs. FY11. We created and distributed a Green Meeting Guide to all Carbon Emissions FY15 FY14 FY11 % Change FY15 % Change FY15 vs (TCO2e) (Base Year) vs FY14 FY11 (Base Year) offices, and continued to set all office printers to double-sided default and buy copy paper with at least 50% recycled content. Fifty-eight percent of our offices conducted pick ups of Region electronic waste through CloudBlue and we intend to increase that number in FY17. We also launched a pilot program to reduce solid waste, paper, plastics and food in an effort to divert US 10,307 12,030 11,225 -14% -8% 50% of our waste from landfills for recycling. To understand the landscape of country-specific EMEA 2,703 3,208 2,562 -16% 5% employee commuter benefits options, we undertook a region by region study of available Asia Pacific 3,510 3,295 2,074 7% 69% Latin AM 524 509 237 3% 121% programs and will use the outcomes to make recommendations going forward. Canada 169 139 139 21% 21% Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Edelman recognizes that by measuring our environmental risk, we’re better able to manage it Total Carbon Emissions 17,212 19,180 17,212 -10% 6% strategically. We want to minimize our impact where we can. That’s why we made a commitment in FY14 to report to CDP, and we submitted our first annual response in FY15. Additionally, our current and prospective clients report to CDP and expect their suppliers to do so, too. Our initial score, received in FY16, showed that we outperformed the average score in our category. We submitted our second response earlier this year and expect to receive our updated score in November 2016. *There is a one-year delay for environmental data reporting due to the timing of our publication and our fiscal year. Strategize S Collaborative Impact Our latest annual employee Citizenship survey tells quite a story. Our employees are more engaged in the overall Citizenship process and they desire more information about Citizenship and about volunteering. And they want Edelman to center our pro bono efforts on social issues that make a difference, including improving education, gender equality and helping children and others in need. Around the world, employees assisted those in need through pro bono campaigns and volunteering activities in every region. They acted on their deep interests. In FY16, they contributed 32,854 volunteer and pro bono hours, an average of 5.9 hours per employee – short of our 8 hours per employee target. Many signaled they would do more but lack the time for it. Ninety percent of our 65 global offices reported volunteer and pro bono hours and, to help them, we launched a toolkit to help increase their volunteering and pro bono activities. Our pro bono projects, for the most part, focused on social issues, such as helping to educate the general public about mental health challenges; communicating issues that veterans face as they transition to civilian life; and raising funds for refugees worldwide, among others. 14 Pro Bono: General Volunteerism: Community Investment Grant Program: FY11 – FY16 24,490 hrs. $197,068 Sponsorships, Grants & Fiscal Year Donations Organizations Contributions: 2011 $146,900 61 General $785,474 Volunteerism: 2012 $143,650 64 8,364 hrs. 2013 $146,250 117 Pro Bono: 2014 $148,250 121 $3,673,516 2015 $150,000 158 2016 $150,000 140 TOTAL HOURS: 32,854 TOTAL GIVING: $4,656,059* Total $885,050 661 Pro Bono General Volunteerism Community Investment Grants Through strategic and creative storytelling, we seek to Tracking volunteer time always proves difficult but we From volunteering at their local community shelters to influence the conversation about society’s critical continue to establish efficient ways to do that. In FY16, offering their strategic expertise as nonprofit board challenges and solutions, and we use our we developed and introduced the Pro Bono & members, our employees are ingrained in the fabric of communications marketing principles to make an Volunteerism Toolkit that helps offices build their plans their communities. impact. Exemplifying our commitment to pro bono work and share the stories of their impact. was the creation of the Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award. For the past five years, Edelman has given back to local In FY16, our reported general volunteerism hours communities through the Community Investment Grant Throughout FY16, employees contributed 24,490 hours totaled 8,364 hours. Volunteer efforts supported a wide program, which supports the organizations that our to pro bono initiatives in support of a multitude of variety of local causes – from helping victims of employees care about most with individual grants of up causes. They included refugees, children in emergency Canadian wildfires and Louisiana floods to assisting a to USD $2,500. In FY16, 140 grants totaling $150,000 situations, sexual consent, cancer education, and mental busy dog shelter in Singapore and a special event for were awarded to nonprofits around the world. health, among others. children with Down syndrome at the YMCA in Guangzhou, China. We have also started to look at how the grants we In times of crisis we demonstrated our value of having award each year align with the UN’s 17 sustainable the courage to do the right thing, as has happened after Contributions in kind and cash donations from individual development goals that include eliminating poverty and the horrific shootings in a LGBTQ nightclub in Orlando employees with company matching programs also hunger; reducing inequalities; and providing good health last June. Our Orlando team, reinforced by assistance assisted organizations to direct funds where they need and wellbeing, quality education, clean water and from across the network, worked tirelessly with clients, them most. Through our dollar-for-dollar matching affordable, clean energy, among other issues. local leaders and the community at large to help bring donation program with the American Red Cross, we people together and reshape the community in a collectively raised $11,710 for the relief effort following * The valuation of pro bono volunteerism is based on the Pro Bono Standards and Valuation Guidelines provided by Taproot Foundation . The valuation of general powerful, enduring way. the flooding in southern Louisiana earlier this year. volunteerism is based on the 2015 Bureau of Labor Statistics data. 15 Pro Bono Client – Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award winner The Canadian Women’s Foundation // Canada In 2015, there was an unprecedented amount of incidents and public interest around sexual harassment, rape culture and violence against women. The Canadian Women's Foundation wanted to connect with Canadians on this serious issue. To get into the hearts and minds of Canadians, Edelman developed a unique, pro-bono integrated communications marketing campaign called “Get Consent” designed to educate, de-stigmatize and bring awareness to the importance of giving and getting positive and ongoing consent, while bolstering the Foundation’s profile as a leading authority on the issue. The team knew it was necessary to go beyond “finger-wagging” campaigns in order to make an impact so they used humor, facts and highly shareable content to break through and reach Canadians. The centerpiece of the campaign was a compelling video featuring a tragic haircut, overzealous gravy server at a diner and a death metal band at a grandma’s birthday party — all exaggerated examples of how consent can be applied to everyday situations. The four-week campaign garnered more than 22 million media impressions, 220,000 video views on YouTube (over 1.6 million total views, including movie theaters and the video posted on Upworthy) and 22,000 visits to the GetConsent.ca website. Get Consent was one of the first projects in Canada to leverage Edelman’s Communications Marketing evolution, bringing together different practices and specialties together to create a truly social by design campaign. This cross-office, cross-practice integrated team was awarded the inaugural Ruth Edelman Citizenship Award for its dedication and passion to imparting lasting impact on a pressing social issue while exemplifying Citizenship to the highest extent. 16 Pro Bono Client The Campaign to Change Direction // Chicago, Washington D.C. America is at a crossroads when it comes to how we address mental health. More Americans are expected to die this year by suicide than in car accidents but unfortunately, mental health is a topic that is often avoided and the majority of those suffering with mental health issues never reach out for they help they need and deserve. In September 2014, Dr. Van Dahlen came to Edelman with the vision of creating a national awareness campaign focused on shifting the narrative surrounding mental health. Inspired by the chance to start a movement that has such importance to our country and the world, Edelman partnered with Dr. Van Dahlen as the pro bono communications partner for what would become The Campaign to Change Direction. From campaign brand development and communications support to the development of PSAs shown in Times Square, Edelman has helped bring Dr. Van Dahlen’s vision to life. The initial goal of the campaign was to reach 1 million people in five years through pledges to learn and educate others on the Five Signs of mental suffering. By the time the campaign was officially launched in March 2015, partners had already pledged to reach a combined 30 million people. Since then, Change Direction has reached nearly 200 million Americans through partner pledges, social media campaigns, and earned media coverage. As the leading communications marketing firm, we believe in the power of building relationships with audiences in order to create lasting impact on society. With data from the National Institute of Mental Health stating that one in five Americans has a diagnosable mental health condition, we believe that there has never been a more important time to Change Direction. 17 Pro Bono Client #itstartswithus – United Nations High Commissioner for #itstartswithus – United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) // Hong Kong Refugees (UNHCR) // Hong Kong We are facing the biggest refugee crisis in history. Worldwide displacement has hit an all-time high of 65 million people as war and persecution tragically increase. The We are facing the biggest refugee crisis in history. Worldwide displacement has hit an problem is so big the UN’s Refugee Agency has a USD 7 billion global funding gap. all-time high of 65 million people as war and persecution tragically increase. The UNHCR needs all of us to contribute so it can provide basic food, water, and shelter to problem is so big the UN’s Refugee Agency has a USD 7 billion global funding gap. the millions of vulnerable refugees. UNHCR needs all of us to contribute so it can provide basic food, water, and shelter to the millions of vulnerable refugees. The complexity and distance of the refugee issue create the unfortunate reality of indifference throughout Hong Kong. Most feel it is irrelevant or that they can’t do The complexity and distance of the refugee issue create the unfortunate reality of anything about it. indifference throughout Hong Kong. Most feel it is irrelevant or that they can’t do anything about it. Led by an insight that the best way to change the conversation was with a peer-to-peer approach, Edelman created content featuring voices of everyday Hong Kongers who told Led by an insight that the best way to change the conversation was with a peer-to-peer emotional stories of why they care about the refugee issue and how they were doing approach, Edelman created content featuring voices of everyday Hong Kongers who told their part to make a difference and create change. It starts with us. emotional stories of why they care about the refugee issue and how they were doing their part to make a difference and create change. It starts with us. The campaign’s success came from combining insight-led storytelling, powerful creative, and analytics-based targeting to create an integrated ecosystem to engage a carefully The campaign’s success came from combining insight-led storytelling, powerful creative, selected audience. The #itstartswithus ecosystem started with targeted social media and analytics-based targeting to create an integrated ecosystem to engage a carefully segmentation and was supported with a microsite, PR, email marketing, direct mail selected audience. The #itstartswithus ecosystem started with targeted social media marketing, an out-of-home digital billboard, and a film screening. With just two months segmentation and was supported with a microsite, PR, email marketing, direct mail to execute the campaign leading up to World Refugee Day the campaign generated over marketing, an out-of-home digital billboard, and a film screening. With just two months 14+M impressions and garnered 35 pieces of earned media coverage. 300,000 Hong to execute the campaign leading up to World Refugee Day the campaign generated over 14+M impressions and garnered 35 pieces of earned media coverage. 300,000 Hong Kongers joined the Facebook conversation, 2,000 people signed an online petition calling on governments to do more, and most importantly, the campaign helped Hong Kongers realize that the refugee crisis needs their help, and that they can create change #itstartswithus Kongers joined the Facebook conversation, 2,000 people signed an online petition calling on governments to do more, and most importantly, the campaign helped Hong Kongers realize that the refugee crisis needs their help, and that they can create change through simple acts – it starts now, #itstartswithus. through simple acts – it starts now, #itstartswithus. 18 General Volunteerism YMCA Guangzhou – Special Model Contest // Guangzhou On March 20, 2016, the day before World Down Syndrome Day, YMCA Guangzhou hosted the Special Model Contest for children with Down Syndrome to raise awareness and remind the community that those with Down Syndrome are not really any different than the rest of us. Edelman Guangzhou volunteers spent the day with the contestants and made sure their walk down the runway went smoothly. The Special Model Contest awarded “Outstanding Individual” awards to 10 models who will form a Public Ambassador Team to raise awareness of Down's Syndrome. Boys and Girls Clubs of Calgary Capital One Race for Kids™ // Calgary Edelman Calgary supported the Boys and Girls Clubs of Calgary with one of their largest fundraisers of the year, the Capital One Race for Kids™. Throughout the race, teams of four adults competed in a series of quirky checkpoints scattered throughout the community. The checkpoints were designed to encourage teamwork, challenge the body, and focus the mind. The Edelman team volunteered at one of the checkpoints, greeting the teams as they arrived and providing instructions for the challenge. The success of the race means that the Boys and Girls Clubs can provide services to Calgary’s homeless youth, giving them a safe place to sleep and nutritious meals on the table. Kleiderkammer Hamburg // Hamburg In response to the wave of refugees who migrated to Germany in 2015, active community members initiated the “Kleiderkammer Hamburg Messehalle.” On the grounds of the Hamburg fair, volunteers collected, organized and sorted clothes and other goods, ensuring that each refugee would receive a starter-kit for their new lives. In addition, community members and local businesses collected donations and provided services like childcare, healthcare, and education. Edelman volunteered with “Kleiderkammer” to organize a process for sorting the donated goods and collected donations from employees and clients. 19 General Volunteerism Camillus House // Miami Camillus House is a local non-profit charity founded more than 56 years ago with a goal of eliminating chronic homelessness in Miami. Among the services offered, Camillus House helps individuals replace important documents like birth certificates, offers health programs and activities accessible and available to disabled persons, and provides support to transition people to a new life of self-sufficiency. In ongoing support and engagement with Camillus House, the Edelman Miami team volunteered to feed the homeless at Camillus House in celebration of Giving Tuesday, a day recognized globally as a day for giving. Additionally, colleagues served meals for Camillus House clients and guests throughout the holiday season. Community Transitional School // Portland Throughout the year, Edelman supported the Community Transitional School, a private school dedicated to serving children whose families are homeless or in transition. In March, eight employees spent the day with students in grades two through five as subjects for the language arts class. The students interviewed the Edelman employees about their lives, including how they overcame challenges and obstacles, and wrote a paper on what they learned and drew their subject’s portrait. In this way, Edelman employees were able to serve as positive role models of success in education and work. Edelman also helped collect and donate school supplies in September 2016, acted as “Secret Santa's” for a group of students in December 2015, and in February donated 50 Valentine’s Day kits to the students so they could exchange cards for the holiday. Ward’s Warriors // Houston In early March, the Houston office gathered a group to participate in the Lung Force Walk organized by the American Lung Association (ALA), to raise awareness and funds to fight against lung cancer, and specifically in support of their colleague who is a battling lung cancer. Unfortunately, the event was cancelled, but in honor of their colleague’s fighting spirit, a group from the Houston office gathered after work for a walk of their own to raise funds for the American Lung Association. 20 E Establish Partnerships For Good Alliances developed with countries and companies help us solve our shared societal and environmental challenges. That explains why over 190 countries have signed and countless businesses are embedding in their plans the UN’s 17 sustainable development goals for eradicating poverty, hunger and inequality by 2030. It’s also why a similar number of countries signed the historic climate control pact in December in Paris. In 2016, we began or accelerated several collaborations. Together with partners, we are contributing to the first uniform standard of sustainability for professional services firms like ours. As a member of the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council, we participated in the development of sustainable purchasing guidelines. We linked up with the nonprofit Give an Hour and the George W. Bush Institute on a major pro bono initiative about mental health and veterans. We’re part of Impact 2030 that looks to volunteerism to advance the world’s sustainable development goals. Together, we can tell bigger stories, reach higher goals and have a greater impact on our shared communities. 21 Clients Supply Chain Partnerships As a professional services firm, we know working with Our drive to develop a responsible and sustainable In our efforts on the sustainable purchasing front, we our clients is our greatest opportunity to make a positive supply chain that encompasses sustainable purchasing, partnered with NSF International in an American impact around the world. Whether it’s collaborating with supplier diversity and supplier accountability accelerated National Standards Institute (ANSI) approved multiclients to develop social strategies that are tied to their in FY16. It’s increasingly essential as clients, potential stakeholder approach to develop general sustainability business objectives or driving stakeholder behaviors clients and government agencies want to know what assessment criteria – the proposed NSF 391.1 standard -through creative storytelling, we drive powerful their suppliers are doing to address these issues. Among for use by government and institutional purchasers in connections between companies and the greater good. other initiatives, we began a pilot project in eight U.S. their supply chain procurement activities. We are honored to work for some of today’s leaders in offices using a new policy for supplier diversity that Citizenship and sustainability. seeks to increase our business with minority-, women-, We continue to band together with companies LGBTand veteran-owned businesses. worldwide in the global private sector-led Impact 2030 Through our Business & Social Purpose practice and to mobilize our employee volunteers to help combat our other agency work, employees helped clients to do good We are an AB member of SEDEX and we want to most critical global issues, as defined by the UN around the world in FY16 and beyond. Symbolizing those leverage that membership in FY17 to implement Sustainable Development Goals. efforts: Working with UNICEF in Sweden to recruit more responsible supply chain strategies. we participated as a donors for efforts on behalf of children in emergency member of the Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Edelman is a founding member of the Professional situations globally, we helped create the virtual child, Council (SPLC) to develop the Guidance for Leadership in Services Sustainability Roundtable (PSSR), an affinity Sofia, as the campaign’s symbol. It reached 663 million Sustainable Purchasing v2.0, including a professional group of the Boston College Center for Corporate people around the world and contributed to 37% more services sector specific section. As a member of the US Citizenship (BCCCC). The PSSR was founded in 2014 monthly donors in Sweden. technical assistance group for ISO 20400, we contributed when several members formed a collective voice in to the development of a draft international standard for regards to the unique position of professional service On the next pages you will find some of the examples of sustainable procurement. firms and corporate citizenship. how we partnered with our clients to make positive impact in FY16. 22 Client stories Edelman Client UNICEF – For Sofia // Stockholm The Challenge: UNICEF works to give every child, everywhere, a fair chance in life. But getting attention for emergencies that aren’t highlighted in major media is a struggle. Our mission was to market the need for more World Parents, or monthly donors, in Sweden. The funding of UNICEF is needed to help children all over the world – but media only covers one emergency area and one human faith at a time. What if one child could speak for every child suffering all over the globe? Our Response: Edelman Deportivo (Stockholm) used the Face Research tool to morph 500 images of children in UNICEF emergency areas into one 3D animated girl named Sofia the world’s most common girls name. Sofia gave a voice – and a face – to all those children who are not heard or seen. For UNICEF, having a virtual child to connect to, describing stories taking place all over the globe, was both highly brand relevant and problem solving. The campaign saw an earned media reach of 663 million people. The For Sofia film reached 987,000 views on Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, setting a new record for UNICEF Sweden. Sofia was even adopted by UNICEF Brazil as the face of their own national campaign. Most importantly, For Sofia recruited 37% more World Parents than the same campaign period in the previous year. Learn more about For Sofia here. 22 23 Edelman Client Kashi – Certified Transitional // San Francisco The Challenge: Despite soaring demand for organics, only ~ 1% of US farmland is currently certified USDA Organic. Inspired to do something to boost organic acreage in the U.S., Kashi partnered with a 3rd party to develop Certified Transitional—a protocol to recognize crops grown on farmland transitioning from conventional to organic. Kashi then created a new product, Dark Cocoa Karma Shredded Wheat Biscuits, to showcase the first-ever Certified Transitional ingredients and called on Edelman to help introduce the world to this new concept and product in May. Our Response: Edelman’s San Francisco Business + Social Purpose team told the Certified Transitional story to Kashi’s key audiences through media, stakeholder engagement and conferences. We leveraged industry relationships to broker introductions to key influencers and recruit organizations like Target, The Conservation Fund, and Dr. Bronners to attend an influencer event. A campaign infographic told the story visually and coordinated with Kashi’s multiple partners to ensure the story was fully and accurately communicated. We also inspired earned support from influencers like the CEO of Annie’s, Zappos’ Green Team, and social influencers, secured three keynote speaking opportunities for Kashi’s CEO at Sustainable Brands, SXSW Eco and GreenBiz, and worked with Sustainable Brands to publish an open letter from him inviting fellow brands to adopt Certified Transitional. So far, the effort has resulted in 147.3MM+ media impressions against a goal of 74MM and 30+ stories in top outlets including The New York Times, CNBC, NPR, Fast Company, Take Part, Eater, and Mind Body Green. 24 Edelman Client #OptOutside // Seattle, New York, San Francisco The Challenge: REI, a purpose-driven outdoor retailer and the nation’s largest consumer co-op, would shock the retail world by shutting its 143 stores on Black Friday, blacking out its website and paying all 12,000 employees to get outside with family and friends. REI conceived the initiative and recruited Edelman to share the co-op’s purpose and unique values; do the right thing for REI employees and galvanize the outdoor industry, generate a national conversation about the benefits of a life outdoors and craft and inspire stories and content that invite people to #OptOutside. Our Response: Edelman Seattle developed a social-by-design engagement strategy that united traditional media with social influencer engagement, content creation, and influencer engagement to ignite conversations, connections, and sharing. #OptOutside launched on October 26, 2015 with a letter from the CEO to REI’s 12,000 employees & 5.5 million members. A total of 1.4 Million People Pledged to #OptOutside in addition to more than 170 organizations, parks, and businesses, and 14 state parks who offered free passes or incentives, with additional support from the Bureau of Land Management, National Forest Foundation and National Park Service. #OptOutside garnered 6.7 Billion media impressions and 1.2 Billion social impressions with 33 days of sustained coverage. More than 400 #OptOutside meetups were hosted, REI retail job applications went up by 92% in Q4 and 2015 sales & membership up nearly double digits over 2014, defying broader retail trends. Learn more about #OptOutside here. 25 About This Report How We Identified Material Aspects Edelman has an ongoing materiality process in which the global citizenship team, with assistance from local citizenship liaisons, monitors new developments in the corporate social responsibility space. These observations are being shared and discussed during our monthly Local Citizenship Network calls and Global Citizenship Advisory Council meetings. Based on these conversations we determine how our initiatives measure up against global trends, initiatives at other service providing firms and relevant developments within our industry. We receive annual feedback from our employees through our Global Citizenship survey. Every three years we conduct a more in-depth analysis that includes feedback from our clients, NGOs and academics. This ongoing materiality process allows us to report on those topics that are most critical to our operations and stakeholders, and map our citizenship journey for the years ahead. For more information about our materiality process and an overview of our identified material aspects, please see Appendix A on www.edelman.com/who-we-are/global-citizenship GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics Edelman’s organizational boundary of its carbon inventory is determined based on an operational control approach in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The inventory accounts for 100% of carbon emissions of business activities and operations in which Edelman has direct operational control and the full authority to introduce and implement its operating policies. There is a one-year delay for environmental data reporting due to the timing of our publication and our fiscal year. The current carbon inventory thus accounts for the carbon emissions of Edelman’s operations for FY15 (1 July 2014 – 30 June 2015). The carbon emissions calculated include Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions that were reported for operations within the organizational boundary defined. For more information about our GHG Emissions Reporting Methodology and Environmental Metrics, please see Appendix B and C on www.edelman.com/who-we-are/global-citizenship Global Reporting Initiative We are a registered Organizational Stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and support its mission to empower decision makers through our sustainability standards and multi-stakeholder network to take action toward a more sustainable economy and world. This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our full GRI Index can be found online: www.edelman.com/who-we-are/globalcitizenship Reporting year Edelman’s fiscal 2016, from July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016, unless otherwise noted. Currency All amounts in this report are expressed in U.S. Dollars. Previous reports This is our sixth annual Global Citizenship report. The others can be found on www.edelman.com Contact For more information, please contact: Citizenship@Edelman.com
