COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: Dec 2017 To: Dec 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive 13th December 2017 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Client Managers Toolkit Ltd t/a CEMAR reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ben Walker CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats Provide a safe and secure working environment for all employees and visitors Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour Comply with minimum wage standards Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances Minimise paper, and re-cycle Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: Assess the risk of corruption when doing business Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) Monitor and address absenteeism Percentage of recycled materials
