INDEX Management Message 03 SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW CEO’s Message 04 Introduction of TaeKwang 05 Business Overview 07 Business and Sustainable Manufacturing Strategy 09 TaeKwang TK Way 11 Sustainability Highlights 13 Ethical Management and Human Rights Management 15 Product Security and Information Security 17 COVER STORY 1. Future of Shoe Industry 21 The cover page footprint graphic represents TaeKwang’s commitment SUSTAINABILITY 2. Strategic HR to taking positive and competitive steps towards ISSUES 23 modernization, speed, flexibility and our talented employees journey. 3. Safe Workplace 29 The smaller icons, within the graphic, are also used throughout our sustainability report 4. Environmental Management 37 to represent our people, environment and community. 5. LEAN Innovation Activities 45 6. Supply Chain Compliance 47 ABOUT THIS REPORT • REPORTING PRINCIPLE 7. TaeKwang’s Social Responsibility Activities 49 • Reported material issues in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines • • REPORTING SCOPE • Headquarters (Andong, Gimhae, Gyeongsangnamdo, S. Korea), • Overseas Production Factories (QT, VT, VM, TT), and Major Suppliers Materiality Assessment 55 • APPENDIX • REPORTING PERIOD 57 • June 2016 ~ May 2017 (January 2016 – December 2016 for Financial information) UN Global Compact • Presented more than three years consecutive data • Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 58 • REPORTING FREQUENCY • Annually (First report published in 2013) Zero Tolerance Principles 59 • • DISCLOSURE GRI G4 Index 60 • Homepage http://www.tkgroup.co.kr • • FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT • TAEKWANG Industiral Co., Ltd. • SM Team TEL: +82 55-330-1973 E-MAIL: t2sm@t2group.co.kr • Andong, 26 2635beon-gil, Gimhaedaero, Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea • • Sustainability Overview Management Message CEO’s Message Introduction of TaeKwang Business Overview Business and Sustainable Manufacturing Strategy TaeKwang TK Way Sustainability Highlights Ethical Management and Human Rights Management Product Security and Information Security Management Message CEO’s Message Dear TaeKwang Friends and Stakeholders, JM, I think we made great achievements with our employees by working diligently on the • motto of Innovation Management last year. How about evolving our strategy to include I am pleased to share our 5th 2017 Annual Sustainability Report with you as we work towards our Vision: “The SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW the topic of Future Competitiveness? Undisputed Leader in Global Manufacturing”. We had another consecutive year of strategic progress and business growth as a proud partner. We increased our CY16 Gross Revenues to over KRW 1.55 trillion, which is an increase of 18% over the previous year. We are very thankful and proud of our employees for their various contributions to our Chairman YC Park business growth. We also produced almost 64M pairs in FY17 which was an another new growth milestone for us. Of course all of this success is only possible through our people. We are very fortunate to have over 68k committed and talented employees across 4 geographic locations including Korea, China, Vietnam and Indonesia who work tirelessly in creating and producing some of the most innovative products in our industry. All of this requires a commitment to our people and we are working hard to forge stronger relationships with our employees and their communities through grassroots activities such as EWB surveys, community enhancement programs, as well as other impactful Beyond Compliance projects. We have also made significant Safety investments in people and environment this past year to I absolutely agree with you, sir. We would also like to praise our employees who have further safeguard our employees in the workplace through training, awareness and accountability as we continue to achieved quality excellence with product innovation, automation and technology, despite improve and elevate our Culture of Safety. the difficult global environments, this past year. Our Future Competitiveness will also We are also working hard to improve our overall Culture and create a Zero Tolerance workplace environment that require us to truly stabilize and sustain our Safety and Quality this year and going supports and respects diversity in people and ideas, regardless of background, sex, race, religion and orientation. We forward. continued to provide in education, awareness and coaching of our employees in the importance of our TK Values and everyone’s role in contributing to a positive company culture and will continue to evolve our culture into sustainable CEO JM Kim global standards. Due to these and many other efforts, I am proud to announce our largest factory (VT) located in Vietnam attained “SILVER” Sustainability rating and is highlighted by the fact that we are one-of-five our customer's partners out of 500+ to attain this sought after level. I want to recognize and thank all team members for the hard work and commitment to help us achieve this milestone and look forward to one of our next factories to attain this level of excellence. Many thanks to all of our employees and stakeholders, who continue to be critical to our growth as we look forward. I believe Speed and Flexibility will also enable our Future Competitiveness in our Sincerely challenging market. We must constantly develop and produce innovative products and technologies, and build a “stronger organization that adds speed and flexibility to our core competitiveness. It won't be easy to move forward, of course, but I strongly believe we can develop ourselves to the next level. T2 General Manager Mitchell Lee JM Kim CEO/President 3 4 Introduction of TaeKwang TaeKwang Industrial Co., Ltd., (“TaeKwang”) was founded in 1971 to manufacture and export shoes. The head office (T2) is located in Andong, Gimhae, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea, and has four overseas production factories • (VT, QT, VM, TT). ESTABLISHMENT PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW T2 establishes business and marketing strategies on behalf of the overseas factories and conducts ordering activities. 46 68,152 In addition, T2 develops shoes technologies and makes shoe samples. The overseas factories produce received shoe models, which are assigned based on their strengths such as technological capability and production capacity. Today, more than 68,000 TaeKwang people develop, create, and produce more innovative shoes than ever before. KOREA years persons TAEKWANG INDUSTRIAL [T2, Gimhae] VIETNAM TAEKWANG MOCBAI [VM, Tay Ninh] PRODUCTION REVENUE TAEKWANG VINA [VT, Dong Nai] 64,122K 1.33B INDONESIA TAEKWANG INDONESIA [TT, Subang, West Java] pairs dollar CHINA TAEKWANG CHINA [QT, Qingdao, Shandong] Milestone *PCC: Product Creation Center Establishment of T2 Establishment VT T2 PCC* QT VT PCC VM iStudio TT Expansion of T2 PCC Jeongsan Foundation T2 PCC 1971 1994 1995 1996 1999 2009 2010 2013 2013 2017 5 6 Business Overview Based on the best technology, TaeKwang has grown as the best shoe company leading the industry as a partner of the global sports brand. • We have developed new products at PCCs, constructed a division system that mass-produces the developed products T2 PCC KOREA VT PCC VIETNAM SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW at overseas factories, and operates two PCCs in Korea and Vietnam. In addition to the PCC, T2 also has Innovation 1,057persons 276 persons Team to apply innovative ideas to our products and R&D Team for manufacturing automation. TaeKwang produces and supplies the best performance and lifestyle footwear to the world with the constant technology development and quality innovation since its establishment. TaeKwang will continue to make the leap to become the undisputed leader in global manufacturing. VT VIETNAM QT CHINA VM VIETNAM TT INDONESIA ★ ★ 32,902person 8,248person 14,345person 11,009person 33,423person 7,477person 14,207person 11,712 person ★ TaeKwang Vina ★ TaeKwang China TaeKwang Mocbai TaeKwang Indonesia [VT, Dong Nai] [QT, Qingdao, Shandong] [VM, Tay Ninh] [TT, Subang, West Java] FY16 30,449,409 pair FY16 8,531,927 pair FY16 12,896,238 pair FY16 9,508,575 pair FY17 32,224,584 pair FY17 7,856,824 pair FY17 13,440,029 pair FY17 10,600,143 pair Located in Dong Nai Province, Vietnam, VT is the QT is the 22-year-old factory located in Lexi City, VM is located in a two-hour drive from Ho Chi Minh. TT is located in Subang, western java, 160 km 23-year-old factory in the Bien Hoa Industrial Zone, Qingdao, China. It manufactures high-tech products. Most of the residents around VM are engaging in riceaway from Jakarta airport. From the starting of just 40 minute drive away from Ho Chi Minh. It is the To promptly respond to a sharp change in the Chinese farming. They also have a strong village community. the operation in September 2014, TT has grown largest factory, producing over 50% of our overall market (rising labor costs, difficulty of manpower Since it started production in 2010, VM has worked up fast together with the local community. TT group production volume, and has the second supply due to one-child policy, concentration of highhard to improve its employees’ capability and soft is the biggest company and the most desired skilled workforce in big cities), it is the time to reinforce skills required for corporate and organizational company to work in Subang. To attract qualified/ product development center. VT is focusing on not our workforce strategy. QT has accelerated LEANculture. VM is further focusing on increasing workers’ experienced middle management, TT devotes its only quantitative growth but also qualitative growth based automated manufacturing and more focused on engagement and capacity building through LEAN efforts to finding and fostering talented people including localization through employee engagement developing craftsmanship and multi-skilled employee. education to find problems and improve themselves. through providing scholarship in connection with and empowerment. VT is also the benchmark for our schools in Bandung area. Culture of Safety. 7 8 Business and Sustainable Manufacturing Strategy Vision 2021 Sustainable Manufacturing Strategy • Our vision is to become “The Undisputed Leader in Global Manufacturing”. TaeKwang aims to become “the Most Desirable Workplace and the Best Responsible Corporate Citizen”. Under this SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Our strategic plan includes foundational elements for successful business and enablers for sustainable growth as a mission, we established five pillars, which are strategic human resources, health and safety, energy, environment, company. We are quick to respond to our changing Business Environments through our Innovation Center, which goes and LEAN. These pillars stand on the foundation of ‘Transparency’ and ‘Integrity’, ‘Diversity’ and ‘Mutual Respect’, beyond the conventional manufacturing process and technology, and with bold Investment in Automation, and a focus and ‘Community Support’. TaeKwang supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals through our sustainable on Best Product Quality. manufacturing strategy and implementation and promotes harmonized growth between each production factory and its local society. These strategies are based on People-oriented Management, Sustainability Management, and Lean Management. Furthermore, these are motive powers of growth for the last half a century and essential sources of competitiveness to sustain TaeKwang’s success. VISION MISSION The Undisputed Leader in Global The Most Desirable Workplace and The Manufacturing Best Responsible Corporate Citizen VISION MISSION HRM Safety & Health Energy Environment LEAN Give Value & Trust to All Our Stakeholders by The Undisputed Leader in Global Manufacturing Attract and Establish a Absolute Minimize the Embed LEAN Leading the Footwear Industry to the Next Level Develop safe, productive reduction of environmental culture World class environment GHG emission footprint talent where workplace throughout employees care our operation for each other in a risk-free INNOVATION MODERNIZATION PROCESS EXCELLENCE PRODUCT EXCELLENCE Deliver a Consistent Accelerate and Scale Leverage Process as Deliver Great Product Pipeline of Innovation an Enabler PEOPLE LEAN 2.0 SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING Attract, Develop, and Leadership, People, Process “Beyond Compliance” Compliance (CoC, CLS, CoE, UNGC 10 Principles) Retain World Class Talent Stakeholder Engagement Transparency and Integrity; Respect Everyone and Everywhere, Support Communities 9 10 TaeKwang TK Way Background TaeKwang Talents • Business usually starts with a founder’s challenges and grows up on the basis of values. Once a company grows to a The ‘PEOPLE’ are the key to success in becoming the undisputed leader in global manufacturing. TaeKwang has redefined SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW certain level, it needs management by regulation. And for further leap, it requires management by corporate culture. talents and their competencies who will drive our challenges and innovations. The talents what TaeKwang looks for are As a global footwear manufacturing company, our organization consists of employees who have a diverse set of defined as Professional, Global, and Creative, who has best talents, global competitiveness and creative ideas to break backgrounds and values. In order to become ‘the Undisputed Leader in Global Manufacturing’, we need a compass that existing framework. tells us what we value and how we should behave in desirable ways. That is the Core Value. ▶ Lee SunYe, Vision Programmer, Modernization Team I majored in computer engineering and I have worked in Taekwang for six BUSINESS GROWTH STEP years. As a vision programmer, I always need self-development by continuous education and research and receiving external consultation. Based on the acquired knowledge, I developed ‘cutting algorithm’ and ‘matching program’. Now I am developing robotic arm pattern that recognizes the sole outline by Management by People Regulation Corporate Culture PROFESSIONAL camera and spray chemicals on the recognized part. In the future, I would like People who excel the best to share my knowledge with new talents and help them acquire a great deal of in their field experiences. ▶ Bui Thi Hong Nhung, Project Manager, Running Team Core Values I majored Korean language in Vietnam and I studied Business Administration Top-notch companies with more than a hundred years of history are still alive today because of their own unique at a graduate school in Seoul. I joined TaeKwang in 2015 upon my friend’s corporate culture and value system. To build our direction and identity, TaeKwang has established the TK Way recommendation. I am a native Vietnamese speaker and speak English and (TaeKwang Way) through the work of deriving value system. To make the value system that everyone can understand Korean fluently. Plus, I am familiar with Korean culture which is a great and sympathize, we reflected our employees’ expectations and thoughts on the value system by analyzing the help for me to work in T2. In offshore factories, I can immediately deal with entrepreneurial spirit of TaeKwang, conducting survey of 1,578 employees at home and abroad, and interviewing each the production problem on site and communicate more effectively with the GLOBAL level of employees. In this end, TK Way core values are specified into ‘Customer First’, ‘Mutual Trust’, ‘Best Pursuit’, and precise contents. I want to fully demonstrate my talents in T2 and grow as the People who have world-class ‘Creative Innovation’. competencies global talent who can create great synergy with whomever I work together by continuously developing my language skills and bringing innovative ideas. Customer First Best Pursuit ▶ Ha TaeKyu, Chemical Engineer, Chemical Engineering Team Create customer satisfaction by preemptively responPursue the best in business, technology, product and ding to their requests and expectations with customerhuman competitiveness and challenge to the world My experiences in offshore factories have helped me to create new ideas. first thoughts and behaviors best with strong passion and infinite excellence Kaizen and suggestion ideas are developed in the process of collaborating with many other departments. Based on my understanding the difficulties of Mutual Trust Creative Innovation offshore factories, I figure out improvement points or be more active to find out Trust and respect everyone and everywhere Secure global competitiveness through innovation where to improve. Though executing the ideas is difficult, I feel great, proud, of technology, quality, productivity, and costing with CREATIVE and joy when I overcome those difficulties and find breakthroughs. These are creativity and extraordinary ideas People who create new values with the source of my creativity. Not to stay with what I have now, I try to travel and disruptive ideas spend time with my family, and making work-life balance as much as I can. 11 12 Sustainability Highlights Based on FY17 • SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW Resource recycling efforts to minimize Building ‘Mercy House’ to improve living conditions of A total of 1,032 TaeKwang employees Provided average 40.4 hours of employee environmental impacts Vietnamese employees and local communities volunteered blood donation development training per year. Wastewater reuse 32% Total 90 houses were built The training includes career Solid waste recycling 61% (VT 56 houses, VM 34 houses) development path Jeongsan Scholarship Foundation Through safety and health improvement activities, Supporting kindergarten, high school, and college VT and TT donated 23 goats and cattle awarded scholarships to in the last three years tuition for employees' children 230 employees granted to support neighboring farmers 1,498 students KRW 3.77 billion since 2000 safety accidents more than 60% decreased a total of KRW 700 million VT and VM donated 70 bicycles and 225 helmets Community donation of KRW 2.1 billion work loss accidents 72.3% decreased to school kids in their communities TaeKwang provided medical services to employees VT won ‘Excellent Company Award' VM selected as ‘Excellent Fire Safety Management T2 PCC expansion under the themes of and local communities with a Korean hospital and local based on five sustainability items Company’ for the five consecutive years ‘Art of Movement’ and ‘Open Communication’ hospitals. A total of 4,400 employees and residents TT named 2nd at ‘Corporate Responsibility Award’, the Taejin (QT satellite factory) recognized as ‘Excellent received health check-up Minister of Small and Medium Business of Indonesia for Company for Wastewater Management’ its active CSR activities 13 14 Ethical Management Human Right Management Compliance Activities Efforts for Protection of Human Right • Ethical Management System Zero Tolerance Guide Book SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW TaeKwang’s ethical management is composed of vision, charter, code of ethics and practical guidelines. The TaeKwang TaeKwang defines six items that must be observed both inside and outside Ethics Office is under the HR Team of head office and offshore factories. The Business Audit Office holds bi-annual of workplace as Zero Tolerance principle: prohibition of forced labor and child meeting to share and discuss our direction and performance of ethical management. Last year, TaeKwang Ethics Office labor, prohibition of physical and sexual abuse, failure to pay wages, serious educated all our employees both at home and abroad on the importance of business ethics and the Anti-graft Law. Key health and safety and environmental impacts. We have made a booklet that personnel including executives, employees in purchasing and finance related teams that can be frequently exposed to introduces the regulations with all related cases. We use it as an educational ethical issue have pledged to upright with business ethics. material to prevent any violation in advance and to encourage a greater understanding of our employees, in particular, Korean expats and offshore Business Audit Office factories’ managers. Zero Tolerance Principle applies equally to all our business 2016 Education of Ethical Pledge of Ethical partners. The booklet consists of 24 pages and is published in five languages Management Management Korean, Vietnamese, Chinese, Indonesian and English for all our factories. HR Importance of Ethical Management Roadmap ▷Leadership Cross-culture and Anti-harassment Education Infrastructure appraisal All Factories ▷Purchasing related teams More than 68,000 of TaeKwang people with diverse nationalities and backgrounds work together, there are conflicts Anti-graft Law TaeKwang guidelines ▷Finance related teams and gaps of understanding coming from differences in cultural and personal orientation. Therefore, T2 HR Team has Anonymous reporting system provided cross-culture education for VM and TT Korean expats last year and received good feedback that they learned Equipment Team Molding Team Material Team new perspectives on different cultures. In the second-half of 2017, we plan to conduct anti-sexual harassment education within management skill during overseas expats orientation, and annual regular training for new employee orientation, Compliance for Fair Trading Key Department team leaders, and group leaders in the production departments. Grievance System Engagement with Supplier on Code of Ethics More than 68,000 of TaeKwang people with diverse nationalities and backgrounds work together, there are conflicts Every year TaeKwang provides training on our ethics value system, and gaps of understanding coming from differences in cultural and personal orientation. Therefore, T2 HR Team has practical guidelines and regulations for reward and punishment, and provided cross-culture education for VM and TT Korean expats last year and received good feedback that they learned reporting system to our suppliers and shares business ethics survey new perspectives on different cultures. In the second-half of 2017, we plan to conduct anti-sexual harassment education results with them. within management skill during overseas expats orientation, and annual regular training for new employee orientation, team leaders, and group leaders in the production department. In October 2016, we surveyed our suppliers to check our ethical management practice. Based on the result, we corrected our problems and established a new policy and regulations on ethics CHANNEL Facility management. Website of Reporting Ethical Management 19% ▷1:1 Interview Poor communication ▷Grievance box HSE Supplier Survey Results 38% ▷Hotline 16% Overall level of ethical management good | Need to eradicate request and giving money and valuables ▷Gathering with GM Labor ▷Daily Monitoring Need to improve the business process with suppliers | Share annual survey results 27% ▷Regular general meeting Set the disciplinary regulation and practice guidelines (TBD) FY17 Top Four Grievance Analysis 15 16 Product and Information Security Strengthening Product Security Information Security • Minimizing security risks is one of the TaeKwang’s top priorities to Company information transmitted to the outside, decryption SUSTAINABILITY OVERVIEW protect our employees, consumers, the company, and the client from records of automatically encrypted files and printing logs are internal and external threats. As one security incident can lead to huge all stored and monitored. Investigations on potential leaks are damage to the stakeholders, we never stop raising the bar to deal with immediately conducted, and we announce it to all employees increasing and more sophisticated security risks. to prevent possible leak attempts. Leak prevention and investigation Employees must go though anti-tailgating security gates at T2 PCC Improving Product Security Awareness Employee participation is the key to effectively identifying security risks, thus, we provide training, conduct surveys, and hold security events for improving our employees’ awareness throughout the year. Surveys of over 1 perceont of employees at each factory in June showed 97 percent of those questioned were well aware of essential Data Protection security policies, and we will raise it to 100 percent within this year. Security awareness survey Maintaining availability by protecting company data from various malicious code is becoming more important to Hiring and Fostering In-house Experts keep our competitiveness. All of our computer systems Retaining experienced security professionals is vital to keep it tight. In are prepared for increasingly intelligent and sophisticated addition to two security managers at the head office with internationally malicious code such as ransomware, and we have not had recognized security certifications, CISSP, CISA and CISM, we hired an any reported data loss incidents. expert on digital forensics and criminal investigation from U.S. Army. We are also fostering internal security experts by participating in global security conferences with our client and providing professional training Data protection from malicious codes and attacks Security managers from all locations with and hands-on workshops. our CEO after completing professional training Smart Security System The most sensitive facilities are PCCs in Korea and Vietnam. We implemented “Smart Video Surveillance System” in the PCCs, and the system will automatically detect and alert suspicious activities. Smart Video Surveillance System 17 18 Sustainability Issues 1. Future of Shoe Industry 2. Strategic HR 3. Safe Workplace 4. Environmental Management 5. LEAN Innovation Activities 6. Supply Chain Compliance 7. TaeKwang’s Social Responsibility Activities 19 20 1. Future of Shoe Manufacturing Speed and Flexibility Automation Deployment The greatest virtues that customer demands us now are the “speed” and “flexibility”. This means that we, as a shoe We operate the Modernization Center (MC) in China for specialist, need to redirect our strategy to a business model that quickly responds to market changes by creating cutting, stitching, and assembling shoes with automated consumers' desired shoes. These changes in the marketing landscape will require us, as the manufacturer, to shorten equipment. The auto cutting machines optimize the cutting lead times and enhance greater flexibility in production. How well we adapt to these changes will decide not only our yield with the pattern arrangement algorithm, and the auto survival but also a sustainable growth. cementing machines optimize amount of adhesive and spray Even though leading companies that produces innovative technology and excellent products, often their products and on vision scanned bonding surface. Through the automated technologies are easily transferred to other factories according to the request of customer. Therefore, we should not facilities, we can produce consistent quality of products. The only stay at the current status, but also build a “Stronger Organization” as our core competency that embeds speed and automated machines proved at the MC are deployed to the flexibility and introduces advanced technologies and manufacturing methods. production factories in Indonesia and Vietnam to produce consistent good quality of shoes regardless workers’ skill and production location. ▶Smart Andon • Enhanced Quick Response Development Capabilities Manually managed data aggregation and analysis method for quality SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Quick Response means implementing shoe development and production in response to rapidly changing market and and equipment history may hinder making clear and immediate consumer needs. decisions. Since speed and flexibility are the key enablers for the future In order to keep pace with these changes, TaeKwang has set up three enablers. shoe manufacturing, the Smart Andon is a system in TT that enables ▶ Prototype capability : Product designs can be produced as samples within 24 hours. real-time decision-making on quality problems, equipment downtime, For this purpose, functional departments including development, pattern, chemical engineeand other urgent situations through real-time reporting. ring, mold, and sample production, have enhanced their communication more actively As manufacturing automation is deployed in the footwear industry, and the work flow has been agile, doubling the production speed. these smart tools are used as big data for preventive maintenance ▶ Flexible production plan : We have increased the efficiency of sample production by providing flexibility of shift activities as well as smooth facility operations. The Smart Andon : work and commute time. Allows prompt decision making through real-time data entry and ▶ Cooperation with our customers : We work even closer than before with our customers to help them make tracking of facility history; better decisions and reduce lead time from design to sample. Reduces unnecessary paper works like reports and e-mail; and Taekwang added equipment and technologies while preparing the quick response system, and continues to work on Utilizes for establishing strategic quality and maintenance plan projects to reduce further the lead time among in-house functional teams. Preparation of Workforce of the Future Automation in manufacturing methods will change the required competencies of our workers and the way of their work. As technology and automation are accelerated, not only we have different expectation for qualified functional leaders to support workforce of the future, but we also need organizational change to embrace the next millennials. We have defined employee core competencies as problem solving ability, leadership, and communication, which will be used as the basis for recruiting and training curriculum. 21 22 2. Strategic HR People TaeKwang Branding We pursue qualitative growth rather than quantitative growth in line with the company's strategies. We attract talents Homepage Renewal that meet the capabilities required by the future industry and provide a platform to the talents to develop themselves. TaeKwang has opened a revamped homepage (www. We will make continued efforts to build a corporate culture where the competent TaeKwang people are retained and tkgroup.co.kr). Under the themes of TaeKwang’s work proudly through competitive reward opportunity and joy of achievement. craftsmanship, young and dynamic T2 PCC and manufacturing environment, and sports activities, we have designed the homepage that appeals to potential EMPLOYEES (persons) UNION MEMBERSHIP TaeKwang millennials. An English version is added to TaeKwang homepage is accessible by PC, make it easier for overseas factories to use the website. mobile and tablet device For recruiting and hiring purposes, we present detailed explanation on each job and department and TaeKwang’s ideal talents at the homepage. • T2 Expansion SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES As the TaeKwang organization grew, we expanded T2 PCC building to provide a space of innovation to our employees. Renewed in February 2017, the PCC is the inspirational place motivated from the movements of shoes that run, walk, and always support the lowest position of the body, so that it is faithful to the basics and shines its foundations. It is our space to be filled with cheerful communication and creative thinking. EMPLOYEE TRAINING (hour/employee) 38.3 40.4 RETURN AFTER MATERNITY LEAVE WOMEN'S LEADERSHIP* *Above Group Leader Sustainability Report TaeKwang has been publishing the sustainability report since 2013. Our commitment to sustainability and even the lessons learned from trial and error have been transparently communicated with our employees and stakeholders and for better sustainability. The Report is playing an important role in informing young talents who value corporate social responsibility as a channel for indirect experience on our sustainability activities. 23 24 Talent Development Talent Retention Succession Planning Exchange Program We are pursuing midto long-term business strategies for prospect of growth in overseas organizations through local TaeKwang has operated a talent exchange program twice a year from 2016. This program is to offer offshore talents talent development and succession planning. to understand better T2 strategies and align with their works. In 2016, 21 people participated this talent exchange program and seven talents have joined in the first half of 2017. On the other hand, the exchange programs from T2 to Talent Aquisition and Fostering offshore factories and between offshore factories are operated as well to enhance understanding of manufacturing flow upon request. Secure/ Program Gap Closing Position Analysis ▶ 8-week living expenses Development Plan Implementation Analysis ▶ Training and education programs ▶ Cross-cultural programs, one-on-one coaching for learning cultural differences and business process Hi-Po Program ▶ Job messenger roles connecting two countries after returning to the job After being selected employees with excellent potentials as Hi-Po talents through rigid screening process and Hi-Po’s ▶ Multicultural experience and network opportunity with other offshore colleagues competency is diagnosed and customized training programs are conducted. It was great time to learn about my job deeply and various HRD contents for two months in T2 HR • Team. After coming back to VT, I started to think and act as a more professional HRD person. SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES VT Senior Director, Pham Xuan Tho is a good example of localization from global talent In T2, I participated in a variety of HRD programs including designing training contents, development program. Since he joined in 1995 as a fresh graduate, Mr. Tho has benchmarking allowance for internal trainers to encourage their participation, and grown up as one of the core leadership through his continuous development of his preparing the ‘Shoes design contest’. career and competencies. He applied the lessons learned from various internal/ T2 training was great opportunities for me to learn hands-on skills and knowledge as external training and education programs into the production and accomplished well as inspired me to have a higher passion on my job. I have shared this passion and the quality assurance system. He had done job rotation designed by career knowledge with VT HR Team members. Since I returned to VT, I have expanded my job development path that resulted in contribution to productivity enhancement and functions to HR planning and audit management based on my improved understanding quality improvement for the entire production departments. Now he is leading the across the overall HR system. My challenges and goals are leading VT HR Team towards the factory as the role model of Hi-Po, Succession Plan, and localization. shared aim and more deeply understanding the topics and system of HR field. Ms. Nguyen Thi Hoan, VT HR Team Andreas, Head of Department of MM Team, is also a good example of talent development of TT. Upon the college graduation in 2014, Andreas joined TT as an automation engineer and has built his career as an automation equipment specialist. Now he is one of the core talents leading the deployment of automation in TT. ▷Graduated from Bandung ▷Promoted as Assistant Chief ▷Promoted as Head of Department ▷Promoted as Chief, Head of Department 2014 2015 2016 2017 Institute of Technology ▷Participated Comelz OKC & Auto Strobel ▷Joined 3P Event for MC at VH in Vietnam ▷Participate Lean 2.0 & MMTL Program ▷Joined TT in August 2014 Marking deployment ▷Joined Shoe machinery exhibition in China ▷Support MCC Preparation & Setup ▷Training for MM & basic of ▷Training for MM machinery, stockfit & ▷Participated Lean 2.0 & MMTL program automation at T2 Head Office assembly line at QT MC in China ▷Lead LCA project deployment : AGV, Rotary CO Label Press in Korea ▷Training for MM trial & pilot at VT R&D in ▷Participated Auto UV deployment Vietnam ▷Lead 3P Event for VSM 4 & Auto UV deployment 25 26 Organizational Culture Flexible Work Environment Beloved Company by Its Employees TaeKwang has operated a flexible work system from 2014. We are working to build a flexible and performance-oriented culture that is open and free work environments by implementing flexible working hours, parental leave, and business 'Mutual Trust and Respect’ is one of the core values ​​of TaeKwang. Mutual trust refers to the corporate culture of trusting casual attire. and respecting each other while communicating cooperatively through appreciation, compliments and encouragement with an open-mind. TaeKwang aims to make the best corporate culture by instilling trust and cooperation among ▶ Flexible Work Hour: T2 employees can choose to work from 7 am to 6 pm according to their child care needs employees across departments. In addition, TaeKwang strives to become a company trusted by its employees. GM Talk instead of the regular working hour from 8 am to 5pm. There are 21 employees at the head office is a good example. Every month TaeKwang holds a meeting between GM and employees to form solidarity and to find using this program. any difficulties on the shop floor or any personal suggestions in every area of its business. At this meeting, if required, ▶ Rewards for Long-term Tenure: For the employees served 10, 20, and 30 years in TaeKwang, we present refresh those communications are recorded and the progress status is informed at the next meeting. It has become one of the travel expenses with plaques. key communication systems building-up mutual trust in leadership. ▶ Childcare Leave and Childcare Support: We make endeavors to protect motherhood and create a family-friendly work environment. To support employees' stable family life and to prevent career interruption of Annual Employee Satisfaction Survey competent female employees, we encourage the use of the parental leave system, reduce working Every year we conduct global employee satisfaction and engagement surveys. This survey includes questions about • hours for pregnant workers, operate women's resting rooms and nursing rooms at all workplaces, employees’ works, engagement with the company activities, empowerment of decisions, activity with peers and and pay children allowances. SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES managers, salary satisfaction, and wellbeing and working environments. Following is the top and bottom three answers from the 2016 Survey : Welfare Benefits 2016 Employee Satisfaction Survey Results ▶I believe strongly in the goals and objectives of SURVEY the company Top Three ▶My job role and responsibilities are clear ▶I am able to report a problem immediately Tuition Support for Fuel Cost Subsidy Free In-house Gym Commuting Bus Employee’s Children ▶ Too many approvals are required for routine decisions ▶ I am often bothered by excessive pressure on my job Bottom ▶ The amount of stress I experience on my job reduces Three my effectiveness Medical Check-ups Employee Gifts Childbirth/ Reward for LongPositive responses derived from the survey results are maintained and shared group-widely. Childcare Support term Tenure The contents that need improvement are reflected in the corporate policy development by actively collecting opinions from employees. Employee Overseas Work Free Meals Female Employee Discount Shoe Opportunity Community & Welfare Allowance 27 28 3. Safe Workplace Value Creation Model in Health and Safety 2021 Health and Safety Targets To be the undisputed leader in health and safety (HS), TaeKwang developed the value creation model for all factories; TaeKwang sets up 2021 Health and Safety Targets to be the undisputed leader in HS into five; compliance, zero fatality, leadership by setting examples, compliance with local safety laws and regulations, solid HS management system, and ISO 45001, year on year (YOY) 10% reduction of accident rate, and culture of safety. mature culture of safety. All TaeKwang factories are spreading the employees’ engagement activities such as safety pledge ceremony, and zero accident campaign based on the strong leadership. In addition, we secure HS sustainability with localization by developing the local employees’ capacity and skill. T2 has developed the corporate 2021 HS targets and strategy, provides the training, and audits regularly HS practices of offshore factories. TaeKwang has achieved better health and safety performances with sound cooperation between the head office and each factory by developing the annual HS plan to meet the 2021 HS targets and implementing it. • SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES COMPLIANCE 0 ZERO CULTURE • We work safely, SAFETY PERFORMANCE • Promote wellness, ZERO FATALITY • CULTURE OF SAFETY CULTURE OF SAFETY • and Protect • the environment • HS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM • COMPLIANCE ISO 45001 • LEADERSHIP ISO 45001 YOY 10% REDUCTION OF ACCIDENT RATE TIME 29 30 Leadership by Example Health and Safety TaeKwang clearly stated the roles and responsibilities of all : Implemented Management Level leaders in order to achieve 2021 Health and Safety Targets, and Offshore factories have recently moved on to anticipatory : Plan to be reinforced is always asking the leaders to take initiatives. stage from the reactive stage. We devote to training and education to promote HS activities involving all employees including leadership. HS KPI of factory, department and individual (leadership, line manager, supervisor) KPI Role and responsibility of organization, individual R&R • [VSS*, LSW*] Major HS Performances SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Annual HS plan development and implementation The RIR is decreased more than 60 percent throughout the continuous improvement for the last three years, Health and Safety especially DART is decreased 72.3 percent. WorkPlan It means that we provide the foundation of HS sustainability by reducing about 400 industrial accidents and 150 lost time accidents every year in all TaeKwang : RIR : DART : LWDR factories. Visual Safety Scorecard (VSS) 1.00 All factories make a visual safety scorecard including HS 5.75 KPI, safety alert and best practices, and share the VSS with all employees through their HSE committee and shop floor Definition HS bulletins. And each GM explains the VSS to all corporate 4.87 4.60 Here are the safety indicators which are converted in leadership during monthly business performance meeting. a case that every 100 workers work in a year : 0.45 0.42 0.41 *RIR (Recordable Injury Rate) 0.32 0.31 0.29 Accident rate with accident needs more than first aid 3.14 treatment case Leader Standard Work (LSW) *DART (Days Away, Restricted work activity or job Transfer) Through LSW, we define detailed daily to annual activities 0.09 Accident rate of lost time cases (away from work) more than 24 hours due to accident for roles and responsibilities of GM to line managers and *LWDR(Lost Working Day Rate) check their implementations. Number of lost days due to an accident 2014 2015 2016 2017 31 32 Compliance Activities Health and Safety Management System Compliance HS Zero Tolerance TaeKwang established the 2017 Corporate HS targets; Zero fatality work related, 10% reduction of HS KPI, and formation of HS management system. TaeKwang complies with the stricter HS requirements TaeKwang has ‘Zero Tolerance Principles' that are the between local and international. safety regulations which every one including contractors Zero Fatality Work Related T2 head office conducted the compliance audit in regular has to comply with them. We experienced two fatalities of 3rd party construction contractors in offshore factories for the last two years: falling with six categories; chemical management, worker down during steel structure installation and electrical shock during remodeling work of dormitory. In order to prevent protection, maintenance, fire/emergency response, and Contractor Safety Management Procedure serious accidents, TaeKwang selected six high risk works as STOP6. STOP6 program contains the corporate safety HSE management system. Interlock Bypass standards, PTW (Permit To Work) system, reinforced R&R of GM/supervisors, strengthened corporate HSE audit. T2 SM As the results of last year audit, no critical issue was LOTO Team leads STOP6 by supporting the periodical training and HSE audit (twice a year) for all offshore factories and 3rd found and each factory tried to find the root cause and party contractors. improved it. Permit To Work Process Traffic Safety TEAM TaeKwang provides training, campaign and safety kaizen SM • program for implementation of Zero Tolerance Principles, T2 PCC T2 PCC SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES and encourages all employees with recognition and • 지속가능경영 이슈 award. SM TEAM Offshore Factory SM TEAM Safe Workplace with 3rd Party Consulting Corporate Safety Implementation HSE Audit TaeKwang selected the high risk areas based on the accident analysis for the last three years, and conducted 3rd party safety consulting to provide the safe workplace as the below. Provision of Corporate STOP6 Safety Standards Contractor Pre-qualification before making contract, PTW system during project, and contractor Safety safety evaluation after project FIRE SAFETY BUILDING SAFETY MACHINE SAFETY ELECTRICAL SAFETY Electrical Risk assessment of the electrical facilities, checklist for each equipment and facility, and Safety set up R&R of electrical safety managers All factories inspected VT conducted building safety Machine risk assessment Electrical facility check with by AON [Nov., 2016] assessment [May 2017] by 3rd party Korea Electrical Safety [QT is scheduled in Oct., 2017] Corporation [Dec., 2016] Management Provided the procedure to consider HSE in case of changing equipment, technology, of Change chemical, facility, procedure, and personnel ▶Function test of firefigh▶Derived the improvement ▶Consideration of machine ▶Transformer oil test ting facility points after the 3rd party safety from design step ▶Thermo-graphic camera ▶Flammable material storaconsulting for the old buildiwith vendorJHA (Job Ha▶Measurement of groundLOTO LOTO (Lock Out Tag Out) procedure to ensure the safety during maintenance work ge check ngs more than 20 years zard Analysis) training, ing resistance ▶Hot work permit system SOP (standard operation ▶Overload test for each Machine procedure) training for process Guarding operators Plan in second half of 2017 ▶Risk assessment training Traffic Safety for maintenance engineers 33 34 Health and Safety Management System Culture of Safety 10% reduction of HS KPI ‘Strong Safety Team’, The First Step for High Level Of Safety Culture TaeKwang developed corporate 2021 HS KPI; at least YOY 10% 1. STOP 2. THINK TaeKwang recognized that a strong safety team is the first step to create mature safety culture in the organization, thus we restructured by hiring more safety engineers in T2 and offshore factories. reduction of RIR, DART, and LWDR (refer to page 32). In addition, we reinforced roles and responsibilities of line managers and supervisors and developed the capacity and skills of 130 Safety Agents with Safety Ambassador program across the overseas factories. STAR (Stop-Think-Act-Review) Campaign We started a STAR Campaign to boom up the safety kaizen and near miss reporting. In last year, we found and improved about 1,500 unsafe behaviors or conditions. 4. REVIEW 3. ACT STAR CAMPAIGN • Indispensable Future Growth Engine ‘Safety’ SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Focused HS Activities of Offshore Factories • 지속가능경영 이슈 Footwear industry is under transformation to the modernized manufacturing process from labor intensive one by using the automated equipment and machine. The hazards in modernized manufacturing environments are quite different VT GM Safety Walk and 3P 100 Days Zero VMSafety Improvement Activity Based from the manual manufacturing environments. The accidents in new work environment show different pattern and Accident Campaign on Accident Analysis damage. Thus TaeKwang adopted the safe machine and BBS* program as the indispensable future growth engines for the sustainability of modernized manufacturing environments. GM and leadership conduct a safety walk every month. Through accident analysis, TOP 5 high risk machines VT launched ‘Zero Accident Campaign for 100 Days in 3P were identified and categorized. The identified Safe Machine process’, where recorded the highest accidents, and achieved equipment and machines were installed warning signs the safe 100 days through active employee engagement. and intensively improved. Providing the safe machine from the design phase is the fundamental approach to protect employees from any machine hazards. TaeKwang is developing a safe machine procedure that allows only safety certified QTJob Hazard Analysis and Safety Circle TTSafety Ambassador Program machine. And we are making the best efforts to minimize the human error of operator through JHA, SOP, and competency training. QT focused on job hazard analysis and safety circle program to Employees who have sound knowledge and experiremove the hazards with employees' engagement. ences are designated as Safety Ambassador. The Safety Ambassadors have trained safety awareBBS* Program ness programs to Safety Agents who are selected from production departments for safety deployment. The BBS program is the activity to remove the root cause of employee behavior by identifying the unsafe behaviors for each process. We have launched this program since 2016, and will proliferate it to all production processes until 2021. *BBS: Behavior-based Safety VT GM Safety Walk VT 3P 100 Days TT Safety Ambassador VM change the location Zero Accident Campaign Training of two-hand button 35 36 4. Environmental Management Environmental Management and Performances TaeKwang has strived to achieve our environmental goals in order to 4 Year Graph of Environmental Performances • :FY14 :FY15 :FY16 :FY17 minimize the environmental impact from product design, manufacturing up to waste disposal. TaeKwang has complied with local environmental laws and regulations. In addition, VT, VM and QT have sustained ISO 14001 for implementing more systematic environmental management system. 200.5 199.9 201.1 202.8 As we believe that we can find future innovation opportunities through 34.9 27.3 24.2 21.8 6.0 4.7 4.4 4.3 31.3 23.7 24.9 24.7 17.3 14.9 15.0 15.0 proactive environmental management, • we set our environmental KPI with • • • (g/pair) • • • • (g/pair) • • • (kWh/pair) • • • • • (l/pair) • • • •(g/pair) • SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES solid and hazardous waste, water Hazardous u s e , e n e r g y a n d c h e m i s t r y. O u r Solid Waste Energy Water Chemistry employees, customers and suppliers Waste are also working together to bring and implement continuous environmental improvement ideas. Environment KPI Performances (FY13 baseline) +12% -25% 41% 36% -20% FY14 FY15 FY16 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY14 FY15 FY16 +11% +10% +11% +20% -6% -17% -18% -35% -40% -19% -39% -36% -7% -20% -20% 37 38 Solid Waste FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Solid wastes are separated by type at each department and collected at RMCC (Recyclable Material Collection Center). g/pair The waste transferred to the RMCC are stored by type, and then either recycled inside the factory/by external recycling vendors or treated as energy recovery source. Solid wastes are mainly generated from scraps of textile cutting process 200.0 •▶ Solid waste generation 1% increase in FY17 from FY16 100.0 •▶ Main reasons of the increase: EVA and textile scraps generated from new model and design FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 0.0 TaeKwang’s solid waste management strategy is pursuing reduction of absolute amount of waste generation while 200.5 199.9 201.1 202.8 QT VT VM TT maximizing recycle of generated solid waste. Also we stopped landfill of manufacturing wastes at all factories since April, 2016. Recycling Rate by Factory in FY17: Group-wide 61% QT 81% | VT 65% | VM 54% | TT 46% • SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Top 5 Solid Waste and Disposal Method • 지속가능경영 이슈 Reduction Efforts of Solid Waste The types of wastes generated in the factories slightly differ from shoe model, however, generally had following From product design to waste disposal, we strive to implement various waste reduction activities as follows. characteristics in FY17: ▷The number of generated waste type is more than 50 ▷Group-wide Top 5 waste materials generated in the factories were 54% of total amount of generated solid wastes ▶Reuse and recycle wastes outside ▶ At the product design stage, decide a design that and 65% of these Top 5 wastes were reused/recycled of the factory after external recyclers Product Design uses eco-friendly materials and chemicals and has ▷The wastes are either reused/recycled through in-house recycling, down cycling and closed loop system or used as pick-up the wastes Product design to lower environmental impacts source of energy recovery ▶Use unrecyclable wastes as energy reduce wastes recovery source Recycling Disposal Supply Method ▶ Use eco-friendly packages Minimization of package External reuse/ ▶ Return bobbin, plastic and container wastes Solid Waste Type recycling container, drum, pallet, IN-HOUSE DOWN CYCLING CLOSED LOOP ENERGY RECOVERY (Generation Rate) SOLID WASTE carton, and so on to vendors Textile scraps (15%) 10% 5% REDUCTION CYCLE Laminated PU scraps (12%) 7% 5% Rubber scraps (10%) 10% ▶Barcode system ▶ Reprocess and reuse EVA and Post-manufacturing Manufacturing Synthetic/Natural ▶Waste track and measurement rubber scraps as raw materials 9% Internal reuse/recycling Kaizen project by model leather scraps (9%) ▶ Up-cycle wastes to shop floor Greenovation Defective reduction ▶Train workers for better quality Carton boxes (8%) 8% and office goods control 39 40 Hazardous Waste FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Energy FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 g/pair kWh/pair 45.0 10.0 30.0 5.0 15.0 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 0.0 0.0 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 34.9 27.3 24.2 21.8 QT VT VM TT QT VT VM TT 6.0 4.7 4.4 4.3 All hazardous wastes are sorted thoroughly out across the entire manufacturing process in order to prevent Energy Committee (SM, TPM, Mechanic Team) in each factory patrols every day to find and fix any energy leakages. environmental pollution from mixing them with solid wastes. In addition to reducing chemicals use such as adhesives The committee also encourages all employees to participate in energy saving activities through Kaizen and contaminated rags, we actively reduce hazardous wastes through system conversion. An example is the method in •▶ Energy saved 2% more in FY17 than FY16 which the water-based ink from silk print process is rinsed with water and then the treated wastewater is reused in VT •▶ Mid/outsole manufacturing process require energy-intensive machines and account for about 50-60% of total (see page Water Use). • energy use in the factories •▶ Hazardous wastes are separated and stored by liquid and solid type SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES •▶ Empty chemical containers are returned to suppliers Utilization of Energy Monitoring System (EMS) TaeKwang EMS is currently installed in VM, TT and VT2. The energy consumption in each plant is visually presented and •▶ Other hazardous wastes are treated as energy recovery source managed in real-time. •▶ Hazardous wastes are generated mainly from silk print, airbag dye, and bonding process •▶ Energy patrol activities focus on plants with high energy consumption and promote efficient energy use •▶ Hazardous wastes reduced 10% in FY17 compared to FY16 •▶ Based on electric load identified from the EMS, problematic electric panels that cause imbalance of electricity supply are inspected and repaired in advance •▶ Electric safety is enhanced and more energy is saved Energy Saving Activities ▶ Installed solar thermal system for outsole washing process (44 kWh of electricity are •▶ Reduced energy cost by avoiding energy sourced from renewable energy) peak time (18~22) since November 2016 VT ▶ Reduced energy use down to 87% from TT • ▶ Saved 50.9 kW energy per day from daily changing motor to servo motors of auto Phylon machine energy patrol program Reduced 90% of hazardous wastes ▶ Saved electricity by installing ceiling sunlight Developed a new chemical container to through airbag dye solution recycling prevent hardening chemicals by contacting air • ▶ Using oil filtering machine •▶ Saved 13 kWh energy through installation (carbon filtering tank + distilling system) of pressure control valve on Phylon machine VM ▶ Machine downtime decrease QT • ▶ Improved insulation of midsole washing ▶ Waste oil reduction tank and ovens Decreased more than 1 ton/month of contaminated rags from inserting recycled waste sponge and diminished 50% by changing cotton to polyester textiles in cleansing rag. VM Oil Filtering Machine Waste oil/Filtered oil/Sludge VT Ceiling Sunlight VT Solar Thermal QT Pressure Control Valve of Phylon Machine 41 42 Water Chemistry FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 : Recycled Water g/pair l/pair 30.0 40 15.0 20 41% 59% 57% 32% FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 0.0 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 0 31.3 23.7 24.9 24.7 QT VT VM TT 17.3 14.9 15.0 15.0 QT VT VM TT TaeKwang uses municipal tap water as water source. TaeKwang promotes replacement solvent-based chemicals (PDS) with water-based (WB) chemicals, which have less environmental impacts, while reducing overall chemistry consumption. We encourage all employees to participate in ▶ Drinking water and flushing toilets (70%), canteen and kitchen (15%), manufacturing process (10%) Kaizen for minimizing chemical use. •▶ Water use decreased 1% compared to last year •▶ PDS are used in primer, adhesive, cleaner, silk printing ink, and hardener, and primers account for more than 50% •▶ Main reasons of increase and decrease of water use are: of total PDS use • ▷ QT/VT: relocated water pipeline from underground to aboveground the old water pipes and replaced to new •▶ PDS consumption in FY17 was same with FY16 SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES water pipe to prevent leak. In this way QT slashed water use sharply •▶ The main reasons for the increase were model change and use of more full-length airbags and synthetic leather • 지속가능경영 이슈 ▷ TT: installed water use monitoring system in order to accurately track water consumption by plant •▶ Reduction activities are replacement with WB primers for UV process, increase of WB ink use for silk printing ▷ VM: VM relied on to use municipal tap water for flushing toilet and gardening where treated grey water was used together with VT PCC from the product development stage, monitoring PDS consumption and waste in each mixing during the expansion of wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) due to production capacity increase room and improvement of chemical containers Restricted Substances List (RSL) Chemicals used in the production process are strictly complied with the RSL. Material Team and Chemical Engineering Team educate and manage chemicals and material suppliers to comply with the RSL before supplying their products Wastewater Reuse to TaeKwang. The Material Team annually updates and manages the RSL of materials and the Chemical Engineering Team randomly selects materials by color and high risk materials and tests them every month. Purchased materials TaeKwang’s water management strategy is pursuing reduction and products are strictly managed not to harm our employees during the production (Manufacturing RSL). Indoor air of absolute amount of water consumption while maximization quality, air pollutants, wastewater and hazardous wastes are stringently managed as well. We thoroughly prevent the of reuse of treated grey water (wastewater). restricted substances and comply with the zero discharge of hazardous chemicals (ZDHC). In addition, we strive to •▶ VM, TT, QT operate in-house WWTP improve the process so as not to use chemicals unnecessarily. •▶ VM increased more than 70% of treated grey water use Management Team and Roles of RSL and MRSL ZDHC upon the completion of WWTP expansion QT/VT Prevention of Water Leak from Pipe Compliance with RSL Compliance with MRSL ZDHC •▶ QT reuses about 20% of treated grey water •▶ TT plans to build wastewater treatment plant to reuse Material Team Chemical SM Team & Mechanic Team Engineering Team treated grey water ▶ Indoor Air Quality •▶ VT is located in an industrial zone where it does not need Indoor air quality compliance and inspection, Wear PPE to have in-house WWTP but VT constructed WWTP ▶ Air Pollution Installation of filter at the outlet of chimney Regular next to silk printing and mid/outsole washing process to inspection of pollutant emission ▶ reuse treated grey water Wastewater Materials Primer Discharge wastewater after treament VT Mini-Wastewater Treatment Plant, Bonding ▶ Waste constructed for grey water reuse Inks Disposal of hazardous wastes by laws and regulations 43 44 5. LEAN Innovation Activities Kaizen in TaeKwang TaeKwang Innovative Activity Contest Kaizen Activity Kaizen is the basis for a continuous LEAN manuTaeKwang's Innovative Best Practices Sharing Initiative began in 2015 with the TaeKwang Group Circle Innovation ▷Suggestion facturing for waste elimination. TaeKwang uses TaeKwang Innovative Contest. In 2016, we hosted the TaeKwang Innovative Activity Contest by expanding the scope of the competition ▷Lean Projects Kaizen's standardized methodology to encourage Activity Contest and participation to the overall innovation activities. This contest has given us the opportunity to present Innovation Best ▷TPM Circle employee participation, resolve production and safety Recognition Practices among the company innovation activities that have been held for a year, and share the achievements of ▷Education Improvement issues, and promote welfare. TaeKwang has been innovation and show thanks for the process and efforts. conducting numerous Kaizens since its foundation and In the 2016 Innovation Best Practices presentation, five individuals and six teams from each factory participated in Kaizen spirit has been included in the 2021 vision. We the competition. In the solo session, cases such as automatic cutting machine and outsole process improvement were will implement more Kaizen to make LEAN more deeply awarded, and IP improvement and ACE line efficiency improvement were awarded in the group session. ’Best Practice’ Proliferation rooted in TaeKwang. Suggestion System The Suggestion System is a process of collecting and solving ideas for working environments and welfare from all • employees. It includes a platform for suggesting ideas in the shop floor, proposal review, post management, history SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES management, feedback and compensation system. TeaKwang operates a BP (Best Practice) system that spreads best • 지속가능경영 이슈 practices from this system internally to other factories. Effect Increasing Quality Identifying Simultaneous & Productivity, opportunity improvement Cost Reduction During the one-night and two-day sessions, participants joined in field trips and tours in Korea and had pride in their work and company. The contest also encouraged innovation activities based on good competition and motivated nonWorker Improving involvement, Escalating participants to voluntarily innovate. Competency Well-being & Communication improvement Satisfaction. I received active supports from our leadership while I was leading the innovation project. In order to encourage voluntary participation of team members, I evaluated the quality of their work, attitude, and active engagement every Kaizen Board month. And I encouraged my team members who showed many improvements with a small gift. During the project, my team members have positively changed their attitude, such as voluntary The Suggestion executive office accepts proposals through Kaizen Productivity Working field improvement. I think active communication between managers and team members boards and boxes posted at each shop floor and supports the environment was the main motivation. The results of my team's successful activities are spreading implementation of suggestion idea. Monthly, quarterly, and yearly throughout production lines and we feel that we have made a positive impact on our award for excellent suggestion ideas, or Hall of Fame board factory, QT. to motivate the employees. In T2, the suggestion system was Quality Safety It was good to learn about automation and field improvement activities of other factories revised from March 2016, and proposal, evaluation and inquiry are by participating in the Innovative Activity Contest. I would like to improve communication solicited through in-house IT system. In addition, we are raising the skill in the future and build more knowledge on automation machine and production line by participation rate through SMS proposal inquiries, and best practices benchmarking other factories. are shared among employees through various channels including inSu Yu, Innovative Activity Contest The 2nd Winner Team Leader house TV. 45 46 6. Supply Chain Compliance Compliance Support and Audit Collaboration with Suppliers Material Team and SM Team of overseas factories strive to Supplier Compliance Community actively engage with suppliers to reduce waste generation. In TaeKwang endeavors to enhance mutual understanding and trust by active communication with our suppliers. particular, VT Teams are researching various packaging materials Suppliers, customer and TaeKwang are working together to improve suppliers' competitiveness and sustainable to reduce package volume and propose the research results to management level. We held a formal compliance community meeting for a total of five sessions from January 2016 to suppliers. Converting the chemicals supplied in aluminum drums May 2017. We provided training and consulting on customer requirements and compliance with social responsibilities into zippered containers can reduce suppliers’ raw material costs such as labor, human rights, environment, safety and health. In addition, we visited the suppliers to find potential as well as packaging waste down to 60-80 percent. We have Supplier Meeting at VT risks and improve them, and provided tailored training. Over the course of the year, we have improved our suppliers’ engaged with our suppliers to make changes through a number understanding on compliance, and all of the suppliers passed the customer’s periodic compliance audit. of meetings and communication. Audit checklist training and consulting Share supplier A,B audit result • 1th 2nd 3rd 4th 5th SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Compliance Share customer Case Study periodic audit process AFIRM RSL (Restricted Substances List) We began applying AFIRM RSL* to materials, chemicals, and finished products instead of our customer’s original RSL from January 2017. TaeKwang Chemical Engineering Team trained 50 suppliers in February 2017. The new RSL has been updated with newly regulated chemicals and acceptance, and the supplier's AFIRM RSL compliance has been New Supplier Selection Procedure completed by April. Ta e Kw a n g a s s e s s e s n e w s u p p l i e r ’ s E S H a n d *AFIRM RSL: Apparel & Footwear International RSL Management Group was established in 2004 by leading US and European brand Labor practices prior to supplier registration. The New Supply Chain Registration Audit Section / Detail retailers. assessment tool includes a total of 49 items under QUALITY, PROCESS LABOR (9) labor, environment, safety and health standards and encourages the suppliers to comply with the standards Product management Working hour and wage through pre-audit and consulting. When a serious Quality check Grievance & disciplinary violation is discovered during the audit, the result is Delivery management Union We share professional advice and knowledge at the supplier communicated to the customer. TaeKwang roles as an SAFETY, HEALTH (32) ENVIRONMENT (8) compliance community. What we learned were applied to our advisor to the customer to make a final decision. For shop floors and ESH and labor management. Also, we shared Machine guarding, example, TaeKwang audited a Company C in Japan and Maintenance Compliance with difficulties to apply with all standards. In particular, it was very Hazardous material relevant laws and helpful to having Q&A sessions regarding the standards and communicated with the customer that the Company government permits C was lack of transparency and commitment for Fire safety, Sanitation cleared ambiguities through mentor-mentee program. improvement action for the serious findings. After the All Main Suppliers ESH and Labor assessment is completed, department Supplier Compliance Community at T2 complete the final registration after quality and process audit to confirm product productivity, quality and stable supply network. 47 48 7. TaeKwang’s Social Responsibility Activities Community Engagement Performances As employees are the source of TaeKwang's existence and growth, we have worked to offer more welfare and benefits to our employees. In particular, we do various activities, in order to balance work and life, including family festivals, cultural exchange festivals, building Mercy House, and granting scholarship for employees’ children. The communities around our factories are the foundation of our employees. T2 Since the communities are where the employees and their families Scholarship, donation reside and are our neighbors, TaeKwang takes responsibilities to expand sustainability management activities into the community. VT One-Heart Work-life balance We support local communities to become healthy through not only creating Communication jobs for locals but also disaster recovery, scholarships for future talents, and Channels QT medical support for local residents. Employees (Union) Responsible Global One-Mind Workshop safety • Corporate Citizens Government SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Local community VM Local Media Employee support One-Team TT Community health promotion HEALTH AND SAFETY MONETARY DONATION CONSTRUCTION SCHOLARSHIP EMPLOYEES GOODS DONATION Medical service Mercy house Goats and Cows Gynecological examination Home visit of Love Lovely Hand Fund Jeongsan Scholarship Foundation Warning eyewear for the Main focus Village bridge construction Family Tour/Festival Pregnancy and Childbirth Education Golden Heart Fund activities Disaster recovery Scholarship to employees’ children visually-impaired Child Emergency Evacuation Training TaeKwang football cup Donations for flood victims Bicycle and Safety helmet Drinking water filter installation TaeKwang Vina Kindergarten and Education Safety Campaign Trucks and cars ( STAR, STOP6 ) Contribution to SDGs 49 50 Medical Service and Cultural Exchange Festival in Subang TaeKwang Vina Kindergarten After receiving high satisfaction on the medical service, what TaeKwang arranged, from community people and Welcome Kids with The Smile, Take Care of Kids with The Loving Heart employees at VM in 2016. Another service visited the communities near TT where have relatively low access to medical care in June 2017. Funded by TaeKwang, four medical doctors (pediatrics, cardiologist, orthopedic surgeon, dentist) and Based on the needs and expectations of employees to focus on their work and to ensure that their young children 29 volunteers from Korea Changwon Fatima Hospital together with Subang Hospital and local health center provided receive quality education, VT established the kindergarten in accordance with the global standards. The total capacity medical service and had cultural exchange programs. A total of 979 people including TT employees and Subang of the kindergarten is 500 children, and we have established safe and perfect educational environments including residents received household goods, such as mosquito nets and toothpaste, free medical treatment and prescription modern facility, free tuition, creative, enthusiastic and well-educated teachers. from this medical team. In addition, the medical team and local community experienced Korean and Indonesian cultures There are now 22 teachers and 238 students. The curriculum is designed to develop children's habit of thinking through traditional dances, martial arts, and musical performances. creatively through various activities. We also take care of our children's health by operating our own health center. TaeKwang Vina Kindergarten is attracting not only attentions from our employees but also from local communities. I was very happy that TaeKwang gave medical consultation for its employees and the community! I received a gift, and not only me but also my family got consultation and treatment from a Korean doctor. • I participated in a cultural exchange event with my sister! I had an exciting SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES experience with my sister at the various programs. My younger brother told me that he wants to come to work to TaeKwang later when he is grown up. “When I visited employees’ home, I found that some employees who have children experiencing difficulties to pick up their kids after school. Since then, the union suggested the leadership to build our kindergarten and the company agreed on this suggestion. I thank to the company on establishing kindergarten for our employees” Letters of Hope Mailbox to TaeKwang Rose Club – Mr. Dinh Sy Phuc (VT Representative of Union) “Rose Club”, T2 female employee social group which is boasted with more than 30 years history, collects a certain amount each month and helps the economically-marginalized neighbors in the community. In particular, we are supporting local children through the Gimhae Social Welfare Center. On the Children's Day in 2017, we participated in an event to fulfill the wishes of the local children submitted to the Gimhae Social Welfare Center “Since my daughter attended TaeKwang Vina Kindergarten, I became free from the through the letter of hope. We presented shoes and school supplies directly to the kids who wrote their dream story. pressure to pick up my daughter as soon as my work is finished. I can see my daughter It was a precious time to share the importance of supporting the children keep on dreaming with “Rose Club” members. at any time via the kindergarten CCTV. My daughter has been more confident and brave through learning from teachers and enjoying playing with her friends. The kindergarten is cheap, and the quality of facilities, education, and meals are very good. My dream is a cartoon illustrator. I am able to paint my favorite paintings with my favorite I am very happy” color pencils and pastels received from TaeKwang. I will continuously practice panting and will become a famous illustrator in the future. Ms. Luong Thi Thu Thao (VT Production Employee) 51 52 Appendix Materiality Assessment UN Global Compact UN SDGs Zero Tolerance Principles GRI G4 Index 53 54 Materiality Assessment TaeKwang conducted a materiality test to select the subject of the sustainability report. In accordance with the GRI recommended guide on the topic of decision making and composition of contents, we have selected major report High • 7 topics through materiality evaluation. The significance defined by TaeKwang means the level of relevance in terms of business and sustainability, and its impact on the evaluation and decision-making of stakeholders. We identified 10 • 1 issues based on materiality and reflected them in our report. • 2 • 8• • 5 4• 3 Materiality Assessment Step Business Importance • 9• 6 STEP 1. • 10 Communication with Each department collected proactively stakeholders ' opinions stakeholders through communication channels and identified their needs. STEP 2. SM Team extracted business and sustainability issues through Review and analysis of conducting interviews with each department , analyzing business internal data strategy and reviewing each department' policies and internal reports. STEP 3. SM Team sorted sustainability issues through benchmarking UNGC 10 Economic Analysis of external Principles, GRI Guidelines, best practices of good sustainabilit y companies, environments & benchmarking industrial trend analysis of global companies, interviews with department team Environment sustainability issues leaders, and analysis of the corporate business strategy. Social Low Employee STEP 4. Potential issues in terms of significance to TaeKwang's business Identification of potential sustainability issues for were selected through reflecting internal and external stakeholders' Low Stakeholder Impact High TaeKwang opinions and analysis of external business environment. STEP 5. Core issues among potential issues were ranked by materiality Top 10 Material Issues and Reporting Identification and assessment based on significance to business and influence to prioritization material stakeholders. GRI G4 Aspect Reporting No Issue Topic (DMA) Page STEP 6. Review the balance and rationality of economic, environmental and 1 Economic Performance Economic Performance 5, 7, 21 Future of Shoe Industry Review validity of Social impacts of the selected core issues, collect data related to the the materiality Issues and write the report. All Sustainability Issues except 2 TaeKwang’s Beyond Compliance Added Aspect 23-49 Future of Shoe Industry 3 Fostering Talents and Workforce Training and Education 23-28 Strategic HR Sharing of Internal and External Stakeholder Survey Results Ethical Management and 4 TaeKwang’s Compliance Compliance 15-16 Human Rights Management • We conducted an opinion survey that was asking TaeKwang’s sustainability level and core sustainability issues to our internal and external stakeholders for the preparation of this report. The TaeKwnag people who responded to this 5 Work Balance Employment 23-28 Strategic HR APPENDIX survey provided us precious opinions where TaeKwang’s sustainability has to head. In particular, opinions in regard 6 Future Competitiveness Added Aspect 21-22 Future of Shoe Industry to the corporate culture, including more open communication and examples by leadership, that we need to improve and create are distinctive amongst others. We have shared the encouraging feedback and critical points from the 7 Suppliers’ Compliance Added Aspect 47-48 Supply Chain Compliance stakeholders with our leadership and relevant teams and will take actions and gather ideas to improve any weakness Hazardous Material Management 8 Effluents and Waste 41, 43 Environmental Management Reinforcement we have. All concerns of our stakeholders are not reflected in this report, however, we will take them to improve one by one from now on. Occupational Health 9 Culture of Safety and reinforcement 29-36 Safe Workplace and Safety Strategic Community TaeKwang’s Social 10 Local Communities 49-52 Contribution Activities Responsibility Activities 55 56 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) TaeKwang has complied with the Ten Principles The UN has presented the Sustainable Development Agenda by 2030 with of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human 17 goals and 169 action plans that the international society has to cooperate rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption since and solve. The UN SDGs promote the cooperation among governments, we signed the UNGC in 2015. We have reported businesses and civil society to resolve universe problems including poverty, the COP (Communication on Process) every year disease, education, women and children; global environmental problems and we will continue to not only uphold our basic including climate change and water; and economic and social problems responsibilities to people and planet, but also including technology, residence, employment and consumption. TaeKwang has establishing the stage for long-term success. developed and promoted various actions to achieve the SDGs. TaeKwang aims to contribute to continued and fair development of the global society as well as create economic values. Area Principle Reporting SDGs TaeKwang’s Contribution Reporting Page Page SDG1 No Poverty 48-51 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Human 16 SDG2 Zero Hunger 48-51 rights make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 29-37 SDG3 Good Health and Well-being 48-51 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 23 recognition of the right to collective bargaining SDG4 Quality Education 48-51 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 16, 59 SDG5 Gender Equality 8, 28, 48-51 Labor the effective abolition of child labour; and 16, 59 SDG7 Affordable and Clean Energy 23-28 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 21-22, 23-28 8, 16, 59 occupation. SDG9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 45-46 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; SDG10 Reduced Inequalities 23-28, 59 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; • Environment 37-44 and SDG11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 48-51 APPENDIX encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies SDG13 Climate Action 42 AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 41, 43, 44 15 SDG14 Life Below Water corruption extortion and bribery. SDG17 Partnerships for The Goals 10, 57 57 58 Zero Tolerance Principles GRI G4 Guidelines ▶Existence of overtime voluntary registration SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE ▶Extortion passport and/or personal identification of migrant Forced labor worker Reporting Aspect G4 Indicators Reporting Topics Page Status ▶Toilet/clinic pass ▶Bonded labor ECONOMIC DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Future of Shoe Industry ● 21-22 Economic ▶Overtime working Performance Direct economic value generated and Introduction of 5 ▶Assigning job in hazardous working condition EC1 TaeKwang ◐ distributed 13-14 Child Labor ▶Child labor for subcontractor employment ENVIRONMENTAL ▶Policy and procedure to verify identification Energy consumption within Environmental EN3 Management– Energy ● 42 Energy the organization ▶Verbal and physical abuse Environmental EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ◐ 42 Management–Energy Physical and (insulting, beating, disrespectful punishment) Sexual abuse ▶Unnecessary/unwelcome physical contact Environmental EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ◐ 43 ▶Sexual gesture, joke, and message Management– Water Water Percentage and total volume of water Environmental EN10 ● 43 recycled and reused Management– Water ▶Payment delays Failure to ▶Miscalculations (include overtime premium) Environmental DMA Disclosure on Management Approach ● 38-44 Management pay wages ▶Non compliance of social insurance Total water discharge by quality and Environmental 38 EN22 destination Management-Water ◐ 43 Effluents and Waste Environmental ▶Substantial probability of death or serious injury Total weight of waste by EN23 type and disposal method Management-Solid ● 37 Serious health ▶Fatality, permanent disfigurement Waste, Hazardous Waste and safety risks ▶Non compliance of LOTO, electrical safety, and work Total number and volume of Environmental at height, bypass EN24 significant spills ● 39-41 Management SOCIAL • APPENDIX Labor Practices and Decent Work ▶Discharge of untreated wastewater Serious ▶Inappropriate treatment of waste environmental DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Strategic HR ● 23-28 ▶No air pollution control devices impacts (carbon filter, water bath) Employment Strategic HR Return to work and retention rates after LA3 Return Rate after ◐ 23 parental leave, by gender Maternity Leave 59 60 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Reporting Reporting Aspect G4 Indicators Reporting Topics Page Aspect G4 Indicators Reporting Topics Page Status Status SOCIAL SOCIAL Human Rights Labor Practices and Decent Work Total number of incidents of Human Rights NonDisclosure on Management Approach ● 29 HR3 discrimination and corrective Management ◐ 16 DMA discrimination actions taken Grievance Occupational Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which Type of injury and rates of injury, Safe Workplace the right to exercise freedom of association Human Rights Health and Association and occupational diseases, lost days, and Safety Performance HR4 and collective bargaining may be violated or Management – Union ● 23 Safety LA6 ● 31-32 Collective absenteeism, and total number of workIndex at significant risk, and measures taken to Membership Bargaining support these rights related fatalities, by region and by gender (RIR, DART, LWDR) Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Human Rights Child Labor HR5 child labor, and measures taken Management – ● 16 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Strategic HR ● 23-28 to contribute to the effective Grievance abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having Average hours of training per year per Strategic HR Forced or significant risk for incidents of forced or Human Rights Training and employee by gender, Average ● 23 LA9 compulsory HR6 compulsory labor, and measures to Management – ● 16 Education and by employee category Training Hours labor contribute to the elimination of all forms of Grievance forced or compulsory labor Percentage of employees receiving Human rights Number of grievances about human rights Human Rights regular performance and career grievance HR12 impacts filed, addressed, and resolved Management ● 16 LA11 Strategic HR ◐ 23 development reviews, by gender and by mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Grievance employee category TaeKwang’s Social DMA Disclosure on Management Approach ● 49-52 Percentage of new suppliers that were Supply Chain Responsibility Activities LA14 ◐ 47 Supplier screened using labor practices criteria Compliance Local Percentage of operations with Assessment communities implemented local community TaeKwang’s Social for Labor Significant actual and potential negative SO1 engagement, impact assessments, ● 49-52 Responsibility Activities • Supply Chain and development programs Practices LA15 impacts for labor practices in the supply ◐ 47 Compliance chain and actions taken APPENDIX Communication and training on SO4 anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethical Management ● 15 Labor Practices Number of grievances about labor Human Rights Grievance practices filed, addressed, and resolved Management – ● 16 Anti-corruption LA16 Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Grievance Confirmed incidents of corruption and SO5 actions taken Ethical Management ● 15 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary ● Compliance SO8 sanctions for non-compliance Ethical Management 15 with laws and regulations 61 62
