BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 0 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 1 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Disclaimer: We took the utmost care in the collection and preparation of the data information available at the time of preparation. Thus, unforeseeable events provided in this report. Nevertheless, the document may contain errors. Any may lead to deviations from the projections and expectations expressed in statements regarding future developments or expectations expressed in this such statements. report are assumptions that were made based on the data and 2 CONTENTS 4 PREFACE 5 BAWAG P.S.K. AT A GLANCE 8 CSR STRATEGY 12 RESPONSIBLE ACTION 14 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS 15 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION 19 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 26 CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT 28 GRI INDEX 34 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 36 APPENDIX 3 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 PREFACE Ladies and Gentlemen, The regular publication of a sustainability report is part of BAWAG P.S.K. already joined the UN Global Compact in 2009 our continuous efforts to further strengthen sustainable and the WEP in 2015, and has been committed to complying action and thinking within BAWAG P.S.K. With this in mind, with the principles of these initiatives ever since. With over I am pleased to present you our ninth Corporate Social 12,000 participants, the UN Global Compact is today the Responsibility (CSR) Report. world’s largest network for corporate social responsibility. For BAWAG P.S.K. it is important to live up to our corporate I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone social responsibility. It is crucial for companies to strike the whose commitment to sustainable and responsible right balance between economic, ecological and social business practices allowed us to live up to our social objectives. Examples such as the “New Chance” account, responsibilities and further increase the awareness of these the continuation of the Volunteer Days, measures in the responsibilities in 2016. I count on your continued support course of the Women’s Promotion Program, initiatives in the future. focusing on arts, education and social issues, and the crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at) help to improve the Bank’s perception in the general public. The GRI Index, which contains our annual progress reports (Communication on Progress, COP) as required by our membership in the UN Global Compact and the UN Global Anas Abuzaakouk Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) are an CEO and Chairman of the Managing Board integral part of this CSR Report. of BAWAG P.S.K. AG Note on the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 The CSR Report includes the GRI Index (from page 28) indicators is the years 2014–2016. Important aspects that and UN Global Compact progress reports (from page 34) relate to 2017 and were already known at the time the and is only released in an online version available at report was being prepared were taken into account. https://www.bawagpsk.com/CSR-Reports. The CSR Reports from recent years as well as the Bank’s This CSR Report describes new developments that have annual and Corporate Governance reports can be used as occurred and the progress that has been made in the area supplemental sources of information about BAWAG P.S.K.’s of sustainability in 2016, and is directly tied to the CSR CSR activities. Report 2015. The reporting period for the data and 4 BAWAG P.S.K. AT A GLANCE BAWAG P.S.K. AT A GLANCE BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeit und Wirtschaft und DACH Corporates & Public Sector Österreichische Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft (hereinafter BAWAG P.S.K.) is a corporation registered in DACH Corporates & Public Sector comprises our corporate Vienna. It was created by the merger of the two longand public lending activities and other fee-driven financial standing Austrian banks BAWAG and P.S.K., and has a services, mainly for Austrian customers. Select client number of specialized subsidiaries such as easybank. With relationships in neighboring countries (primarily Germany 2.2 million retail and commercial banking customers, and Switzerland) are included as well. We serve over 5,000 BAWAG P.S.K. is one of the largest banks in Austria and corporate and public sector customers, providing them with sees itself as a modern, service-oriented financial services loan products and our payment solutions. provider with sound market knowledge, holistic, individualized advisory and innovative products that are International Business offered as part of an omni-channel strategy. Two-thirds of our loans and receivables are with customers in Austria. International Business includes our international corporate, commercial real estate and portfolio lending outside of the DACH region, with a focus on developed countries within Business segments Western Europe as well as the United States. The international corporates portfolio consists primarily of The Bank focuses on five business segments: lending to free cash flow generating companies with defensive business profiles and appropriate capital BAWAG P.S.K. Retail structures in recession-resilient industries. The international real estate portfolio focuses on senior loan The BAWAG P.S.K. Retail segment services 1.8 million positions in cash flow generating properties. private and small business customers through our centralized branch network that we operate in cooperation Treasury Services & Markets with Austrian Post as well as our online and mobile sales channels supported by our customer care center. We are Treasury Services & Markets acts as a service center for the one of the leading omni-channel retail banks in Austria, Bank’s customers, subsidiaries and partners through offering simple, fair and transparent products and services market execution as well as selective investment activities. through various physical and digital sales channels with a Among the key responsibilities of Treasury Services & strong and well-recognized national brand. The segment Markets is the management of the Bank’s liquidity from the also includes our small business and social housing core funding franchise, including the liquidity reserve, as activities. well as certain hedging positions. easygroup Managing Board easygroup services over 420,000 customers/borrowers and is comprised of easybank, one of the leading direct banks Anas Abuzaakouk, former Chief Financial Officer, was in Austria, the #3 auto lessor in Austria, easyleasing, and appointed CEO in May 2017. Enver Sirucic followed him as our international retail business, consisting of high-quality Chief Financial Officer. In April 2017, David O'Leary was performing residential mortgage loans in Western Europe. appointed to the Managing Board for the retail business easygroup is a cornerstone to the overall growth strategy for and Andrew Wise was appointed to the Managing Board for BAWAG P.S.K. Group. Non-Retail Lending in addition to his role as Chief Investment Officer. Stefan Barth is Chief Risk Officer and Sat Shah Chief Operating Officer. 5 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 STRATEGY Top-line growth in our core markets Efficiency is the key to winning Our aim is to grow our customer base in our core markets, Cost efficiency across all businesses and functions is namely Austria and Western developed economies with a critical to winning in a complex world with increased focus on the DACH region. competition, tightening regulatory requirements and prolonged macroeconomic challenges. Making our customers’ lives easier Safe and secure We offer our customers the best experience and convenience when banking through our various digital and A strong capital position, stable deposits and low and physical channels to build and maintain successful longpredictable risk costs are fundamental cornerstones for the term customer relationships. execution of our business strategy across the Bank. 2016 – A SUCCESSFUL FINANCIAL YEAR FOR BAWAG P.S.K. 2016 was again an excellent year for BAWAG P.S.K. Despite net interest income and net fee and commission income, an environment characterized by low interest rates and lower operating expenses and lower risk costs. Overall, weak economic growth, the Bank generated a record net BAWAG P.S.K. is one of the most profitable banks in profit of EUR 484 million, up 23% compared with the Europe, with a return on equity of 16% and a return on previous year. This increase was mainly driven by higher tangible equity of 18%. Key figures at a glance1) in EUR million 2014 2015 2016 Core revenues 873.1 908.2 922.9 Profit before tax 316.0 418.5 470.4 Net profit 308.0 394.4 483.6 Return on equity 12.7% 14.1% 15.9% Return on tangible equity 14.9% 16.1% 17.9% Cost-income ratio 53.6% 48.4% 44.4% Risk costs / loans and receivables 0.32% 0.17% 0.15% Total assets 34,854 35,708 39,743 Customer loans and receivables 21,779 24,713 28,494 Customer deposits 21,127 21,692 25,998 IFRS equity 2,619 2,956 3,134 Risk-weighted assets 16,811 16,535 17,140 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (fully loaded) 12.2% 12.9% 15.1% Total capital ratio (fully loaded) 15.9% 15.8% 18.0% NPL ratio 2.8% 2.1% 2.0% 6 1) Key figures in the following table are based on BAWAG Holding Group. BAWAG P.S.K. AT A GLANCE Rating upgrades their investment decisions. BAWAG P.S.K. strives to continuously improve its existing sustainability ratings. In April 2016, Moody’s announced several rating upgrades for BAWAG P.S.K. The long-term deposit, senior unsecured and issuer ratings were upgraded by one notch to A3 in Numerous awards received 2016. The outlook was maintained as “positive.” Additionally, the Bank’s standalone rating (baseline credit Euromoney, one of the leading magazines for banking, assessment) as well as its senior subordinate rating were finance and capital market issues, elected BAWAG P.S.K. upgraded to baa2 and Baa3 (investment grade for the first as “Austria’s Best Bank” for the first time in 2016. This time), respectively. award highlights the Bank’s successful strategic transformation in recent years. In November 2016, BAWAG P.S.K. was rated by Fitch for the first time. The long-term issuer rating and the The Banker, an international industry magazine for banks standalone rating were both set at Awith a stable outlook. published by the Financial Times, selected BAWAG P.S.K. as In February 2017, Fitch additionally assigned senior “Bank of the Year” in Austria for the second time in a row in unsecured and subordinated debt ratings of Aand BBB+, 2016. This award again underlines the Bank’s successful respectively. strategic transformation in recent years. This honor is awarded by a jury of editors and is based on submissions by In April 2017, Moody’s again announced several rating selected banks, the “The Banker Top 1,000” database and upgrades for BAWAG P.S.K. The long-term senior the publishers’ knowledge of the market. unsecured debt, issuer and deposit ratings were all raised by one notch to A2, while the positive outlook on these BAWAG P.S.K.’s high standards of quality and service in ratings was maintained. At the same time, the Bank’s various areas were once again honored with numerous standalone rating (baseline credit assessment) as well as its awards in 2016: subordinate debt rating were also upgraded by one notch to baa1 and Baa2, respectively. The current upgrades  “Digitale Helden Zukunftspreis 2016” – With this award reflect the continued strengthening of the Bank’s financial for “digital heroes,” Microsoft honors Austrian fundamentals, in particular our capitalization, asset quality customers who implement especially innovative projects and sustained profitability. In addition, Moody’s indicates in the area of digital transformation. further rating upside potential over the next 12–18 months.  Career’s Best Recruiter 2016/17 – In the annual analysis of over 500 Austrian companies performed by the BAWAG P.S.K. has also been assigned sustainability ratings communication agency GPK, BAWAG P.S.K. once again by major European agencies, including SUSTAINALYTICS achieved outstanding results in 2016, taking first place in and oekom research. This is important because many the 2016/17 ranking for the banking sector. This makes investors are considering ecological and social aspects in BAWAG P.S.K. the top company in the sector for the sixth year in a row (see page 22 for further details). 7 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 CSR STRATEGY The goals of BAWAG P.S.K.’s CSR activities are oriented workplace and the environment as well as the strategic towards the Bank’s challenges in the areas of the focus of the Bank’s core business. CSR ORGANIZATION AT BAWAG P.S.K. At BAWAG P.S.K., corporate social responsibility is Legal; Non-Financial Risk Management & Regulatory managed on an interdisciplinary basis under the Compliance; IT; Cost Optimization, Strategic Sourcing & responsibility of the Managing Board by the CSR Real Estate; Marketing & Products; Austrian Corporate Committee, which is made up of the following division Business & Public Sector and Investor Relations & heads: Financial Planning & Analysis; Human Resources; Communications. REPORTING BOUNDARIES The CSR Report 2016 pertains to the company BAWAG coverage ratio of 83% in relation to all employees of P.S.K. with the following limitations: BAWAG P.S.K. Group.  In the CSR Report 2016, the subsidiaries are not  The environmental and energy indicators also include accounted for in the social indicators (exceptions for the subsidiaries easybank, easyleasing, BAWAG P.S.K. ecological indicators, see page 24). These companies Wohnbaubank and BAWAG P.S.K. Immobilien. act independently through their own governance bodies. Therefore, all of the content and data related to  The economic indicators pertain to the entire BAWAG employees pertain to BAWAG P.S.K. and have a P.S.K. Group1). SELECTION OF CONTENT FOR THE REPORT The CSR Report 2016 is oriented towards the guidelines of stakeholders and customers, with regard to current social the Global Reporting Initiative, version 4.0, and the Core issues and in the protection and conservation of natural “In Accordance” option and also contains disclosures resources. specified by the set of industry-specific indicators for financial services and is in line with the principles of In 2011, BAWAG P.S.K. defined which topics are relevant materiality, transparency and comparability. Thanks to for the Bank in a multi-stage process. First, the Bank asked these measures, BAWAG P.S.K. already complies with the external stakeholders to share their perspectives, and this new NaDiVeG (Nachhaltigkeitsund feedback was then supplemented with internal points of Diversitätsverbesserungs-Gesetz / Sustainability and emphasis. The requirements of the GRI Sector Disclosures Diversity Improvement Act), which requires many Austrian for financial services providers and the assessments of companies to publish non-financial information starting sustainability rating agencies were also taken into account. with the financial year 2017. The results of this process form the basis for the Bank’s The current report shows where BAWAG P.S.K. can make CSR strategy, the measures of the sustainability program and plans to make a tangible contribution to sustainable derived from this and the content selected for the CSR development – both within the Bank and externally, for Report 2016. 8 1) Based on BAWAG Holding Group. CSR STRATEGY BAWAG P.S.K.’s CSR strategy is broken down into six  Product and service labeling focuses of action. These are also described by the GRI  Marketing communications indicators (please refer to the GRI Index from page 28):  Customer privacy 1. Responsible action 4. Staff development and training  Transparent information policy  Employment  Compliance  Occupational health and safety  Anti-corruption  Training and education  Anti-competitive behavior  Diversity and equal opportunity  Indirect economic impacts  Equal remuneration for women and men  Audit  Non-discrimination  Procurement practices  Investments 5. Environmental protection  Energy 2. Dialogue with stakeholders  Emissions  Products and services  Local communities  Transport  Active ownership  Procurement practices 3. Customer orientation 6. Civic engagement and personal commitment  Product portfolio  Local communities  Customer health and safety CSR MISSION STATEMENT BAWAG P.S.K.’s CSR mission statement forms the Bank’s CSR strategy. The associated measures are defined overarching structure for the focuses of action within the in the sustainability program. 9 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 CSR topics Focuses of action for CSR For BAWAG P.S.K., CSR means Fairness and respect for the rights of Responsible action … acting in accordance with the ethical values of our present and future generations Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. … acting in accordance with the UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles. … raising awareness for the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact as a framework for sustainable action. … providing the basis for responsible action by creating policies and guidelines. Strengthening relationships with Dialogue with stakeholders … facing the expectations and requirements placed on us stakeholders with respect, an open ear and a willingness to engage in dialogue. … pursuing an open, transparent information policy internally and externally. Appropriate products and services Customer orientation … supporting society in urban and rural areas as an for every life circumstance and every Austrian bank. stage of life … providing omni-channel access to banking services for as many people as possible in Austria by actively combating social exclusion, based on a strong local presence, easy-to-understand financial products and barrier-free products and services. … being a reliable partner for Austria’s business community. Appreciation and advancement of Staff development and … offering employees a healthy work environment in employees in every stage of life training which they can advance their careers, appreciating employees and encouraging their potential and their personal commitment for the good of society. Reducing our environmental impact Environmental protection … keeping the environmental impact of products, services so as not to endanger the basis of and day-to-day operations as low as possible and life for future generations reporting about our progress on a regular basis. Charity activities and volunteer work Civic engagement and … promoting the civic engagement of our employees, personal commitment encouraging civic engagement among our customers and supporting their efforts in this area. 10 CSR STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAM CSR strategy Goal: Strengthening the CSR activities Time horizon Improvement in the rankings of sustainability rating agencies Ongoing Responsible action Goal: Fairness and respect for the rights of present and future generations Time horizon Compliance with guidelines and policies, i.e. the Code of Conduct Ongoing Raising awareness of the UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles Ongoing Raising awareness for the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global Compact Ongoing Group-wide excellent non-financial risk management Ongoing Dialogue with stakeholders Goal: Strengthening relationships with stakeholders Time horizon Improving communication with stakeholders through events and discussion groups Ongoing Customer orientation Goal: Appropriate products and services for every life circumstance and every stage of life Time horizon Continuing with the “New Chance” account and offering sustainable investments Ongoing Consideration of sustainability criteria in the product development process Ongoing Staff development and training Goal: Appreciation and advancement of employees in every stage of life Time horizon Increasing the ratio of women in management positions by implementing the Women’s Promotion Plan Ongoing Supporting older employees by implementing generation management measures Ongoing Environmental protection Goal: Reducing our environmental impact so as not to endanger the basis of life for future Time horizon generations Further increasing the energy efficiency of the headquarters Ongoing Increasing energy efficiency in the branches through advanced analysis of consumption data Ongoing collected, identifying energy savings potential and developing recommendations for improvements Civic engagement and personal commitment Goal: Charity activities and volunteer work Time horizon Screening, selection and communication of suitable projects Ongoing Encouraging employees to make use of volunteer days by promoting past social activities and Ongoing evaluating the activities performed in the past Raising awareness of the need for lasting civic engagement and sustainability in day-to-day Ongoing operations 11 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 RESPONSIBLE ACTION For BAWAG P.S.K., responsible action means acting in the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN Global accordance with the ethical values of our Code of Conduct, Compact. The Bank has numerous policies and guidelines the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and the seven based on these principles that ensure responsible action by UN Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles, its employees. among other things, and making a contribution to achieving COMPLIANCE Effective compliance and risk management is a decisive In addition to all relevant laws such as the Securities aspect of a bank’s success. In addition to the conventional Supervision Act, all employees are also bound by a Code of risk types, the management of non-financial risks is Conduct that also contains guidelines for business conduct becoming increasingly important. BAWAG P.S.K. responded and customer service, for how conflicts of interest are to be to this development by establishing a Non-Financial Risk handled and for preventing market abuse and money Management & Regulatory Compliance division in the fall laundering. A detailed anti-corruption guideline governs the of 2016. The compliance officer and the anti-moneyacceptance and awarding of gifts and keeps employees laundering officer head up this division together with the and management abreast of the anti-corruption regulations goal of implementing a uniform, Group-wide management in place. approach for non-financial risk and compliance. BAWAG P.S.K.’s Group-wide compliance and non-financial Participation in Transparency International risk management not only ensures that laws, requirements and standards are abided by, but also provides BAWAG P.S.K. has been a member of the Austrian chapter comprehensive protection for investors, customers, of Transparency International (TI-AC) since 2012. This nonemployees and the Bank itself. Along with the management profit organization seeks to increase general awareness of of operational risk, the key responsibilities are preventing the need to combat corruption and increase transparency money laundering, combating terrorist financing, in Austria, and it works to facilitate the implementation of monitoring compliance with sanctions, fraud prevention, relevant measures and reforms. data protection, information security, securities compliance and the prevention of insider trading, market abuse and conflicts of interest. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND GROUP-WIDE GUIDELINES Corporate Governance Governance is verified on an annual basis in an external evaluation performed by Deloitte Audit Wirtschaftsprüfungs In 2006, BAWAG P.S.K. made a voluntary commitment to GmbH and by Dorda Brugger Jordis Rechtsanwälte (for the apply the Austrian Code of Corporate Governance. The questions regarding the auditor). Bank has published an annual Corporate Governance Report since 2009. Through this voluntary self-regulatory The Corporate Governance Report 2016 can be accessed at measure, BAWAG P.S.K. aims to further strengthen the https://www.bawagpsk.com/BAWAGPSK/IR/EN/Corporate_G confidence of customers, employees and the public. overnance/Code__Reports__Articles/297948/corporateCompliance with the Austrian Code of Corporate governance-reports.html. 12 RESPONSIBLE ACTION Guidelines and policies  Fit & Proper Policy  Human Rights Matrix Important Group-wide guidelines amongst others:  ISAE3402/SSAE16 for the Outsourcing of IT Processes  Non Disclosure Agreement Policy  Anti-Fraud Policy  OpRisk Policy  Anti-Corruption and Gift Policy  Policy for New Employees  COBIT 4.0 Framework  Product Implementation Process Policy  Code of Conduct  Recruitment Policy  Complaint Management Policy  Security Policy  Conflict of Interest Policy  Social Media Policy  Corporate Procurement Policy  Supplier Code of Conduct  Corporate Travel Policy  UN Global Compact Principles  Credit Policies  UN Women’s Empowerment Principles  Entertainment Policy 13 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS It is particularly important to BAWAG P.S.K. to face the product partners, regulatory authorities, consumer expectations and requirements placed on it by internal and protection and consulting organizations, investors, analysts, external stakeholders with respect and an open ear and to NGOs (including CSR organizations and sponsoring engage in dialogue with its various stakeholders. Internal partners), suppliers, the media and press, non-customers, stakeholders such as employees and the Works Council are policymakers, the general public and competitors. treated equally to external stakeholders such as customers, IN DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS With more than 2.2 million customers, engaging in dialogue cornerstones of customer communication. Along with the as equals is among the basic requirements for BAWAG employees who work in customer service, the BAWAG P.S.K.’s day-to-day operations. Providing comprehensive, P.S.K. Complaint Desk and social networks serve as accompanying advice over the entire life cycle is one of the essential communication hubs. INFORMATION ON CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Customer satisfaction is a top priority Overall Customer Satisfaction Index 2016 We invite our customers to give us their feedback after Customer satisfaction remains at a high level. According to consultations. This verifies the high level of customer a study of multiple banks performed by GfK, 83% of our satisfaction. In 2016, 93% of customers gave their retail customers are very satisfied or rather satisfied with consultation a rating of 1 or 2 (on a scale of 1 to 5, with BAWAG P.S.K. 1 being the best). INNOVATIVE DIALOGUE PLATFORM The customer panel “bessermacher.at” We have created a dialogue platform via our customer BAWAG P.S.K.’s services with their ideas and wishes. In panel “bessermacher.at.” The platform invites interested 2016, numerous customers again gave their feedback to customers to register and help shape the development of BAWAG P.S.K. 14 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION CUSTOMER ORIENTATION BAWAG P.S.K. strives to provide access to banking services understand and barrier-free financial products and services for as many people as possible in Austria by actively as well as to be a reliable partner for Austria’s business combating social exclusion based on a strong local community. presence, the expansion of its digital offerings, easy-toSUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES In 2016, we continued to invest in the development of our Öko Sozial Rent”3) – have continuously increased in recent business model in order to ensure the high quality of our years and totaled EUR 114 million and EUR 228 million, customer service. The Bank’s digital offerings were respectively, as of 31 December 2016. Both funds are expanded to include several new products, and new online certified with the EUROSIF Transparency Logo for SRI and mobile services were implemented in order to enable funds and were awarded the Austrian Eco-label for our customers to execute their banking transactions easily Sustainable Financial Products in 2016. A total of around and securely wherever they want and at any time. The EUR 1 billion is invested in a further four special mandates, focus is on future-oriented and seamless solutions. The one of which is also certified with the Austrian Eco-label for following examples show the pace and dynamics of BAWAG Sustainable Financial Products. P.S.K. regarding the development of digital services. A key innovation focus was placed on security in digital Lending and environment payment transactions. Along with Austria’s most secure authorization process, the Security App offers customers Again and again, BAWAG P.S.K. supports customers who immediate transparency for their financial transactions. are affected by environmental catastrophes. In this context, Thanks to a partnership between BAWAG P.S.K. and the the Bank offered favored loans without handling fees for fintech company FinReach, customers can switch to flood victims in Carinthia in July and August 2016. BAWAG P.S.K. on a fully digital basis. For video identification, BAWAG P.S.K. is collaborating with the We also offer environmentally relevant added value in market leader and patent holder WebID Austria. The video housing financing. When taking out a mortgage loan, identification process allows customers’ identities to be borrowers are reimbursed for the costs of the energy verified via a direct link to the WebID site. This prevents performance certificate amounting to EUR 450. customers from having to go to a post office or bank branch to do this as in the past, thus providing them with added convenience and significant time savings. Added “New Chance” account convenience is also offered by the new SmartPay app, which allows payments to be made via NFC-enabled Use of the “New Chance” account has been steadily smartphones and also enables the smooth execution of growing for years, which confirms the necessity of this further transactions. socially minded service of BAWAG P.S.K., which is designed for people who otherwise would be excluded from electronic payment transactions. Neither the account number nor the Sustainable investment funds bank routing code contain any indications that it is a noncredit account. This prevents customers from being directly The total volume of assets managed by Amundi Austria1), or indirectly stigmatized when executing their financial BAWAG P.S.K.’s asset management partner, in socially transactions. Although this service was initially only responsible investments (SRI funds) amounted to EUR 1.4 communicated by personal debt counselors, the number of billion at year-end 2016. This represents an increase of account holders is continuously rising. At year-end 2016, 17% compared to the previous year. there were approx. 34,000 such accounts. With the introduction of the EU basic account, the BAWAG P.S.K. Investments in sustainable investment products – in the “New Chance” account, which has been introduced for two retail funds “Amundi Öko Sozial Stock”2) and “Amundi years, has become standardized across the EU. 1) BAWAG P.S.K. INVEST until 18 March 2016 15 2) BAWAG P.S.K. Öko Sozial Stock until 31 May 2016 3) BAWAG P.S.K. Öko Sozial Rent until 31 May 2016 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Barrier-free services initiative, which was launched in 2014. In cooperation with organizations that serve the blind and visually impaired, BAWAG P.S.K. puts emphasis on a barrier-free banking partners and software producers are working to infrastructure. In recent years, the self-service terminals in standardize the functions and operation of ATMs. The the branches have been brought up to the latest standards appropriate website helps blind and visually impaired and allow for intuitive use, with features such as clearly laid people to find machines all over Austria that are easier to out controls, larger buttons, Braille and simple pictograms. use because they are equipped with new software BAWAG P.S.K. is also a project partner in the “bank4all” (www.bank4all.at). SUSTAINABLE CUSTOMER RELATIONS AND PROJECTS BAWAG P.S.K. as a partner for non-profit organizations ES GEHT! – An initiative for good ideas that are “part of life” The topic of social issues once again had a special place in With the ES GEHT! initiative launched in 2014, BAWAG BAWAG P.S.K.’s core activities in 2016, as it has long been P.S.K. started a movement that promotes initiative on the the main bank for many charitable organizations in Austria. part of individuals, brings people and communities together Over 150 non-profit and non-governmental organizations and encourages everyone to work together to do good are long-standing customers of BAWAG P.S.K. things in Austria. BAWAG P.S.K. supports projects that are submitted with expertise, contacts and communication Throughout the branch network it is possible to do cash concepts through the online platform www.es-geht.at and transfers for NGOs with reduced fees. A reduced fee of our branches. The support provided by the initiative EUR 0.55 per cash transfer has been charged for years. focuses on topics such as work, living space, education, health, culture and technology. As part of the ES GEHT! initiative, BAWAG P.S.K. was the first bank in Austria to give Reliable partner for Austria’s business community the topic of crowdfunding a professional presence with its crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at), which helps Many companies, municipalities and public sector entities projects being realized by individuals or private also place their trust in BAWAG P.S.K. The Bank often organizations to obtain financial support. Since 2014, 20 supports municipalities with the building and expansion of projects have been financed through the platform. local infrastructure such as nurseries, schools or care Crowdfunding is an alternative, modern form of financing in institutions. which many smaller contributions from individual people are collected in order to finance a larger idea worth supporting. 16 CUSTOMER ORIENTATION With this initiative, the conventional sponsoring concept compulsory schools, but also towards 15to 20-year-olds. was transformed into a modern mobilization concept. “ES The comprehensive range of services includes targeted GEHT!” and the associated crowdfunding platform is largely group programs focusing on specific topics, computer dedicated to community-based projects that receive too workshops, language and personal development courses little funding and attention from the public and would fail and advice on non-educational matters including referrals without the civic courage of individuals. This also includes to relevant specialists (legal and social counseling, youth local projects that are mainly oriented towards the given welfare services, etc.). region. BAWAG P.S.K. launches mobilization campaigns, helps initiators to establish contact with media partners and other supporters and provides promotional materials in Customer loyalty program DANKESCHÖN order to find crowds who want to get involved. In this way, the initiative has helped to raise approximately EUR As part of the customer loyalty program DANKESCHÖN, 280,000 from the community for the community since its owners of a new account box can use their collected points launch, money that has gone directly towards the as donations for the benefit of various projects. In this way, realization of the projects. they support projects with a local and social background in collaboration with the ES GEHT! platform. Along with the customer panel “www.bessermacher.at,” the crowdfunding platform (www.crowdfunding.at) is an integral part of the ES GEHT! initiative, seeking to Business continuity planning sustainably support the enterprising spirit of the Austrian population. The current project “Lerncafés – Gemeinsam Providing customers with optimal service is the top priority Zukunft bilden” is particularly noteworthy. for BAWAG P.S.K. This also includes ensuring that service can be maintained without interruption in the event of an emergency. With this in mind, BAWAG P.S.K. has planned “Lerncafés“ of Caritas Vienna ahead and put together a special team responsible for business continuity management. The fundamental The learning cafés operated by Caritas Vienna are aimed at principle is that the critical business processes must be ensuring that young people with educational disadvantages resumed within six hours after the onset of an emergency are afforded equal opportunities when it comes to and must continue to run without any major problems. To participating in education and training systems. To this end, this end, numerous tests together with partner companies the learning cafés offer assistance on all five working days. were successfully completed in 2016. This offering is not only geared towards students at COLLABORATION WITH PARTNERS WHO ACT SUSTAINABLY The provision of simple, transparent and best-in-class demonstrated not only in sustainable investment products and services as well as sustainable action are also processes, but also in the management of the company. key factors in the selection of our cooperation partners. Amundi incorporates ESG criteria into its analysis processes and has been considering them in its investment Long-term partnership with Amundi decisions for years. Amundi Group is among the global market leaders in asset management with roughly EUR 168 A long-term cooperation agreement with Amundi secures billion of assets managed in socially responsible access for our customers to a wide range of top-class investments (SRI). The ESG analysis is based on the data investment products. of more than 4,000 companies and an investment policy that requires the companies to comply with ESG criteria in Acting responsibly as a financial company is at the center their strategy. This method is based on the “best-in-class” of all of Amundi’s business activities. This commitment is approach, which identifies the companies that best fulfill 17 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 the ESG criteria in each industry. A specialized team policy. Generali Group is one of the world’s leading analyzes and evaluates companies according to noninsurance and financial services companies and pursues – financial criteria for each business segment, develops the amongst others – the following objectives within its SRI management and promotes the benefits of socially sustainability strategy: responsible investment. At the same time, Amundi is strongly committed to sustainable performance. Amundi  Ongoing sustainable growth became a signatory to the Principles for Responsible  Increasing opportunities for employees Investment (UNPRI) in 2006.  Support society through social, cultural and sporting initiatives  Reduction of direct and indirect environmental impacts Sales cooperation with Allianz Vorsorgekasse Generali Group is a signatory to the Global Compact A long-term sales agreement with Allianz Vorsorgekasse Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) allows BAWAG P.S.K. to offer solutions for company and the Principles of Sustainable Insurance (PSI). pension schemes to commercial banking customers. The Austrian Society for Environment and Technology (ÖGUT) In the segment of building society savings and loan reviews the investment concept of Allianz Vorsorgekasse on agreements, BAWAG P.S.K. works with Bausparkasse an annual basis and evaluates its investments according to Wüstenrot to offer its customers savings and loan ethical and ecological criteria. In addition, the company agreements as a low-risk savings option and affordable receives awards for sustainable investment every year. financing opportunity for buying an apartment, fulfilling the dream of owning a home and renovating existing living space with a focus on barrier-free access and ecological Additional product partners that act sustainably sustainability. In addition to obtaining building financing, customers can also invest for education or retirement BAWAG P.S.K. Versicherung offers attractive, secure needs. Wüstenrot is conscious of its social responsibility solutions in the areas of retirement savings, hedging and and has received the seal of quality for workplace health investment for BAWAG P.S.K. customers. BAWAG P.S.K. promotion multiple times for the health promotion program Versicherung is a subsidiary of Generali Group and is “fitforwork” and has been honored as the “Best Apprentice therefore subject to the group’s environmental and climate Training Program in the Banking and Insurance Industry.” 18 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING For BAWAG P.S.K., it is important to offer its employees a encourage their potential and personal commitment for the healthy work environment in which they can advance their good of society. careers as well as to appreciate its employees and Development of the number of employees Headcount 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees as of 31 December 3,258 2,992 2,758 Gender distribution in % 2014 2015 2016 Women 54% 54% 54% Men 46% 46% 46% Share of women in management positions 28% 27% 28% Additional figures regarding BAWAG P.S.K.’s staff are imbalances in the cost structure, ongoing process available in the GRI Index from page 28. optimization efforts and the implementation of efficiency measures. The reduction in the headcount over the past three years can be attributed to the elimination of structural WOMEN’S ADVANCEMENT – THE BAWAG P.S.K. WOMEN’S INITIATIVE With the women’s promotion program introduced in 2012 relationship. Over the past years, 49 female mentees have and as a signatory to the UN Global Compact Women’s benefited from this program. BAWAG P.S.K. extended the Empowerment Principles (WEP), BAWAG P.S.K. has taken mentoring program in 2016. Ten new female mentees were another important step towards ensuring equality between provided with top managers from the business world to women and men. The program focuses on fostering serve as external mentors. awareness of the importance of equality of opportunity – combined with clearly defined goals: Fe-male Future Day  Financial equality between women and men for equal performance “Networking” was not just the focus of the Women’s  Increasing the number of women in leadership and Mentoring Program. In October 2016, the BAWAG P.S.K. expert positions Women’s Initiative hosted an exciting evening event for  Promoting a better balance between career and family employees, executives and external guests, discussing the for women and men “Fe-male Future of Digital Banking.” BAWAG P.S.K. Women Mentoring Program Career and family The BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Initiative together with Human In 2013, BAWAG P.S.K. committed to promoting a good Resources organizes a one-year women mentoring program balance between family and career under the framework of for female employees, experts and leaders of BAWAG P.S.K. a structured audit process and was awarded a certificate as Group interested in advancing their professional a family-friendly company, which is valid for three years. In development and internal networks through a mentoring 19 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 the course of the re-auditing in 2016, the certificate was  creating awareness for the role of women in the successfully approved. For the next three years, various professional world measures are planned to ensure the status of a familyfriendly company. In 2016, the prize was awarded to Katharina Norden, founder and Managing Director of Three Coins, to honor her special commitment to financial literacy. Underrepresented gender in the Supervisory Board and Managing Board UN Women’s Empowerment Principles In December 2013, the Nomination Committee set a target ratio for the underrepresented gender in the Supervisory As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the Board and Managing Board. The strategy for achieving this world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, BAWAG target was further developed and fleshed out over the course P.S.K. became a signatory to the UN Women’s of 2016. Emphasis was placed on the advancement of Empowerment Principles (WEP) in 2015 and was the first female employees with the Women’s Promotion Program, the retail bank in Austria to do so. The WEP are aimed at BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Mentoring Program and specific strengthening the position of women in companies and seminars aimed at the further development of women. were further developed in 2016. BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize Information events for expectant parents The EUR 3,000 BAWAG P.S.K. Women’s Prize is awarded Again in 2016, Human Resources and the BAWAG P.S.K. annually in cooperation with a public or charitable Works Council provided information about the coordination organization to recognize outstanding achievements by of parental leave and a smooth return to the Bank at the women or special commitment to furthering women in regular event series for expectant mothers and fathers. society. With this award, BAWAG P.S.K. aims to motivate women and organizations to tackle challenging and innovative projects. Welcome back event The prize is awarded to women who set an outstanding Human Resources and the BAWAG P.S.K. Works Council example for other women on the basis of their have been organizing the welcome back event since 2009. achievements and commitment, especially in the areas of: Employees returning from parental leave are invited to inform themselves about news and developments at BAWAG P.S.K.  science, journalism and art and have the opportunity to participate in a dialogue with  social commitment managers and experts from the Bank. The event provides a  intercultural understanding sound basis for a successful return to the company.  promoting equality of opportunity between women and men, and EMPLOYEE TRAINING General information about employee training foreign language and first aid courses. The eLearning portfolio is expanded with new technical and product-related The Bank-wide training program supports the employees in content on a regular basis. In 2016, a total of 7,418 seminar mastering the various everyday challenges they face in the days (lasting eight hours each) were completed. Employees banking business, with training offerings covering topics who work in central administrative functions participated in such as project management, stress management, time one seminar day on average, while sales employees received management and self-reliance as well as a wide range of IT, approximately four days of training on average. 20 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING Apprentice training Management development The Bank has been successfully training apprentices for The management role is a permanent development about 20 years and has received numerous awards, for process. Accordingly, the training of managers at BAWAG example the “Beste Lehrbetriebe – Fit for Future” state P.S.K. encompasses a wide range of offerings. For prize. Providing young people with goals and prospects for example, the development of managers in retail sales is the future is a task that was once again taken very seriously based on a regular employee survey and a potential in 2016. With its qualified banker apprenticeship program, assessment which is supervised by external experts and the Bank provides high-quality training aimed at enabling aimed at identifying a manager’s personal strengths and the apprentices to be hired as qualified customer advisors development areas. The Bank offers a modular training at the end of their apprenticeship. The apprentices are part program that is tailored based on the results of this of a team who work together to achieve the Bank’s goals, assessment and strengthens the skills needed for day-toand with great success. In addition to the comprehensive day management tasks on a selective basis. The program training program, the Bank supports and encourages focuses on a high level of practice-oriented learning, the young people to complete an apprenticeship in targeted development of leadership skills, sharpening combination with attaining a secondary school leaving managers’ self-reflection skills and employee guidance and certificate. In 2016, several apprentices successfully development. completed this special program and are proud to have received an additional qualification parallel to their In 2016, the “LEAD neue Führungskräfte” manager vocational trainings. training program was once again completed in the central administrative divisions. The program provides support and guidance for new managers in the performance of their Retail Academy new function during the first year. The 17th group successfully completed the program at year-end 2016. The Retail Academy is made up of the Retail Camp, which provides basic technical and sales training for new Experienced managers and managerial teams were once employees geared towards their roles in sales, and various again supported in individual (management) coaching advanced, role-specific training programs. These training sessions and targeted change management measures. The activities were primarily completed in the new training focus here was clearly on providing individual advice and branches created for this purpose in Vienna, Graz and optimal guidance for the managers (and their teams) for Salzburg-Hallein. This allowed training to be provided even personnel development in sessions with selected more promptly, in a more practice-oriented setting and in consultants. smaller groups. The “After Work Führungskräfte Forum” was continued in In the “appreciation offensive,” all salespeople learned that 2016 – a series of network events with keynote speaches “appreciation” is an important attitude in the advisory for all the Bank's executives to familiarize them with new service and they were provided with the necessary tools in tendencies of leadership and to provide a platform for this context. exchanging experiences. With the series “Leadership in Volatile Times,” management workshops were held with different topics (labor law, constructive feedback, occupational psychological counseling, etc.) to support the Bank’s executives in a prompt, flexible and focused manner. 21 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Talent development; succession and career planning MbO process (Management by Objectives) The process for the identification and development of BAWAG P.S.K. sees the “Management by Objectives” potential successors for key functions that was launched at (MbO) approach as a key management tool for supporting year-end 2014 continued in 2016. At a meeting of the the Bank’s business strategy. With the supportive software Managing Board, high-potential employees of the Bank “HR ONE,” managers and employees were able to enter were discussed in a structured manner and approaches for and evaluate their goals online for the first time. “HR ONE” dealing with succession risks were coordinated. serves as a performance management and learning platform. HR has combined the entire “MbO” process and The sixth run of the Start & Move trainee program started in the associated tracking tool, a virtual learning portal with September 2016. The one-year program provides support competence checks and e-learning programs, and the for new employees who join the Bank. In the course of the sales talent management process for retail sales on this program, they gain extensive insight into the inner workings platform. The range of self-study methods was also of the Bank and have the opportunity to establish an initial expanded with the addition of blended learning (where network of contacts. mixed classes with online units and physical attendance are offered and where a competence check must be The fifth run of the forTalents development program for completed to qualify for the seminar) and social learning, in high-potential employees in the central administrative units which participants learn together and from one another. started in October 2016. Like in the first runs of this program, participants were supported in their development and groomed for new management and expert positions. Awards Among the 75 participants were 38 women, 20 of whom already have management responsibilities. BAWAG P.S.K. was named the best recruiter in its industry and awarded the title Best Recruiter 2016/17 for the sixth The “TOP-TEAM Vertrieb” talent program ensures the time in total. In the annual analysis of over 500 Austrian recruiting and development of potential branch managers companies performed by the communication agency GPK, from the Bank’s staff. The participants are all promising the Bank showed once again this year that it competes at young employees with leadership potential who have been the front of the pack in the “war for talent” among banks. nominated as part of the succession planning process. 133 criteria were evaluated in the categories career They go through a challenging program of technical and homepage, social media, mobile recruiting, online job personal development training to prepare them to manage advertisements, online job exchanges, transparency, a branch. usability in the application process as well as response to the contact quality with applicants. WORKPLACE HEALTH PROMOTION – OCCUPATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY SERVICES Since 2010, BAWAG P.S.K. has offered its employees Evaluation of psychological stress factors in the workplace support and counseling in the area of occupational psychology as part of its workplace health promotion The prevention of work-related psychological stress factors activities. Employees have utilized these offerings in the is a top priority. Therefore, the Bank has already started to form of focus campaigns in the areas of stress gradually evaluate psychological stress factors. The results management and life domain balance as well as in the of the standardized online survey were analyzed by our course of individual counseling sessions. external occupational psychologists from the occupational health service Arbeitsmedizinischer Dienst (AMD) and reported to the division managers. In subsequent workshops, the results of the survey were discussed and 22 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING possible solutions and improvements developed together costs for having a comprehensive preventive medical exam. with the employees under the moderation of an The exam is performed at the company physician’s office occupational psychologist. The division heads are and was extended in 2016 due to the great success. responsible for the implementation of the measures that were developed. Workshop “fit & focused in the workplace” Additional health benefits With a new series of workshops in 2016 in collaboration with the occupational health service Arbeitsmedizinischer In addition to the basic occupational health services, the Dienst (AMD), the Bank supported the initiative to keep Workplace Health Promotion Initiative offered to cover the employees healthy, fit and focused. ADDITIONAL EMPLOYER SERVICES Along with the workplace health promotion benefits, including support for families, lunch specials, bonuses for BAWAG P.S.K. also provides a wide range of other benefits, service anniversaries and the company daycare center. Additional employer services in EUR thousand 2016 Travel allowances 306 Pension fund contributions 6,578 Anniversary bonuses 2,444 Financial assistance (particularly for weddings / births / deaths, Vienna Employment Promotion Fund) 987 Accident insurance 44 Allowance for supplemental health insurance 157 Cafeteria (food / personnel / vouchers) 876 Company physician and health programs 118 Company daycare center 230 Employee events (particularly Christmas vouchers / Christmas dinner / excursions) 363 Funding provided to the Works Council (immunization campaigns, holiday lodging, sports club, etc.) 327 Total 12,430 23 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION At BAWAG P.S.K., environmental protection means keeping day-to-day operations as low as possible and reporting the environmental impact of our products, services and about our progress on a regular basis. Key environmental figures Unit 2014 2015 2016 Paper Paper use A4 pages 36,481,500 33,266,500 31,200,500 Electricity Buchengasse/Quellenstraße kWh 7,086,120 6,564,480 6,119,480 Georg-Coch-Platz kWh 3,533,240 3,472,800 3,427,320 Am Tabor kWh 2,924,140 2,739,020 2,385,420 Branches kWh 7,300,553 6,605,862 6,069,413 Total power consumption kWh 20,844,053 19,382,162 18,001,633 Heating for central locations (district heat) Buchengasse/Quellenstraße kWh 2,914,282 3,228,566 2,679,130 Georg-Coch-Platz kWh 2,401,050 2,816,175 2,996,380 Am Tabor kWh 244,540 252,874 229,590 Total space heating for central locations kWh 5,559,872 6,297,615 5,905,100 Heating for branches Gas kWh 3,245,052 2,186,733 1,948,458 District heat kWh 728,316 664,137 533,094 Space heating for branches kWh 3,973,368 2,850,870 2,481,552 Vehicle fleet / Mobility Gasoline fleet km 60,458 53,890 37,480 Diesel fleet km 1,147,586 1,125,915 518,055 Kilometers traveled by air km 2,069,830 1,811,958 1,765,375 CO2 emissions1) Scope 1: Vehicle fleet and gas heating t CO2-e 840 546 479 Scope 2: Electricity and community heating t CO2-e 8,330 6,757 6,199 Scope 3: Air travel t CO2-e 535 493 662 Total CO2 emissions t CO2-e 9,705 7,796 7,340 Waste Waste paper t 463 518 345 General waste t 191 182 174 Account statement envelopes Pieces 11,870,752 7,818,448 7,862,000 Water Buchengasse/Quellenstraße m3 10,550 11,678 9,970 Georg-Coch-Platz (municipal water supply) m3 4,000 3,959 3,433 Georg-Coch-Platz (well) m3 9,160 9,555 10,951 Am Tabor m3 683 670 536 Total water consumption m3 24,393 25,862 24,890 1) The calculations for the vehicle fleet and air travel are based on the assumption that 10% of the automotive travel and 95% of the air travel was completed by the employees working in the headquarters. An RFI factor (Radiative Fording Index) is taken into account in the case of air travel (IPCC recommendation), which results in an increase in the emission factor starting in 2016. Source and comment: The calculation for the CO2 balance is based on the Green Gas Protocol Accounting and Reporting Standard and refers every year to the published emission factors of the Austrian Federal Environmental Agency. 24 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIVITIES Reduction of paper consumption The energy consumed for space heating in the branches was reduced by 370,000 kWh, or 13%, due to location The change from the postal delivery of paper account optimization measures. statements to environmentally friendly alternatives (e.g., PDF account statement through eBanking) was Thus, the greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 24% further advanced in 2016. At the same time, the compared to 2014. introduction of secTAN in addition to mobile TAN and digital signature as alternatives to iTAN and TAN lists contributed to reducing paper consumption by 6% in 2016. CO2 neutral delivery initiative In 2016, Österreichische Post AG again delivered all Reduction of energy use BAWAG P.S.K. postal items (letters, advertising materials and packages) CO2 neutral. In 2016, the power consumption by the Bank as a whole (central locations and branches) was reduced by 1.4 million kWh, or 7%, compared to the previous year. 25 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT Civic engagement is an essential part of BAWAG P.S.K.’s provides assistance where it is needed most. In the public relations. With the activities performed in this area, summer of 2016, Caritas provided famine and survival the Bank also lives up to its social responsibility by being a relief in two areas that were in particular need: in South good corporate citizen. BAWAG P.S.K. is not only “MITTEN Sudan and in the Middle East. IM LEBEN” (part of life), but our many initiatives, including “ES GEHT!” (www.es-geht.at), also show that it is possible  Caritas: Participation in the initiative “Spendenglas to combine the financial needs of our customers with civic gegen den Hunger” (Donation Jar against Hunger) – In engagement. The focus on education, arts and social this nationwide campaign, Caritas asked people to issues as well as the new crowdfunding platform collect change in empty pickle jars to save lives. BAWAG (www.crowdfunding.at) help to improve the Bank’s P.S.K. supported this campaign together with general profile. Österreichische Post AG. BAWAG P.S.K. sees itself as being an equal partner who  SOS Mitmensch: Benefit auction for contemporary art in actively participates in shaping partnerships and projects. the historic main banking hall of the Bank’s We aim to establish long-term collaborations to jointly headquarters. implement sustainable projects.  Vienna English Theatre school tours: Actors who are Numerous sponsoring partnerships were continued with English native speakers tour Austria’s schools with agesocial and charity organizations in 2016. For example, the appropriate plays. Socially disadvantaged children are EUR 3,000 “MITTEN IM LEBEN” prize for services in the able to attend the performances for free. social sphere and outstanding humanitarian efforts was awarded to the project “Familien-Lotse” from  “Talent factory” – for persons with autism who often “elterninitiative.at.” Children affected by cancer and their have no completed education but many talents. With families were provided with psychological support. Thanks autism-oriented training, the talent factory tries to to the donations, the project could be implemented at the convey special IT basics. In this way, these persons are AKH (hospital) and the St. Anna Kinderspital (children’s prepared for further, specific training courses in hospital). companies and are able to accept specific job offers and opportunities for further training. A few of the social and educational projects that were supported or presented with awards in 2016 are  Mobile medical care for seriously ill children with highlighted below: MOMO: Children with serious diseases are taken care of at home, where they feel most comfortable. In the  “Stadtdiakonie” Vienna: BAWAG P.S.K. supports the security of their families, Vienna’s mobile Kinderhospiz project “Learning with an empty stomach,” which MOMO accompanies seriously ill children, both currently supplies more than 400 students in different medically and psychosocially. schools with healthy food. Two schools have been pursuing a new approach for a year now: The children  Make-A-Wish Foundation: The association realizes the and teacher go shopping and prepare the meals wishes of seriously ill children. The “magic of a wish” together. This strengthens the children’s independence and its fulfillment support the children's recovery. The and teaches the sustainable use of money and food. goal is more than just to put a smile on the children's faces – the children should believe in the seemingly  Licht ins Dunkel: The Bank made a donation to support impossible and their own inner strength. Make-A-Wish the emergency assistance fund and selected projects. gives the sick children joy, new courage and strength to overcome difficult times.  Caritas: Support for the initiative “Für eine Zukunft ohne Hunger” (For a Future without Hunger) – Caritas 26 CIVIC ENGAGEMENT AND PERSONAL COMMITMENT PERSONAL COMMITMENT OF EMPLOYEES Volunteer Days BAWAG P.S.K. bikes to work Every BAWAG P.S.K. employee has the opportunity to As in the past several years, the initiative “Österreich radelt spend up to two working days per year volunteering for zur Arbeit” (Austria Bikes to Work) was actively supported non-profit organizations and projects without having to use by our employees in 2016. any of his or her paid vacation time. Established in 2011, this initiative promotes and rewards the personal commitment of our employees and highlights the value of Blood drive volunteer work. In spring and in autumn 2016, blood drives were once In 2016, for example, the Bank’s trainees adapted parts of again held at the Bank’s headquarters. As in previous the Rupert Mayer house in Vienna during their volunteer years, many employees participated in the blood drive. days. The house offers homeless women and men medical care, transitional accommodations and socially assisted living. 27 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 GRI INDEX The present GRI Index is oriented towards the guidelines of specified by the set of industry-specific indicators for the Global Reporting Initiative, version 4.0, and the Core financial services. All data refer to the year 2016 or 31 “In Accordance” option and also contains disclosures December 2016, unless otherwise stated. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4 code Content according to G4 (Core) Reference/Comments Strategy and analysis 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker p. 4 Organizational profile 3 Name of the organization p. 38 4 Primary brands, products, and services p. 5 5 Location of the organization’s headquarters p. 5, p. 28 6 Countries where the organization operates p. 5, https://www.bawagpsk.com/FinancialResults 7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 5 8 Markets https://www.bawagpsk.com/FinancialResults 9 Scale of the organization p. 6, https://www.bawagpsk.com/FinancialResults 10 Figures and information regarding total workforce p. 19 Employees covered by collective bargaining 100% of the employees are covered by collective 11 agreements bargaining agreements. 12 Supply chain p. 5, p. 17–18 Significant changes in the organization’s size, 13 p. 5 structure, or ownership 14 Precautionary principle p. 12 15 External agreements, principles, or initiatives p. 12–13 Transparency International (Austrian Chapter), UN 16 Memberships Global Compact, UN Global Compact WEP Identified material aspects and boundaries 17 Description of the reporting boundaries p. 4 Process for defining the report content and the aspect 18 p. 8–9 boundaries 19 Identified material aspects and topics p. 8–9 Aspect boundary for each material aspect within the The aspect boundaries for the individual aspects are 20 organization described in the corresponding sections. Aspect boundary for each material aspect outside the The aspect boundaries for the individual aspects are 21 organization described in the corresponding sections. Restatement of information provided in previous 22 No significant restatements reports 23 Changes in the scope and aspect boundaries No changes Stakeholder engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 24 p. 14 organization 25 Selection of stakeholder groups p. 14 26 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 14 27 Key topics and concerns of stakeholder groups p. 8–9, p. 14 Report profile 28 Reporting period p. 8 28 GRI INDEX G4 code Content according to G4 (Core) Reference/Comments 29 Publication of most recent previous report August 2016 30 Reporting cycle Annual 31 Points of contact p. 38 32 GRI Index p. 28 External assurance for the report or for report 33 None contents Governance 34 Governance structure of the organization https://www.bawagpsk.com/FinancialResults Ethics and integrity 56 Corporate values, principles, and codes of conduct p. 12–13 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Economic indicators Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments DMA Economic performance p. 6 Economic Direct economic value generated and performance EC1 p. 6 distributed DMA Market presence p. 5 The entry level wages are more than 10% EC5 Entry level wage compared to local higher than the minimum wage defined by CPO1 minimum wage the collective bargaining agreement. Market presence There is no company policy to favor local Proportion of senior management hired staff (99.4% of all employees work and live in EC6 from the local community Austria) please refer to table 3 in the appendix 29 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments DMA Indirect economic impacts p. 6, p. 15–16 Indirect Investments in public infrastructure and EC7 p. 15–16 economic communities impacts Type and extent of indirect economic EC8 p. 15–16 impacts Policies with specific environmental and DMA social components applied to business p. 12–13 lines Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with DMA p. 15–18 environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social DMA p. 20–22 Product portfolio policies and procedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/investees/business DMA partners regarding environmental and p. 15–17 social risks and opportunities Percentage of the portfolio for business FS6 https://www.bawagpsk.com/FinancialResults lines by specific region, size, and sector FS7 Products with a significant social benefit p. 15–16 Products with a significant environmental FS8 p. 15–16 benefit Auditing of processes to assess Audit DMA p. 15–17 sustainability risks Percentage of assets managed according Active ownership FS11 p. 15 to sustainability criteria DMA Procurement practices p. 12–13, p. 15–17 Approx. 99% of the suppliers are located in EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Austria. There is no official policy to favor local suppliers. BAWAG P.S.K.’s sustainable procurement policy (Supplier Code of Conduct, see p. 13) Procurement has been firmly established at BAWAG P.S.K. practices for several years and focuses on EN32 corresponding certifications and domestic LA14 Proportion of new suppliers assessed suppliers. In cases of suspected violations of HR10 according to sustainability criteria the Supplier Code of Conduct, the SO9 Procurement, Real Estate & Facility Management division would react immediately. So far, however, no such cases have occurred. 30 GRI INDEX Environmental indicators Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments DMA Energy p. 25 Energy consumption within the EN3 p. 24 organization (Scope 1 and 2) Energy consumption outside of the EN 4 p. 24 Energy organization (Scope 3) Reduction of energy consumption EN6 p. 25 through efficiency measures Reductions in energy requirements of EN7 p. 25 products and services DMA Emissions p. 25 Direct greenhouse gas emissions EN15 p. 24 (Scope 1) Indirect energy-related greenhouse EN16 p. 24 Emissions gas emissions (Scope 2) All other indirect greenhouse gas EN 17 emissions generated outside of the organization (Scope 3) EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 25 DMA Products and services p. 25 Products and Mitigation of environmental impacts of services EN27 p. 25 products and services DMA Transport p. 25 Environmental impacts of transporting Transport EN30 products, materials, and members of the p. 24 workforce Social indicators Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments Labor practices and decent work DMA Employment p. 19–23 New employee hires and employee Employment LA1 p. 37 turnover LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 23 DMA Occupational health and safety p. 22–23 Representation of the workforce in health LA5 Regulated by law in Austria and safety committees Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, LA6 p. 22–23 Occupational health absenteeism and fatalities and safety Number of accidents reported to AUVA (Austrian Workers’ Compensation Board) and BVA (Austrian Social Insurance Authority for Civil and Public Servants): 18 in 2014, 19 in 2015 and 15 in 2016 (4 workplace accidents and 11 commuting accidents). Inclusion of health and safety in collective LA8 Regulated by law in Austria agreements Training and education DMA Training and education p. 20–22 31 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments LA9 Number of training hours p. 20 Programs for skills management and LA10 p. 20–22 lifelong learning Feedback for employees regarding their LA11 p. 21–22 performance and career development DMA Diversity and equal opportunity p. 19–20 Diversity and Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according to equal opportunity LA12 p. 20; please refer to table 1 in the appendix gender, age group, and minority group membership Equal remuneration for DMA Equal remuneration for women and men p. 20 women and men LA13 Ratio of remuneration of women to men p. 20 Human rights DMA Investment p. 12–13 Investment Inclusion of humans rights aspects in HR1 p. 12–13 significant investment agreements DMA Non-discrimination p. 12–13 Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective HR3 No incidents reported in 2016 actions taken Society DMA Local communities p. 14–17, p. 26–27 Operations with implemented local SO1 community engagement, impact p. 15–17 assessments, and development programs Local communities Access to banking services / supply security FS13 in low-populated or economically p. 15–16 disadvantaged areas by type Initiatives to improve access to financial FS14 p. 15–16 services for disadvantaged people DMA Anti-corruption p. 12–13 p. 12–13 Assessment of operations for risks related to The business units were examined for risks SO3 corruption related to corruption within the scope of Local communities money laundering examinations p. 14–17, p. 26–27 Since 2010, BAWAG P.S.K. Group has had a gift policy covering the acceptance and giving of gifts and invitations. This policy is regularly checked and adapted if necessary. Anti-corruption The policy is presented to all new hires Communication and training on antiduring their Welcome Days. In addition, all SO4 corruption employees, especially those working in a confidentiality area, must successfully complete training courses on the prevention of money laundering. Furthermore, BAWAG P.S.K. has been a member of Transparency International (Austrian Chapter) since 2012. No incidents of corruption were identified in SO5 Incidents of corruption and actions taken 2016. 32 GRI INDEX Identified material aspects G4 indicators (Core) Reference/Comments DMA Anti-competitive behavior p. 12–13 Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, behavior SO7 No incidents in the reporting period anti-trust, and monopoly practices DMA Compliance with legal regulations p. 12–13 Compliance Fines and sanctions for non-compliance SO8 No incidents in the reporting period with legal regulations Product responsibility DMA Customer health and safety p. 11–13 Assessment of health and safety impacts of PR1 p. 11–13 Customer health and products safety Incidents of non-compliance with PR2 regulations concerning the health and No incidents in the reporting period safety impacts of products DMA Product and service labeling p. 15–17 Type of product and service information and PR3 proportion of products affected by such p. 15–17 information Product and service Incidents of non-compliance with obligations labeling PR4 concerning product and service information No incidents in the reporting period and labeling Results of surveys measuring customer PR5 p. 14 satisfaction Advertising/marketing is performed in line with the applicable legal regulations. The Legal division provides checklists for the DMA Marketing communications legally compliant implementation of Marketing measures. In addition, all campaigns communications undergo a legal review. No incidents of non-compliance in the Incidents of non-compliance with reporting period. The marketing and PR7 regulations and voluntary codes concerning communication guidelines were complied marketing communications with. DMA Customer privacy p. 11, p. 12–14 Customer privacy Complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 No incidents in the reporting period privacy and losses of customer data Compliance with legal regulations regarding DMA p. 12–13 products Compliance Sanctions in connection with requirements PR9 No incidents in the reporting period regarding products and services 33 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, BAWAG P.S.K. is BAWAG P.S.K. is committed to complying with the 7 WEP. The committed to complying with its ten principles, which focus CSR Report 2016 is also an annual Communication on on labor standards, human rights, environmental protection Progress (COP). Examples are provided of how each principle and anti-corruption, and as a signatory to the UN Global has been and is being implemented at BAWAG P.S.K. Compact Women’s Empowerment Principles in fall 2015, THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND EXAMPLES OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION AT BAWAG P.S.K. The ten principles Examples of their implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and 12–13p. respect the protection of internationally General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Human Rights Matrix proclaimed human rights (COP 1) p. 12–16 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct that they are not complicit in human rights Measures/Results 2016: The “New Chance” account had approx. 34,000 abuses (COP 2) customers at year-end 2016, which highlights the necessity of this service. General/Principles/Guidelines: Freedom of association and the authorization Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the of labor unions are protected by law in Austria. All employees are covered by freedom of association and the effective collective bargaining agreements. There is an ongoing exchange of recognition of the right to collective information between management and the Works Council, and new works bargaining (COP 3) council agreements are concluded on a regular basis. p. 12–13 General/Principles/Guidelines: Supplier Code of Conduct; nearly 100% of our suppliers are located in Austria. Before new contracts are concluded, Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the customers are subjected to media screening to look for possible violations. elimination of all forms of forced and The topics of freedom of negotiation, compulsory labor, working hours and compulsory labor (COP 4) wages are covered in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers of BAWAG P.S.K. Group under item 3 “Respect for the basic rights, health and safety of employees.” Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the p. 12–13 effective abolition of child labor (COP 5) General/Principles/Guidelines: Supplier Code of Conduct p. 12–13 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Recruiting Policies elimination of discrimination in respect of Measures/Results 2016: Continuation of the Women’s Promotion Plan employment and occupation (COP 6) aimed at promoting the equality of women and men at BAWAG P.S.K. Principle 7: Businesses should support a p. 24–25 precautionary approach to environmental challenges (COP 7) Principle 8: Businesses should undertake p. 24–25 initiatives to promote greater environmental Measures/Results 2016: BAWAG P.S.K. implemented energy audit responsibility (COP 8) measures according to the Austrian Energy Efficiency Act in 2016. p. 24–25 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage The photovoltaic system on the facade of the building on the development and diffusion of environBuchengasse/Quellenstraße has been in operation since 2012. In addition, mentally friendly technologies (COP 9) energy efficiency is promoted in the area of IT infrastructure. 34 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) p. 12–13 General/Principles/Guidelines: Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption and Gift Principle 10: Businesses should work Acceptance Guidelines, Conflict of Interest Policy. The division Nonagainst corruption in all its forms, including Financial Risk Management & Regulatory Compliance monitors compliance extortion and bribery (COP 10) with the rules and regulations. All new hires must successfully complete training courses on the prevention of money laundering. THE SEVEN UN GLOBAL COMPACT WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES AND EXAMPLES OF THEIR IMPLEMENTATION AT BAWAG P.S.K. The seven principles Examples of their implementation Defined target ratio for the underrepresented gender in the Managing Board Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate and Supervisory Board, Women’s Promotion Program, Women’s Mentoring leadership for gender equality Program, flexible working time models, point of emphasis in management development programs Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly Human Rights Matrix, Recruiting Policies, Women’s Promotion Program at work – respect and support human rights For further indicators, see: G4-LA1, G4-LA12, G4-LA13 and nondiscrimination Career and Family Audit, generation management, information events for Principle 3: Ensure the health, safety, and expectant parents, Welcome Back events for parents returning from parental well-being of all women and men workers leave, company daycare centers at two locations For further indicators, see: G4-HR3, G4-LA6 Women’s Promotion Plan, Women’s Mentoring Program, specific seminars Principle 4: Promote education, training, focusing on the further development of women and professional development for women For further indicators, see: G4-LA9, G4-LA11 Principle 5: Implement enterprise Women’s Prize development, supply chain, and marketing practices that empower women Principle 6: Promote equality through Women’s Prize, Fe-male Future Day, Women’s Initiative community initiatives and advocacy Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on Report on measures, objectives and achievements in the annual CSR Report progress to achieve gender equality and the Communication on Progress (COP). 35 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 APPENDIX Table1: Composition of workforce / governance bodies by age group and gender Age group <30 30–50 >50 Total Managing Board 5 5 Division managers / senior 18 5 23 managers Regional marketing managers / Men sales managers / department 51 10 61 managers Branch managers / group 12 100 27 139 managers / team managers Non-management functions 128 373 533 1,034 Total (men) 140 547 575 1,262 Managing Board Division managers / senior 3 1 4 managers Regional marketing managers / Women sales managers / department 3 16 3 22 managers Branch managers / group 2 42 17 61 managers / team managers Non-management functions 221 694 494 1,409 Total (women) 226 755 515 1,496 Total 366 1,302 1,090 2,758 Table 2: Workforce by nationality Austria Other Managing Board 5 Division managers / senior managers 20 7 Regional marketing managers / sales managers / department managers 78 5 Branch managers / group managers / team managers 196 4 Non-management functions 2,331 112 Total 2,625 133 36 APPENDIX Table 3: Workforce by province Total Vienna 1,973 Styria 192 Lower Austria 147 Upper Austria 122 Carinthia 97 Salzburg 74 Tyrol 67 Burgenland 37 Vorarlberg 33 Abroad 16 Total 2,758 Table 4: Employees leaving in 2016 Total By region Vienna 197 Other 98 By age group <30 56 30–50 135 >50 104 By gender Women 143 Men 152 Total 295 Table 5: New hires in 2016 Total Vienna 110 Other 11 Total 121 37 BAWAG P.S.K. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Get in touch with BAWAG P.S.K.: http://www.bawagpsk.com https://www.facebook.com/bawag.psk https://plus.google.com/+BAWAGPSK/about https://mitten-im-land.at/blog/journal Complaint Desk: Tel. 05 99 05 – 905 (within Austria) or +43 5 99 05 – 905 (from abroad) Fax 05 99 05 – 31718 (within Austria) or +43 5 99 05 – 31718 (from abroad) E-mail: beschwerdemanagement@bawagpsk.com OWNER AND PUBLISHER BAWAG P.S.K. Bank für Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Österreichische Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft Georg-Coch-Platz 2, A-1018 Vienna, Austria Companies Registry number: 205340x Data Protection Authority number: 1075217 EU VAT number: ATU51286308 Telephone: +43 (0)5 99 05-0 Internet: www.bawagpsk.com Investor Relations: investor.relations@bawagpsk.com Media: communications@bawagpsk.com Typesetting: In-house using firesys 38 PUBLICATION DETAILS www.bawagpsk.com 39
