ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Table of contents Table of contents Responsibility 1 Responsibility at Elisa 1 Material issues and management 3 Stakeholder dialogue 5 Targets 8 Highlights in 2016 10 Financial responsibility 12 Taxes 13 Investments 15 Research and development 16 Social responsibility 17 Developing personnel 18 Information security 25 Ease of use 27 Networks 29 Supply chain 31 Environmental responsibility 32 Climate and energy 33 Other impacts 35 Description of the report 36 Independent Assurance Report 38 GRI index 40 Contact information 46 GRI data 47 Economic 47 Social 49 Environment 54 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Responsibility at Elisa As a Finnish pioneer in telecommunication, ICT renewal and collaboration. Key corporate and online services, Elisa’s mission is to promote responsibility sectors include responsibility for the sustainable digitalisation. For us, this means climate, customer satisfaction and personnel developing the reliability, accessibility, security, satisfaction. These are also measured through availability and environmental friendliness of our scorecards. services. The more than 4,300 Elisa employees and our thousands of competent partners engage Global megatrends that influence Elisa’s business in this work daily. are described under Strategy and operating environment. From the viewpoint of corporate Our corporate responsibility is based on Elisa’s responsibility, key megatrends that influence the strategy and core values, which are customer ICT sector and Elisa’s business are: orientation, responsibility, results orientation, World of safe connections Transfer of financial power In the future, ever-present digitalisation and cybersecurity will become An increase in the number of Western companies in developing and necessary features for individuals, services and products. emerging economies and the increased significance of local digital innovations. Elisa’s material themes: Data security, reliability and reliable services Elisa’s material themes: Availability of services and responsible sourcing chain Ageing population Sustainable development The proportion of the elderly (aged over 65) population will grow, and Scarce natural resources and climate change will guide societies they will enjoy a higher standard of living. Mobile health care, remote towards utilising knowledge and digitalisation more intelligently. measurements and analyses will enable ageing people to continue living Services will be provided more effectively, virtually and through at home. teleworking. Elisa’s material themes: Ease of use and availability of services Elisa’s material themes: Network energy consumption, recycling of devices, the use of renewable energy and requirements posed by environmental legislation The UN member states have agreed on new them, we need contributions from all in the ICT sustainability goals that will guide the promotion industry. of sustainable development until 2030. There is still long way to go before we reach these goals. We have identified and prioritised our most According to studies, solving the social, financial important sustainability goals – the ones that we and environmental challenges requires broad can influence the most either through our own utilisation of innovative digital solutions. Thus the actions (footprint) or through services developed ICT sector will have a key role in achieving these for our customers and other stakeholders ambitious goals by the set deadline. To meet (handprint): This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 1 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Good health and Quality Industry, Actions to Peace, justice wellbeing education innovation and benefit the and strong infrastructure climate institutions Digitalisation of Development of Investments to Renewable Data protection social and digital services to ensure energy and principles & welfare services enable equal comprehensive services to curb cyber security, Wellbeing of lifelong learning and reliable climate change network safety employees and sustainable mobile and data and reduce risks and equal communication digitalisation of connections society Development of personnel competence This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 2 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Material issues and mangement of corporate responsibility In recognising Elisa’s material corporate • Responsible customer communications responsibility, we take into account the most important financial, social and environmental The link between material aspects and GRI effects of our operations, products and services, reporting, and their limitations, are illustrated in as well as other significant trends affecting the the GRI index table. industry and referenced GRI G4 reporting principles. Corporate responsibility aspects are regularly discussed and approved in the Elisa Executive To prioritise these aspects of corporate Board and the Board’s audit committee. Chief responsibility, we sent an extensive stakeholder Financial Officer, Kinnunen Jari, Director of Human questionnaire to all our most important Resources, Merja Ranta-aho and Director of stakeholders in 2015. administration, Sami Ylikortes account for economic, social and environmental topics in the The material aspects were reassessed in autumn executive board of Elisa Corporation. The 2016 with a corporate responsibility survey at our company is managed by the jointly agreed Elisa stores and feedback from stakeholders. The Code of Conduct, topic-specific policies and importance of the material aspects to the operating processes. They promote sustainable business units was assessed by Elisa’s corporate and successful business that complies with the responsibility management team. The results are expectations of our stakeholders. described on Elisa’s corporate responsibility webpage. Furthermore, Elisa publishes on its website its data security policy, its policy on the processing of Elisa’s material corporate responsibility issues and communication traffic, a description of its key focus areas guide the content of the customer register, the Elisa Communications corporate responsibility report: Policy and Elisa’s Code of Ethical Purchasing. • Data security and privacy protection Other key internal principles include personnel policies (including principles of equality), • Financial responsibility marketing guidelines, risk management policy and • Availability, safety and accessibility of data security policy. services • Responsible employer • Energy efficiency and climate change • Ensuring operational reliability in society This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 3 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Elisa has signed the following external initiatives: • UN Global Compact • Corporate Responsibility Charter of the European Telecommunications Network Operators Association (ETNO) • Diversity Charter of the FIBS Corporate Responsibility Network • European Framework for Safer Mobile Use initiative of the European GSM Association This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 4 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Stakeholder dialogue Our most important stakeholders are our As a listed company the objective of Elisa's personnel, customers, owners, social financial and investor communications is to operators1 and partners. Stakeholders are support the process of establishing the correct reviewed annually in Elisa´s corporate value of Elisa's shares by providing the capital responsibility management team as a part of market with sufficient, accurate and up-to-date materiality assessment. Active stakeholder information about the development of the dialogue is an important part of the daily company's business, its strategy and its financial development work of Elisa’s business operations position. Elisa's centralised IR function manages and corporate responsibility. We engage in active contacts with investors and analysts. dialogue by means of regular surveys and various studies. Director of public relations is responsible for development of public relations. We operate as Dialogue with customers and continuous expert representatives in organisations and improvement of our understanding of our actively participate in discussions within them. In customers are at the core of our business. addition, we influence the development of society Customer orientation is one of Elisa’s values, and through statements and other activity. Elisa has customer satisfaction is one of the most significant memberships in the following important scorecard metrics. organisations, among others: The commitment and wellbeing of our employees • Confederation of Finnish Industries EK is one of the cornerstones of our business. We • Finland Chamber of Commerce / Finnish measure personnel satisfaction with a scorecard, Chambers of Commerce and we engage in continuous interaction with our employees. Complying with the Elisa Code of • Service Sector Employers’ Association Conduct concerns all of us at Elisa. It is the duty of PALTA everyone at Elisa to report known or suspected • Confederation of Telecommunications breaches of the Code at once. The cases are and Information Technology (FiCom ry) investigated using processes in use and we intervene appropriately in breaches of this Code. • TIEKE Finnish Information Society Elisa personnel can ask for advice or report Development Centre breaches of the Code to the following people, also • Finnish Quality Association anonymously: own manager, the internal audit function of Elisa Oyj, the Legal Services • Finnish Direct Marketing Association department of Elisa Oyj, the HR function of Elisa • ICT Producer Co-operative Oyj or by sending an email to codeofconduct@elisa.fi. • Environmental Register of Packaging PYR This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 5 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa 1 Social operators include the authorities, officials, politicians, NGOs and other organisations, as well as research organisations. External stakeholders are examined from the point of view of both customers and influences in society. ELISA’S STAKEHOLDERS AND INTERACTION Owners, investors and Personnel Customer Subcontractors, partners Social operators analysts Appraisal and Customer service channels AGM (annually) Close cooperation with our Participation in information development discussions (continuous) partner network society projects (several per (twice a year) (continuous) year) Digitalisation projects in the government programme (several per year) Intranet, internal Internet, hub.elisa.fi and Investor events (several Code of Ethical Purchasing Expert activities in industry newsletter (continuous) social media (continuous) times per year) (in connection with renewal organisations (several times a of agreements) year Daily management Customer satisfaction Stock exchange releases Customer satisfaction with Meetings and events (several (continuous) questionnaires (monthly, (recurrently) the operation of times per year) annually) and their subcontractors, Corporate communication Customers' NPS (continuous) Personnel satisfaction Cooperation with organisations surveys (four times a (continuous) year) Internal briefings (as Cooperation practices that Cooperation with researchers necessary) assist in deepening (continuous) customer relationships This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 6 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa THEMES AND ACTION RAISED BY STAKEHOLDERS IN 2016 Stakeholder Themes raised during the year Actions Personnel Management that better takes individual needs into Development ideas were collected from the personnel account though workshops during December 2016 and January More equal sharing of work tasks and better 2017 coordination Update of Diversity and equality plan, and related More support in job rotation development actions Leadership and management trainings Customers Customer and support services (especially waiting times) Queuing Time shortening through multi-channel Proactive cooperation with customers and customer customer service and development of more communication comprehensive content for product support. For Better mobile coverage and faster internet connections example, by starting up of the chat service and by providing Business Guru usage tips. Better and clearer description of customer service channels, improvements in reachability of contact persons and confirmed special situation communication Improvements in optimization of net capacity, improvements in net coverage Owners, investors and Elisa aims to meet with the requirements set by Annual reporting about material corporate analysts shareholders and investors, responsible behavior responsibility topics Updated information in investor web pages about Elisa Communication in stakeholder meetings with investors, owners and analysts Subcontractors, partners Code of ethical purchasing and procurement operations Elisa’s Code of ethical purchasing was updated Corporate responsibility survey for main suppliers was conducted Social operators Digitalisation of services We have participated in to stakeholder consultations Mobile and fixed network coverage and discussions with both national and EU level Broadband policy decision-makers and other key stakeholders Roaming policy Broadband execution programmme was launched by the Ministry of Transport and communication launched This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 7 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Targets CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITYMID-TERM TARGETS Topic Target Target year Perfomance 2016 Economic Elisa's medium-term financial targets Sustainable value for society 2019 www.elisa.com/investors www.elisa.com/investors Social Employee satisfaction: 4.00/5.00 2016 Responsible employer and personnel wellbeing New target: % share of teams having 2019 employee satisfaction higher than ≥ 3.5 100% share of all Elisa employees have Information security and privacy conducted Elisa’s Information security 2019 (1 training. Safeguarding functioning society accessibility and Target to be set during 2017 n/a n/a ease of use of our services Responsible customer communication Customer satisfaction 2019 100% of Elisa employees have conducted Ethical business and anti-corruption Continuous CoC-trainings Sustainable supply chain Target to be set during 2017 n/a n/a Environment Science-based midand long-term targets for our carbon footprint will be set during n/a n/a 2017 Environmental responsibility and climate change mitigation CO2 emission savings 2019 1) Finnish employees = More than 50% of the target = Less than 50% of the target = Target achieved achieved achieved This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 8 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa KEY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES DURING 2016 Activities in 2016 Plan for 2017 UN Sustainable Development Goals We will define mid-term targets to support societal value We mapped and assessed UN SDGs to define the most material targets for creations for selected UN SGDs our businesses where in we can support common societal value creation and We will conduct human rights assessment of our operations environmental goals the most. We organised Human Rights and Business training for all Elisa employees. Development of corporate responsibility management and reporting We will define new energy efficiency targets and joining the We launched new corporate responsibility data management and reporting Finnish Energy efficiency agreement and commit to improve our tool use of energy We research and analysed societal and environmental impacts of eHealth We will define our midand long-term targets for carbon services footprint. Sustainable supply chain: We will review and update our supplier auditing practices We updated Code of ethical purchasing and published it in Finnish, English and Estonian We did corporate responsibility survey to our main suppliers This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 9 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa Highlights in 2016 Digital schools of responsibility in terms of environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. We arrange dozens of digital schools free of charge every year to teach 10–12-year-olds the Elisa Talk basics of programming. Read more > The panel discussed digitalisation from the Responsible summer job viewpoint of the elderly. The topics included healthcare of the future and digitalisation of social and welfare services. In summer 2016, we hired 156 young people from all around Finland as summer employees and trainees. Read more > CDP Index Seniors involved in Our climate report received grade B in CDP’s Climate Disclosure Leadership Index, which was digitalisation one of the best grades received by the Nordic telecom operators. Read more > In summer 2016, a pilot project was arranged in Elisa stores in the Helsinki metropolitan region where young people were hired to help older Digitalisation of people in the purchase and use of smartphones. healthcare Read more > We studied the profitability potential of the Camping in the digital remote measurement service together with the town of Hämeenlinna, benefits offer potential of age millions of euros in the diagnosing of asthma. Read more > We ensured functional communication connections at the Roihu scout jamboree, with more than 17,000 participants, where United Nations Day digitalisation was strongly present. We celebrated United Nations Day by arranging a human rights seminar. Participants included Elisa FTSE4Good employees from all around the world. The theme was diversity in working life. We were accepted to the index which is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally acknowledged corporate standards This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 10 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Responsibility at Elisa ShedHelsinki We are taking part in a music theater project that encourages young people to come as they are. Read more > This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 11 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Financial responsibility Financial responsibility As a responsible company, Elisa’s duty is to ensure the financial profitability of its operations and its Sustainable results competitive edge so that it can guarantee towards the future continuous development of its services, maintenance of its network and the provision of Elisa’s productive operations produce financial employment. With its R&D activities and by paying benefits for its shareholders, personnel, partners, taxes, we participate in the development of subcontractors, resellers and customers, as well society as a whole. as Finnish municipalities and the state. Our objective is that our long-term and consistent For more information on Elisa’s strategy and strategy will continue to produce added value for operating environment, please see Business in the our stakeholder groups in the future. annual report. Elisa’s shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki. We have around 200,000 shareholders, of whom 27 per cent were Finnish households, 30 per cent were Finnish institutions and 43 per cent were foreign on 31 December 2016. FINANCIAL EFFE EFFECT CTSS This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 12 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Financial responsibility Major taxpayer By paying taxes and other public levies, we municipalities outside the Helsinki metropolitan participate in the development of society as a region. whole. We are one of Finland’s largest payers of corporate income tax. According to 2015 In Estonia, the company only pays corporate confirmed taxes, Elisa was the eighth largest payer income tax if it pays dividends to its owners. Elisa of corporate income tax when measured in a Estonia has not paid any dividends to its parent company-specific manner. Elisa paid 90 per cent company. of all the taxes paid by Finnish telecom operators. The Research Institute of the Finnish Economy In 2015 Elisa paid EUR 363 million of taxes, of (ETLA) studies annually which companies generate which EUR 56 million was corporate income tax in the most added value, i.e. which companies Finland. Elisa operates throughout Finland, and benefit GDP the most. According to the 2015 36.67 per cent of the corporate income tax was study, Elisa was among the ten most important allocated to municipalities, around half of it to companies in Finland. ELIS ELISA'SA'S T TAXES AXES This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 13 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Financial responsibility MUNICIP MUNICIPALITIESALITIES SHARE OF ELIS ELISA'SA'S CCORPORA ORPORATE TE TAX IN RE REGIONS GIONS IN 20 201616 (EUR (EUR)) This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 14 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Financial responsibility Continuous investments We are the most significant operator investor in totalled EUR 226 million. Our investments were Finland by our capital expenditure investments of again allocated directly to the development of the nearly EUR 200 million. We build and maintain a data communications infrastructure, 4G networks, comprehensive communications network in our the fixed trunk network, IT systems and customer main market areas in Finland and Estonia. terminal equipment. In 2016, our capital expenditure investments ELISA ELIS CAPITAL A’S CAPIT AL EXPENDITURE 20 2015 15 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 15 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Financial responsibility Research and development Elisa operates in a sector where future services universities. The library of the HPY Research are created through unconventional testing of Foundation includes approximately 107 new opportunities and cooperation between dissertations. innovation networks. We promote the development of digital society by, Renewal through startup for instance, our participation in R&D and startups in the sector. Our operations are also centrally partnerships related to providing trainee positions for students Startup partnerships are an important part of who have been successful in their studies in Elisa’s continuous development. Over the course higher education institutions. of several years, we have introduced to the market several innovations with startup Promoting top companies, thus promoting the success of new companies. international research Over the course of the year, startup companies We have established strong cooperation between commended Elisa for being an easily accessible academic researchers and Elisa’s business units. and professional partner. In 2016, Elisa had more The cooperation promotes our understanding of than 60 Finnish and international startup new scientific breakthroughs and thus promotes partners. We aim for cooperation that benefits the our strategic choices. For more information, business of both parties, in which we can act as an please see the Case gallery. early phase customer for startups or offer our effective sales channels to our partners. We continuously look for new opportunities to cooperate with the best international researchers For the second time, we arranged the Elisa in different scientific fields. In 2016, Elisa Research Innovation Challenge to encourage both brought Elisa employees and over 150 new top companies and private persons to create new researchers from 10 countries together to carry product and service innovations with the help of out research in 26 research projects. network technology. This year, 97 proposals were submitted from 16 countries. The developers of In addition, through the HPY Research the best products were announced and the Foundation, we support scientific research, awards were handed out at Slush 2016. Elisa was teaching and development work in Finnish the main cooperation partner of the event for the telecommunications technology, third year in a row. For more information, please telecommunications and data communications. By see the Case gallery. 2016, the HPY Research Foundation had granted a total of EUR 979,710 in scholarships, mainly to researchers preparing dissertations in different This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 16 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Social responsibility Elisa’s customers include 2.3 million consumers, companies and public administration organisations in Finland, Estonia and around the world. A profound understanding of our customers’ needs is a prerequisite for developing our services to comply with their changing needs. Ensuring the confidentiality of communication and protecting the privacy of individuals are crucial issues for Elisa. For us, social responsibility means bearing our responsibility for our customers and personnel, in particular. Our customer orientation consists of data security, safe and accessible services, a comprehensive network and our supply chain. Combined with our partner network, our continuously developing personnel create a foundation that ensures high-quality services for our customers. For more information on personnel responsibility, please see the Personnel review section of the Elisa 2016 annual report. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 17 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Changes in the industry and working culture Digitalisation influences what we do and how we This continuous development and Ideal Work do it, our tools and working environment, as well thinking can be seen in our personnel satisfaction as management. The following new requirements survey results. Over the course of more than ten have arisen due to the continuous changes in years, our empowerment index has exceeded our working life: goal. The same message was also given by the Trust Index survey of the Great Place to Work • Continuous development Finland survey. We use the results in the • Taking care of one’s own wellbeing at continuous improvement of our operations. work • Trust Key measures and their • Open interaction results in 2016 • Clear management goals • The empowerment index was 4.1 (3.9) on • Internationalisation a scale of 1 to 5. • Flexible coordination of work and free • Renewal projects in accordance with the time Elisa Ideal Work concept continued in the offices. Elisa’s operating environment is continuously • Elisa employees spent 77 (75) days per changing as well, and continuous learning is a person working remotely, on average. prerequisite for success. Our ways of working are • Elisa employees participated in 227,556 based on Elisa’s Ideal Work thinking. Elisa Ideal (211,024) virtual conferences. Work encompasses smart working methods in the physical, virtual and social working environment. • Elisa employees worked in 11 countries. For more information, please see the Case gallery. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 18 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility PERS PERSONNEL ONNEL IN FINLAND AND EST ESTONIA ONIA 31 DE DEC C 20 201616 PERS PERSONNEL ONNEL IN DIFFERENT C COUNTRIES OUNTRIES This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 19 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Future expertise through continuous development Continuous learning is a prerequisite for Elisa’s of our cooperation institutions are educational success. Elisa’s value of Renewal describes this. institutions in the fields of technology and We help our employees to develop, grow and business, as well as universities and higher promote their careers by, for example: education institutions. • Leadership through coaching and teaching them how to continuously Key measures and their improve their work results in 2016 • Expertise development process • Over the course of the year, we hired • Training and networks 1,224 new personnel directly in the • Support for career development and job service of Group companies and through rotation our partners. • We participated in the Responsible We develop our personnel according to the Summer Job 2016 campaign. 156 (180) 70–20–10 model; in other words, through a people worked as summer employees or combination of learning at work (70%), trainees. management based on coaching and learning • We continued our cooperation with the through networks (20%), and various training and student body of Aalto University, with the coaching programmes (10%). aim of lowering the boundaries between A key issue in the continuous development of the corporate and student worlds and expertise is that the entire personnel have the telling students about the broad range of capacity and opportunity to take part in job opportunities in the ICT industry. developing Elisa’s operations and processes. We • Elisa employees spent an average of 14 develop processes under the leadership of (10) hours in training. process owners in a number of development groups. • Some 517 employees switched positions within Elisa. We also want to improve and expand our • The development of processes and expertise through close cooperation with various operations was managed in their areas of educational institutions and scientific responsibility by 138 (133) Elisa communities, through studies, training, practical employees. training, theses, projects and company visits. Most This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 20 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Top-quality supervisory work, clear goals and shared values Learning while doing and experimentation change Elisa’s daily management model is a toolkit of best knowledge into competence. At Elisa, this process practices for daily high-quality supervisory work. is supported by the supervisors’ coaching and Supervisors are trained through supervisor daily management, continuous improvement induction, voluntary additional training and practices, “We learn from our mistakes and comprehensive daily management programmes. successes” analyses, and tutors. We continuously develop the operation of our working community on the basis of the results of the regular Key measures and their personnel survey, for example. results in 2016 Every Elisa employee has the right to have a good • There were 3,711 (2,440) appraisal and supervisor. We offer all supervisors and other development discussions. employees in influential positions the opportunity to study leadership by coaching. • A total of 137 supervisors participated in the five-day Coaching Supervisor training A key part of our management system is the to develop as coaches, feedback givers appraisal and development discussion, which and challengers. each employee holds with their supervisor twice a • We renewed the training system for new year. Between these discussions, supervisors supervisors to emphasise our values and maintain regular, private discussions with their the supervisors’ duties and the key team members. In the actual appraisal and content of our business units. development discussions, we implement our strategy, agree on objectives, assess our operations and performance, and plan our personal development. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 21 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Results through personnel wellbeing Our employees and subcontractors have the right Early intervention has been an essential part of to work in a healthy and safe working environment Elisa’s daily management for years. It is part of the and the obligation to bear their responsibility for management of the ability to work procedure, the working community. We promote wellbeing at which, in turn, supports Elisa’s personnel strategy work and occupational health and safety through and business. The goal is systematic management good management as part of our daily work. of occupational health and safety issues. Systematic, correctly timed and correctly targeted We have a zero tolerance approach to all forms of cooperation in the different sectors of health workplace discrimination and established management guarantees that employees of all grievance mechanism. We support the shift of ages remain capable of working and increases the women into male-dominated duties and vice personnel’s value in the labour market. versa, and we support employees whose working prerequisites require special measures. The We also operate responsibly whenever there is a realisation of equality is monitored also in change that has an impact on the personnel. We personnal enquieries. consider it important that personnel have the opportunity to influence the content of the We pay attention to wellbeing at work and change by active participation. promote a good work-life balance. As support for our staff to take care of their wellbeing, we offer We launch a change planning process every time services safeguarding wellbeing at work, such as the business must undergo changes requiring sports and hobbies. We have active regionally cooperation negotiations that affect the number organised sports and cultural club activities. of employees, job descriptions or other key factors related to work. This operating model We offer high-quality healthcare with services clearly exceeds the requirements of the Act on considerably in excess of the statutory Cooperation within Undertakings. requirements. The HR department is responsible for the development of wellbeing at work activities If places cannot be found for personnel in the with regard to health, working capacity and the renewed organisation, we will take care of them in development of the working community. The the best possible manner with our partners to facilities services and the IT department, in turn, make sure that they get retraining or new are responsible for working conditions. The employment opportunities. working environment committee coordinates the operations of the occupational health and safety organisation. We collaborate within the industry and with our partners to improve the safety both in our own operations and in the industry. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 22 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Key measures and their • We updated our equality principles plan to include development measures. The results in plan was prepared by a group consisting 2016 of employer and employee representatives which was coordinated by the equality coordinator designated by • The number of sick leaves were 2.8 per the employer. cent of total working hours. • On United Nations Day, we arranged a • Disability payment class 2, sickness human rights seminar for all of our absence costs stayed at the same level employees in all countries with the theme than in the reference year 2014. of “Opportunities offered by diversity in working life”. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 23 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Other personnel key figures NUMBER OF EMPL EMPLO OYEES REVENUE PER EMPL EMPLO OYEE PERSONNEL PERS ONNEL C COOST STSS PERSONNEL PERS ONNEL C CO OST STSS PER EMPL EMPLO OYEE GRI-data This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 24 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Data security and privacy protection As the world becomes more digital and an everdata security of our services in the most increasing number of operations are handled appropriate manner, on our website or through electronically, cybersecurity is absolutely customer bulletins, for example. We also report necessary for individuals, services and products incidents to the authorities. alike. The reliability and data security of our ICT services and processes are even more important. The liability for privacy protection related to products and services and other security aspects Ensuring the confidentiality of communication, rests primarily with the business units. The task of protecting the privacy of individuals and verifying the Privacy Group, in turn, is to provide online security are crucial issues for us. We instructions and supervise issues related to guarantee a high level of data security in all our privacy protection, and to ensure, among other operations. things, that statutory information about our customer register is up to date. Processing Elisa’s data security policies define the principles, personal data is strongly regulated under Finnish roles and responsibilities that are followed in data law and the regulations and guidelines of the security development, maintenance and relevant authorities. We disclose customer monitoring. The policies are binding on Elisa, its information only to the authorities or other subsidiaries and, via agreements, Elisa’s suppliers telecommunication companies, and only within and subcontractors. the limits of legislation and in accordance with the description of our customer register. Our The Elisa Group Security Board makes decisions personnel and partners continuously receive about the security policies and monitors the training on data protection and security, and they management of key security risks. Elisa’s security are bound by confidentiality obligations. organisation consists of the corporate security organisation and the security functions of the As a producer of national critical infrastructure, we business units. The corporate security plan our services and implement our systems by organisation manages the separate privacy also taking account of preparation, continuity and protection, data security and operational security security aspects. We cooperate with the groups that coordinate our security operations. authorities, other companies and business organisations in preparation and the development We perform regular data security scans and of cybersecurity. inspections of our systems. We seek to identify any attempt to breach data security at the earliest possible phase and to repair recognised vulnerabilities or other threats. We use a separate operating model for the management of data security disturbances and exceptional situations. We communicate any measures related to the This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 25 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Key measures and their results in 2016 • The EU General Data Protection Regulation entered into force in 2016 with a transition period of two years. Elisa started preparations for the new requirements in 2013 and proceeded according to schedule, specifying and changing its operations in the necessary manner to ensure compliance with the Regulation. • The Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority did not issue any requests for clarification on data protection. There may have been some substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data in the Elisa Group over the course of the year, but none were reported to the parent company. We are working on improving reporting practices to cover all the substantiated complaints regarding the matter. • Some of Elisa customers have been subjected to phishing attacks. Phishing is a criminal activity aimed at gathering confidential information, such as email IDs, passwords and payment card details. Elisa has issued instructions to its customers to prevent phishing. The instructions and more information are available on our website. For more information on the SME data security case, please see the Case gallery. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 26 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Accessible and secure services that are easy to use We continuously develop our products and The Consumer Protection Act, the Personal Data services based on our customers’ needs. Safety, Act and certain other special acts, as well as accessibility and ease of use of our inspirational guidelines and regulations from the authorities, services are the key issues when developing the apply to telephone marketing. Elisa’s subsidiary customer experience. Enia is responsible for Elisa’s telephone sales service. Its quality monitoring ensures compliance Our customers are regularly invited to meet Elisa’s with the agreed rules. service designers in order to test our current services and to innovate new ones. During these Radiation from base stations and mobile phones co-creation sessions we collect valuable insights to and potentially related health problems give rise be able to react to the changes of the needs, to concerns from time to time. In Finland, the usage patterns and expectations. Elisa's service safety of the mobile phone networks is monitored designers are responsible for analysing the by the Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority observations and development of services. (STUK), whose decisions and regulations are based on scientific research findings. Online services are increasingly used with mobile devices. To ensure the best user experience, all We also engage in close cooperation with Elisa's services are designed first for small screens operators in the industry with regard to and after that to be responsive in larger once. To electromagnetic fields, and we act as expert meet the needs of our multi-culture customers we members on the Electromagnetic Fields (EMF) have increased our ability to produce services in advisory board. different languages. With regard to product safety, we act in the In the future, the new EU directives will set manner required by legislation and regulations. At conditions to accessibility of services and Elisa, the liability for product safety rests with the transparency of information. Customers are business unit that put out the product or service entitled for example to know what personal in question. We verify compliance with these laws information Elisa stores about them. and regulations through subcontracting agreements or by separately contacting the We follow the law, rules of the sector and good hardware manufacturers. practices in our marketing. The Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority supervises and provides guidelines for marketing in the industry. Our customers have the right to opt out of direct marketing. Our Communications unit handles our marketing. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 27 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Key measures and their results in 2016 • In 2016, we invested in many ways in the improvement of multilingual customer service. We made significant improvements to the OmaElisa customer service application, customer service site and invoicing. With the acquisition of Anvia, we strengthened our service resources in Swedish considerably, and we will be able to further improve our multilingual services. • Several customer groups participated in the design of services in 2016. Slightly more events were arranged for senior citizens than for other groups. The OmaElisa customer service application and its availability were discussed with older people, for example. • Elisa’s Service Design and UNICEF arranged a seminar on how to design services for children, and related practices. • We continued to invest in digital schools for children and the offering of a service for families to support digital parenting. We cooperated with Save the Children Finland by adding their HelpSome application to our website. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 28 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Comprehensive mobile network and fixed network Our task as part of Finnish society is to ensure necessary fault repair measures before a comprehensive and reliable mobile and data disturbance arises. We measure the reliability of communication connections. We also play an our service with an availability indicator and by important role in securing operational reliability in monitoring the development of the total number society. of faults. We are bound by a universal service obligation for We continuously develop a comprehensive fault specific areas in Finland set by the Finnish management process in case of, for instance, Communications Regulatory Authority. Universal extended fault situations caused by exceptional service means the right of consumers and weather conditions. We cooperate with electricity companies to receive an affordable and faultlessly companies to coordinate reserve power needs in operating telephone subscription and a 2 Mbit/s risk areas. The units maintaining the networks broadband connection to their home or the practise regularly for emergencies. business premises of their company in Finland. Utilisation of digital services requires a reliable Key measures and their and ever faster nationwide network. results in 2016 We systematically measure the coverage and • The majority of our investments were availability of our network through a population again directed towards improving the coverage indicator. We also monitor an functionality of the fixed and mobile independent study by ECE Ltd on the coverage of phone networks and extending their the operators’ networks in Finland. coverage. In addition, we completed The construction of masts, base stations and several pilot projects with new techniques transmission stations requires a municipal permit and speeds. and good statutory cooperation with both • We managed to continue to decrease the individual housing companies and landowners. In overall number of faults and the number the siting of base stations, we extensively utilise of major disturbances, even though the construction sites shared with other operators in number of services we offer is the industry. More than half of our base stations continuously growing. are in shared use. • We continued our investments in We prepare in advance for disturbances and proactive, comprehensive communication proactively collect up-to-date information from about disturbances. When an extensive our network service, analyse it and perform the disturbance is observed, communication This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 29 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility to customers about it starts as soon as possible and continues until the fault has been repaired. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 30 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Social responsibility Elisa’s supply chain Cooperation with more than 5,500 suppliers and The majority of services are purchased from our subcontractors is a vital part of the responsible operating countries, except for special support development of our business. We acquire a large and development services, which are purchased part of our services, materials and products from from abroad. They comprise 2.7 per cent of all within the EU (92.8%) and some also from outside service purchases. the EU (7.2%). Active cooperation ensures that the quality and responsibility goals are reached in the When purchasing services, we pay special different parts of the supply chain. attention to information security and data protection. Responsibility of purchasing is guided by Elisa’s Code of Ethical Purchasing, our Code of Conduct, We perform supplier audits when selecting new compliance with the Act on Contractor’s suppliers from outside the EU, especially in the Obligations and Liability, and Elisa’s instructions case of high-risk countries. To become an Elisa and principles related to security. Bribery and supplier, a company must pass an assessment other inappropriate payments and benefits in that complies with Elisa’s inspection protocol and business operations are illegal and forbidden. We be prepared to work on any observed require compliance with laws and statutes and the development issues in cooperation with Elisa. prevention of bribery from all of our partners and subcontractors. Key measures and their When signing an agreement, suppliers must results in 2016 accept Elisa’s Code of Ethical Purchasing and commit to complying with international principles • We updated Elisa’s Code of Ethical and agreements guiding the use of labour and Purchasing and published it in Finnish, human rights, managing the more efficient use of English and Estonian. limited resources and reducing harmful • We conducted a total of three environmental emissions. Suppliers can report subcontractor assessments and selected any defects or misconduct in the manner laid three of the companies as Elisa suppliers. down in the Elisa Code of Conduct, also anonymously. • We performed corporate responsibility surveys on 30 of our largest suppliers (45 We acquire most of our network and data system per cent of the total supply volume) to equipment and phones from well-known investigate key responsibility actions in international suppliers. We place special emphasis the supply chain. on assessing the energy efficiency, lifecycle and operational reliability of the equipment. For further information on responsible purchasing, please see our website. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 31 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Environmental responsibility Environment responsibility We want to be part of creating a low-carbon society. We are committed to continuously improving the environmental impact of our operations and to promoting environmentally friendly business. We assist our customers in reducing their carbon footprint by offering services that help them act efficiently and in an environmentally friendly manner. Furthermore, we continuously optimise and renew our network and purchase renewable energy to make our own carbon footprint as small as possible. As a service provider, we also reduce the environmental impact by effectively recycling our WEEE waste. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 32 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Environmental responsibility Our environmental responsibility focuses on climate and energy The ICT industry is a key player in moving operations is monitored through the sub-metrics operating methods in a more environmentally of the scorecard. friendly direction and mitigating climate change. The global carbon footprint can be reduced by as The energy efficiency team meets four times a much as 20 per cent with telecom and ICT year to monitor the achievement of our energy products and services. efficiency and carbon footprint goals. The EU Energy Efficiency Directive obligates Elisa to For the ICT industry to be able to effectively perform energy audits at company and target reduce the emissions of other industries, it must level every four years. take care of its own emissions. At present, emissions from the ICT industry are around 2 per In the case of electronics, batteries, rechargeable cent of global emissions. Emissions from the batteries and packaging, Elisa is bound by the industry are expected to decrease, even though WEEE Directive. In Finland, our shops have WEEE the amount of data and the number of devices will (waste electrical and electronic equipment) continue to grow on a global scale. collection receptacles, through which waste is taken for re-processing to become material for Elisa’s telecommunication networks in Finland and new electronic devices. Our shops also have Estonia consume around 240 GWh of electricity. collection boxes for mobile phone batteries and Electricity consumption is responsible for around other portable batteries. We provide monetary 98 per cent of Elisa’s direct CO2 emissions. compensation for any functional phone given to us by a customer who purchases a new one. Reducing our carbon These phones are sold to be recycled. footprint and that of our In Estonia, Elisa’s shops accept used batteries. Used electronics may be returned without charge customers to Kuusakoski recycling points, for example. Elisa Estonia’s own electronics waste is recycled at Elisa has an environmental policy and a Kuusakoski in Finland. management system to continuously decrease its key environmental impacts. The reduction of We follow statutory regulations and instructions carbon dioxide emissions has been part of our when building our network. We promote product strategy since 2009. We monitor our objectives safety by making sure that the products we sell every six months through the CO2 emission comply with the statutory environmental savings scorecard. The energy efficiency of our requirements. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 33 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Environmental responsibility Key measures and their results in 2016 • Almost all of the electricity Elisa used in report was B, compared to the average Finland and Estonia 244,700 MWh grade of C among Nordic companies. (240,050) came from renewable sources. The calculation basis of Elisa’s CO2 emission • Our carbon footprint (Scope 1 and 2) has indicators and additional information is available shrunk by 70 per cent since 2014. on our website. • Since 2014 we have achieved 14,000 MWh savings in our mobile network. • The waste heat recovered from our data centre in Espoo corresponded to the annual consumption of 82 single-family houses with electric heating. • 73 per cent of our own servers are virtual, which resulted in energy savings of 31,187 MWh. • With our solutions, our customers achieved emissions savings of 37,527 tCO2 (32,313). • Of the invoices we sent, 70 per cent (65) were electronic. • The grade of Elisa’s environmental report in the CDP Nordic Climate Change 2016 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 34 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Environmental responsibility Other environmental impacts A significant part of the ICT industry’s environmental impact comes from the manufacture of devices. Conflict minerals, such as gold and tin, are also used in the manufacture of these devices. As a service provider, Elisa can reduce the environmental impact from the manufacture of devices by effectively and properly recycling used devices. Reduced biodiversity and its negative impact on ecosystem services, such as natural resources and regulation mechanisms, poses risks for business. Elisa’s business is no different. Our direct impact on biodiversity is very low. We can best protect biodiversity by combating climate change. We use small amounts of water in our service production. We haven't examined yet our indirect water consumption, but we will do that in the future. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 35 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report Description of the report Elisa’s annual report consists of four parts: the company and subsidiaries has been calculated in financial statements, annual review, corporate accordance with the GRI guidelines. governance and responsibility. The annual report is published in electronic format in Finnish at Calculation of carbon dioxide emissions is based www.elisa.fi/vuosikertomus and in English at on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol www.elisa.com/annualreport. (www.ghgprotocol.org) Corporate standard. We apply also the GHG protocol Corporate Value This is Elisa’s fourth verified responsibility report, Chain standard. A description of the calculation is which is published as part of the annual report. It available in the responsibility section of our was prepared in compliance with the Global website. The following changes have been made Reporting Initiative GRI G4 Core requirements. compared to previous years: The reporting period is the calendar year 2016. The Global Reporting Initiative index for 2016 is • Scope 3 emissions have been reported in part of this report. 2016 according to GHG protocol Corporate Value Chain -standard as in Elisa’s management has decided to have the CDP reporting in previous years. corporate responsibility report assured by a third • In Scope 2 reporting the new GHG party. The 2016 corporate responsibility report is protocol Scope 2 guidelines have taken assured by EY. The assurance covers the into account. responsibility section of Elisa’s 2016 annual report and the personnel review. • In indicator EN17, in Capital goods section only base stations are reported in The reporting of key aspects covers all of the year 2016. Other equipment to network business units: Consumer customers, Corporate will be reported in CDP reporting in June. customers, Production and Support functions and We are improving the reporting in this subsidiaries included in Elisa’s consolidated during the year 2017. financial statements. Reporting is aligned with Elisa Corporation financials reporting. In specific • The calculation boundary of wastes has aspects boundaries are restricted to availability of been changed. Now a waste figure covers reliable data. Our aim is to constantly develop the all wastes in Elisa Finland. Waste figures data coverage. have been calculated retroactively with new boundaries to year 2014. The financial information is from the consolidated • Scope 1 emissions have been corrected financial statements, and it complies with IFRS retroactively to year 2014. accounting principles. With regard to environmental indicators, the most With regard to personnel, figures for both the significant environmental impact of the parent parent company and subsidiaries are included. No significant changes have been made to the This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 36 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report indicators compared to previous years. The structural changes in the Group are presented in more detail in the annual report. The following changes have been made to indicators compared to previous years: • In indicator G4-10 regarding to part time employees reporting has improved and boundary has been changed. Current figure covers Elisa Corporation. Previously Finnish part time employees covered Elisa parent company´s part time employees. • In G4-11 indicator boundary has been changed. Current figure covers Elisa Corporation. Previously G4-11 covered only Elisa Finland. • In indicator LA1 boundary has been changed. Figure 2016 covers Elisa Corporation. Previously LA1 was reported regarding following Finnish operations Elisa parent company, Elisa Appelsiini, Elisa Videra, Elisa Treasure as well as Enia and regarding abroad operations Elisa Estonia and Elisa Videra was included. • The coverage regarding LA9 has improved and current figure covers Elisa Corporation. Previously it was reported covering Elisa parent company. • The coverage regarding LA11 has improved and current figure covers Elisa Corporation. Previously it was reported covering Elisa parent company. The responsibility report is published annually. Previous responsibility reports are available at www.elisa.com. Before 2013, we compiled an index describing responsibility measures based on the GRI's sustainable development reporting guidelines in 2011 and 2012. The 2015 report´s release date was 09.03.2016 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 37 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance We have conducted the assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Report Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of (Translated from the original Report in Finnish Historical Financial Information'. The ISAE 3000 language) standard requires compliance with ethical requirements as well as planning and performing To the Management of Elisa Oyj the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance on whether the corporate responsibility At the request of the Management of Elisa Oyj information has been prepared, in all material (hereafter Elisa) we have performed a limited respects, in accordance with the reporting assurance engagement on the information principles. presented for the reporting period 1.1.–31.12.2016 in Elisa’s Corporate Responsibility Assurance Provider’s Report 2016 (hereafter corporate responsibility information). independence and quality assurance Management's responsibility We comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for The Management of Elisa is responsible for the Professional Accountants issued by the IESBA preparation and presentation of the corporate (International Ethics Standards Board for responsibility information in accordance with the Accountants). We apply ISQC 1 (International Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly Reporting Guidelines G4, and Elisa’s internal maintain a comprehensive system of quality reporting guidelines (hereafter the reporting control including documented policies and principles). procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and Assurance Provider’s responsibility applicable legal and regulatory requirements. It is our responsibility to present an independent conclusion on the corporate responsibility Limitations of the Engagement information based on our work performed. We do In a limited assurance engagement the evidence not accept nor assume responsibility to anyone gathering procedures are more limited than in a else except to Elisa for our work, for the assurance reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore report and for the conclusions that we have less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable reached. assurance engagement. The procedures selected This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 38 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report depend on the Assurance Provider’s judgment, Conclusion including an assessment of the risks that the corporate responsibility information would not, in Based on our work described in this report, all material respects, comply with the reporting nothing has come to our attention that causes us principles. We have planned and performed our to believe that the corporate responsibility engagement to obtain sufficient appropriate information has not been prepared, in all material evidence on which to base our conclusion. respects, in accordance with the reporting principles, or that the Information is not reliable, We have performed, among others, the following in all material respects, based on the reporting procedures: principles. a. An update of our knowledge and understanding of Elisa’s material sustainability reporting topics, organisation and activities, Helsinki, 10 March 2017 b. An assessment of suitability and application of the reporting principles regarding the Ernst & Young Oy stakeholders’ needs for information, c. Interviews with senior management to Terhi Mäkinen Jani Alenius understand Elisa’s corporate responsibility Partner, Leader of Climate Authorized Public Change and leadership, Accountant Sustainability Services d. Interviews with personnel responsible for gathering and consolidation of the corporate responsibility information to understand the systems, processes and controls related to gathering and consolidating the information, e. Reviewing corporate responsibility data from internal and external sources and checking the data to reporting information on a sample basis, f. Performing recalculation of information and reviewing the underlying data which is the basis of narrative disclosures related to the data. Our assurance report should be read in conjunction with the inherent limitations of accuracy and completeness for corporate responsibility information. This independent assurance report should not be used on its own as a basis for interpreting Elisa’s performance in relation to its principles of corporate responsibility. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 39 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report GRI Index, Core All indicators and disclosures on management Please see chapter Independent Assurance approaches in the index have external assurance. Report. Content Name Boundary UN Global Compact Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO’s statement CEO's review Elisa Corporation x G4-2 Risks and opportunities Responsibility at Elisa; Risks; GRI data Elisa Corporation x Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the Organization Accounting principles Elisa Corporation x G4-4 Primary Brands, Products and Services Elisa in brief Elisa Corporation x G4-5 Location of the Organization’s Headquarters Accounting principles Elisa Corporation x G4-6 Number of Countries where the Organization Expertise Elisa Corporation x Operates G4-7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form Shares and shareholders; Financial Elisa Corporation x responsibility G4-8 Market areas Notes to the financial statements 1. Elisa Corporation x G4-9 Scale of the Organization The report of the board of directors; Elisa Corporation x Notes to the financial statements 1. G4-10 Total Number of Employees by Employment GRI data Elisa Corporation x Contract, Employment Type, Region and Gender G4-11 Percentage of Total Employees Covered by GRI data Elisa Corporation x Collective Bargaining Agreements G4-12 Organization’s Supply Chain Supply chain Elisa Corporation x G4-13 Significant Changes during the Reporting Period Notes to the financial statements 2., Elisa Corporation x Regarding the Organization’s Size, Structure, Ownership, 3. and 35. or its Supply Chain G4-14 Whether and How the Precautionary Approach or GRI data Elisa Corporation Principle is Addressed by the Organization G4-15 Externally Developed Economic, Environmental Responsibility at Elisa Elisa Corporation and Social Charters, Principles, or Other Initiatives to Which the Organization Subscribes or Which It Endorses G4-16 Memberships of Associations and National or Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation International Advocacy Organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities Included in the Organization’s Consolidated Description of the report Elisa Corporation Financial Statements G4-18 Process for Defining the Report Content Material issues and management; Elisa Corporation Description of the report G4-19 Material Aspects Material issues and management; GRI Elisa Corporation index This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 40 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report G4-20 List of Entities or Groups of Entities Within the Material issues and management Elisa Corporation Organization for Which the Aspects Are Material G4-21 List of Entities or Groups of Entities Outside of the Material issues and management Elisa Corporation Organization for Which the Aspects Are Material G4-22 Effect of any Restatements of Information Provided Description of the report Elisa Corporation in Previous Reports, and the Reasons for Such Restatements G4-23 Significant Changes from Previous Reporting Description of the report Elisa Corporation Periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of Stakeholder Groups Engaged by the Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation x Organization G4-25 Basis for Identification and Selection of Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation x Stakeholders with whom to Engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation x G4-27 Key Topics and Concerns that Have Been Raised Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation x through Stakeholder Engagement Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period Description of the report Elisa Corporation x G4-29 Date of Most Recent Previous Report Report Description of the report Elisa Corporation x G4-30 Reporting Cycle Description of the report Elisa Corporation x G4-31 Contact Point for Questions Regarding the Report Contact information Elisa Corporation x or its Contents G4-32 GRI Content Index GRI index Elisa Corporation x G4-33 Policy and Current Practice with Regard to Seeking Description of the report Elisa Corporation x External Assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, Governance structure; Material issues Elisa Corporation x including committees and management G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, Governance structure; Material issues Elisa Corporation x environmental and social topics from the highest and management governance body G4-36 Executive level position(s) with responsibility for Material issues and management Elisa Corporation x economic, environmental, and social topics G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders Material issues and management Elisa Corporation x and the highest governance body G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body Governance structure Elisa Corporation x and its committees. G4-39 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Governance structure Elisa Corporation x governance body is also an executive officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for Governance structure Elisa Corporation x highest governance body and its committees G4-41 Processes in place for the highest governance Governance structure Elisa Corporation x body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-42 Governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in Governance structure Elisa Corporation x the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals G4-44 Processes for evaluation of the highest governance Governance structure Elisa Corporation x body’s performance This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 41 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification Governance structure Elisa Corporation x and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 Highest governance body's role in reviewing the Descriptions of internal control Elisa Corporation x effectiveness of the organization's risk management procedures and main features of risk processes management systems G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review Descriptions of internal control Elisa Corporation x of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and procedures and main features of risk opportunities. management systems G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally Material issues and management Elisa Corporation x reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical Governance structure; Stakeholder Elisa Corporation x concerns to the highest governance body dialogue G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance Remuneration statement Elisa Corporation x body and senior executives Ethics G4-56 Ethics and Integrity Responsibility at Elisa; Code of conduct Elisa Corporation x G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation x concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity UN Global Content Name Compact Economic responsibility Economic performance, DMA Financial reponsibility; The report of the Elisa Corporation board of directors EC1 Direct economic value GRI data Elisa Corporation generated and distributed EC2 Financial implications and GRI data Elisa Corporation x other risks and opportunities due to climate change Indirect economic impacts, DMA Financial effects; Research and Elisa Corporation development EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure GRI data Elisa Corporation investments and services supported EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the Research and development; Expertise; Elisa Corporation extent of impacts Networks Environmental responsibility Energy, DMA Climate and energy; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets EN3 Energy consumption within GRI data Elisa Corporation x the organization EN5 Energy intensity GRI data Elisa Corporation x EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GRI data Elisa Corporation x EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of product and GRI data Elisa Corporation x services This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 42 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report Emissions, DMA Climate and energy; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets EN15 Direct greenhouse gas GRI data Elisa Corporation x emissions (scope 1) EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas GRI data Elisa Corporation x emissions (scope 2) EN17 Other indirect greenhouse GRI data Elisa Corporation, A more x gas emissions (scope 3) detailed description at the context of the indicator EN19 Reduction of greenhouse GRI data Elisa Corporation x gas emissions Effluents and waste, DMA Climate and energy; Material issues and Elisa Finland x management; Targets EN23 The overall weight of waste by type and disposal GRI data Elisa Finland x method (tonnes) EN24 Total number and volume of significant spill GRI data Elisa Finland x Products and services, DMA Climate and energy; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of GRI data Customers x environmental impacts of products and services Compliance, DMA Climate and energy; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total GRI data Elisa Corporation x number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Social responsibility Product responsibility Product and Service Labeling, DMA (G4 standard Stakeholder dialogue; Material issues and Elisa Corporation referenced) management; Targets PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Stakeholder dialogue Elisa Corporation Marketing Communications, DMA Ease of use; Material issues and Elisa Corporation management; Targets PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with GRI data Elisa Corporation regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Information security and Customer Privacy Elisa Corporation Customer privacy, DMA Information security; Material issues and Elisa Corporation management; Targets PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding GRI data Elisa Corporation breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Safety of the products and services Elisa Corporation Customer Health and Safety, DMA Ease of use; Material issues and Elisa Corporation management PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with GRI data Elisa Corporation regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 43 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment, DMA Expertise; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and GRI data Elisa Corporation x employee turnover by age group, gender and region LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not GRI data Elisa Corporation x provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Diversity and Equal Opportunity, DMA Wellbeing; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown GRI data Elisa Corporation x of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Occupational Health and Safety, DMA Wellbeing; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal GRI data Elisa Corporation x joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational GRI data Sick absent rate: Elisa parent x diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number company; LTIF: Elisa parent of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender company, Videra, Appelsiini, Sulake Training and Education, DMA Expertise; Material issues and Elisa Corporation x management; Targets LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by GRI data Elisa Corporation x gender, and by employee category LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong Expertise Elisa Corporation x learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular GRI data Elisa Corporation x performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Human Rights Non-discrimination, DMA Wellbeing; Code of conduct; Material Elisa Corporation x issues and management; Targets HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and GRI data Elisa Corporation x corrective actions taken Security Practices, DMA Information security; Material issuess Elisa Corporation x and management; Targets EN7 Precentage of security personnel trained in the GRI data Elisa Finland x oraganization´s human right policies or prosedures that are relevant to operations Society Anti-corruption, DMA Supply chain; Code of conduct; Material Elisa Corporation x issues and management; Targets This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 44 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption GRI data Elisa Corporation x policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions GRI data Elisa Corporation x taken Public Policy, DMA Stakeholder dialogue; Code of conduct; Elisa Corporation x Material issues and mangement G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country GRI data Elisa Corporation x and recipient/beneficiary This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 45 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > Description of the report Contact information Contact information for Elisa's corporate responsibility and investor relations is available on www.elisa.com This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 46 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data Economic responsibility indicators EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED 2014 2015 2016 1 Net sales 1,548 1,578 1,647 Suppliers and partners 776 776 802 Personnel remuneration 248 266 275 Dividends and interests 239 238 248 Taxes and other public oblications 54 56 60 2 Capital expenditure investments 192 196 204 Taxes 329 363 383 Corporate tax 54 56 60 Value-added tax 173 199 207 Income tax and withholding tax 84 87 93 Public fees 8 10 12 Other taxes and public fees 10 11 11 1 Incl. financial incomes 2 Capital expenditure investments differs from GRI definition and doesn't include investments in licenses. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 47 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data EC2 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES DUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE Risk Description Impact assesment Risk management/opportunity Fuel/energy taxes and Changes caused either directly or Amendments in taxation increase Optimisation of the electricity consumption regulations indirectly by climate change in the Elisa's costs. For example estimated of the data communications network, taxation of electricity, taxation of costs from increased transmission introduction of energy efficient solutions. transmission of electricity and any costs are about 200,000 EUR. Our customers can act in a more energy carbon dioxide tax. Estimated implications are less than efficient way by using our services. For 1% of the operational costs. example, based our studies, one virtual server is 95% more energy efficient than one physical server. General environmental Finland´s new national Climate It will potentially increase the need We are constantly working on better regulations Change Act came into force on for even more detailed measurement measurement and calculations, using 06.01.2015. The law provides for and monitoring of energy renewable energy and aiming to set more climate policy planning system and consumption. This also adds ambitious mid – and long-term targets to monitoring the achievement of pressures to more ambitious carbon our carbon footprint. Our customers can climate change goals. target setting and carbon pricing. reduce their own carbon footprint by using Estimated cost for Elisa of carbon digital services, for example our virtual pricing is 100,000–200,000 EUR. meeting services. Based on our Estimated implications are less than calculations, one virtual meeting will save 1% of operational costs. 25 kg CO2 per meeting. Extreme weather Climate change causes extreme In 2016, there was one serious Elisa has in place a real-time, phenomena weather phenomena that are a disruption caused by weather. The comprehensive monitoring system for threat to Elisa's mobile networks. increase in the number of network disturbances. This enables Storms cause power failures and disruptions causes higher personnel identification of disturbances and rapid interruptions in Elisa's services. costs and costs incurred in replacing repairs. The demand for real-time broken equipment. measurement and monitoring services will increase in the future. Changes in average Rising average temperatures and Costs will increase due to the Elisa has a data centre in Espoo that uses temperature heat waves will increase the need for increased electricity consumption heat loss energy generated by the data cooling in Elisa's telecommunications incurred from investments in cooling centre servers for district heating in the and data centres and facilities. devices. On the other hand, in mobile region. sites, the technology is moving outside. Growing environmental Climate change increases the Any failure to respond to the growing Elisa's services make it possible to build a awareness of our environmental awareness of Elisa's requirements of stakeholder groups lower carbon society. Growth in Elisa's stakeholders stakeholder groups. Reporting to will affect Elisa's reputation. business may also create new business stakeholders is increasing, as are the operations. For example, our new Elisa requirements for climate-friendly remote measurement service to asthma operations. patients could save CO2 emissions of 12% and monetary savings of 20% when compared to the old process. EC7 DEVELOPMENT AND IMPACT OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND SERVICES SUPPORTED 2014 2015 2016 1 Capital expenditure, EUR million 191 196 204 CAPEX/revenue, % 12 12 13 1 Investments are mainly commercial investments. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 48 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data Personnel key figures OWN INDICATOR: MOBILE WORKS SOLUTIONS AND CO2 SAVINGS IN ELISA 2014 2015 2016 Virtual meetings 197,138 211,024 227,556 Distance working days/person/year 70 75 77 Carbon dioxide savings (tCO2) 1 4,406 8,817 5,101 1 Basis of the calculation has changed. Look further from the chapter GRI indicators PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes No significant violations in 2016 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes No significant violations in 2016 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data No confirmed complaints in 2016 LABOR PRACTICIES AND DECENT WORK G4-10 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, EMPLOYMENT TYPE, REGION AND GENDER 2014 2015 2016 Personnel in total, 31.12.2016 4,546 4,545 4,781 Permanent contract 4,431 4,410 4,475 Finland 3,625 3,705 3,838 Estonia 578 538 506 Other Europe 73 111 127 Countries outside Europe 4 Men 2,693 2,790 2,962 Women 1,583 1,564 1,513 Temporary contract 115 153 306 Finland 63 83 189 Estonia 47 65 112 Other Europe 1 3 5 Countries outside Europe n/a n/a 0 Men 56 77 192 Women 55 74 114 Full-time employees 3,795 3,753 3,926 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 49 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data Finland 3,002 3,076 3,236 Estonia 583 538 563 Other Europe 73 106 124 Countries outside Europe n/a n/a 3 Men 2,303 2,387 2,570 Women 1,355 1,333 1,356 Part-time employees 751 792 855 1 Finland 139 130 791 Estonia 38 38 55 Other Europe 0 8 8 Countries outside Europe n/a n/a 1 Men 50 41 584 Women 127 135 271 1 Reporting has improved and boundary has changed. Look further from the chapter GRI indicators G4-11 PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES COVERED BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS 2015 2016 1 95% 82% 1 Reporting has improved and boundary has changed. Look further from the chapter GRI indicators LA1 TOTAL NUMBER AND RATES OF NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES AND EMPLOYEE TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION 1 2014 2015 2016 New employee hires 1,119 1,139 1,224 Finland 884 887 922 Estonia 222 194 258 Other Europe 13 58 44 Countries outside Europe 689 709 815 Men 421 430 409 Women 802 819 902 30–39 years 206 193 207 40–49 years 86 82 75 Over 49 years 25 45 40 Terminated employments 1,127 983 1,271 Finland 912 786 950 Estonia 194 193 201 Other Europe 21 4 120 Countries outside Europe 927 558 807 Men 544 425 464 Women 641 659 748 30–39 years 239 166 276 40–49 years 108 81 125 Over 49 years 139 77 122 1 Reporting boundary has changed. Look further from the chapter GRI indicators LA2 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES THAT ARE NOT PROVIDED TO TEMPORARY OR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES, BY SIGNIFICANT LOCATIONS OF OPERATION Based on collective agreements our occupational health, insurance, parental leave or pension benefits are not dependent on the duration or part-time nature of employment. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 50 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data LA5 PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE REPRESENTED IN FORMAL JOINT MANAGEMENT–WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES THAT HELP MONITOR AND ADVISE 1 ON OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAMS 97% of our employees are represented in occupational health and safety committees through representatives 1 We have referenced GRI, because data is not fully available. We will expand our reporting. LA6 TYPE OF INJURY AND RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS, AND 1 ABSENTEEISM, AND TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES, BY REGION AND BY GENDER 2014 2015 2016 LTIF (Lost time injury frequency) n/a n/a 0.4 SAR (Sickness absence per possible working hours) n/a n/a 3.6% 1 We have referenced GRI, because data is not fully available. We will expand our reporting LA9 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER, AND BY EMPLOYEE 1 CATEGORY 1 2014 2015 2016 Gender Men n/a 8.98 12.83 Women n/a 10.86 16.38 Employee category n/a Senior management n/a 10.90 15.33 Middle management n/a 8.80 19.92 Other employees n/a 11.90 12.63 1 Reporting boundary has changed. Look further from the chapter GRI indicators LA11 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS, BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY 1 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 92% 89% 78% Men 1,594 1,596 2,488 Women 864 844 1,223 Senior management n/a n/a 169 Middle management n/a n/a 757 Other employees n/a n/a 2,785 1 Reporting boundary has changed. Look further from the chapter GRI indicators This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 51 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data LA12 COMPOSITION OF GOVERNANCE BODIES AND BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES PER EMPLOYEE CATEGORY ACCORDING TO GENDER, AGE GROUP, MINORITY GROUP MEMBERSHIP, AND OTHER INDICATORS OF DIVERSITY 2014 2015 2016 Elisa's Executive Board 9 9 9 Women 2 2 2 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30–39 years 0 0 0 40–49 years 5 4 3 Over 49 years 4 5 6 Board of Directors 7 6 7 Women 3 2 3 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30–39 years 0 0 0 40–49 years 1 1 2 Over 49 years 6 5 5 Management teams of business units 79 79 79 Women 33 32 32 Under 30 years 1 1 0 30–39 years 11 10 8 40–49 years 46 43 42 Over 49 years 21 25 29 Managerial board for corporate responsibility 10 10 10 Women 4 4 4 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30–39 years 1 1 1 40–49 years 5 5 6 Over 49 years 4 4 3 Breakdown of personnel by gender Men 67.2% 63.6% 66.0% Women 37.3% 36.4% 34.0% Breakdown of personnel by age Under 30 years 26.6% 25.3% 25.9% 30–39 years 33.6% 33.0% 31.5% 40–49 years 24.1% 24.8% 25.0% Over 49 years 15.8% 16.9% 17.5% HUMAN RIGHTS HR3 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION AND CORRECTIVE ACTIONS TAKEN No incidents in 2016 HR7 PRECENTAGE OF SECURITY PERSONNEL TRAINED IN THE ORAGANISATION´S HUMAN RIGHT POLICIES OR PROCEDURES THAT ARE RELEVANT TO OPERATIONS All security personnel working permanently in Elisa (100%) have conducted statutory training according to Finnish law and in addition they have been trained to Elisa Code of Conduct. This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 52 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data G4-SO4 COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES 2014 2015 2016 Code of conduct trainings n/a n/a 79% G4-SO5 CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND ACTIONS TAKEN No incidents in 2016 SOCIETY G4-SO6 TOTAL VALUE OF POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS BY COUNTRY AND RECIPIENT/BENEFICIARY We have not made any political contributions in 2016 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 53 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data Environmental responsibility indicators G4-14 WHETHER AND HOW THE PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH OR PRINCIPLE IS ADDRESSED BY THE ORGANISATION The precautionary principle has been taken into account in accordance with statutory requirements EN3 ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION (GJ, GIGAJOULE) Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 2014 2015 2016 Usage of diesel and petrol 3,042 2,435 2,261 1 Usage of oil 32,866 35,325 34,350 Total 35,908 37,761 36,611 1 Figure has been revised retrospectively, please see the chapter 'Description of the report' Indirect energy consumption by primary sources 2014 2015 2016 1 Electricity 860,214 920,134 964,550 Heating 101,447 59,361 59,671 Coolng 15,828 16,797 18,021 Total 977,489 947,551 1,024,307 Renewable energy (electricity) (water) 460,800 864,180 880,920 1 Reporting has focused, year 2015 figure updated EN5 ENERGY INTENSITY Energy consumption of transferred gigabyte (kWh) 2014 2015 2016 1 0.8 0.7 0.3 1 Reporting has focused, year 2015 figure updated This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 54 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data 1 EN6 ENERGY SAVED DUE TO CONSERVATION AND EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS (GJ, GIGAJOULE) 2014 2015 2016 Ideal work office spaces (electricity and heating) 28,720 39,832 52 286 Energy efficiency in server environments (electricity) 18,623 26,010 37,955 Reuse of server generated heat (electricity) 15,869 16,913 17,950 Energy efficiency in mobile networks (electricity) n/a n/a 24,630 Total 63,212 82,754 132,821 1 Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://elisa.com/corporateresponsibility/environment/emission-savings 1 EN7 REDUCTION IN ENERGY REQUIREMENTS OF PRODUCT AND SERVICES (GJ) 2014 2015 2016 Transfer to virtual servers (electricity) 61,718 85,026 73,975 1 Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://elisa.com/corporateresponsibility/environment/emission-savings EN15 AND EN16 TOTAL DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY WEIGHT (TCO 2, TONNES OF CARBON DIOXIDE) 2014 2015 2016 1 Scope 1, Direct greenhouse gas emissions 2,488 2,745 2,664 1 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, market-based 49,141 9,071 12,751 2 Scope 2, Indirect greenhouse gas emissions, location-based n/a 75,859 79,292 1 Figure has been revised retrospectively, please see the chapter 'Description of the report' 2 Reporting has focused, year 2015 figure updated This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 55 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data EN17 OTHER RELEVANT INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS BY WEIGHT (TCO 2, TONNES OF CARBON DIOXIDE) Sources of Scope 3 emissions 2014 2015 2016 Description Figure includes: Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia, paperand e-bills, office paper, purchased Purchased good and services 94,695 86,338 85,195 Relevant, calculated products to sell and services 1 Capital goods 23,264 16,872 3,781 Relevant, calculated Elisa Finland, purchased base stations Elisa Finland and Elisa Estonia, emissions of fuel production of Fuel-and energy-related activities 8,813 5,228 5,117 Relevant, calculated electricity used Transportation of goods to Elisa and to Upstream transportation and distribution 1,469 554 1,456 Not relevant, calculated our customers 2 Waste generated in operations 481 612 868 Not relevant, calculated Elisa Finland wastes Business travel 1,925 1,579 1,998 Relevant, calculated Elisa Employee commuting 3,001 3,054 2,541 Relevant, calculated Elisa Not relevant, explanation Consumption in rented sites is Upstream leased assets 0 0 0 provided calculated in Scope 2 Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, Elisa is not selling Downstream transportation and distribution 0 0 0 provided transportation services Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, no processing of Processing of sold product 0 0 0 provided products Energy consuption of customer´s devices. Electricity consuption of Use of sold product 22,828 11,483 13,935 Relevant, calculated services is reported in Scope 2 End of life treatment of Elisa´s sold End-of-life treatment of sold products 712 672 624 Relevant, calculated products Downstream leased assets 3,415 4,277 5,603 Relevant, calculated Elisa Finland, operators in leased Not relevant, explanation Franchises 0 0 0 provided Not relevant, no franchises Not relevant, explanation Not relevant, no significant credit Investment 0 0 0 provided management 1 Only base stations to network is reported. The rest of the network equipments are reported in June to CDP report, please see the chapter 'Description of the report' 2 The boundary of the calculation has changed, please see the chapter 'Description of the report' 1 EN19 REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (TCO2) 2014 2015 2016 Emission reductions in service production 19,525 49,633 118,560 Ideal work solutions, scope 3 4,406 8,817 5,101 Computer rooms, scope 2 5,029 6,075 5,197 Reuse of products, scope 3 1,300 1,496 1,939 Electronic invoicing, scope 3 823 914 937 Emission savings in mobile network, scope 2 7,967 32,331 2,756 Usage of renewal energy, scope 2 n/a n/a 102,630 1 Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://elisa.com/corporateresponsibility/environment/emission-savings This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 56 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report. ELISA ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Responsibility > GRI data EN23 THE OVERALL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD (TONNES) 2014 2015 2016 1 Total waste amount 878 964 1,339 1 Hazardous waste 46 102 257 1 WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) 271 275 397 Recycling % 87% 83% 92.7% Recovery % 13% 17% 7.2% Landfill % 0% 0% 0.2% 1 Amounts not available for Elisa Estonia EN24 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS No spills in 2016 EN27 EXTENT OF IMPACT MITIGATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES (TCO2) 2014 2015 2016 1 Reduced customer CO2 emissions 30,971 32,313 37,527 Virtual conferencing 26,921 26,447 30,221 Cloud services 4,001 5,563 7,166 Reuse of mobile devices 49 303 140 1 Additional information and calculation principles for Elisa’s environmental responsibility report are available at: http://elisa.com/corporateresponsibility/environment/emission-savings EN29 MONETARY VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINES AND TOTAL NUMBER OF NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS No non-compliances in 2016 This report is generated according to Elisa’s online annual report 2016 and contains the parts specified and downloaded by the user. 57 Please visit www.elisa.fi/annualreport2016 for the full online report.
