CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY Doing business responsibly INTRODUCTION CSR 2017 OUR COMMITMENT TO DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY At Computacenter we’re committed to carrying out business responsibly. As part of this, since 2007, we have based our approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR) on the 10 core principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Our first Communication on Progress was published in 2009, with this latest communication outlining our progress and achievements for 2015, 2016 and our objectives for 2017. We remain a committed member of the compact and strive to incorporate the UNGC and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations, through the development, communication and implementation of relevant policies throughout the organisation. Indeed, following the establishment of our commitment to the Principles, we have adopted and revised a number of our existing policies and procedures across the Group, and will continue to do so on an ongoing basis as we believe that the UNGC provides our business with the appropriate framework through which to measure its development and progress for CSR. OUR PROGRESS PRINCIPLES 1-6 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR emissions. Whilst it is likely that emissions will increase at an PRINCIPLE 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION In the workplace environment we continue to appropriately absolute level as the Group continues to grow, we are resolute in The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to Bribery and support, develop and protect our people. Our progress over the our determination that progress made in recent years to reduce Corruption, whether committed by employees or anybody else last two years includes continuing to make sure the Group’s the level of emissions per employee will continue. working on our behalf. The high level of integrity with which practices are compliant with human rights and employment we want to carry out our business does not vary depending legislation wherever we do business, and making sure we It is important that we continue the contribution we make to on where we work or who we are dealing with. We continue to have policies and training in place to protect our people from the wider community in which we operate. Our approach has develop and refine our policies and processes around Bribery not only breaching the law, but making sure they understand always been that the societies and communities which provide and Corruption as we continue to expand our business into the standards that we expect from them in the course of their our employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners new geographies. duties. We also take steps to make sure that the approach of themselves make an indirect, but important contribution those in our Supply Chain is compatible with this and that they towards the Group’s success. Additionally, it is increasingly the operate in a socially responsible manner. case that our existing and prospective customers view activity in this area as one of the determinant factors in where they PRINCIPLES 7-9 ENVIRONMENT wish to place their business. Therefore, not only is making an appropriate contribution in this area the right thing to do for the Mike Norris We are focused on reducing the environmental impact of wider community, it is the right thing to do for our business. Chief Executive Officer our activities, particularly in respect of the Group’s carbon September 2017 OUR PROGRESS 2015-17 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS 1(a). Support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights – Human Rights 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievement 2017 objectives  Develop a new Group Wide Business Ethics policy for   The establishment of a modern slavery working group, led  Publication of the company’s first Modern slavery all employees across the group which sets out our by the UK business, in order to address the requirements of statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015; commitment to observing the highest ethical standards in the UK Modern Slavery (Transparency in supply chain) Act  Launch of the Group Wide Business Ethics policy for our business conduct towards colleagues and third parties; 2015, Section 54 ahead of the deadline for the first report all employees across the group which sets out our  In our French business, we continued to raise awareness to be published following the end of the 2016 financial year; commitment to observing the highest ethical standards in of Human Rights through a Sustainable Development   In our French business, we continued to raise awareness of our business conduct; Principles Week that was held; sustainable development through newsletters throughout  Successful launch of new whistleblowing hotline provided  Selection of an external independent whistleblowing the year; by an external independent company across the whole hotline company that is able to provide a service across   Completion of the Group Wide Business Ethics policy group; the group. for all employees across the group which sets out our  Development of e-learning for all UK managers on commitment to observing the highest ethical standards in whistleblowing; our business conduct;  In our French business, to continue raising awareness of   Implementation of a group wide new external sustainable development via newsletter throughout the whistleblowing hotline service. year 1(b). Support and respect the internationally proclaimed human rights – Health and Safety 2015 objectives and achievements and a new web based training ‘Working in oxygen reduced  I n the UK, the average AIR increased to 2.74 and the average To maintain the AIR* at below 2.5 and the AFR** at below 1.0 workspaces’ for technicians; AFR increased to 0.44; across all of our main operating geographies.   The development of a ‘Company integration management’   In Germany, the average AIR decreased to 1.54 and the   In the UK, the average AIR increased to 0.63 (2014: 0.59) and (Betriebliches Eingliederungsmanagement’ – BEM) in line average AFR decreased to 0.88; the average AFR increased to 0.35 (2014: 0.33); with the statutory provisions of the German Code of Social   In France, the average AIR decreased to 0.83 and the   In Germany, the average AIR increased to 2.49 (2014: 2.02) Law (§ 84 des SGB IX). According to this, every company is average AFR decreased to 0.46; and the average AFR increased to 1.38 (2014: 1.16); obliged to take an active interest in promoting the health of   In France, the average AIR increased to 1.17 (2014: 1.06) its employees to maintain their employability over the long * AIR – Number of accidents per 1,000 employees and the average AFR increased to 0.65 (2014: 0.59); term, to overcome and avoid their inability to work and to **AFR – Number of accidents per 100,000 working hours conserve their workplace; * AIR – Number of accidents per 1,000 employees In our German business: **AFR – Number of accidents per 100,000 working hours In our French business:   We successfully completed and retained the BS OHSAS In our German business:   All relevant staff were trained, both at the Company’s 18001 surveillance audit standard;   We successfully completed the BS OHSAS 18001 surveillance headquarters and at customer sites, with regards to the   We successfully went live with the EHS compliance tool for audit; implementation of prevention plans for Health and Safety; all central processes in Kerpen;   We began the implementation of a new EHS compliance   We successfully rolled out the ‘Company integration tool to make sure we know and comply with all laws and In our UK business: management’ (Betreibliches Eingliederungsmanagement – regulations on labour and environmental protection. This   A new intranet site ‘Happy, Healthy Me’ was launched to help BEM) focused on all central processes run from our Kerpen raise awareness of wellbeing and work/life balance issues.   We completed health training for employees on ‘Health and office; As part of this several internally run wellbeing webinars Safety at work’   Pilot training sessions took place for leaders on ‘Awareness were available for employees to participate in;   Further rollout of ‘How do I stay healthy? Nutrition,Move, of Health for Leaders’ and ‘Healthy Leadership’;   We entered a partnership with Mind in Mid-Herts (mental -Relaxation’ to an additional 100 employees and ‘Serene   A full programme of employee awareness training took health charity) with the intention of supporting their and safe in stress situations’ webinar to 60 employees; place that included modules on; ‘How do I stay healthy?’, service users with workplace skills and knowledge to   We also offered the extensive two-day ‘Health training’ for ‘Nutrition, Move, -Relaxation’ and ‘Serene and safe in stress help them integrate back into a workplace. In return, they Computacenter employees that 83 employees took part situations’, an extensive two-day ‘Health training’ and support us with employees who are struggling with mental in, along with work-life balance webinars at the family webinars on work/life balance through the family service’s health conditions; service’s teleacademies and the new Computacenter teleacademies; teleacademy;   ‘Health and Safety at Work’ training was completed for the 2016 objectives and achievements   The planned German wide rollout of some special health majority of employees, along with the expansion of ‘Away To maintain the AIR at below 2.8 and the AFR at below 0.9 across trainings for leaders has been postponed whilst a new on external work’ training for our field service technicians all of our main operating geographies. training concept is being developed; In our French business: 2017 objectives In the UK we;   We finished updating the rules specifying the   Are running a programme of ‘People Matter’ webinars that responsibilities of each manager in implementing Health In Germany we; will take place throughout the year covering a range of and Safety procedures in the business;  Finalised the new health training concept for leaders; diverse topics on aspects of life inside and outside of work;   Delivery of focused activities during ‘Life Quality at Work’  Achieved re-certification of BS OHSAS 18001;   Have introduced an e-counselling service for employees week on ‘Better Work in a Digital time’;   Continued development of the EHS Management System that is provided by an independent confidential external (aggregation of environmental, occupational health and company; In our UK business: safety management). For example the planning of the   Continued development of wellbeing and employee   We continued our partnership with Mind in Mid-Herts to integration of other locations in the new EHS compliance assistance programmes across all of Computacenter’s include education of line managers on mental health and tool; group geographies; how to recognise and support their team members;   To continue with the implementation of Health and Safety   Further development of Health and Wellbeing strategy   Pilot of wellbeing ‘People Matter’ webinar programme in the procedures in preparation for the Health and Safety in the UK to include wellbeing champions and working UK that covers a range of diverse topics on aspects of life Management System ISO 45001(that is replacing the BR towards gaining an occupational health external inside and outside of work took place; OHSAS 18 001 standard) recognised standard;   Development of a Group wellbeing working party to share best practice across all our countries and work towards development of a group wellbeing policy; PRINCIPLE 2: MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievements 2017 objectives   In the UK, the supplier questionnaire that is used as part   In Germany, we continued to use the suppliers survey   To continue to develop our suppliers assessment processes of our new supplier take on processes and screening was questionnaire as part of the supplier evaluation processes; by using our questionnaire across UK, France and Germany updated again;   In the UK, we established a Modern Slavery Working Group   Publication of our first UK Modern Slavery (Transparency in   In our German business, the supplier questionnaire was to address the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act supply chains), section 54 statement; updated again to increase its focus on human rights and across the Computacenter Group. As part of this the new   Development of the Group Commercial Contract labour standards again and forms a key part of supplier supplier questionnaires and due diligence were reviewed; Management team to achieve consistent processes for evaluation;   In France, we continued to maintain key and new supplier take-on and governance across countries our   In France, we continued to maintain key and new vendor assessments through the vendor conformance operating model; vendor assessments through the vendor conformance questionnaire and the monitoring of returns; questionnaire and monitored returns and responses from this; LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievements 2017 objectives   The German Works Councils continued its work on   Continuation of the work of our German Works Councils  Continue with the positive interaction between the Group the basis of the German Works Constitution Act on the basis of the German Works Constitution Act and the employee Works Councils in Germany and France; (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz); (Betriebsverfassungsgesetz);  Establishment of the agreement under which our √ Continuation of the positive interaction with French   Continuation of the positive interaction between the Group European Works Council will operate. The agreement for its and German Works Councils within the Group operating and the employee Works Councils in Germany and France; constitution was signed in January 2017; structure;   Progress towards the establishment of a European Works  The first meeting of our European Works Council took place Council through formulation and work with a ‘special in April 2017; negotiating board’ that was constituted with employees from the UK, France, Spain and Belgium; PRINCIPLE 4: THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR 2015 Objectives and Achievements In France;  In France, we continued to maintain key and new In Germany;  W e maintained the current status and continued to reassess vendor assessments through the vendor conformance  C omputacenter was recognised as a ‘Top Employer’ for vendor conformance, through the review of questionnaire questionnaire and the monitoring of returns; the fourth time by the Top Employers Institute. A total of responses; 184 companies in Germany have received this honour In the UK; 2017 objectives and Computacenter is among the top twenty. For this  T he new supplier questionnaire continued to ask and assess  Continue to use the suppliers questionnaire across UK, several criteria were critically checked: talent strategy, potential suppliers around forced and compulsory labour Germany and France; HR planning, onboarding, training and development,  Publication of our first UK Modern Slavery (Transparency in performance management, executive development, career 2016 Objectives and Achievements supply chains), section 54 statement; and succession planning, compensation and benefits, and   In Germany, we continued to use the suppliers surveys  Development of the Group Commercial Contract corporate culture; by using the questionnaire as part of the evaluation Management team to achieve consistent processes for  T raining carried out on the new Group Management Charter; processes. supplier take-on and governance across countries within  I n addition, questions regarding the labour standards of the   In the UK, we established a Modern Slavery Working Group our operating model; International Labour Organisation (ILO) were included as to address the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act, part of the suppliers questionnaire; which comes into force in 2016, across the Computacenter Group. As part of this the new supplier questionnaires and due diligence was reviewed; PRINCIPLE 5: THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR 2015 Objectives and Achievements In France; 2017 objectives In Germany;   We maintained our level of charitable fundraising and   In France, we continued to maintain the level of charitable   We continued with ‘The Exploras programme’, fulfilled the terms of the agreement signed with Aide et fundraising and worked to fulfil the terms of the agreement which regulates conditions for working students at Action. signed with Aide et Action. Computacenter Germany;   We retained the ‘Fair Company Seal’ from Handelsblatt and 2016 Objectives and Achievements Junge Karriere for treating and paying interns and students   In Germany; we retained the ‘Fair Company Seal’ from fairly. Handelsblatt and Junge Karriere for treating and paying   We were recognised as one of the top 100 companies in interns and students fairly. Germany in the ‘trendence Graduate Barometer 2015’. PRINCIPLE 6: THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION 2015 Objectives and Achievements In the UK; 2016 Objectives and Achievements In Germany;   A number of our UK employees were officially trained as   Formulation of a group wide People Panel in 2016. This is   We continued with the provision of online training relating to ambassadors for the Hertfordshire Chamber of Commerce, a steering group of more than 20 people from across our the General Equal Treatment Act for German employees. under its ‘People Like Me’ campaign. Following this they territories and business areas. The purpose of the People   The Family Service offerings were continued with this ran official activities with schools local to our Head Office Panel is to ‘Improve engagement and enablement through Computacenter supports its employees in almost all in Hatfield, to encourage girls to get into technology and collaboration, diversity and inclusion’ The People Panel are aspects of life – support ranges from child care and a science based activities. our advisors, tasked with setting our strategic direction, back-up kindergarten, through to a consulting service in   We ran a School Outreach Programme with seven local and holding us to account, in these important areas. the event of conflicts at work and also the provision of a academic partners. This included employability workshops, In Germany; 24-hour hotline for individuals to discuss any personal or interview skills, guest speakers on apprenticeships and   We continued with the ‘Family Service’ offering. professional issue that they wish. local careers fairs.   After completion of the ‘Women at work’ project at the end   The project ‘Women at work’ that focuses on women’s In France; of 2015, the principles formulated by the project team promotion, equality and the reconciliation of family and   We continued raising awareness about sustainable in 2014 were published. Also a woman representative working life was rolled out. The project team formulated development through newsletters throughout the year was announced in Q1 2016. The Women Representative principles of equality and promotion of women which will implement the measures of the principles as well as contain objectives for promoting and increasing the ratio of other initiatives. At first a program to support and develop women and different measures to support the achievement individuals for future promotion was started in January of these objectives. 2016 (women@work development program);  We continued to support various initiatives and programs In Germany; In France; aimed at helping pupils in their dealings with IT and   To continue with the provision of the ‘Family Service’   To continue raising awareness on sustainable development promoting young talent. For example: offerings through newsletters during the year; • Erlebe IT (www.erlebe-it.de/) The school initiative of   Continuation of the women@work development program   To continue to participate in recruitment fairs dedicated to Bitkom brings together young talents, professional   To focus on different communication measures for disability; orientation and media competence. Colleagues from ‘women@work’ to sensitise the employees and the   To continue to improve the ratio of female to male Computacenter train young people in the competent management as well as to external target groups. employees within the company in line with the agreement handling of digital media. At the same time they give In the UK; in place with the Unions. In 2016, the ratio was 24 per cent impressions about the vocational possibilities in IT.   We are reviewing the experiences of our employees who female and 76 per cent male. This includes making sure • Girls’Day (www. girls-day.de) On this day, young women go on maternity, adoption or shared parental leave. This that we are driving this forward across all levels within the and girls get to learn about careers in technical and has involved looking at how we can help managers to company, including representation in management team, science-oriented areas; understand the importance of the support they provide professional salary categories and training until we meet • IHK Ausbildungsbotschafter (www.ihk-koeln.de/ employees during the time leading up to their leave, whilst our target ratio of 50:50 against 2016; Ausbildungsbotschafter) Utilising ‘peer to peer they are off and when they return to work. As part of this we   To continue to work towards reducing the pay gaps teaching’, apprentices are sent to schools and inform have also started running ‘Baby Business’ workshops. This between men and women for every socio-professional pupils about their vocational training, everyday work and is where employees who are due to return to work in the category and maintain reporting duties on this to the career opportunities; next 3-6 months can come in and share their experiences, French Works Council and Unions; their worries and speak to one of the senior business   A new agreement was signed in June 2017 with Unions to 2017 objectives leaders about what’s been going on in Computacenter make sure that we meet our obligations in diversity with  The first meeting of the ‘People Panel’ took place in whilst they’ve been off. recruitment and skills development for those under 26 and March 2017. During this meeting it was agreed that the   In conjunction with the Herts Chamber of Commerce, we those over 50 including the transfer of skills and knowledge responsibilities of our People Panel representatives include: have partnered with the Muscle Help Foundation to support between groups; • Raising awareness of where collaboration, diversity and five young adults with muscular dystrophy. This involves   To achieve the target of 3.5 per cent of employees being inclusion are working well in the organisation. That could running two days of workshops to show that their disability over 50 when recruiting in accordance with our agreement be through sharing success stories and highlighting role does not need to be a barrier to them in the workplace. with the Unions; models.  Further ‘Women in sales’ events to take place   Adhere to our company wide French diversity charter that • Joining up key initiatives that are already underway,   Participation in the ‘Every Woman Counts’ programme with demonstrates our commitment to diversity and nonhighlighting these and enabling broader communication TechUK discrimination. about them.   Continued preparation and focus on the reporting   Completion of training for those involved in recruitment on • Giving people the confidence to call things out that requirements of the UK Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap non-discrimination in line with our legal obligations. aren’t inclusive. information Regulations) 2017 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievements  In France, the EU Directive for efficient energy management  Successful retention of the surveillance audit of the quality  Successful audit of the quality and environmental was implemented. This included an energy audit to and environmental management system (ISO 9001:2000 management system (ISO 9001:2008 and 14001:2004 + Cor analyse the energy consumption of Computacenter and 14001:2005) within the Group’s German business; 1:2009) within the German business; France, and identification of how this can be improved on a  Implementation of the EU Directive for efficient energy  Successful completion of a sample audit by the Federal continuing basis to maintain successful audit quality and management. Part of this was an energy audit to analyse Office of Ecomomics and export Control (Bundesamt für environmental management system (ISO 9001:2000 and the energy consumption of Computacenter in Germany to Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle – BAFA) regarding the 14001:2005) improve its energy efficiency on a continuing basis. The correct implementation of the EU Directive for efficient audit is required by law and will take place once every four energy management; 2017 objectives years.  Continuation of the review and revisions of the  To successfully implement the new standard for the  We began a review and, if appropriate, revision of environmental key performance indicators of Environmental Management System to (from ISO the environmental key performance indicators of Computacenter Germany, and subsequently identification 14001:2005 to ISO 14001:2015); Computacenter Germany; of how we will track performance of these;  Successful re-certification of the quality and environmental  Successful audit of the quality and environmental  Continued development of the EHS Management System management system (ISO 9001:2008 and 14001:2015) management system (ISO 9001:2000 and 14001:2005) (aggregation of environmental, occupational health and within the German business in 2017. within the French business. safety management).  Completion of the review and revision of environmental key  We began preparation for the conversion of the performance indicators of Computacenter Germany and Environmental Management System to the new 2017 continued tracking of performance of these; standard;  Continue to develop the EHS Management System (aggregation of environmental, occupational health and safety management). PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY INVOLVEMENT IN THE COMMUNITY 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievements In France; In Germany; In Germany;   We again maintained our partnership with Aide et Action to   We had two blood donation campaigns during working   Beside similar activities as last year (blood donation support schooling for children worldwide who are forced to hours in conjunction with the Red Cross; participated in campaigns, charity runs) at the end of 2015, the work due to their circumstances several charity runs. management team and works council jointly decided   We supported various initiatives and programs aimed to donate 50,000 Euros to support refugee integration 2017 objectives at helping pupils in their dealings with IT and the projects. The projects were selected in 2016 from In Germany; promotion of young talents (Erlebe IT; Girls Day, IHK suggestions made by all employees with the donation a   We continued with ongoing blood donation campaigns Ausbildungsbotschafter. total of 17 projects were funded. and participation in charity runs and other initiatives and In France; In the UK; programs aimed at supporting pupils in their dealings with   We maintained our partnership with Aide et Action to   We continued involvement and support through charity IT and promoting young talents. support schooling for children worldwide who are forced to events of our UK Charity partners; Alzheimer’s Research UK, In the UK; work due to their circumstances. Rainbow Trust and Mind.   We are continuing with our involvement and support In the UK;   In addition to the corporate programme, the company through charity events of our charity partners; Alzheimer’s   We continued to support our charity partners, Alzheimer’s supports and encourages many charity initiatives proposed Research UK, Rainbow Trust and Mind. Research UK, Rainbow Trust and Mind, through fund raising and run by employees   We are continuing to support and encourage many charity events;   The GAYE scheme was available again. This allows initiatives proposed and run by employees   In addition to the corporate programme, the company employees to make monthly contributions to any UK   We have again continued to offer the GAYE scheme that supported and encouraged many charity initiatives charity of their choice through automatic deduction from allows employees to make monthly contributions to any proposed and run by employees; their salaries. The full amount of the contribution goes UK charity of their choice through automatic deduction   A company-wide Give As You Earn (GAYE) scheme that allows to the charity because Computacenter handles all the from their salaries. The full amount of the contribution employees to make monthly contributions to any UK charity administration at its own expense. goes to the charity because Computacenter handles all the of their choice through automatic deduction from their   The Human Resources team donated toys to the Salvation administration at its own expense. salaries was run as part of our employee benefits offering. Army to give to children in the UK at Christmas In Spain; This is tax deductible and even attracts a 10 per cent In Spain;   We are continuing to support our current Spanish Charity subsidy from the Inland Revenue. The full amount of the   A donation of 513 euros was raised by employees and then Partner, Acnur Comite Catala per als refugiats contribution goes to the charity because Computacenter matched by Computacenter to Acnur Comite Catala per als In France; handles all the administration at its own expense. refugiats (local branch of the UNCHR).   We are maintaining our partnership with Aide et Action to In South Africa; support schooling for children worldwide who are forced to   Our employees took part in the ‘Santa Shoe Box’ project. work due to their circumstances Employees donated a total of 50 shoe boxes filled with gifts for children who would otherwise not receive a present at Christmas PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievements 2017 objectives  In France, we continued to track customer demand for  We continued to monitor the level of carbon dioxide  To continue to monitor the level of carbon dioxide ‘Green IT’ offerings; emissions across the Group, and where possible to reduce emissions across the Group, and where possible to reduce  We continued to monitor the level of carbon dioxide this. these. emissions across the Group, and where possible to reduce  The Group carbon dioxide emissions for 2016 increased by  The Datacenter team has been targeted to reduce energy these. 2.9 per cent due to continued expansion but still under 10 consumption by 5 per cent.  The Group’s level of carbon emissions measured in 2015 per cent compared to 2014 emissions.  In France; we will continue to track customer demand for was down 6.3 per cent per employee on the same measure  In our UK business under the Packaging Waste Regulation, ‘Green IT’ offerings. for 2014. we continued to be registered (via Paperpak) as a  Through continued investments in new technology we distributor of product ensuring full compliance helped to reduce emissions in datacenters. The electricity  The EMS of the UK continued to be registered to ISO used in the datacenters is circa 57 per cent of the total for 14001:2004 (EMS 71255) the UK. These datacenters host customers Information  We ensured we complied with the new Energy Savings Technology in the form of servers thus reducing their Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) and submitted our energy carbon footprint however, this increases the emissions for report for this that covers the period 5 December 2015 – Computacenter as we become the landlord. 4 December 2019  In the UK, our warehouse continued to have more lighting  Investment was made in the replacement of more efficient replaced with energy efficient LED devices. gas boiler systems and air conditioning at the UK Hatfield &  We continued the operation of 4 Voltage Optimisation London offices. Units in the Hatfield Head Office saving 7 -10 per cent of  In France, we continued to track customer demand for electricity usage per year. ‘Green IT’ offerings ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTIONS IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY 2015 Objectives and Achievements 2016 Objectives and Achievements 2017 objectives  We created an Anti-Bribery and Corruption working party to  In Germany, compliance training II ‘Anti-corruption and fair  Launch of the Group Wide Business Ethics policy for review and monitor the implementation of all Anti-Bribery competition’ for a selected group of employees was rolled all employees across the group which sets out our and Corruption processes and procedures across the out during the year and provided to the target group; commitment to observing the highest ethical standards in group.  For the UK and German businesses, the Group’s Internal our business conduct.  An independent review and benchmarking of updated Audit department completed an internal audit on the  Launch of new whistleblowing hotline provided by an Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption policies and processes implementation of the Group’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption external independent company across the whole group. completed by an external consultancy took place. policies and procedures and how these are work in  In Germany, update and rollout of the guidelines for  We began development of a new Group Wide Business practice; combating bribery and corruption. Ethics policy for all employees across the group which  We continued with the work of the Anti-Bribery and  In the UK, further training has been provided for the sets out our commitment to observing the highest ethical Corruption group in reviewing and monitoring the Executive committee on whistleblowing and the UK Sales standards in our business conduct towards colleagues and implementation of all Anti-Bribery and Corruption leadership team. third parties which apply across the Computacenter Group. processes and procedures across the group;  Development of e-learning for all UK managers on  In Germany, updated compliance training I ‘Compliance and  We completed the development of the Group Wide Business whistleblowing. business ethics’ for all employees was been rolled out. Ethics policy for all employees across the group which  Selection of an external independent whistleblowing sets out our commitment to observing the highest ethical hotline company that is able to provide a service across the standards in our business conduct; group took place.  We began the implementation and preparation for the launch and operation across the group of a new external whistleblowing hotline service. Enabling users and their business Computacenter is Europe’s leading independent provider of IT infrastructure services, enabling users and their business. We advise organisations on IT strategy, implement the most appropriate technology, optimise its performance, and manage our customers’ infrastructures. In doing this we help CIOs and IT departments in enterprise and corporate organisations maximise productivity and the business value of IT for internal and external users. Computacenter (UK) Ltd Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire AL10 9TW, United Kingdom computacenter.com +44 (0)1707 631000
