Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Report 2017 C ontent s 2 Message from the President 139 Together with Our Shareholders and Investors 252 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal 141 Information Disclosure and Communication of Waste Activity Highlight 143 Returns to Shareholders 6 Activity Highlight 1 Forest Management Nurturing Warmth in Wood and Protecting 144 Together with Our Employees 262 Sustainable Forest Management Society 266 Forest Management in Japan 146 Fair Employment and Benefits 10 Activity Highlight 2 270 Forest Management Overseas Opening Future Avenues to Wood Biomass 153 Occupational Health and Safety Power Generation 160 Human Resources Development 14 Activity Highlight 3 165 Work Life Balance Biodiversity Conservation Practicing Sustainable Forest Management 175 Communication with Employees 276 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation 18 Activity Highlight 4 178 Employee Data 281 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Regional Revitalization Starting from Seedlings Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas 22 Activity Highlight 5 285 Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and 183 Together with Local Communities Services Supporting Work-style Innovation 185 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities 26 Activity Highlight 6 Contributing to a Low-carbon Society 190 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan 288 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances 196 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities 296 Efficient Use of Water Resources 30 CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 298 Environmental Accounting 31 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management 203 Environmental Report 39 Stakeholder Engagement Environmental Management 301 Environmental Data for Group Companies 44 CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term 204 Environmental Management of the Sumitomo CSR Management Plan Forestry Group 206 Environmental Management Structure 306 Corporate Profile 47 Material Issue 1 49 Material Issue 2 211 Environmental Risk Management 308 Editorial Policy 52 Material Issue 3 217 Environmental Impact of Business Activities 310 External Recognition 54 Material Issue 4 55 Material Issue 5 222 Boundaries and Method of Data Aggregation 315 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table (Balance of Input & Output) 224 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas 342 Independent Assurance Report 56 Management System Emissions from Business Activities 57 Corporate Governance 233 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation 68 Risk Management 237 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas 72 Compliance Emissions During Occupancy 77 Respect for Human Rights 245 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases 81 Business Continuity Management through Our Business 84 Information Security 86 Intellectual Property Management Boundary of the Report and Publication Date 88 Social Report Boundary of the Report: 89 Together with Our Customers Although this report focuses mainly on Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd., the Company considers 91 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design it important to cover the activities of the entire Sumitomo Forestry Group, and hence has 103 Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials been expanding its reporting scope. 105 Safety and Quality Control of Non-Residential Buildings 109 Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification Publication Date: November 2017 111 Communication with Our Customers Reporting Period: 117 Together with Our Business Partners April 2016 to March 2017 119 Fair and Responsible Procurement (The period also includes some activities from April 2017 as well as future expectations.) 122 Responsible Timber Procurement Contact: 128 Encouraging Use of Forest Certification Systems CSR Department 132 Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. 135 Using Overseas Plantation Phone: +81-3-3214-3980 138 Communication with Our Business Partners URL: http://sfc.jp/english/ 1 Message from the President Message from the President The Ideal ESG Company Under the Sumitomo Spirit The sustainability of society and corporations is under scrutiny more than ever before. Corporations must disclose not only ﬁnancial statements but also information about Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) eﬀorts as long-term growth indicators. At the same time, institutional investors are required to review company ESG reporting. In July 2017, the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) of Japan, which manages the largest volume of assets in the world, selected three new ESG indices comprised of Japanese companies active in ESG. With the belief that disclosure of both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance will earn us market recognition and trust, we are conducting various ESG initiatives, such as the establishment of Sumitomo Forestry Group's Mid-Term CSR Management Plan with FY2020 targets and linking these targets with SDGs. As a result, the Company has been selected as a constituent company in all three ESG indices released by GPIF. The CSR Report 2017 has been published as a measure to aid dialogue with all of our various stakeholders, from shareholders, customers and business partners to employees and local communities, by summarizing our non-ﬁnancial initiatives. 2017 also marks the ﬁrst year that we have published an integrated report that includes comprehensive information for both our eﬀorts toward ESG and our corporate performance. We sincerely hope that these will provide readers a better understanding of how our CSR initiatives are linked to business performance without trade-oﬀs. Seeking beneﬁts for the individual, the nation and society as a whole is one aspect of the Sumitomo Spirit. Since its founding in 1691, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has been expanding its businesses by proposing new value through wood cultivated for 100 years by its predecessors. Developing forests to grow trees is indispensable to secure sustainability as a company for the next 100 years. At the same time, maintaining our 2 Message from the President commitment to public service, such as through the prevention of landslides and the conservation of biodiversity, is directly related to fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility. The Sumitomo Group's Mid-Term CSR Management Plan recognizes as one of its CSR material issues the continued procurement of wood and materials that take sustainably and biodiversity into consideration. We conducted ongoing assessments of our suppliers based on the Sumitomo Group Procurement Policy in ﬁscal 2016 and worked steadily to comply with the Clean Wood Act of Japan enacted on May 20, 2017. Our housing business is also expected to take on long-term responsibilities and roles, such as maintenance programs covering several decades after construction as well as refurbishment and renovation of quality buildings that are assets to society. To fulﬁll our responsibilities and meet expectations, it is extremely important that the Sumitomo Forestry Group continually manages its operations in a sustainable and stable manner. We believe our inclusion in these ESG indices is a reﬂection of the high regard for our approach to these issues. Businesses Leveraging and Coexisting with Nature Each government agency and the private sector are accelerating eﬀorts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in response to the Paris Agreement enacted in November 2016. Promoting the reduction of the environmental impact of our business activities is a material issue for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. Therefore, we are promoting Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEH) in new housing construction. We surpassed our target substantially with a promotion rate of 21.3% (based on start of construction) in ﬁscal 2016 so we set an ambitious target of 80% penetration for ﬁscal 2020. Japan has set the promotion of ZEH on average in new housing as a 2030 target and we are contributing to the realization of that goal. Sumitomo Forestry Group is able to make unique proposals thanks to a foundation based on the Ryouonbou design concept, which takes advantage of nature's strengths, such as solar power and wind, to reduce excessive reliance on heating and cooling devices. 15% to 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions is said to be caused by forest depletion and limiting the depletion of forests is another important mission in addition to our contribution through products. We believe one necessary measure against global warming is sustainable forest management that aims to stop the loss of trees, which absorb CO2 in the growth process and hold a large amount of carbon, due to ﬁres, illegal harvesting and other causes. We are also furthering commercialization of biomass power generation and solar power generation in renewable energy initiatives that leverage the power of nature. In December 2016, the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant began operations as one of Japan's largest wood biomass power generation facilities. In May of the same year, Sumitomo Forestry Group acquired capital of and signed an operational partnership agreement with Renova, Inc., a leading company in renewable energy, to explore the potential for a wide range of businesses that include wind power and geothermal power. 3 Message from the President Potential of Wood to Foster Innovation; Communicating That Appeal Wood is a natural resource that can be used indeﬁnitely with proper forest management and in addition to being a measure against global warming, has the potential to address various social issues. As the demand for timber is expected to grow around the world in the future, we are contributing to the realization of a sustainable society by expanding the potential and eﬀective use of wood. Our original Ki-Gurumi CT one-hour ﬁre-resistant wood construction material is already in practical use and is expanding the potential for the construction of medium to largesize wooden buildings in ﬁre resistance regions. In addition, research has proven that wooden construction and wooden spaces have a positive eﬀect on emotion and concentration. There are high expectations that the MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business will expand non-residential wood buildings in the health, medical and welfare ﬁelds. In the Sumitomo Group's Mid-Term Management Plan 2018, which sets the March 2019 term as the target year, the nursing care business has been deﬁned as one ﬁeld of focus. In April 2017, the Sumitomo Forestry Group acquired stock in Shinko Care Life Co., Ltd, which operates three large scale private-pay elderly care facilities in Hyogo Prefecture. Shinko Care Life, together with Fill Care Co., Ltd., which already operates 12 private-pay elderly care facilities, provide services that take advantage of the appeal and beneﬁts of wood in the nursing care ﬁeld, from private-pay elderly care homes to day services. We are also placing great emphasis on wood even in the ﬁeld of new materials, such as cellulose nano-ﬁbers, which are said to be one-ﬁfth the weight and seven to eight times the strength of steel. All of our employees are working together to foster the potential of wood in ways that lead to greater innovation and broader use of timber. 4 Message from the President To Become a Vibrant Global Company That Boldly Takes on Challenges Companies are a place that bring people together. Each and every person naturally has diﬀerent opinions and ways of thinking. A vibrant company is an organization that brings together employees who enthusiastically realize their own skills and capabilities. It is our duty as the management team to build this type of organizational climate and workplace. The businesses of the Sumitomo Forestry Group are growing in Japan and in 17 other countries and regions around the world. For example, Sumitomo Forestry Group has expanded its home building businesses to six companies in 12 states in the U.S. with the Edge Homes stock acquisition in January 2017. In ﬁscal 2016, roughly 1,500 employees built more than 7,000 multiunit residential homes in the U.S. and Australia. As the Group grows and expands, it is important that employees around the world share the common values of the Sumitomo Forestry Group. We have formulated and are sharing the new Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct throughout the Group to operate with a common language in a global standard. As a comprehensive lifestyle-related business group, the Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to become a world preeminent forestry company with an ongoing commitment to beneﬁtting society and pursuing challenges with integrity. 5 Activity Highlight 1 Nurturing Warmth in Wood and Protecting Society The eﬀect of 'wood,' a people-friendly material, has garnered great attention while needs are growing for wood construction in a broad range of ﬁelds from education to healthcare and nursing. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has cultivated the potential of wood to discover value unique to wood and been contributing to both people and society since its founding. MOCCA (timber solution) proposes wooden construction and decorative wood able to oﬀer healthy lifestyles while also providing users tranquility and comfort as a business unique to Sumitomo Forestry. We have built a proven track record in a wide range of 36 large and small ventures as of ﬁscal 2016 that includes elderly care facilities, educational facilities and commercial complexes. Construction with Japanese domestic timber in urban areas is becoming ever more popular including the New National Stadium where the 2020 Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games are held. Construction with wood is expected to accelerate in terms of environmental friendliness as well. We aim to grow our four billion yen a year in orders today to ten billion yen by ﬁscal 2018. 6 Activity Highlight 1 Nurturing Warmth in Wood and Protecting Society Order Trends (2012-2016 Performance/2017 Forecast) Higashi-Matsushima City, Miyagi Prefecture was vastly devastated by the tsunami that struck the area in the Great East Japan Earthquake. In the aftermath of the disaster, the elementary school students from the Nobiru District of Higashi-Matsushima City had been taught at a prefabricated temporary schoolhouse for over ﬁve years following the disaster. A block was built on high grounds as a relocation site where people could begin their new lives and construction of an elementary school was planned on grounds next to the satoyama. The concept is a 'school of the forest'. We proceeded with construction of the building to nurture and educate children to have strong bodies and minds in an environment ﬁlled with nature while exchanging ideas with the local citizens and naturalist C.W. Nicol. 7 Activity Highlight 1 Nurturing Warmth in Wood and Protecting Society In December 2016, Miyanomori Elementary School in Higashi-Matsushima City, Miyagi was completed as a symbol of the city's reconstruction and the ﬁrst school with a schoolhouse and indoor gymnasium built from wood. While this was the ﬁrst time we had built an elementary school, the project was completed and delivered on schedule thanks to the cooperation of all of the construction and other local contractors. The school buildings are astounding with the beauty of wood enshrouded in the smell of wood. This venture also contributed to revitalizing the local forestry by using solid wood from about 5,000 trees, mainly cedar, from Tohoku for the construction materials. The interior was also designed by using an abundance of wood to bring the warm and welcoming feel of wood through the touch of a hand or a seat on the ﬂoor. We are positive the children's love for this school will grow into a love for the local community as their stories are engraved within over time. This wood also absorbs moisture and oﬀers great heat insulation properties as 'virtues inherit to wood'. Moreover, studies suggest wooden construction helps control the spread of inﬂuenza*1. In addition, spending time inside of architecture made of wood promises greater focus and steadiness of mind *2. We hope many children with global talent will graduate from this amazing elementary school in Higashi-Matsushima City. We also would like for these children to then return to Higashi-Matsushima City and become active in their region's revitalization. *1 Wooden School Construction: Handbook for Building Three-story Wooden School Buildings by the Ministry o Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology *2 Demonstrating that space with wood patterns are relaxing and easy to concentrate won the Future Action category at the KIDS DESIGN AWARD 2011 Miyanomori Elementary School in Higashi-Matsushima City 8 Activity Highlight 1 Nurturing Warmth in Wood and Protecting Society Wooden construction is more popular today with awareness of the health beneﬁts even for elderly care facilities conventionally built with reinforced concrete. For example, a component in the fragrance of wood known as 'phytoncide' has beneﬁts suitable for the elderly from lowering blood pressure and claming pulse to better mental well-being. Fill Care Co., Ltd., a Sumitomo Forestry Group company, opened the Gran Forest Gakugei Daigaku nursing home with special care facilities in February 2017 with these beneﬁts in mind. Gran Forest incorporates an indoor living space that improve the quality of sleep as well as a garden to enhance cognitive function based on results of research conducted at the Sumitomo Forestry Tsukuba Research Institute to better the physical and mental health of residents. The combination of wooden interiors and indirect lighting in indoor living spaces that provide beneﬁts which enhance function of the parasympathetic nerve system, improve sleep quality and minimize fatigue are implemented in every room. Timber is eﬀectively placed on walls and throughout the interior while optimizing ﬁxtures such as the brightness, color and timing to turn on and oﬀ indoor lighting to create an environment where residents can relax and sleep with ease. The garden also takes advantage of our research eﬀective in delaying progress of dementia by strengthening cognitive function through stimulus that includes interaction with nature and the trees to evoke memories and events of the past as well as the textile movement used when touching the plants. The garden named 'Hanaemi' to represent the smiles that bloom there every day has a housing exterior with well-thought out walkways for easy access as well as a variety of perfectly placed garden vegetation. Gran Forest Gakugei Daigaku Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design Safety and Quality Control of Non-Residential Buildings Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials 9 Activity Highlight 2 Opening Future Avenues to Wood Biomass Power Generation The development and promotion of renewable and clean energy is a social issue that should be addressed worldwide. The Sumitomo Forestry Group participates in the wood biomass power generation business by utilizing its know-how in businesses centered upon wood, which is a renewable resource. This endeavor will contribute to solving this social issue while expanding the applications for wood and increasing its asset value. The adoption of renewable energy is furthering in each country worldwide from such perspectives as the future depletion of fossil fuels, concerns about higher prices and the reduction of CO2 emissions, which is a global challenge. However, the adoption rate of renewable energy in Japan is roughly 11% (FY2013 results), which is low compared to other major developed nations. Government of Japan announced the long-term energy supply-demand outlook (energy mix) in 2015 against the backdrop of these circumstances. The ratio of renewable energy is forecast to increase to approximately 22% to 24% by 2030 and further market growth is predicted in the same ﬁeld. Wood biomass power generation is gaining attention as a base electricity source with its stable power supply compared to other types of renewable energy. 10 Activity Highlight 2 Opening Future Avenues to Wood Biomass Power Generation Long-term energy supply-demand outlook (Source: Materials from The Agency for Natural Resources and Energy in the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) The strength of the Sumitomo Forestry Group is the ability to provide a stable supply of fuel such as crude wood and wood chips indispensable in the biomass power generation business by taking advantage of the cargo and distribution network of its existing forestry as well as timber and building materials businesses. For example, the Kawasaki Biomass Power Generation Plant that began operation in 2011 uses recycled wood chips produced from scrap wood from housing construction and scarp pallets collected in the Kanto area as its primary fuel. The Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation Plant which started operation in 2016 has gained the cooperation of parties engaged in the local forest industry and municipalities and uses unused forest materials collected in the Okhotsk region as its primary biomass fuel. 11 Activity Highlight 2 Opening Future Avenues to Wood Biomass Power Generation Flow for supply of biomass fuels at the Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation Plant The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to expand the renewable energy business primarily in the wood biomass power generation business to a scale of 200 MW by 2019. One of the pillars to achieving this target is the Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation Plant. An aﬃliate company of the Sumitomo Forestry Group with an equity interest of 51%, this power plant is a 50MW large-scale biomass power generation facility, which is the largest biomass power generation plant investment of the Group. In addition, this power plant uses unused wood resource from the Okhotsk region as its primary fuel and it is the ﬁrst forest based type of power generation facility for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. The Group owns forests in the Okhotsk land rich with forest resources and the proﬁt is cycled back into the forest and the region. We are aiming for a circulation-type power generation business able to have a prosperous coexistence in the region. 12 Activity Highlight 2 Opening Future Avenues to Wood Biomass Power Generation The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to start operations of the Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Plant (12.4MW) in April 2018 in addition to the Kawasaki Biomass Power Generation Plant (33MW), the Mombetsu Biomass Power Generation Plant (50MW) and the Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Plant (5.9MW) already in operation. Total scale of power generation is already 100MW with these capital participation in wood biomass power generation plants. We will further our investment in the future. In May 2016, Sumitomo Forestry Group invested in Renova, Inc., which develops and operates renewable energy power generation plants, while also entering into an operational partnership agreement. Renova has experience in the development of our power generation plant in addition to a proven track record in a total of more than 1,000 cases of environmental consulting. The company also possesses a wide range of knowledge and a vast network related to the development of the renewable energy business. The Sumitomo Forestry Group actively promotes various renewable energy businesses now and in the future that include wood biomass power generation through these kinds of initiatives. Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business 13 Activity Highlight 3 Practicing Sustainable Forest Management The medium to long-term demand for timber is expected to grow worldwide due to the needs for housing construction resulting from growing populations and economic growth in developing nations as well as demands or various energy resources. More than half of the wood resource products throughout the world today are supplied from natural forests and increasing the number of sustainable plantation forests is vital to respond to this growing demand. The Sumitomo Forestry Group is expanding its plantation forest operations by passing down a sustainable forestry philosophy to continue to utilize wood while planting trees and cultivating forests with its roots ﬁrmly founded in the forest management of the Besshi Copper Mine where the Group began. Currently, the Group owns and manages approximately 270,000 hectares of sustainable forests in and outside of Japan. 14 Activity Highlight 3 Practicing Sustainable Forest Management Sustainable forests are forests managed in a way that allows the diverse needs for timber to be lastingly satisﬁed by maintaining a healthy ecosystem throughout the forest while receiving beneﬁt of the timber it provides. The Sumitomo Forestry Group always recognizes sustainability from an environmental perspective in a cycle that starts with planting, cultivation, harvest, use, and back to planting. We hope this will contribute to the development of regions both economically and environmentally while preventing the depletion of resources. Forest Management and Timber Usage 15 Activity Highlight 3 Practicing Sustainable Forest Management The Sumitomo Forestry Group acquired approximately 30,000 hectares of forest assets in New Zealand in June 2016. The forest assets gained from this acquisition are Monterey pine plantation forest located in Nelson, New Zealand. Monterey pine is a type of tree that oﬀers a stable supply of timber thanks to a growth rate that has a 25 year cycle to harvest in addition to price competitiveness while being highly homogeneous with versatility. These forest assets are forecast to provide a stable revenue stream over the long term while also oﬀering sustainable resources that can be used indeﬁnitely through planned forestation. The Monterey pines cultivated in the forest obtained in this acquisition will be processed locally to be used as construction timber and interior materials of housing both in Japan and overseas. It is estimated to bring in sales of approximately four billion yen a year. In addition, these resources will be exported to countries around the world where expected to have high demand such as China, India with a signiﬁcant increase in population, and Japan through the distribution network of the Sumitomo Forestry Group. The Group considers the coexistence with local citizens and contributions to local communities as indispensable to sustainable forest management. We will promote management in these forests as an ongoing business able to contribute to society while building cooperative relationships with the people in the region such as the Ngati Koata Trust*. * Trust that manages assets such as the land returned to the Maori people (the indigenous people of New Zealand) by the New Zealand government 16 Activity Highlight 3 Practicing Sustainable Forest Management Koperasi Bromo Mandiri KTI (KBM-KTI) reforestation cooperative supported by Indonesian Group company Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) acquired the FSC-FM certiﬁcation for 206 hectors of forest in January 2017. KTI also began reforestation with fast-growing trees such as Falcata (Albizia falcataria) in 1999. With the system of social forestry , KTI has aimed to support the environment, community and economy by distributing seedlings to local residents for free to plant on the lands they own and promises to purchase timber when the trees are mature. KBM-KTI was established with the support of the local community in December 2015. The company has striven to build systems that include sustainable forest management programs, legal compliance and environmental preservation together with the local community. We also are taking advantage of the know-how accumulated in reforestation over many years with local communities in the acquisition of this certiﬁcation. KTI will strive to expand the manufacture and sales of products with high environmental value by expanding the area of certiﬁed forests. Only KTI can provide a stable supply of FSC-FM certiﬁcated materials in Indonesia made up primarily of the Indonesian Falcata tree species and we expect greater competitive strength. Sustainable Forest Management Forest Management in Japan Forest Management Overseas 17 Activity Highlight 4 Regional Revitalization Starting from Seedlings Increasing number of municipalities are working to foster forest resources that are not yet eﬀectively utilized as one part of regional revitalization measures. Areas of clearcutting is expected to increase in the future as the harvesting period approaches for cedar and Japanese cypress planted after World War II, and a stable supply of seedlings is desired for reforestation. However, due to circumstances such as a lower number of producers, it is expected that the resources will be insuﬃcient. Sumitomo Forestry was the ﬁrst to modernize seedling production. We are contributing to the sustainability of forest resources and active resource production through eﬀorts such as the construction of greenhouse-type cultivation facilities with the proper environmental management by using proprietary production technology for seedling containers. More speciﬁcally, starting from the development of an environmental control greenhouse facility in Hyuga City, Miyazaki in 2012, we established the know-how for production in Mombetsu City, Hokkaido as well. The production per unit of area signiﬁcantly increased by controlling the temperature and humidity and allowing cultivation throughout the year compared to conventionally raising seedlings in the open. We opened new greenhouse facilities in Gero Ciy, Gifu Prefecture in ﬁscal 2016 and Motoyama City, Kochi Prefecture in May 2017 to establish a system capable to cultivate 1.3 million seedlings a year throughout Japan. 18 Activity Highlight 4 Regional Revitalization Starting from Seedlings We are also linking to local municipalities to contribute to the revitalization of the region by establishing greenhouses with local employment as well as the development and standardization of new technology related to seedling cultivation in addition to as well. Trends in Production of Seedlings Throughout Japan * Source: Annual Report on Forest and Forestry in Japan Fisical Year 2016 Cultivating Sumitomo Forestry Seedlings Throughout Japan 19 Activity Highlight 4 Regional Revitalization Starting from Seedlings Local municipalities, forest business proprietors, forest owners, timber consumers and other relevant parties need to eﬀectively and skillfully use resources by sharing a wide range of forest information such as the amount of resources in the forest as well as the history of the owners, topography, and transportation system to revitalize the forests in Japan. Forestry Agency promotes the Standard Speciﬁcations for a Forestry Cloud System as part of its business to develop technology for the sophisticated use of forest information that standardizes data and systems for forest information in order to solve these issues. Sumitomo Forestry created and revised the Standard Speciﬁcations for a Forestry Cloud System together with the JIPDEC as a secondary business within our existing business in ﬁscal 2013. We also released the latest 3.1 version in August 2016. These standard speciﬁcations were adopted by 2 prefectures and 15 municipalities as of March 31, 2017. We hope to promote the maintenance of local forest and development of forestry through the adoption of the standard speciﬁcations by local municipalities, forest business proprietors, timber consumers and all other relevant parties in addition to the realization of eﬃcient and sophisticated forest management. Forest Cloud Driving the Future of Forests Rashinban -(External Link)(in Japanese) 20 Activity Highlight 4 Regional Revitalization Starting from Seedlings Sumitomo Forestry is providing consulting in planning of forest management and forestry development conducted by local municipalities by taking advantage of its wealth of knowledge in forest management cultivated in company-owned forests over a long period of time. As part of these eﬀorts, we supported the creation of a Forest and Forestry Master Plan in Itoshima City, Fukuoka Prefecture as an initiative to use local forest resource since January 2016. This plan is the foundation for measures related to proper forest maintenance and eﬀective use of city lumber in Itoshima, which is positioned as the basic plan for businesses to build supply chains for city use of timber that takes advantage of ICT promoted by Itoshima. As methods to create this master plan, we are zoning areas that consider attributes such as the growth rate and accessibility of forests as well as the environmental conservation functions after grasping the amount of forest resources within the city limits through aerial laser measurement. Sumitomo Forestry formulated a harvesting plan and a plan for a transportation network that would be optimal to haul timber cultivated in the forest out by deﬁning policies for conducting operations in the forest for each zone. Moreover, we also examined the systems to build to execute measures that follow this master plan. Itoshima expects to achieve regional revitalization that utilizes the forest based on this Forest and Forestry Master Plan in the future. Forest Management in Japan 21 Activity Highlight 5 Supporting Work-style Innovation Building a workplace where employees can actively participate with enthusiasm is an extremely important challenge from the perspective of securing human assets as long working hours become a social issue and the demand for work-style innovation grows. The Sumitomo Forestry Group sets speciﬁc targets and promotes initiatives in the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan to develop a workplace where diverse human assets can actively. The Sumitomo Forestry Group is promoting diversity management by setting Respect for Humanity̶We work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity as one of its Action Guidelines. We are also furthering the creation of a workplace where our employees are able to work with passion by striving to shape the health preservation of each and every employee so that they may take care of themselves and their families as well as build a brighter future. In ﬁscal 2017, we advanced more employee-friendly systems with the revision of our personnel system. More speciﬁcally, the Sumitomo Forestry has transitioned overtime work from a de facto working hour system to an actual count system as well as adopted a ﬂextime system, a work interval system and productivity assessments by hour. The transition to an actual count system and the adoption of a productivity assessment aims to reduce long hours, heighten the quality and productivity of work as well as 22 Activity Highlight 5 Supporting Work-style Innovation preserve the health of employees by heightening the quality of work with employee awareness about the cost versus time. We are also striving to build an employee-friendly systems for child raising and nursing care and to equalize operational working hours overall by stipulating the total working hours per month and a ﬂextime system. In addition, the interval system secures 11 hours of leisure time between the end of the work day until the start of the next work day. This program prevents overwork and reduces the impact on the mental and physical health of employees by exempting employees from working if their 11 hours of leisure time overlaps with the start of the workday or core time. Sumitomo Forestry was selected as a 2017 Certiﬁed Health and Productivity Management Organization in February 2017. The Health and Productivity Management Organization Certiﬁcation System is part of an initiative to better the health of employees advocated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. 235 corporations have received this certiﬁcation from among the large-scale organizations subject to this certiﬁcation for the ﬁrst time since its establishment in ﬁscal 2016. The certiﬁcation is set based on ﬁve criteria; corporate philosophy and policies, organizational structure, execution of policies and measures, assessment and improvement as well as legal compliance and risk management. Sumitomo Forestry has been highly evaluated for its corporate philosophy and policies in particular. 23 Activity Highlight 5 Supporting Work-style Innovation Sumitomo Forestry has put its strength into the promotion of women's success and was granted the ﬁscal 2016 Semi-Nadeshiko Brand Designation. The Nadeshiko Brand was established in ﬁscal 2016 with focus on the promotion status of women's success by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry together with the Tokyo Stock Exchange to select companies conforming to the Nadeshiko Brand for excellence in empowering women. The Sumitomo Forestry Group is encouraging the active participation and appointment of women managers by setting a target to have a ratio of 5% or more female managers by 2020 as a Mid-Term CSR Management Plan. We have adopted a mentor system in ﬁscal 2016 that partners female employee mentees with male managers as mentors and expanding a system to support the active participation of female employees. The Group formulated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women in 2013 to actively promote the enhancement of programs such as work-style support while raising children as well as education training systems. Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women 1. We will create a positive work environment for women 2. We will leverage women's unique creative powers 3. We will spur innovation through the participation of women The Sumitomo Forestry Group has held Iku-boss * Seminars for managers based on the importance of changing their awareness to drive the organization in order to realize work-style innovation. On the day, managers from the head oﬃce and other oﬃces nearby as well as employees from Group companies human resources divisions participated in the seminar lead by an external instructor under the theme to reform thinking to raise performance while controlling long hours and realizing work-style innovation suited for each individual's situation. * Iku-boss is a boss who fulﬁlls his responsibility at work,encouraging their staﬀ's private life and carrier,also balancing their own work and life. 24 Activity Highlight 5 Supporting Work-style Innovation Q: Please tell us your thoughts and about how your thinking has changed after attending the Iku-boss Seminar. A: I joined the seminar with excitement as the title suggested that I can learn the practical secrets to heighten performance while realizing a work-life balance. The seminar was able to teach me the deﬁnition and importance of Iku-boss with speciﬁc and easy-to-understand content. Members of my group and team each faces Morimasa Iwakame diﬀerent situations, from having time Team Leader limitations due to raising children to having a Ikebukuro Branch, Housing strong sense of responsibility and working long Division hours to the extent that I worry about their health. I want to build an employee-friendly workplace where everyone can work with enthusiasm by understanding persona situations of each team members through communicating with them individually. Q: Please tell us what you would like to practice in the future and how your behavior might have changed. A: I made a declaration to create an atmosphere to support one another at work as a way to better the private lives of my staﬀ and my own life as an Iku-boss action commitment at the end of the seminar. Speciﬁcally, I halved the number and length of group meetings in an eﬀort to promote more eﬃcient work and shorter working hours. I am also supporting my staﬀ in reducing their time restrictions through checking on their progress and oﬀering any guidance or alleviating any worries they may have by visiting their desks. In the future, all of my team members will think by standing in the shoes of others and they will ﬁrst act as an example so that action can be taken. I hope to put this in to practice and facilitate a greater awareness. Fair Employment and Beneﬁt Work Life Balance 25 Activity Highlight 6 Contributing to a Low-carbon Society The largest environmental impact for a home builder is related to the environmental impact during the use of the homes that are delivered. While Japan has slowed the trend of increasing CO 2 emissions in the household sector, the country has relatively high standards and properly adhering to gradual energy-saving standards has become mandatory even in new housing. The Sumitomo Forestry Group is striving to standardize homes that realize Net Zero Emission Housing (ZEH), which is a household that has no primary energy consumption. The Sumitomo Forestry Group provides energy-saving homes as well as homes with better environmental friendliness by responding to the needs and expectations of customers, which connects to improve quality and to a reduction in the environmental impact. For example, a full survey of living conducted in 2013 by the Ministry of Land Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism showed safety in earthquakes, the space and layout of the house and crime prevention as some of the elements thought important in housing. Sumitomo Forestry has worked to improve technology in custom-built wooden houses such as the release of the Big-Frame Construction Method (BF Method), the ﬁrst 26 Activity Highlight 6 Contributing to a Low-carbon Society wooden beam Rahmen structure in Japan, in 2005 as a way to respond to these expectations. We further evolved the BF Method with the release of The Forest BF throughout Japan (excluding Okinawa) in April 2017. Moreover, we have adopted versatile partitions that do not require structural materials to build a structure in addition to ﬂexibility in the ceiling heights and even broader openings. This will enable to change room plans with less waste when accommodating diﬀerent life stages in the future to live with aging parents or sending oﬀ grown up children. ZEH can also be realized by combining high eﬃciency water heaters with solar power generation systems in addition to providing insulation eﬃciency that surpasses the local standard values. In the future, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to provide high quality homes that beneﬁt both customers and the environment through this type of development. Sumitomo Forestry has set a ZEH promotion target of 80% by 2020 and has already achieved 32% adoption rate as of ﬁscal 2016 *. Japan has set a target to achieve zero emission in standard new housings by 2020 and achieve zero emission on average in new housings by 2030. Sumitomo Forestry is contributing to the realization of this national goal. Sumitomo Forestry is engaged in the development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus (LCCM) housing as an attempt to reach negative CO 2 emissions across the entire life cycle of a home from construction through disposal by using environmentally sound equipment such as solar power systems. Custom-built wooden houses that utilize wood as a renewable resource can substantially reduce CO2 during construction compared to steel or reinforced concrete structures. Wooden houses are the perfect for LCCM from a perspective that takes into account everything from before construction to after the house is built. We are aiming to realize comfortable LCCM homes while reducing the CO 2 emissions of the home itself as well as during occupancy. Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy 27 Activity Highlight 6 Contributing to a Low-carbon Society ZEH standardization target and results (including Nearly ZEH) * FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 Japan Target 5% 35% 45% 60% 80% (Excluding Hokkaido and Okinawa) Results 32% ー Target 1% 3% 5% 10% 51% Hokkaido Results 0% ー * Custom-built base 28 Activity Highlight 6 Contributing to a Low-carbon Society The Tsukuba Research Institute has been conducting researches at experimental facilities that were constructed on its premises since 2013 as an eﬀort to develop LCCM houses. LCA results have shown the beneﬁts of using timber in reducing the CO2 emissions of the building itself at the experimental facilities built of various timber. We have successfully introduced new technologies to the market that were implemented and tested in our experimental facilities such as the Air-Dream Hybrid and thermal insulated shoji sliding screens. The Air-Dream Hybrid has a cooling function using Takaaki Nemoto outside air when the temperature outside is low Team Manager such as on summer nights and the thermal Housing Group, Tsukuba insulated shoji screens both heighten the insulation Research Institute eﬃciency at openings and secure brightness indoors. We are advancing technological development related to more active use of energy such as the use of electricity produced from solar power generation systems inside of the actual home while cooperating with the veriﬁcation business of the New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) since ﬁscal 2016. Experimental facility utilizing timber Storage water heater and energy storage system 29 CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management Stakeholder Engagement CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Material Issue 1: Continue to procure wood and materials that take sustainability and biodiversity into consideration Material Issue 2: Promote the reduction of the environmental impact of our business activities Material Issue 3: Promote development of workplaces where diverse personnel can work with vigor and enthusiasm, demonstrating their abilities and individuality Material Issue 4: Strengthen and promote risk management and compliance mechanisms Material Issue 5: Promote the development and sales of products and services that are safe, reliable and environmentally conscious 30 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes timber as a renewable, healthy, and environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributes to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services. We formulate policies and various guidelines such as our environmental and procurement policies based on the Corporate Philosophy and Action Guidelines. We are carrying out our business activities after redeﬁning the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct in July 2017 so that it conforms to the requirements of society such as recent international standards and initiatives. Furthermore, based on ISO26000, the International standard requiring organizations to practice social responsibility, the Sumitomo Forestry Group actively communicates with all stakeholders. Incorporating the Groupʼs shared values into its brand message “Happiness Grows from Trees,” it will further promote CSR management, thereby contributing to a sustainable society. Corporate Philosophy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes timber as a renewable, healthy, and environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributes to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services. 31 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management Action Guidelines Sumitomo Spirit We conduct business that is beneﬁcial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management. Respect for Humanity We work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity. Environmental Responsibility We are dedicated to eﬀectively addressing environmental issues with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. Putting Customers First We are thoroughly committed to customer satisfaction through the provision of high-quality products and services. Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Purpose and scope of application Based on its corporate philosophy and action guidelines, the Sumitomo Forestry Group shall manage its operations, including the supply chain, in accordance with this Code of Conduct. Fair and transparent corporate activities 1. Strict adherence to laws and regulations We shall adhere to all domestic and overseas laws and company regulations and respect international norms of behavior. 32 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management 2. Prevention of corruption We shall have absolutely no involvement in corrupt practices, including bribery, embezzlement and money laundering. 3. Fair business transactions We shall pursue fair business transactions and refrain from any involvement in cartels, bid rigging or other such activities. 4. Fair accounting procedures We shall conduct fair accounting and tax practices based on accurate records. 5. Communication with stakeholders In consideration of the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, we shall disclose necessary information in a timely and fair manner and promote dialogue. 6. Maintaining conﬁdentiality We shall ensure the protection of conﬁdential information, both our own and that of third parties. 7. Information security We shall install appropriate information security measures to prevent information leaks and other breaches. 8. Relationships with companies we do business with We shall build and maintain constructive relationships with the parties we do business with and refrain from inappropriate behaviors, such as the abuse of power. 9. Protection of intellectual property rights In addition to protecting our own Companyʼs intellectual property rights, we shall not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. 33 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management 10.Protection of personal information We shall appropriately manage personal information, use it only for authorized purposes and prevent leaks. 11.Responsible advertising/promotional eﬀorts We shall engage in accurate and appropriate advertising and promotional eﬀorts that do not cause misunderstanding or oﬀense. 12.Healthy relationship with the government We shall maintain a healthy and transparent relationship with the government that is in conformance with all laws. 13.Stance on organized crime We shall have absolutely no involvement in organized crime. 14.Establishment of a whistleblowing mechanism We shall establish a mechanism for people to report any suspicions of breaches to any laws or this Code of Conduct. By allowing reports to be made anonymously and strictly prohibiting retaliation against informants and other measures, we will actively promote its use. Ethical conduct 15.Avoidance of a conﬂict of interest We shall make a clear distinction between professional and personal matters and refrain from activities that may constitute a conﬂict of interest with the company. 16.Prohibition of misappropriation of company assets We shall not use company funds or assets for personal purposes. 17.Prohibition of insider trading We shall take no part in insider trading, including being complicit with others. 34 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management 18.Appropriate gift giving and entertainment We shall neither accept nor oﬀer gifts or entertainment that would be considered inappropriate according to socially accepted norms. 19.Prohibition of political or religious activities During work hours, we shall not recruit or otherwise promote political, religious or other activities based on personal ideology. A respectful, healthy workplace 20.Respect for human rights According to internationally accepted human rights norms, we shall respect the human rights of all individuals, including women, children, indigenous people, minorities and vulnerable people. 21.Prohibition of discrimination and the promotion of diversity We shall not discriminate on the basis of race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, religion, ideology, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or other. In addition, we shall work to secure and promote diversity. 22.Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall not tolerate forced labor or child labor in any form. 23.Freedom of association and collective bargaining rights In accordance with laws, we shall secure workersʼ rights for freedom of association and collective bargaining. 24.Appropriate working hours and wages In accordance with laws, we shall ensure that working hours and wages are appropriate. 25.Work/life balance We shall secure the appropriate balance between work and individual commitments, such as caring for children and the elderly. 35 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management 26.Occupational health and safety We shall strive to maintain a safe and healthy work environment. In addition, we shall implement regular educational and training programs to prepare for disasters, accidents and other. 27.Human resources development We shall strive to nurture human resources by providing skill enhancement opportunities, such as training seminars. 28.Prohibition of harassment We shall not commit or tolerate acts of sexual harassment, power harassment, inhumane punishment or other. 29.Protection of privacy We shall respect and protect the individualʼs right to privacy. Business activities that respect society and the environment 30.Customer satisfaction and safety We shall secure the safety and security of our customers and at the same time, sincerely engage with them and work to improve quality and customer satisfaction. 31.Co-existence with the environment We shall strive to reduce the environmental burden of our products and services throughout their entire lifecycle, prevent global warming, recycle resources, prevent pollution and maintain biodiversity. 32.Contribution to the local community We shall respect the local regionʼs culture and customs and through dialogue, shall seek to contribute to their sustainable development. Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy 36 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In December 2008, Sumitomo Forestry formally signed the United Nations (UN) Global Compact to declare our support for its principles. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact are based on globally established agreements, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Labour Organizationʼs (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. They incorporate support of and respect for the protection of human rights and the eradication of forced and child labor. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 37 Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management | CSR Management Endorsement of SDGs Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was adopted at the United Nations General Assembly in 2015. SDGs have the objective of achieving 17 goals with 169 targets that include poverty, inequality, education and the environment in all regions of both developing and developed nations founded in the success of Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) adopted in 2000 with the aim of realize a better global society by 2015. The Sumitomo Forestry Group mainly contributes to various activities relevant to the Group's CSR material issues by supporting these goals as a company that is growing its businesses globally. Relationship between CSR material issues and SDGs are described in Material Issues page. Material Issue 1: Continue to procure wood and materials that take sustainability and biodiversity into consideration Material Issue 2: Promote the reduction of the environmental impact of our business activities Material Issue 3: Promote development of workplaces where diverse personnel can work with vigor and enthusiasm, demonstrating their abilities and individuality Material Issue 4: Strengthen and promote risk management and compliance mechanisms Material Issue 5: Promote the development and sales of products and services that are safe, reliable and environmentally conscious 38 Stakeholder Engagement | CSR Management Stakeholder Engagement Basic policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group is involved with various stakeholders because the business activities conducted by the Group are in broad range of global businesses from the upstream to the downstream with wood at the core. We are always focused on communication, starting with our business activities while taking into account the relationship between the direct and indirect impact. Our basic policy is to sincerely respond to that expectations and requirements. Stakeholders of the Sumitomo Forestry Group The stakeholders of the Sumitomo Forestry Group are organized and classiﬁed as outlined below. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has put in place measures to respond to the diverse expectations and requirements of each stakeholder while facilitating good communication not only on a daily basis in business activities but also takes advantage of various other opportunities. 39 Stakeholder Engagement | CSR Management Responsibilities and Communication Methods Responsibilities and Communication Methods Stakeholder Responsibilities Communication Methods Providing safe, high-quality Sumitomo Forestry Call Center products and services Customer Satisfaction Survey Disclosing timely and accurate information and providing Websites and other media Customers accountability Exhibitions and various other Understand the requests and events needs and improve satisfaction through communication 40 Stakeholder Engagement | CSR Management Stakeholder Responsibilities Communication Methods Establishing and providing a Conducting regular healthy working environment consultations and performance where people can work safely reviews that respects human rights without any discrimination Conducting employee satisfaction surveys Equally and fairly evaluating personnel Installing a compliance counter Establishing educational Establishing a Medical systems able to drive and Consultation and Treatment for improve skills Mind and Body Employees Establishing measures, policies Carrying on a dialogue and Their and other regulations to between the president and Families enhance the work-life balance employees (casual discussions) Holding Family Open Days Carrying out meetings with management made up of both labor and management committee members Publishing internal magazines and putting in place an intranet Disclosing timely and accurate Holding general meetings of information the shareholders, ﬁnancial results brieﬁngs, investor Pursuing informational brieﬁngs, analyst brieﬁngs and transparency and other relevant meetings accountability Communicating information on Shareholders Executing the appropriate websites, shareholder and Investors premium redemption to correspondence, brieﬁng shareholders materials and in other relevant forms Responding to surveys for relevant assessment and research agencies such as SRI 41 Stakeholder Engagement | CSR Management Stakeholder Responsibilities Communication Methods Complying with all relevant Responding through expert and Government laws as well as reporting and relevant departments and Auditing delivering notiﬁcations Agencies Assembling the appropriate Participating in industry markets and competitive associations and other Industries and environment organizations Companies in the Same Oﬀering cooperation for the Business growth and development of our industry Building equal and fair Engaging in purchasing and relationships with business procurement activities partners Conducting safety conferences, Improving the occupational safety patrols and building health and safety environment contractor meetings Business Partners Complying with all relevant Conducting workshops and laws informational exchange meetings Conducting supplier evaluations (surveys and questionnaires) Conducting equal and fair Participating in various hiring practices brieﬁngs and other events Students Actively communicating Visiting schools information 42 Stakeholder Engagement | CSR Management Stakeholder Responsibilities Communication Methods Working cooperatively to solve Participating in employee social challenges volunteer activities NPOs /NGOs Providing business know-how Working cooperatively through social contribution activities Preserving the natural Providing an environment for environment and biodiversity business Reducing the environmental Supplying and standardizing impact of business activities environmentally-friendly housing Developing and providing products and services with Acting as volunteers in building Global minimal environmental impact forests such as in reforestation Environment Carrying on a dialogue with NPOs /NGOs Conducting environmental and social contribution activities linked to NPOs /NGOs Contributing to solutions to Participating in employee both global and local volunteer activities Global Society challenges in society and Local Supporting the formation of Communities communities through social contribution activities 43 CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Identifying Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues Following changes in the economic, environmental and social situation, in March 2015, the Sumitomo Forestry Group identiﬁed new CSR material issues to replace the ones speciﬁed in 2008. The Group surveyed both internal and external stakeholders as well as outside experts, receiving responses from about 2,700 people. In preparing the questionnaire, 27 issues most closely related to the Sumitomo Forestry Group were speciﬁed, based on the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy and Action Guidelines, and taking into account such matters as ISO 26000, the international standard on the social responsibility of organizations, and evaluation points linked to socially responsible investment (SRI). After incorporating management perspectives, the survey results were mapped out against axes of “management” and “stakeholders,” before determining the materiality of each issue. 12 of these issues were identiﬁed as being highly material, and rearranged into 5 issues for the Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues. 44 CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues ● Continue to procure wood and materials that take sustainability and biodiversity into consideration ● Promote the reduction of the environmental impact of our business activities ● Promote the development of workplaces where diverse personnel can work with vigor and enthusiasm, demonstrating their abilities and individuality ● Strengthen and promote risk management and compliance mechanisms ● Promote the development and sales of products and services that are safe, reliable and environmentally conscious Formulating the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan In March 2015, the Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan with ﬁscal 2020 as its target year. The Plan sets basic strategies and speciﬁc targets aimed at resolving the ﬁve “Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Material Issues” which were mapped out based on “management” and “stakeholders” perspectives. Regarding social and environmental issues to be accomplished by ﬁscal 2020, each Group company and department has commenced initiatives starting in ﬁscal 2015 aimed at achieving targets segmentalized for each ﬁscal year. A PDCA cycle is steadily followed, with progress and attainment of the annual targets based on the Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan being regularly checked twice a year by the Executive Committee, which is attended by those directors who also serve as executive oﬃcers as well as by senior statutory auditors. The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to promote CSR management even further. 45 CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Material Issue 1: Continue to Material Issue 2: Promote the procure wood and materials that Reduction of the Environmental take sustainability and Impact of Our Business Activities biodiversity into consideration Material Issue 4: Strengthen and Material Issue 3: Promote promote risk management and development of workplaces where compliance mechanisms diverse personnel can work with vigor and enthusiasm, demonstrating their abilities and individuality Material Issue 5: Promote the development and sales of products and services that are safe, reliable and environmentally conscious 46 Material Issue 1 | CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Basic policy As the worldʼs forests continue to decrease in size as a consequence of illegal logging, excessive slash-and-burn farming and other practices, various countries are proceeding to introduce laws and strengthen regulations to eliminate illegally logged timber from the market. Meanwhile, in Japan, maintenance of forests, and of plantation forests in particular, has halted in part because of a declining and aging forestry workforce, and there are growing concerns about some forests becoming devastated. Amid this situation, as the Sumitomo Forestry Group is engaged in business centered on wood, it is promoting sustainable forest management and sustainable procurement of wood both in Japan and overseas. Furthermore, since its ﬁelds of business are directly linked to forests that nurture biodiversity, the Group has positioned conserving biodiversity as one of its key CSR themes. Progress of the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and SDGs R Current awareness a FY2016 FY2016 t FY2017 FY2020 of issues and Evaluation metrics target result i target target basic strategies n g EnvironIncrease Percentage of certiﬁed mentally volume of timber among all 9% 10.9% ◯ 11.0% 12% responsible sustainable imported timber sold society wood 158 100 handled, Volume of exported 70 thousand 200 thousand ✕ thousand and utilize Japanese timber m³ thousand m³ m³ m³ sustainable Volume of plantation forest timber, certiﬁed timber, 781 812 964 resources by 783 and Japanese timber thousand thousand ◯ thousand verifying thousand m³ handled at distribution m³ m³ m³ legal hubs overseas compliance 773 812 861 Volume of fuel wood 800 thousand thousand ◯ thousand chips handled thousand m³ m³ m³ m³ Volume of certiﬁed timber 55 thousand 68 thousand 60 thousand 85 thousand (by SGEC) handled at ◯ m³ m³ m³ m³ distribution hubs in Japan Volume of unused wood resource handled from 181 kt 191 kt ◯ 200 kt 185 kt Japanese timber 47 Material Issue 1 | CSR Material Issues and Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management R Current awareness a FY2016 FY2016 t FY2017 FY2020 of issues and Evaluation metrics target result i target target basic strategies n g EnvironIncrease Percentage Multimentally volume of of Japanese Balance responsible sustainable timber used 72% 71% △ 72% 75% Construction society wood for new Method handled, custom-built and utilize detached Big-Frame sustainable housing Construction 51% 50% △ 51% 55% forest (Housing Method resources by Businesses) verifying Percentage of reviews legal conducted for wood compliance product suppliers who handle directly imported timber and wood 100% 100% ◯ 100% 100% products with veriﬁed legal compliance (Timber and wood product department) Establish forestry Percentage of certiﬁed management (by SGEC) forests in 100% 100% ◯ 100% 100% that enables newly acquired forests conservation managed by the Group of biodiversity, Number of native species 210,000 and value as 40,000 30,614 35,000 planted at new detached △ trees natural trees trees trees housing sites /6 years capital Rating ○︓Achieved △︓Achieved at least 70% of the target ✕︓Achieved less than 70% About symbol for Independent assurance Highlight 1: Nurturing Warmth in Wood and Protecting Society Highlight 3: Practicing Sustainable Forest Management Highlight 4: Regional Revitalization Starting from Seedlings 48 Material Issue 2 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Basic policy As the impact of climate change becomes more apparent globally, companies are being asked to reduce their emissions of greenhouse gases as a measure to counter global warming. Being engaged in the housing business and in the manufacturing of wooden panels and building materials, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is considerate of its impact on the environment, and is committed to reducing the volume of greenhouse gases emitted from its business activities. Furthermore, in an eﬀort to reduce its environmental impact and to use resources eﬀectively, the Group promotes the reduction, recycling and reuse of industrial waste. Progress of the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and SDGs R Current awareness a FY2016 FY2016 t FY2017 FY2020 of issues and basic Evaluation metrics target result i target target strategies n g LowReduction of In the oﬃce 4.8％ 7.8％ 7.2％ 7％ carbon CO 2 emissions segment reduction reduction reduction reduction society in the Group (consolidated Total Total Total Total ◯ company emissions emissions emissions emissions within and 33,746t32,660t32,887t32,959toutside Japan) CO 2 CO 2 CO 2 CO 2 Sumitomo Forestry Change in CO 2 8.1％ 13.9％ 13.3％ ◯ ー (oﬃces in emissions reduction reduction reduction Japan) compared to Aﬃliated FY2013 companies in 3.1％ 0.9％ 1.3％ ✕ ー Japan reduction reduction reduction (oﬃces) Aﬃliated companies 5.6％ 0.7％ 3.4％ ◯ ー outside Japan increase reduction increase (oﬃces) Kutai Timber Change in CO 2 At least 1% 1.9％ 3.1％ 0.9％ Indonesia emissions per ✕ reduction reduction increase reduction (Indonesia) production per year on Vina Eco volume average per compared to 2.2％ 5.4％ 7.4％ production Board ◯ the previous increase reduction reduction volume in (Vietnam) year FY 2015 AST Indonesia 0.9％ 16％ 8.5％ ✕ 2020 (Indonesia) increase increase reduction 49 Material Issue 2 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management R Current awareness a FY2016 FY2016 t FY2017 FY2020 of issues and basic Evaluation metrics target result i target target strategies n g LowAlpine MDF 4.6％ 10.6％ 3.3％ At least 1% carbon Industries ◯ increase reduction increase reduction society (Australia) per year on Reduction of Nelson Pine 0.4％ 0.7％ 2.7％ average per CO 2 emissions Industries ◯ reduction reduction increase production in the Group (New Zealand) volume in Rimba Partikel 18.3％ 15.8％ 10.1％ FY 2015 Indonesia ✕ reduction increase reduction 2020 (Indonesia) Solar power generation systems （kW） 6,371kW 3,717kW 3,355kW 10,951kW ✕ (Quantity handled by （1,356 sets） （791 sets） （714 sets） （2,330 sets） * distribution hubs in Japan) Percentage of Green Smart houses Reduction of (Number of Green Smart CO 2 emissions houses when an order is 70.0％ 61.6％ △ 70.0％ 80.0％ outside the placed for new custom-built Group detached housing / total (products, number of houses ordered) service recipients) Percentage of Green Smart・ ZEH type custom-built detached houses At least (Number of Green Smart・ZEH 6.0％ 21.3％ ◯ 35.0％ 80.0％ type when construction started/total number of houses that started construction) * Only covers ZEH properties that are subsidized (properties that are not planned to apply for subsidies are not checked for ZEH conformity in ﬁscal 2015 and ﬁscal 2016 target). Changed to include actual data of all properties with Sustainable open Innovation Initiative (SII) standards during ﬁscal 2016 due to registration of ZEH properties becoming possible by with SII. The ﬁscal 2020 target has also been revised with this standard. Rating ◯︓Achieved △︓Achieved at least 70% of the target ✕︓Achieved less than 70% Highlight 2: Opening Future Avenues to Wood Biomass Power Generation Highlight 6: Contributing to a Low-carbon Society 50 Material Issue 2 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management R Current awareness of a FY2016 FY2016 t FY2017 FY2020 issues and basic Evaluation metrics target result i target target strategies n g Recycling rate at new 91.5％ 92.5％ ◯ 92.0％ 98.0％ Achieve zero housing construction sites Recycling emissions Recycling rate at society 74.1％ 76.2％ ◯ 79.4％ 80.0％ remodeling sites Reduction in industrial Reduce waste generated at new 17.6％ 8.8％ 26％ 30％ ✕ volume of housing construction sites reduction reduction reduction reduction industrial compared to FY 2013 waste Change in industrial waste 3.7％ 2.6％ 3.5％ At least 2% generated per sales cost * compared to ◯ increase reduction reduction reduction FY 2014 * Cost of in-house sales for manufacturing facilities in Japan Rating ◯︓Achieved △︓Achieved at least 70% of the target ✕︓Achieved less than 70% Economic Eﬀect Seen by Promoting the Reduction of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Activities Eﬀects Value (million yen) Income Proﬁt on sold for value 35 Cost Reduction Amount saved as a result of energy-saving eﬀorts 544 Cost Reduction *Include the ﬂuctuation of petroleum price Amount saved as a result of waste reduction eﬀorts 65 Total 644 Rating ◯︓Achieved △︓Achieved at least 70% of the target ✕︓Achieved less than 70% About symbol for Independent assurance 51 Material Issue 3 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Basic policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to foster a safe and healthy workplace environment where motivated employees can be actively involved without regards to gender, age, nationality, race, religion or disability. In an endeavor to actively engage female employees in particular, the Group released the “Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women.” It was issued to the entire Group under the name of the President, and has been the basis for subsequent eﬀorts. Progress of the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and SDGs Current awareness of FY2016 FY2016 FY2017 FY2020 issues and Evaluation metrics Rating target result target target basic strategies Sumitomo 2.9% 3.2% *1 ◯ 3.3% At least 5％ Promote fair Female employees in Forestry employment management positions Consolidated and treatment ー 5% *1 ー ー ー in Japan Sumitomo At least 19.5% 20.1% *1 ◯ 20.0% Forestry 20％ Female employees Consolidated ー 25.4% *1 ー ー ー in Japan Sumitomo 2.12% 2.2％ Forestry Disabled Employees At least 2% △ At least 2％ Consolidated 1.45% *2 2.0% in Japan Sumitomo 10 days or 8 days 6.9 days △ 10 days Forestry more Paid leave usage Target set Target set Consolidated by each 40% ー by each 50% in Japan Promote workcompany company life balance Overtime working hours (Reduction from Sumitomo the average overtime ▲14.8％ ▲7.5％ ✕ ▲14.8％ ▲30％ Forestry working hours in FY2013) Strengthen Number of occupational occupational injuries Sumitomo 0 3 ✕ 0 0 health and in Company-owned Forestry safety forests *3 52 Material Issue 3 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Current awareness of FY2016 FY2016 FY2017 FY2020 issues and Evaluation metrics Rating target result target target basic strategies Strengthen Number of occupational occupational injuries Sumitomo 0 12 ✕ 0 0 health and at new construction Forestry safety sites *4 Number of Target set Target set Consolidated occupational injuries by each 8 ー by each 0 in Japan in other places *4 company company *1 Data as of April 1, 2017 *2 Data as of June 2016 *3 Number of occupational injuries involving contractors at work sites in Company-owned forests *4 Number of cases covered by temporary absence with work compensation beneﬁts under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act Rating ○︓Achieved △︓Did not achieve but improved from the previous year ✕: Did not achieved and no improvement or worse performance About symbol for Independent assurance Highlight 5: Supporting Work-style Innovation 53 Material Issue 4 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Basic policy We are working to reinforce the mechanism for managing business risk̶which also encompasses Group companies̶by constantly managing prioritized risks through the CSR/Risk Management Committee. Progress of the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Current awareness FY2016 FY2016 FY2017 FY2020 of issues Rating target result target target and basic strategies Reviewed Check the Check the target items progress on progress on and shared Manage risks the 41 the 36 case reports by using Strengthen prioritized risk prioritized risk on emerging prioritized risk risk items at the items at the risks at the ◯ items set by management quarterly quarterly Risk monthly the CSR/Risk framework CSR/Risk Management Board of Management Management Committee Executive Committee. Committee meeting. Oﬃcers meeting. meetings. Rating ○︓Achieved △︓Achieved at least 70% of the target ✕︓Achieved less than 70% 54 Material Issue 5 | CSR Material Issue and the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan | CSR Management Basic policy Sumitomo Forestry believes that popularizing durable, high-quality houses as social assets plays an important role in creating a prosperous society. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry actively promotes the use of the Excellent Long-term Housing Certiﬁcation and the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System for customerʼs peace of mind and safety and in order to enhance property value. Progress of the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan and SDGs Current awareness of FY 2016 FY2016 FY2017 FY2020 issues and Evaluation metrics Rating target result target target basic strategies Improve Ratio of design performance safety and At least At least At least evaluations implemented for new 98.8% ◯ quality 90% 90% 90% custom-built detached housing Ratio of construction performance At least At least At least evaluations implemented for new 97.8% ◯ 90% 90% 90% custom-built detached housing Ratio of houses certiﬁed as At least At least At least Excellent Long-term Housing for 93.3% ◯ 90% 90% 90% new custom-built housing Pass rate for after-sales maintenance advisors and housing Improve inspectors (All persons assigned to 100% 100% ◯ 100% 100% communication Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., with Ltd. in charge of maintenance) customers Ratio of early completion of handing the as-built drawing for 80% 77% △ 83% 90％ new custom-built detached housing Rating ○︓Achieved △︓Achieved at least 70% of the target ✕︓Achieved less than 70% Highlight 6: Contributing to a Low-carbon Society 55 Management System Corporate Governance Risk Management Compliance Respect for Human Rights Business Continuity Management Information Security Intellectual Property Management 56 Corporate Governance | Management System Corporate Governance Basic Concepts of Corporate Governance Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) seeks to ensure management transparency as well as appropriateness and legality of its business and strives to promote expeditious decision-making and business execution under the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʻs corporate philosophy of “utilizing timber as a renewable and environmentally friendly natural resource, and contributing to a prosperous society through all types of housing-related services,” following one of our Action Guidelines that requires us to “conduct business that is beneﬁcial to society based on the principles of integrity and sound management.” By further enhancing and strengthening its corporate governance through these eﬀorts, the Company aims to continuously increase its corporate value and conduct management that lives up to expectations of various stakeholders around the Group. Integrated Report / Annual Report Corporate Governance and Internal Control Sumitomo Forestry introduced the executive oﬃcer system to separate decision making and management oversight from operational execution functions. Comprised of ten directors (nine male, one female) including two outside directors (one male, one female), the Board of Directors is structured to take quick decisions. The oversight function of the Board of Directors has been strengthened, the lines of operational responsibility clariﬁed, and the Chairman of the Board of Directors no longer serves as an executive oﬃcer. Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee has been established to provide advice on selecting director and auditor candidates and executive oﬃcers as well as compensation of directors and executive oﬃcers, for the purpose of ensuring transparency and fairness of decision-making. Sumitomo Forestry has a board of company auditors. In addition to attending important meetings within the Company, the auditors provide oversight for the directors' execution of duties, through sharing information and opinions with auditors at Group companies and the staﬀ in the Internal Audit Division, and by supervising staﬀ assisting auditing operations. As of June 23, 2017, ten directors (including two outside directors), ﬁve auditors (including three outside auditors) and 20 executive oﬃcers had been appointed to the Company. The Company notiﬁed Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. of the designation of the two outside directors and three outside statutory auditors as independent oﬃcers as required by its regulations. 57 Corporate Governance | Management System Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Directors and Executive Oﬃcers (link to Corporate Information) Corporate Governance Structure Board of Directors and Executive Committee In principle, the Board of Directors meets once a month, making decisions and carrying out its supervisory function for important issues in accordance with its discussion standards. In addition to making decisions on all important items and conﬁrming business results, it supervises the directors' execution of their duties. The Executive Committee, which is an advisory body for the President, holds meetings twice a month, before the Board of Directors meeting to ensure that there is suﬃcient prior discussion on important issues. It is attended by those directors who also serve as executive oﬃcers, as well as the full-time statutory auditors as a general principle. The Company ensures prompt decision-making and separation of supervision and operational execution functions, for eﬀective performance of the Board of Directors. Board of Directors meetings were held 15 times while Executive Committee meetings were held 24 times in ﬁscal 2016. 58 Corporate Governance | Management System Attendance of Directors at Meetings of the Board Directors (FY2016) Board of Directors Name and Responsibility/Expertise Attended Attendance Meetings Rate Chairman of the Board and Ryu Yano ― 14 93% Representative Director President and Akira President and Executive Representative 15 100% Ichikawa Oﬃcer Director Executive Vice President/ Executive Oﬃcer Representative Hitoshi In charge of Secretarial, 15 100% Director Hayano Corporate Communications and CSR Executive Vice President/ Representative Shigeru Executive Oﬃcer 15 100% Director Sasabe Divisional Manager of Overseas Business Division Senior Managing Executive Oﬃcer In charge of Environment Director Ken Wada 14 93% and Resources Division, Lifestyle Service Division and TOP2020 Promotion Senior Managing Executive Oﬃcer Supervisor of Corporate Planning and Finance and in Tatsuru Charge of General Director 15 100% Satoh Administration, Personnel, Information Systems, Intellectual Property, Internal Auditing and the Tsukuba Research Institute Managing Executive Oﬃcer Akihisa Director Divisional Manager of Timber 15 100% Fukuda & Building Materials Division 59 Corporate Governance | Management System Board of Directors Name and Responsibility/Expertise Attended Attendance Meetings Rate Managing Executive Oﬃcer In Charge of Tohoku Toshiro Reconstruction Support Director 15 100% Mitsuyoshi Department and Divisional Manager of the Housing Division Outside Junko Lawyer 15 100% Director Hirakawa Partner of City-Yuwa Partners Outside Izumi 12 100% Director Yamashita *1 The areas each is in charge as well as their expertise is current as of April 1, 2017 *2 In addition to the above, Board of Directors approval in writing was executed once based on the terms and conditions in Article 370 of the Companies Act of Japan and the Articles of Incorporation (April 19, 2016) *3 Since appointed Director at the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016, Izumi Yamashita has attended all of the all Board of Directors meetings. Structure of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is composed of 17 individuals in a structure built on expertise, such as knowledge, experience, skill, and diversity. Sumitomo Forestry considers diversity such as gender and nationality as well as expertise which includes those who have a wealth of experience and success in the operations of the Sumitomo Forestry Group, those who have a wealth of experience and success in business such as corporate management, industry and policy and those who have specializations such as law and accounting. Nomination Procedure for Directors Director candidates are selected at the Board of Directors from the pool of personnel with superior personality trait and acumen, and potential value to the Company, consulting with the Appointment and Remuneration Advisory Committee. Summaries of background and interlocking status of the directors are available on the website. In the selection procedure of outside directors, candidates must not be applicable to any of the below listed criteria to insure their independence to the Company. 1. Companyʼs operations executives Executive director, executive oﬃcer, operating oﬃcer, manager, or other directly hired person by the Company, its subsidiary, or its aﬃliate (herein; “operations executives”). 60 Corporate Governance | Management System 2. Consultants （1）Employee, partner, or any other staﬀ hired by an auditing ﬁrm who provide auditing services for the Company or its subsidiaries. （2）lawyer, certiﬁed accountant, tax accountant, or other consultant whose annual compensation and other forms of monetary beneﬁts given by the Company or its subsidiaries, exclusive of directorʼs remuneration, has exceeded ten million yen in the past three years. （3）employee, partner, associate, or other staﬀ hired by a law, auditing, tax law, consulting or any other advisory ﬁrm whose major client is the Company or its subsidiaries. (The major client means a companyʼs received payment in a year by the Company or its subsidiaries has exceeded 2% of its consolidated total sales in the past three years.) 3. Major shareholder (non-owner) Person who directly and or indirectly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the Company; i.e. operations executive if a holder is a company. 4. Major shareholder (owner) Operations executive of a company which holds 10% or more of the voting power of the Company or its subsidiaries. 5. Business Partners （1）Client (major clients): person or operations executive of a client whose purchase exceeds 2% of the consolidated total sales of the Company （2）Supplier (of which the Company is a major client): person or operations executive of a supplier of which the Companyʼs purchase exceeds 2% of the consolidated total sales of the supplier 6. Lender Lender from which the Companyʼs borrowing exceeds 2% of the consolidated total asset of the company; i.e. operations executive in case of a company 7. Recipient of contribution Individual or operations executive of a corporate recipient of a donation from the Company or its subsidiaries whose annual average amount exceeds 10 million yen or 2% of total income of the recipient in the last three years. 8. Family Spouse, next of kin within the second degree, or live-in member of a family of the person whose independency is rejected by this list of criteria 61 Corporate Governance | Management System 9. Background Item 1 is applicable in at any time in the past 10 years, or Item 2 or 7 is applicable at any time in the past 5 years. 10. Inter-assumption of outside executive oﬃcer Executive director or statutory auditor of a company whose executive directors or statutory auditors include the Company or its subsidiaryʼs Two of our current outside directors are considered independent based on the above list of independency criteria, not to pose a conﬂict of interest with general shareholders. Directors and Executive Oﬃcers Board of Statutory Auditors The Board of Statutory Auditors meets to discuss and make decisions on important matters regarding audits. The ﬁve auditors, including the three outside auditors, utilize the deep insights and diverse perspectives they have acquired from their various business backgrounds to provide oversight for the directors' execution of duties. The Board of Statutory Auditors met 14 times during ﬁscal 2016. The appropriate human resources are also appointed as auditors at our main subsidiaries for the purpose of improving the eﬀectiveness of auditing and informational exchange at these companies. Meetings of Statutory Auditors of Sumitomo Forestry and its subsidiary companies are held with members composed of full-time statutory auditors of Sumitomo Forestry as well as auditors of our main subsidiaries. The Board of Statutory Auditors met 6 times during ﬁscal 2016. In the selection procedure of outside auditors, candidates must not be applicable to any of the below listed criteria to insure their independence to the Company. 1. Company's operation executives Executive director, executive oﬃcer, operating oﬃcer, manager, or other directly hired person by the Company, its subsidiary, or its aﬃliate (herein; “operations executives”). 2. Consultants （1）Employee, partner, or any other staﬀ hired by an auditing ﬁrm who provide auditing services for the Company or its subsidiaries. 62 Corporate Governance | Management System （2）lawyer, certiﬁed accountant, tax accountant, or other consultant whose annual compensation and other forms of monetary beneﬁts given by the Company or its subsidiaries, exclusive of directorʼs remuneration, has exceeded ten million yen in the past three years. （3）employee, partner, associate, or other staﬀ hired by a law, auditing, tax law, consulting or any other advisory ﬁrm whose major client is the Company or its subsidiaries. (The major client means a companyʼs received payment in a year by the Company or its subsidiaries has exceeded 2% of its consolidated total sales in the past three years.) 3. Major shareholder (non-owner) Person who directly and or indirectly holds 10% or more of the voting power of the Company; i.e. operations executive if a holder is a company. 4. Major shareholder (owner) Operations executive of a company which holds 10% or more of the voting power of the Company or its subsidiaries. 5. Business Partners （1）Client (major clients): person or operations executive of a client whose purchase exceeds 2% of the consolidated total sales of the Company （2）Supplier (of which the Company is a major client): person or operations executive of a supplier of which the Companyʼs purchase exceeds 2% of the consolidated total sales of the supplier 6. Lender Lender from which the Companyʼs borrowing exceeds 2% of the consolidated total asset of the company; i.e. operations executive in case of a company 7. Recipient of contribution Individual or operations executive of a corporate recipient of a donation from the Company or its subsidiaries whose annual average amount exceeds 10 million yen or 2% of total income of the recipient in the last three years. 8. Family Spouse, next of kin within the second degree, or live-in member of a family of the person whose independency is rejected by this list of criteria 63 Corporate Governance | Management System 9. Background Item 1 is applicable in at any time in the past 10 years, or Item 2 or 7 is applicable at any time in the past 5 years.10． 10. Inter-assumption of outside executive oﬃcer Executive director or statutory auditor of a company whose executive directors or statutory auditors include the Company or its subsidiaryʼs Three of our current outside auditors are considered independent based on the above list of independency criteria, not to pose a conﬂict of interest with general shareholders. Attendance of Auditors at the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors (FY2016) Board of Statutory Board of Directors Auditors Name and Expertise Attended Attendance Attended Attendance Meetings Rate Meetings Rate Statutory Hidekazu 15 100% 14 100% Auditor Tanaka Statutory Noriaki Toi 15 100% 14 100% Auditor Certiﬁed Outside Satoshi Public 15 100% 14 100% Auditor Teramoto Accountant Senior Advisor of Outside Katsuhide Sumitomo 15 100% 14 100% Auditor Kurasaka Electric Industries, Ltd. Chief Counselor, Outside Yoshitsugu Norinchukin 12 100% 11 100% Auditor Minagawa Research Institute Co., Ltd. *1 The expertise of each person is current as of April 1, 2017 *2 Since he assumed as auditor at the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016, Yoshitsugu Minagawa has attended all Board of Directors and Board of Auditors meetings. 64 Corporate Governance | Management System Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee The board of directors will set up a Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee as an advisory body to the board to develop a fair and transparent corporate governance system. The Committee will consist of Chairman, the President, and all outside executives (two outside directors and three outside auditors) where the majority must be outside executives, and the chairperson must be an outside director. The Board of directors determines the directors and executive oﬃcersʼ remunerations within the amount speciﬁed by resolution of the general meeting of shareholders, taking into consideration the opinions stated by the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee. CSR/Risk Management Committee Information regarding the CSR/Risk Management Committee is found in “Risk Management/ Risk Management Structure.” In ﬁscal 2016, the Risk Management Committee, Compliance Sub-Committee, and BCP Sub-Committee met four times, twice, and four times, respectively, while the Board of Directors received four sessions of reporting. * The CSR/Risk Management Committee is a place of cooperation and informational sharing from a CSR perspective not only from the perspective of conventional risk management but also issues such as the management progress of challenges in CSR initiatives that is organized as a traditional risk management committee that includes the necessary promotion of CSR management. Risk Management Framework Internal Audits Sumitomo Forestry's Internal Audit Department draws on risk assessments in selecting about 60 business sites from among the roughly 200 business sites, including subsidiaries, each year to conduct internal audits. The sites are selected by specifying an order of priority based on the two perspectives of operational risk (business results, size, complexity of business, etc.) and control risk (risk management framework). In the internal audits, the department checks on how a site is executing its operations and managing its oﬃce work, including its compliance with laws and regulations, and it reports its ﬁndings to the President, the executive oﬃcer in charge of internal audits and to internal auditors, as well as to the manager responsible for the site and the executive oﬃcer or director in charge of the business site. Furthermore, if any indications have been made, the department checks the improvement eﬀorts implemented at the site, such as by examining documents and conducting quarterly follow-up reviews, in accordance with the necessary compliance to laws and internal regulations and reports on these to the President and to the executive oﬃcer in charge. Integrated Report / Annual Report 65 Corporate Governance | Management System Executive Remuneration In accordance with laws and regulations, Sumitomo Forestry discloses the remuneration paid to oﬃcers (directors and auditors) each ﬁscal year. Total Remuneration Paid to Directors and Auditors (FY2016) Number Category of Total Amount (Yen) Personnel Director 10 537 million Auditors 6 76 million Total 16 612 million *1 One director who resigned at the conclusion of the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016 is included in the above. *2 Total amounts of directorʼs remuneration does not include a compensation as an employee or a compensation for the execution of other duties. *3 Total amounts of directorʼs remuneration includes the total bonus of 146 million yen as resolved by the 77th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2017. *4 Total amounts of directorʼs remuneration includes the cost of 33 million yen allocating stock options for eight directors (excluding outside directors). *5 Upper limits of directors and auditorsʼ remunerations are as below. （1）The amount of remuneration for directors of no more than 4 million yen per month (no more than 5 million yen per month for outside directors) was approved at the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016. （2）The amount of remuneration concerning stock acquisition rights as stock-based compensation stock option of no more than 100 million yen for directors (excluding outside directors) per year was approved at the 75th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2015. （3）The amount of remuneration for auditors of no more than 8 million yen per month was approved a the 74th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2014. *6 Of the total remuneration of directors and auditor, the total amount paid to outside executives are shown the table below Total Remuneration Paid to Outside Executives (FY2016) Number of Personnel Total Amount (Yen) 6 52 million * One director who resigned at the conclusion of the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016 is included in the above. 66 Corporate Governance | Management System Calculation Method of Remuneration for Directors Remuneration for directors comprises three types: monthly remuneration as basic remuneration, shared-based payment type stock options, and bonuses tied to business performance. (Monthly remuneration) Remuneration for direct ors is determined within the monetary amount approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders by considering the level of consolidated recurring income and other management indicators. 4 million yen per month (no more than 5 million yen per month for outside directors) was approved at the 76th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 24, 2016, and this ﬁxed amount is paid every month. (Shared-based payment type stock options) Subscription rights are allocated to directors as a form of shared-based payment type stock options. These subscription rights shall allow directors to exercises these rights after the stated ﬁxed period passes for these subscription rights. The amount of remuneration for acquisition rights as shared-based payment type stock options shall be no more than 100 million yen for directors per year as approved at the 75th General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 23, 2015. (Bonuses) Bonuses are paid to directors (excluding outside directors) every year after receiving approval at the General Meeting of Shareholders. 67 Risk Management | Management System Risk Management Risk Management Framework In order to reinforce its framework for managing risks for the entire Group, Sumitomo Forestry has created the CSR/Risk Management Basic Regulations and has appointed the President of Sumitomo Forestry as the highest authority on risk management for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. The Regulation encompasses risks in social, environmental, and economic dimensions, comprehensively. The Company also established the CSR/Risk Management Committee, comprised of the Company president as chairperson, together with all of executive oﬃcers. Each executive oﬃcer identiﬁes and analyzes the priority risks to be addressed in their respective area of responsibility, including at Group companies, and formulates plans for managing those risks. These are then shared and discussed at quarterly meetings of the CSR/Risk Management Committee. Executive Oﬃcers and Directors attend this committee as it outlines and reports about the content of the activities to the Board of Directors to put in place systems representative of the business. A Compliance Subcommittee and a BCP Subcommittee have also been established under the command of the CSR/Risk Management Committee. These are chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department, and are comprised of the executives in charge of risk management at each Group company. These subcommittees carry out speciﬁc activities for increasing eﬀectiveness against “compliance risk” in relation to the Construction Business Act and other core businesses, and against “business interruption risk” such as large-scale disasters, which are both regarded as cross-sectional risks aﬀecting the Group. Against risks in social, environmental, and economic dimensions speciﬁed in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Rules, tangible actions have been taken to increase eﬀectiveness. During ﬁscal 2016, the Risk Management Committee, the Compliance sub-committee, and the BCP sub-committee met four times, twice, and four times, respectively, and reports were also submitted to the Board of Directors four times. During ﬁscal 2017, in order to respond properly to changes in the risks faced by the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Company will strengthen its risk management framework, by taking stock of its managed risks and by following a PDCA cycle in making continuous improvements with respect to the priority risks selected at the beginning of each period. * The Risk Management Basic Regulations were revised as the CSR/Risk Management Basic Regulations in ﬁscal 2017 to promote CSR management by strengthening the structure from an ESG perspective that goes beyond a conventional risk management point-of-view. In conjunction with these revisions, the Risk Management Committee was also restructured as the CSR/Risk Management Committee. 68 Risk Management | Management System Risk Management Structure of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Risks in Operations The following risks have been identiﬁed in operations as stated on the Security Reports. （1）Trends of housing markets （2）Changes of legislative regulations （3）Competition with other corporations （4）Capital and investment strategies （5）Market status of timber, building materials and other raw materials （6）Currency ﬂuctuation （7）Quality assurance （8）Overseas operations （9）Obligatory retirement fund （10）Stock market （11）Natural disasters （12）Information security （13）Environment and the relevant matters （14）Value falls of assets 69 Risk Management | Management System （15）Credit facility of business partners （16）Litigation risks （17）Funding risks Securities Reports /Internal Control Reports Compliance Business Continuity Management ■ Risks Associated with Illegal Logging Illegal logging is recognized as a crucial issue globally, and progress is being made to strengthen related laws and regulations in a number of countries and regions. Japan has announced the Act on Promotion of Use and Distribution of Legally-Harvested Wood and Wood Products (Clean Wood Act) on May 20, 2016, which was enacted on May 20, 2017. Addressing stronger control of illegally harvested timber not only responds to the requirements of the world but it is also extremely important for the Sumitomo Forestry Group to continue businesses sustainably. Impact on the Sumitomo Forestry Group The Sumitomo Forestry Group could jeopardize its own businesses that handle wood resources if it neglected its duty and dealt in illegally logged timber. Moreover, these actions would harm the image of the company and could directly damage our business performance such as compensation for damage and turnover. Risk Countermeasures The Sumitomo Forestry Group has been committed to responsible timber procurement, pioneering legislation in Japan and having established the Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in 2005, to bring contributions to a sustainable society via business activities of “wood” –a renewable resource. In 2015, Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy was extended beyond timber and became subject to procurement of building materials, raw materials of products, and end products, and reestablished as Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy. The Groupʼs economically, socially and environmentally responsible procurement today is being carried out based on the policy. Measures Addressing a Culture Highly Sensitive to Risk As ways to increase the sensitivity of risk in the executives and employees and in the corporate culture of the Sumitomo Forestry Group, the Group conducts e-learning each year for executives and employees as well as a risk management training for newly joined employees. In 2016, the Group introduced and shared examples from risks emerged in the past that should be noted beyond speciﬁc business departments in a meeting-type venue for people in charge of risk management at the Company and each Group company. 70 Risk Management | Management System Rapidly Comprehending and Dealing with Risks The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates Two-hour Rule system designed to quickly and accurately communicate information to management in the event of an emergency situation that may have a grave impact on company management. In addition to the regular reporting line, it utilizes communication via the Division responsible for risk management. Through this system, management can take the best decision speedily, ensuring an initial response which avoids loss and controls the situation. Moreover, it serves a role in collecting and accumulating reported cases and assists in improved business practice and prevention of recurrence. Furthermore, the structure is organized so that, by sharing information with the public relations departments, important situations are disclosed to stakeholders properly and in a timely manner. Two-Hour Rule and Use of Risk Information 71 Compliance | Management System Compliance Basic policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group established the new Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct as a foundation for its policies and regulations. The Sumitomo Forestry Group uses the Code of Conduct for compliance not only at its Group companies but also at its suppliers to prevent corruption such as bribery, engage in fair business practices, maintain informational conﬁdentiality, build healthy relationships with politicians, and respect human rights. Compliance Promotion Framework Sumitomo Forestry established the Compliance Subcommittee as a subordinate organization under the CSR/Risk Management Committee, chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department and comprised of the persons responsible for risk management, including those from the responsible departments at each Group company. As a cross-cutting organization across the Group, the subcommittee promotes responses to compliance risk. It has established the Group standard risk management system and tools to ensure compliance with the Construction Business Act of Japan and other laws throughout the Group, for eﬃcient response to compliance risk. During ﬁscal 2016, the subcommittee met twice, and continuing on with its Group-wide initiatives from the previous ﬁscal year, it worked to make continuous improvements to its compliance system, such as making a comprehensive examination of risks with respect to legal requirements, such as for business activities requiring government permits and licenses. In addition, by acquiring the latest knowledge in the ﬁeld through compliance seminars featuring external expert instructors, the Company endeavors to align the perspectives of those persons throughout the Group who are responsible for compliance, working bottom-up. The seminars also provide an opportunity to build an awareness of risks that can be shared across the Group. These activities are outlined and reported to the Board of Directors once every quarter to build a system to reﬂect this information into the execution of our businesses. In addition to making monthly activity reports to auditors and internal audit divisions, any particularly important initiatives or risk information that is common to the Group is shared with the auditors in each Group company via the Group Audit Committee. Thus, the Group has developed a system for promoting compliance in its lines of business execution using internal and external approaches. 72 Compliance | Management System Compliance Training In order to heighten awareness among each and every employee about compliance, Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts compliance training for new employees to promote their understanding about general compliance issues, such as traﬃc safety, information security and intellectual property. In ﬁscal 2016, training was delivered to 326 new graduate recruits and 68 mid-career recruits. Compliance training was also provided to groups of employees at speciﬁc levels, including “Training for New General Manager.” Furthermore, two e-learning courses, “Compliance and Risk Management” and “Information Security” have been set as parts of compulsory courses to be taken by all employees who can use the internal website, and employees are required to take these courses annually. In addition, each Group company in Japan and overseas also has its own arrangements for training, such as for new employees. Compliance Counter The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to creating a workplace environment equipped with a self-corrective function for catching any impropriety concealed in dayto-day operations at an early stage. To this end, the Group established the Compliance Counters (advice desks) in 2002 in order to prevent corruption such as anti-bribery, deﬁned in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct. The Group has two Compliance Counters, one within the Group (general manager of the General Administration Department is responsible) and one external to it (lawyer), ready to provide advice and receive reports via telephone or a dedicated email address. The Counters not only assist Group company employees but are available for anyone who works continuously for the Group, such as employees at collaborative workshops. As well as stipulating in the relevant regulations and user manual about the protection of rights for persons seeking advice or making reports, and informing this on the Sumitomo Forestry intranet, the user manual is also distributed to all Group employees. In ﬁscal 2016, the Compliance Counters were contacted with ten times about such topics as the workplace environments and working hours. In cases where the facts were conﬁrmed, in addition to implementing the necessary corrective measures, initiatives were promoted aimed at preventing recurrence including using these examples in training for managers. 73 Compliance | Management System Manual for the Compliance Counters Preventing Corruption Based on the Sumitomo Forestryʼs Regulations for Prevention of Bribery of Oﬃcials including Public Servants, we aim preventing corruption both in Japan and overseas. The rules stipulate that monetary and other forms of beneﬁt oﬀering, agreement, provision, and acceptance to or from government employees are forbidden. As our basic principles, notion to facilitation payments * as well as conditions and pre-approvals for political contributions are stated. Aiming at Group employees, the Group also facilitates dissemination of corruption and bribery prevention. One of the Company's CSR targets was the establishment of separate regulations at consolidated subsidiaries in Japan during ﬁscal 2014. Consolidated subsidiaries overseas will prepare regulations based on an aspect of the risk-based approach, implement staﬀ training and promote general awareness. Subsidiaries in China have already prepared and implemented regulations. Eﬀorts to formulate regulations at consolidated subsidiaries in Indonesia and Vietnam moved forward in ﬁscal 2015 and, in ﬁscal 2016, those regulations were put in place at a consolidated subsidiary established in ﬁscal 2015. When new contractors and representative agencies are hired, the Company oversees that these new business partners pose no risks of bribery whilst conducting appropriate due diligence including on corruption status in the case of a merger with other companies. In ﬁscal 2016, no violation of corruption and relevant laws was identiﬁed. * Small amount of payment to facilitate regular administrative services 74 Compliance | Management System Promotion of Fair Competition and Appropriate Transactions with Subcontractors For the purpose of promoting fair competition, Sumitomo Forestry published the Antimonopoly Act Guide Book, and via its intranet website and through training for new general managers, it works to enhance understanding and awareness regarding the intent and outline of the Antimonopoly Act and about the risk of cartels stemming from contact with competitors. There were no breaches or issues related to the Antimonopoly Act in ﬁscal 2016. Given that the Groupʼs business activities are supported by many business partners, every year, Sumitomo Forestry also makes a comprehensive examination of its compliance with the Subcontract Act and the Construction Business Act for the purpose of promoting appropriate transactions with subcontractors. Restriction of Insider Trading The Sumitomo Forestry Group adheres to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act as well as other relevant laws to prevent insider trading. Regulations to prevent insider trading maintains and improves the trust society has for the company in the stock market by clarifying procedures to prevent insider training by executives and employees as well as the management of information and disclosure methods. In addition, executives and employees who have the potential to come into contact with insider information on a daily basis are required as policy to gain the prior approval of the General Manager of the General Administration Department if they plan to buy or sell company stock to ensure the appropriateness. The Group also has published an Insider Trading Prevention Manual and raises awareness through its internal websites in addition to reminding the executives and employees twice a year about the prevention of insider trading. There were no breaches or issues related to insider trading in ﬁscal 2016. Rejection of Inﬂuence from Anti-Social Forces The Sumitomo Forestry Group's Code of Conduct state that the “inﬂuence from antisocial forces will be met with a resolute attitude and no compromises will be tolerated” as its basic policy. The General Administration Department is designated as the division to coordinate overall response and systematically cooperates with external expert bodies such as the police and lawyers in order to gather information about anti-social forces, and when required, gives guidance in issuing warning notices. In addition, in accordance with the enforcement of laws of each prefecture for the exclusion of organized crime, Sumitomo Forestry takes appropriate action including standardization such that all contracts that domestic Group companies enter into with third parties include a clause to exclude anti-social elements. 75 Compliance | Management System To further strengthen its eﬀorts, since ﬁscal 2013, the Company has requested that all business partners, including its existing contracted partners, provide declarations guaranteeing that neither they nor their parent, subsidiary or subcontracting companies are anti-social forces. Prevention of Traﬃc Accidents and Violations Given that the Sumitomo Forestry Group has a ﬂeet of about 7,000 vehicles used for either work or commuting in Japan, it promotes use of a standard Group system for managing safe driving to manage the risks associated with traﬃc accidents and violations. Speciﬁcally, as well as establishing related rules, standardizing accident report forms, and acquiring Certiﬁed Driving Records *, Sumitomo Forestry has rolled out a Safe Driving Management System to each Group company which centrally manages basic driver and vehicle information (licenses, traﬃc violation histories, vehicle inspections, insurance, etc.), and has established systems for ensuring that the fulﬁllment of statutory obligations and driver instruction are carried out in a timely and appropriate manner. Sumitomo Forestry also holds monthly meetings for the Safe Driving Working Group, which is comprised of safe driving coordinators from Head Oﬃce and business divisions. The group shares and analyzes the state of traﬃc accidents and violations, helping in the formulation of prevention measures and educational activities. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry also conducts driving aptitude assessments authorized by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), targeting new employees who are at a greater risk of accident due to insuﬃcient driving skills and experience, so that they can be aware of their own driving aptitude. Training is also provided to give participants hints on how to avoid traﬃc accidents and so that they can reaﬃrm their mental readiness for safe driving. * A certiﬁcate issued by the Japan Safe Driving Center showing a driverʼs violations and administrative disciplinary actions, etc. Compliance Auditing The internal auditing departments evaluate and investigate the appropriateness and validity of the management system at Sumitomo Forestry and its 200 operational sites from an independent standpoint. In ﬁscal 2016, roughly 60 sites were selected to conduct internal auditing. These audits not only examine simple imperfections but also point out issues related to compliance at each site and work to give advice for improvement. In addition, in the event a compliance breach is found, the issue is reported to the President, executive oﬃcer in charge, the statutory auditor and the supervising department to put in place the necessary reform measures while oﬀering advice on how to correct and improve the point of issues in the relevant departments. 76 Respect for Human Rights | Management System Respect for Human Rights Basic Policy on Respect for Human Rights The Sumitomo Forestry Group has signed the UN Global Compact in December 2008. The Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct were formulated by referring to various international standards such as the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and it works to raise awareness with measures such as training. The Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct are also included on our website not only in Japanese but also in English and it will be translated into other languages of countries where there are Group companies overseas to give access to these rules to our many stakeholders in addition to raising the awareness of all of our employees. Corporate Philosophy・Action Guidelines Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Measures against Human Rights Risks Since ﬁscal 2011, Sumitomo Forestry has carried out internal surveys on the actual situation of the CSR initiatives. In doing so, it also veriﬁes each Group company's eﬀorts with respect to human rights. Furthermore, the Sumitomo Forestry Group is a signatory to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact since December 2008, and has posted this on the Company's website in both Japanese and English. For A poster promoting the UN the purpose of more widely disseminating the Global Global Compact Compact's ten principles in four areas (human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption), the Company also prepared a poster in English, Chinese and Indonesian, and has distributed it for display to all Group companies overseas. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact 77 Respect for Human Rights | Management System Participation in a Human Rights Initiative Sumitomo Forestry addresses human rights issues by participating domestic and international initiatives concerning human rights such as the UN Global Compact. Signing of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Due Diligence The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to identify, prevent, and mitigate adverse impact on human rights through the system for human rights due diligence. Since 2012, the Group conﬁrms the status of human rights at 52 Group companies of which 26 are domestic and 26 are overseas from CSR survey results conducted annually. As to suppliers, surveys and one-on-one interviews are conducted to avert potential human rights breach. In June 2017, a workshop about due Workshop on due diligence diligence in human rights was held with an outside in human rights instructor with the participation of employees from departments involved in timber plantation and manufacturing operations expanding overseas as well as the management department. This workshop identiﬁed stakeholders in the supply chain of each operation to extract the regions and circumstances thought to have risks in violating human rights therein. Within those identiﬁed, risks thought to have high potential to occur and have signiﬁcant impact in the event of human rights violations were debated and analyzed. The Group will continue to strengthen its eﬀorts in human rights risks. Human Rights Training The Sumitomo Forestry Group oﬀers classes about human rights in its new employee training in Japan. Sumitomo Forestry also incorporates classes about human rights in its training for new general managers. We also require all Group employees with access to the intranet to take the “Work and Human Rights” module in e-learning every year with the intention to promote respect for human rights and a workplace where no discrimination is tolerated. In ﬁscal 2016, 9,971 employees of which 5,078 and 4,893 belong to the parent company and Group companies, respectively. The eﬀort in raising human right awareness via e-learning will be continued into the future. We also plan to conduct training related to the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct formulated in July 2017. 78 Respect for Human Rights | Management System Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Workplace Bullying Sumitomo Forestry makes its policy on sexual harassment and workplace bullying clear, having included in its Employment Regulations, under one category of rules to be observed by employees (discipline on the job), a provision prohibiting such harassment as well as disciplinary standards. The Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct also prohibits all forms of harassment and this is communicated via the internal website and pamphlets. In addition, awareness within the Company is fostered by providing information with case examples and implementing regular awareness promotion notices, through human rights and ethics training and other activities. Furthermore, a framework to properly handle inquiries and complaints was put in place in ﬁscal 2000 with the establishment of the Sexual Harassment and Power Harassment Consultation Hotline within the Personnel Department and Compliance Hotlines both inside and outside the Company. When handling a case of harassment, the Sexual Harassment and Power Harassment Consultation Hotline promptly and appropriately veriﬁes the facts and gathers information with the accused, the complainant, and third parties, and then takes the necessary procedures with those concerned. The privacy of all those involved is protected and every eﬀort is made to ensure that neither the complainant nor those cooperating are treated detrimentally. Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Respect for Human Rights at Overseas Plantations For timber plantations in Indonesiaʼs West Kalimantan Barat, the Company signed an advisory agreement with International Finance Corporation (IFC), the World Bankʼs group institute in 2012, and conducted an assessment adhering to the concept of “High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF)” mainly on whether the commercial land use plan has been implemented appropriately and whether adequate consideration for biodiversity and local communities are made. In 2015, continuing on our eﬀorts in 2013, the Company invited stakeholders (local residents, neighbor corporations, academics, NGOs, and government workers) to a public hearing to communicate the assessment results as part of its plantation business with thorough consideration for human rights. 79 Respect for Human Rights | Management System Respect for Human Rights Through CSR Procurement Sumitomo Forestry Group is conducting fair and responsible procurement under the Sumitomo Group Procurement Policy which obligates suppliers to protect human rights and basic rights of labor as well as preventing corruption. For procurement of imported materials, speciﬁcally, the Group ensures whether rights of workers and local communities in the areas where raw materials of the supplies are procured from, have not been violated; if there is a risk, then whether adequate consideration for these rights during logging is inspected through surveys and on-site interviews to the suppliers. Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to accelerate eﬀorts toward the respect of human rights even further in the future by conducting surveys on the actual state of CSR in and outside of Japan, by managing human rights risks and by conducting surveys for its suppliers. 80 Business Continuity Management | Management System Business Continuity Management System for Managing Business Continuity To counter risks which could signiﬁcantly impact Head Oﬃce functions and are beyond a company's capacity to prevent, such as natural disasters and new strains of inﬂuenza, Sumitomo Forestry has established the BCP Subcommittee. The subcommittee sits under the CSR/Risk Management Committee, is chaired by the general manager of the General Administration Department and is comprised of the persons responsible for risk management at each Group company. BCP simulation training Additionally, the Company promotes initiatives based upon business continuity plans (BCP). Since Sumitomo Forestry Group companies are an integral link in the supply chain of one another's business, each Group company is committed to constantly improving the resilience of the whole Group, and tackling Group-wide issues with the intention of enhancing business continuity. In ﬁscal 2016, Sumitomo Forestry held four BCP subcommittee meetings. Critical initial responses in the event of a powerful earthquake, in particular the one striking directly underneath the Tokyo metropolitan area was revised; in the meantime various training programs were planned and implemented. Measures for Employee Safety and Systems for Business Continuity Portable guide for risk responses, Safety Conﬁrmation System Sumitomo Forestry Group distributes Portable Guides for Risk Responses to all Group employees in Japan, promoting the basic response procedure to take in the event of a disaster. A safety conﬁrmation system has also been introduced, allowing the safety of employees to be checked quickly in the event of a natural disaster. Safety conﬁrmation drills are conducted at domestic Group companies every year, and in ﬁscal 2016, a sum of 12,946 employees have participated in them. Portable guide for risk responses 81 Business Continuity Management | Management System Disaster Prevention and Damage Mitigation Measures By way of preparation for employees walking long distances back home on foot or those stranded at the oﬃce unable to return home in the event of a massive earthquake, Sumitomo Forestry has stipulated a minimum stockpile of common emergency supplies for each workplace, and has had these distributed to all Group bases. In particular, at bases in large metropolitan areas (Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya), where it is expected there would be large numbers of stranded employees, enough supplies have been stored for employees to stay at the oﬃce for up to three days. Also, when selecting new oﬃces and other facilities, rather than deciding merely on cost and convenience, the person responsible for disaster prevention at Head Oﬃce gets involved, and measures for preventing disasters and reducing damage are implemented, such as measures for preventing oﬃce equipment from falling over and multifunction printers on wheels from rolling. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry has also implemented measures from a perspective of data integrity, such as backing up data at locations physically distant from the data center. BCP Simulation Training In order to overcome the chaos immediately after a large-scale earthquake strikes and to transition quickly to action for business continuity, it is vitally important that the people in charge can make an initial response and can make decisions according to the situation at hand. For this reason, since ﬁscal 2011, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has continued to conduct BCP Large Scale Earthquake Countermeasures Simulation Training, targeted at the persons in charge at each Group company. The aim of this training is to get participants to experience a simulated “crisis” in an earthquake and to acquire an awareness of the issues, by getting them to make spur of the moment decisions again and again based on rigorous hypothetical scenarios. During the training, since Group companies from neighboring areas are assembled together in one place, another aim of the exercise is to share an awareness of risks and to strengthen cooperation among them in an emergency. To date, a cumulative total of more than 460 people have participated in this training. Systems have also been developed so that, in situations where employees ﬁnd getting to work diﬃcult, payment of salaries, payments to business partners and other important business operations can still be carried out from home or other remote locations while maintaining a high level of security. Simulation drills for this have also been conducted every year. 82 Business Continuity Management | Management System Strengthening Supply Chain Business Continuity Plan In readiness for potential disruption of its housing business supply chain following a disaster, Sumitomo Forestry shares the speciﬁcations and processes for property construction along with site progress status information with business partners including component makers and building contractors. By enabling advanced procurement of materials and production in this way, the Company is striving to reduce the risk of a disruption to operations. Sumitomo Forestry also reviews its suppliers of building and construction materials, with supplier evaluations conducted every year for determining whether to continue business with them. Business continuity items, such as systems for ensuring alternative supply routes during a disaster, have been added to these evaluations. Continuity of Customer Service While establishing call centers in Tokyo and Fukuoka, thereby facilitating a 24-hour after-sales service, Sumitomo Forestry has also developed a mechanism whereby any call center can back up the functions of another call center in the event it is aﬀected by a disaster. Through a uniﬁed emergency system, the Group can share damage information pertaining to owners nationwide, enabling us to respond quickly to requests for repairs. Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group will strive to further reduce the risk of business interruption in the future by creating rules for crisis management reports from suppliers in the event of an incident such as calamities and disasters like earthquakes while also tracking all revisions of these reports. 83 Information Security | Management System Information Security Information Security Policy In order to ensure the conﬁdentiality, integrity and availability of its information systems, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has raised the security level of its systems while maintaining the “regulation” aspects and “technology” aspects of information security in a mutually complementary manner. Based on the recognition that the protection of customer information in particular is of utmost importance, the Group continues to conduct employee training to ensure dissemination of the rules, and veriﬁes their level of awareness. In terms of the regulation aspects, we have formulated Sumitomo Forestry Group Information Asset Protection Guidelines for all Group companies in Japan and created a check list based on these guidelines at the same time. The person responsible for the department in charge of information systems at each Group company conducts checks of the information security level every year. In ﬁscal 2012, the Group also formulated guidelines for Group companies outside of Japan. As for education on information security, Sumitomo Forestry has made it compulsory for all Group employees with access to its intranet (including temporary and part-time employees) to take an e-learning course on an annual basis. On the other hand, with respect to the technology aspects of information security, the Group has introduced encrypted start-ups and restrictions on the data export from computers that are taken outside the Company. Systems for Managing Information Security Under the supervision of the executive oﬃcer in charge of information systems, the general manager of the Information Systems Department promotes information security measures for the Sumitomo Forestry Group, such as the formulation and management of rules and regulations, the proposal and implementation of technical measures, the education and training of employees, and the investigation of accidents and implementation of countermeasures. Furthermore, the person responsible for each department provides guidance and management for the execution of that department's operations as the information security supervisor, and assigns an information security oﬃcer who is the working-level manager for the department's information security. The Group also holds regular meetings of the Aﬃliated Companies IT Managers Council, which is attended by the persons responsible for departments in charge of information 84 Information Security | Management System systems at Group companies in Japan. The council checks the content of the guidelines and promotes the introduction of security systems. Initiatives to Strengthen Information Security Investments in information security substantially increased in ﬁscal 2016 to strengthen security by building a defense in depth system based on the growing threats to information security such as the multiple leaks of personal information and the advanced email attacks occurring in recent times. In addition to these investments, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has conducted advanced email attack training for all of its employees. We are also enhancing the response for consultations from employees founded in issues related to cyberattacks and strengthened information security education for employees centered upon the Information Security Oﬃce established at Sumitomo Forestry Information Systems Co., Ltd. in May 2016. Toward the Future As threats to information security grow in recent years, the Sumitomo Forestry Group will continually raise awareness internally as well as conduct and strengthen ongoing information security education with the newly established Information Security Oﬃce at the core. 85 Intellectual Property Management | Management System Intellectual Property Management Intellectual Property Policy Imitation and unauthorized use of trademarks and copyrights have become one of the risks for corporate management. The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to protect the intellectual property it creates, such as by claiming rights for proprietary technology and concealing its know-how. The Group is also putting eﬀort into preventing rights violations by or to the Group. It is working to raise awareness about compliance among all Group employees, not least those in the research and development departments and in the marketing and planning departments. Systems for Managing Intellectual Property Sumitomo Forestry established the Intellectual Property Department and it employs a number of patent lawyers on its department staﬀ. In addition to providing support for creating intellectual property, support for ﬁling applications and preserving rights for intellectual property, and support for concluding various technology-related contracts, the department also raises awareness for intellectual property among employees, conducts internal and external intellectual property trend analyses, and makes recommendations for the direction of research and development. Furthermore, in order to prevent rights violations from being caused by or to the Group, the Company has also established an Intellectual Property Hotline and promotes this service to employees. Initiatives for Intellectual Property Intellectual Property Education The Intellectual Property Department conducts classroom training for Sumitomo Forestry Group employees as required, for the purpose of promoting the creation of intellectual property and preventing any conﬂicts with the rights of other companies. Each year since ﬁscal 2012, a compliance-focused e-learning program for all Group employees has been conducted Study session on intellectual using the intranet. In addition, every year, Sumitomo property at Tsukuba Forestry enlists employees from research and Research Institute 86 Intellectual Property Management | Management System development departments, including at Group companies, and sends them to training provided by external organizations, such as the Japan Intellectual Property Association. In ﬁscal 2016, the Company held nine study sessions on intellectual property at the Tsukuba Research Institute and aﬃliate companies for employees in charge of research and development in an eﬀort to ensure thorough compliance and risk management. In addition, training on trademarks was conducted four times, targeted at employees in charge of advertising in each division and at aﬃliate companies, to emphasize the importance of trademarks and to raise the level of awareness of key points. Intellectual Property Award The Intellectual Property Awards are conducted annually by the Group based on an Intellectual Property Award Code to recognize groups and individuals who have contributed to enhancing the Groupʼs business competitiveness through inventions and other notable achievements. In ﬁscal 2016, an awards ceremony was held at the Head Oﬃce and nine employees received awards or commendations. Education through the Company Intranet Sumitomo Forestry has set-up a company intranet site called Intellectual Property Farm. The site provides Sumitomo Forestry Group employees with a fundamental grounding in intellectual property as well as a simple explanation about trademark rights that employees ought to understand when promoting business activities. The site also posts information on the latest topics concerning intellectual property. Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group will focus on preventing rights violations by improving the operational ﬂow for conducting investigations on the rights while systemizing intellectual property education and thorough management of trade secrets and intellectual property. 87 Social Report Together with Our Customers Together with Our Business Partners Together with Our Shareholders and Investors Together with Our Employees Together with Local Communities 88 Together with Our Customers | Social Report Together with Our Customers Recognizing Importance Customer needs are diversifying as the social environment changes dramatically due to energy issues resulting from frequent large-scale disasters and global warming in addition to the decreasing population and aging society of Japan, centralization and depopulation in urban areas as well as a growing mindset toward health. The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts comprehensive eﬀorts toward safety and quality issues based on these circumstances to not only reduce risk but also create new business opportunities by responding to the societal and environmental changes with the hope that it will heighten customer satisfaction. Relevant Policies and Systems Basic Policy for Product Safety Basic Concept of Product Safety and Quality Control in the and Quality Control in MOCCA Housing Business (Timber Solutions) Business Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Basic Policy and Framework for Ltd.'s Quality Policy Product Safety and Quality Control in the Overseas Manufacturing Operation of Wood Concepts of Communication with Building Materials Customers Relevant Targets and Performance The Sumitomo Forestry Group positions customer initiatives as a material issue. In particular, we are setting and actively working toward ﬁscal 2020 targets in improving safety and quality as well as improving communication with customers. The Group has also set independent criteria, indicators, and systems based on the compliance to relevant laws practiced in daily operations to always deliver even higher quality services. 89 Together with Our Customers | Social Report Activity Report Housing Safety, Quality Control, Safety and Quality Control of and Universal Design Non-Residential Buildings Safety and Quality Control of Acquisition of Quality-Related Building Materials Certiﬁcation Communication with Our Customers 90 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry believes that popularizing durable, high-quality houses as social assets plays an important role in creating a prosperous society. Based on this belief, and taking the opportunity of the enforcement of the Excellent Long-Term Housing Promotion Act in Japan in June 2009, the Company formulated a basic policy for product safety and quality control in its housing business in ﬁscal 2009. Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing Business ● Make houses more reliable by improving their basic functions ● Increase future options for layout to accommodate changes in lifestyles ● Enhance maintenance programs to support long-term upkeep ● Monitor information on any production faults, and share information on handling faults promptly Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control in the Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry sets the standard speciﬁcations for its Sumitomo Forestry Home houses to exceed the highest level of Excellent Long-Term Housing *1 certiﬁcation conditions*2 (applying the evaluation under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System*3). From product development through to construction and afterservice, the Company has established its framework for product safety and quality control in order to deliver high quality homes with superior overall balance. In addition, the Company is actively promoting the use of the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System for customer peace of mind and safety and in order to enhance property value. In ﬁscal 2016, under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System, Implementation of Design Performance Evaluation reached 98.8% *4 (98.6% in FY2015), Implementation of Construction Performance Evaluation reached 97.8% (97.3% in FY2015), and the acquisition of Excellent Long-Term Housing certiﬁcation reached 93.3% (92.7% in FY2015). *1 Excellent Long-Term Housing: A life-long housing certiﬁcation system which aims to popularize housing tha will help realize a society that values its housing stock. *2 Detached housing is evaluated for durability, seismic resistance, ease of maintenance and energy eﬃciency in accordance with the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System. 91 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report *3 The Japanese Housing Performance Indication System: Third-party evaluation of design performance at the time of design and of construction performance upon completion so that customers can objectively assess the quality and performance of a house. The system comprises 10 evaluation items, including structural stability, ﬁre safety, alleviation of deterioration, and thermal environment. *4 The ratio of the number of applications against the total number of detached houses constructed, including extensions and/or alterations (applications for design and construction performance evaluation, April 01, 2016 – March 31, 2017). Japanese Housing Performance Indication System Implementation Rate FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Design performance 98.9% 100.6% 97.7% 98.6% 98.8% evaluation * Construction performance 91.0% 95.4% 94.9% 97.3% 97.8% evaluation * The implementation of design performance evaluation has been the percentage in the number of acquisitions for the design performance evaluation during the term for detached houses built (including buildings that have not yet started construction in that term) up until ﬁscal 2014. However, it was changed to the percentage in the number of acquisitions for the design performance evaluation for buildings that have started construction in that term as of ﬁscal 2015 Ratio of Certiﬁed Excellent Long-Term Housing FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Ratio of Certiﬁed Excellent 88.4% 90.7% 91.2% 92.7% 93.3% Long-Term Housing Excellent Long-Term Housing Standards and Standard Performance of Sumitomo Forestry Home Houses Standard Performance of Sumitomo Certiﬁcation Type Certiﬁcation Criterion Forestry Home Houses Rating measures for Long lasting deterioration class 3 Durability Equivalent to highest level 3 Family home Measures to allow regular inspection Strong to Rating of earthquake Seismic earthquakes Equivalent to highest level 3 Resistance resistance 2 or higher Family home Easy Rating measures for Maintenance maintenance Equivalent to highest level 3 Requirement maintenance level 3 home 92 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Standard Performance of Sumitomo Certiﬁcation Type Certiﬁcation Criterion Forestry Home Houses EnergyRating measures for energy Energy-saving saving Equivalent to highest level 4 performance conservation level 4 house * The higher the rated level, the better evaluated. Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Undertaking development such as new technology, materials, housing products and lifestyle proposals based on consumer needs and owner surveys. The Housing Division and Tsukuba Research Institute are collaborating in experiments at validation facilities and testing of prototypes, promoting the creation of products that incorporate customer feedback, including even in the details of guarantees. Sumitomo Forestry uses a unique system to check design and structure at the time of contracting and through the ﬁnal design stage. A dedicated designer responsible for the work The Materials Selection Subcommittee, which meets once every month to decide upon all materials, conducts design reviews. All materials are checked to ensure that they meet the acceptance and quality standards set by the Tsukuba Research Institute and the Materials Selection Subcommittee. The Quality Improvement Committee, which meets once every two months, shares information on materials that have been newly accepted, and discusses improvements to materials that have already been accepted. During ﬁscal 2016, they reported and discussed progress relating to one theme. 93 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Sumitomo Forestry centrally manages and shares up-todate information on the construction, process management, quality control and safety management of each building through its own site management system. Construction Management Each on-site operator, contractor manager and construction manager during such stages as foundation, construction and completion, conducts inspections which are managed using a construction management record. Additionally, the Head Oﬃce inspection division checks the status of the inspection and management. Sumitomo Forestry includes 20 years of regular inspections with its homes. After the 20th year, customers can pay for an inspection once every ten years, although those customers in the 30-year warranty system receive a free inspection in the 25th year if they choose to extend their warranty in the 20th year. Sumitomo Forestry has developed a Long-Term Support System that oﬀers renovation and maintenance Regular inspection proposals and manages maintenance records in order to support its customers. 94 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Based on the Company's own performance evaluation chart, Sumitomo Forestry quantiﬁes the performance grade of existing and planned homes for seismic resistance, thermal insulation and accessibility to indicate to customers the degree to which the performance grade has been enhanced. The performance and reliability of Sumitomo Forestryʼs original materials used in seismic reinforcement and so The Company's on are veriﬁed at the Tsukuba Research own Institute. performance evaluation chart In order to make a diagnosis of the seismic resistance and deterioration conditions of a condominium, the original construction drawings and speciﬁcations are checked, and construction reviews, reinforcement checks, concrete strength measurements and other inspections are conducted in collaboration with third-party surveyors. Conducting major renovation work properly based on the results of these inspections increases the life-span of the building. In addition, all of the inspection results and descriptions of the renovation work are disclosed at the time of sale. Sumitomo Forestry has a number of support programs in place, including issuing its own warranty, providing existing housing home buyerʼs defect warranty and latent defect insurance, and oﬀering regular after-sales maintenance checks during the ﬁrst year. Pre-renovation Post-renovation 95 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Improvement of Safety and Comfort in the Housing Business Sumitomo Forestry oﬀers homes that integrate seismic resistance, ﬁre resistance, thermal insulation, Net Zero Energy Houses (ZEHs), age-deterioration countermeasures and universal design to improve all aspects of home performance so as to oﬀer customers homes where they can live in peace of mind and comfort for many years to come. Improved Seismic Ensuring Safety in the Resistance and Durability Event of a Fire For newly Sumitomo Forestry's products constructed homes, ensure ﬁre prevention and standard resistance while taking advantage of speciﬁcations are set the merits of wood. at Level 3̶the The Company is boosting its lineup highest level̶for of products which oﬀer governmentevaluations based on regulated semi-ﬁre-resistant the Japanese construction*1 as standard Housing Performance speciﬁcations. Indication System in regards to structural stability (seismic resistance, etc.). In renovations, we propose a dual construction method for vibration control and seismic resistance that Reduced Deterioration and Measures installs S-shaped Addressing Operation and Maintenance vibration dampers of Equipment after creating aseismic 96 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report reinforcement plans The Company uses the highest with a seismic rating speciﬁcations in the Japanese of 1.0 or more by Housing Performance Indication conducting System relating to deterioration evaluations of the alleviation, and maintenance. seismic capacity. Universal Design Improving crime prevention qualities Sumitomo Forestry is driving research based We propose crime on human lifestyle prevention measures engineering using 3D from the site survey motion and viewand design stage tracking analysis based on crime equipment. The prevention as Company oﬀers homes outlined by the which take universal Japanese Housing design into Performance consideration. Indication System. Preserving Air Quality inside Houses Sumitomo Forestry is working to reduce emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs), which have been identiﬁed as a cause of “sick house” syndrome to below the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, and has separate provisions for prohibited chemical substances. In accordance with the standards contained in these guidelines, F☆☆☆☆-rated timber, building materials, insulation and adhesives,̶which have the lowest level of formaldehyde emissions̶are used in the Company's products. Moreover, F☆☆☆☆-rated furniture, lighting and curtains are recommended in interior design proposals. *1 Government-regulated semi-ﬁre-resistant construction: A house that meets the standards prescribed by the Japan Housing Finance Agency as being a construction with ﬁre prevention properties corresponding to semi-ﬁre resistance prescribed in the Building Standards Act. Crime prevention (site introducing products, in Japanese) 97 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Development of Earthquake Resistant Reinforcement Method Using Existing Mortar Outer Walls Sumitomo Forestry has developed a unique earthquake resistant reinforcement method known as an existing external mortar bearing wall construction method (ReFo.Mo.Wall Construction Method) to use external mortar walls of existing housing without demolishing the inner building in renovations. The method underwent a technological evaluation by the Japan Building Disaster Prevention Association. Existing external mortar bearing wall construction method (ReFo.Mo.Wall Construction Method) Seismic -Resistant Mortar Outer Wall Base Sheets Installed 98 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Ever Advancing Big-Frame construction method Sumitomo Forestry started selling the Big-Frame Construction Method as a product for three-story building products in February 2005 and expanded this method to two-story products in October 2009. Thereafter, as awareness of customers grew about risks such as disasters, the BF method that had been a strength in seismic resistance matched customer needs and is now one of the company's main products. Realizing unprecedented In addition to selecting the height of the ceiling, The open spaces with relaxingly Forest BF released in April 2017 made even wider high ceilings and large openings than ever before possible to realize an open openings space through beams with new patented technology. The speciﬁcations for the height of the ceiling oﬀers a line-up that can be set to 2.25 or 2.4 meters when proposing a calm space or to spacious 2.6 or 2.8 meters for a place to relax. Moreover, a high ceiling of 3.52 meters is also made possible by coved ceiling beams or lower ﬂooring. Two-car built-in garage done with “pre-straight The development of “pre-straight timber” hybrid timber” structures that use highly strong steel rods and wooden laminated engineered wood to achieve large openings and large spaces strengthens the capacity for weight from above as well as makes a maximum opening that reaches 7.1 meters today possible. This method is able to secure a space to park two vehicles with room to spare as well as a living space on the ﬂoor above. Applications for large openings such as in stores is also possible. News Release: Creating Expansive Open Spaces with Custom Ceiling Heights and New Technology Launch of “The Forest BF” custom-built detached houses 99 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Responding to Social Needs The Sumitomo Forestry Group believes the promotion of businesses that are suited to and support social needs such as the design of living spaces based on an aging society is an important social duty for the Group. Therefore, we are promoting measures from the support for universal design to new installations and operations at long-term care facilities. Supporting Universal Design Sumitomo Forestry is a pioneer in establishing soft closers for all indoor furnishings such as sliding doors and hinged doors as an initiative to increase the safety of residents. In addition, an all ﬂat design that does not create any level diﬀerences in ﬂooring is now a standard speciﬁcation while convex corners for inner walls and wall-mounted convex sections have an R-shape speciﬁcation around living spaces and halls. We have set the standard speciﬁcations for the width of hallways to 780 mm to allow the use of wheelchairs with the assumption that wheelchairs and care will be necessary in the future. We also ﬂexibly respond to customer requirements through a freedom in design that includes slopes to entrances and the installation of home elevators. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry is placing its strength in the design of living spaces to satisfy the needs of customers such as roof balconies without level diﬀerences from the interior, heat shocks, and the Air-Dream Hybrid total air conditioning system that reduces house dust and realizes a comfortable space without any temperature ﬂuctuations. Sumitomo Forestry also provides comfortable bedroom environments with original wooden interiors that have indirect lighting to oﬀer better sleep quality and reduce fatigue in indoor environments perfect for sleeping. Opening and operating nursing care facilities that use ICT and the latest research results Improving the quality of nursing care services that are provided, securing nursing care staﬀ to entrust these services and improving that work environment are social challenges that we will face after 2025 when the babyboomers all reach old age. The rapid increase of elderly with dementia is also a concern. Fill Care Co., Ltd. that is expanding the nursing care business in metropolitan areas and the Hanshin district Gran Forest Tokiwadai has adopted the Life Rhythm Navi Plus Doctor resident monitoring system that uses ICT in private-pay elderly care facilities which opened in ﬁscal 2016. Conventionally, the state of residents was determined by information sent from sensors independently. However, this system can grasp the detailed situation of residents in living spaces in real time by analyzing information 100 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report sent from multiple sensors such as a bed sensor, motion detector and temperature sensor. This information can be used for health management of residents and detecting falls as well as central management of emergent call from residents by combining with nurse calls. This information can also be shared with the families of residents through the use of smartphones. The technology is expected to reduce the Gran Forest Gakugei load on staﬀ too by sharing information between staﬀ Daigaku members to strengthen links. This system was adopted at the Gran Forest Tokiwadai private-pay elderly care facility that opened in November 2016, Gran Forest Gakugei Daigaku that opened in February 2017 and Gran Forest Saginomiya that opened in May 2017. Moreover, these private-pay elderly care facilities are introducing new trials that utilize research results from the Sumitomo Forestry Tsukuba Research Institute. First, a “pleasant sleep system” improves the quality of sleep for residents through the control of a combination of a wooden interior and indirect lighting to provide a bedroom environment with a relaxing eﬀect. A pleasantly deep sleep at night is expected to elevate disturbances in the rhythm of life and oﬀer healthy activities during the day. We also built the Hanaemi Garden with rich seasonal changes that have been proven to improve the activity of daily life (ADL) and be eﬀective in preventing cognitive impairments in addition to preparing a Tree and Flower Recreational Program that uses the ﬂowers in the garden which oﬀers a place for residents to interact with the world around them. In addition, “safe and friendly ﬂooring” aims to protect residents from impacts if they fall by employing a special ﬂoor structure together with impact absorbing material. These have been adopted by Gran Forest Gakugei Daigaku. 101 Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry Group will develop technology to provide customers with safe and secure lifestyles while developing products for housing with greater comfort that match the various needs of residents. We will also strengthen development that heightens the value of performance and design with ﬁre-resistant structures at the core. Long-lasting roofs and exterior walls as well as renovations to Excellent Long-Term Housing are also important challenges. We are placing focus on research that aims to take advantage of the physiological and physiological eﬀectiveness of trees and vegetation as well. The Sumitomo forestry Group will provide safe and secure environments by actively adopting the latest technology and research results at Fill Care Co., Ltd. We will also support a better quality of life so that residents are able to live long, energetic daily lives. At the same time, these eﬀorts are expected to reduce the burden on the caregivers. 102 Safety and Quality Control of Non-Residential Buildings | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Safety and Quality Control of Non-Residential Buildings Basic Concept of Product Safety and Quality Control in MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Sumitomo Forestry is promoting MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business in which proposes wider use of wood in non-residential buildings such as industrial and public facilities. The MOCCA Department provides high-quality buildings with consideration for usersʼ health, safety, and comfort via wooden architecture, and obtained ISO9001 in September 2015 in response to customer expectations. Complying with this international standards, policies were established as shown in the following link. Each plant sets tangible quality targets and a business expansion plan adhering to the policy to attain maintained safety and enhanced product quality. Quality Policy We will strive in the eﬀorts below as an organization that loves wood because we believe it is the path to respond to the expectations of our customers by consistently providing high-quality buildings with consideration to people's health, safety, and comfort via wooden architecture. 1. Continually better quality and improve customer satisfaction We will work to heighten our quality performance and improve customer satisfaction while continually bettering the eﬀectiveness of our quality management systems by conforming to standards and meeting the requirements of our customers. 2. Complying with the law We will have full knowledge of applicable laws and other requirements we see as a duty for the company in the design and construction of buildings. 3. Establishing policies We will set quality goals and targets and periodically evaluate our success and revise those targets and goals to speciﬁcally promote this quality policy. 103 Safety and Quality Control of Non-Residential Buildings | Together with Our Customers | Social Report 4. Conducting Education and Training We will conduct education and training for the staﬀ we employ to raise awareness so that all of our employees working in the MOCA (Timber Solutions) Department and the company will understand this quality policy. 5. Publishing this policy We will publish this policy externally on the Housing Division's MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department website. Product Safety and Quality Management System in MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Business Sumitomo Forestry MOCCA Department consolidates the quality management system under the aforementioned policy and is building a strict process management system. The Department also conducts biannual internal audits at all construction sites to follow the PDCA cycle incorporated in the quality management system as stipulated by ISO9001. Building the Flavor Life headquarters building; the future of wooden architecture that starts in the city People living in the urban area, especially in Japan, spend each day feeling quite a lot of stress in a social environment that is becoming ever more sophisticated each year. In the backdrop of these types of urban societies, the needs for not only environmentally-friendly places but also spaces surrounded in greenery and wood both inside and out are growing. Sumitomo Forestry is actively promoting timber construction in urban areas with the potential for high needs. The company received an order for and built a steel frame wooden hybrid building that uses wood as ﬁre resistance cloth over a traditional steel bearing structure in front of Kokubunji Station in Tokyo in 2016. The area to build the headquarters building was a narrow piece of land facing the station street in a place where standard building costs would skyrocket. However, we were able to provide a proposal at a low cost by handling everything from the timber procurement to the manufacturing of structural columns and beams using a wooden hybrid building. A design was adopted that wrapped the exterior walls in glass in the seven-story building. Passersby are able to see the large posts and beams covered in wood from a fair distance away. This building also contributes to the development of the area as a symbol of the city which creates a new wooden landscape in front of the station.(Construction completed in July 2017) 104 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials Sumitomo Forestry sets the standard speciﬁcations for its Sumitomo Forestry Home houses to exceed the highest level of Excellent Long-Term Housing *1 certiﬁcation conditions*2 (applying the evaluation under the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System*3). Safety and quality control of the building materials produced in Japan and overseas that are used are important management items because they are connected to assuring the performance of houses. *1 Excellent Long-Term Housing: A life-long housing certiﬁcation system which aims to popularize housing that will help realize a society that values its housing stock. *2 Detached housing is evaluated for durability, seismic resistance, ease of maintenance and energy eﬃciency in accordance with the Japanese Housing Performance Indication System. *3 The Japanese Housing Performance Indication System: Third-party evaluation of design performance at the time of design and of construction performance upon completion so that customers can objectively assess the quality and performance of a house. The system comprises 10 evaluation items, including structural stability, ﬁre safety, alleviation of deterioration, and thermal environment. Product Safety and Quality Control in the Manufacture of Wooden Building Materials in Japan (Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.) Basic Policy for Product Safety and Quality Control Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has established a quality policy based on ISO 9001 as described below. Each plant and division has formulated speciﬁc quality targets and action plans in line with this quality policy, and is committed to maintaining safety and improving quality. Furthermore, in ﬁscal 2017, we will work to improve quality and service even further by reviewing quality standards and inspection methods based on the renewal of regulations following the migration to the 2015 version of the ISO 9001 quality management system. 105 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.'s Quality Policy 1. Provide products that always give ﬁrst priority to customer satisfaction, from product development and manufacture, to distribution and postconstruction follow-up. 2. Cooperate with internal and external partners, understand appropriate costs, and manufacture in a way that ensures safety, performance and quality. 3. Establish quality targets, and develop systems that allow all employees to make continual improvements. Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Since October 2010, Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has been operating with integrated ISO 9001 at its plants nationwide. Having developed a framework for quality control based on the quality policy as well as a strict framework for process control, the company manufactures products of high quality. Furthermore, by utilizing a quality information management system, the company endeavors to reﬂect market feedback and demands back into the production site. Internal audits are also carried out twice a year at all plants for the purpose of following the PDCA cycle for the quality management system established under ISO 9001. In order to build the capacity of employees in quality control, the company also puts eﬀort into education on how audits are conducted and into employees getting qualiﬁcations. Promotion of Quality Improvement Activities Based on Company-Wide Targets Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. has set quality targets at each plant and division, and is promoting quality improvement activities. During ﬁscal 2016, it strived to enhance and maintain quality control systems at manufacturing locations as well as at partner plants. In ﬁscal 2017, it will maintain those control systems in addition to improving through eﬀorts with the 5-Why Method and measures against Quality check in plant human error in order to continually further activities. 106 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Sumitomo Forestry Launches Full-scale Sales of Light, low-cost and Attractively-Designed Wooden Fire-prevention Door Using Balsa Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. launched in May 2015 fullscale sales of original wooden ﬁre-prevention doors, made from “balsa” known as the lightest timber in the world, which are lighter, less-expensive and more attractively-designed than existing products. The product was developed to meet the needs of wooden ﬁreprevention doors in threeand four-story buildings in urban areas, and in constructions for mixed use such as medical facilities with adjacent accommodation. The doors are also environmentally-friendly products, with the raw material balsa being sourced from plantation timber raised from saplings and processed by a Group Unique wooden ﬁrecompany, PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI). prevention doors made from balsa Product Safety and Quality Control in the Overseas Manufacturing Operation of Wood Building Materials Basic Policy and Framework for Product Safety and Quality Control Group companies engaged in the manufacture of wood building materials overseas have acquired quality certiﬁcations such as ISO 9001, Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS). In line with the requirements of these certiﬁcations, each company has established policies and standards for quality control, and through education and training, strives to ensure that its employees understand them well. Furthermore, each company is making ongoing improvements to quality control management systems by means of annual certiﬁcation audits through external organizations as well as periodic internal audits. The quality standards of every company are being further improved to provide greater safety by focusing on communication and feedback from users about product safety and quality, especially in the production of products for Japan which demands the utmost safety and quality. Acquisition of Quality-Related Certiﬁcation 107 Product Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Standardization of Operations, and Promoting Acquisition of ISO 9001 Certiﬁcation Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO), which started commercial production of particleboard in Vietnam in May 2012, acquired ISO 9001 certiﬁcation in April 2014 and Japan Industrial Standards (JIS) labelling certiﬁcation in December 2015. In conjunction with acquiring ISO certiﬁcation, the company has proceeded to standardize its manufacturing operations, and has built a production system which allows it to provide products of consistent quality. Quality control laboratory at VECO Furthermore, in order to diﬀerentiate itself from its competitors, the company attaches the product speciﬁcations on the packaging of each product. This practice is still not common in Vietnam, and so by clearly stating the product speciﬁcations, the aim is to establish VECO as a high-quality brand. 108 Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Acquisition of Quality-Related Certiﬁcation Acquisition Status of Certiﬁcations at Each Group Company Group companies Country Type of certiﬁcation Date acquired Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. September MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Japan ISO9001 2015 Department Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan ISO9001 March 1999 *1 Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping September Co., Ltd. Environmental Japan ISO9001 2002 Greeniﬁcation Division Sumitomo Forestry Home ISO9001 Japan March 2006 Engineering Co., Ltd JISQ9001 Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. ISO9001 Japan March 2017 (Head oﬃce and 13 Kanto JISQ9001 branches) JIS certiﬁcation（MDF） May 2003 September Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. Australia New JIS certiﬁcation（MDF） 2008 CARB certiﬁcation *3 （MDF） January 2009 JIS certiﬁcation（MDF） March 2003 ISO9001（MDF） July 2003 ISO9001（LVL） July 2004 JAS（LVL） May 2008 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. New Zealand New JIS certiﬁcation（MDF） May 2008 CARB certiﬁcation *3 （MDF） October 2008 September ISO9001 2011 109 Acquisition of Quality-Related Certification | Together with Our Customers | Social Report G roup c ompanie s C ount ry T y pe of c e rt ific at ion Date acquired September ISO9002 1997 JAS (plywood, LVL, laminated July 2000 engineered wood) Q-Mark (door ﬂux) June 2010 ISO9001 August 2010 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia Indonesia November CARB certiﬁcation *3 （PB） 2012 December CARB certiﬁcation *3 (plywood) 2012 December CE Marking (plywood) 2012 December ISO9001 1999 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia Indonesia JIS certiﬁcation（PB） March 2007 CARB certiﬁcation *3 （PB） February 2009 JAS (laminated engineered PT. Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk Indonesia March 2012 wood for ﬂooring) PT. AST Indonesia Indonesia ISO9001 October 2002 PT. Wana Subur Lestari Indonesia Timber Legality Assurance February 2013 November CARB certiﬁcation *3 (PB) 2012 Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. Vietnam ISO9001 April 2014 December JIS certiﬁcation（PB） 2015 Canyon Creek Cabinet Company United States ISO9001 March 2007 *1 Certiﬁcation ﬁrst acquired at the Kyushu plant in March 1999 and at each plant thereafter. The integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation was acquired in October 2010 *2 Alpine MDF Industries is no longer a consolidated company of the Group due to the sale of all equity intere in March 2017. *3 The standards in regulations related to the air pollution stipulated by the California Air Resources Board are stricter than federal regulations 110 Communication with Our Customers | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Communication with Our Customers Basic policy Putting Customers First is an element of the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy and Action Guideline and also stipulated in the Groupʼs Ethical Conduct Rules. The Group has customer service department and call centers, as well as promotes improvement and development of business and services that have adapted customersʼ feedback. Respect for and Application of Customer Feedback Operation of Sumitomo Forestry Customer Service Department To attain greater customer satisfaction across the Group, Sumitomo Forestry implemented the measures while setting up Customer Service Department in 2000 demonstrating its Group organizational ability. The Customer Service Department holds periodic meetings and working groups with each business division and Group company to share information. The Department discusses the issues and examples of solutions to bring together as speciﬁc measures. Then, the measures are executed throughout the Group, and the Customer Service Department regularly evaluates progress and eﬃcacy of the measures, and undertakes reviews and corrective actions, in line with the PDCA cycle. Additionally, the Company introduces example creative solutions that can be easily adapted in daily work routine and attributable to customer satisfaction as well as heartwarming stories on the intranet every month. Direct feedbacks and opinions of customers sent to Customer Service Department, details of the consultations and their analysis results, and examples of superior response are consistently communicated. The support for internal training and one-on-one meetings with Group companies are also provided. Operation of Sumitomo Forestry Call Centers Sumitomo Forestry established Sumitomo Forestry Call Centers that open 24 hours a day 365 days a year toll free as a consistent dedicated helpline throughout Japan that allows immediate support such as an emergency response lifeline to assist our customers. The telephone number is introduced on magnet cards, owner dedicated websites, magazines and other mediums so that this helpline will be used broadly by our customers. Presently the centers are located in Tokyo and Fukuoka, and are linked together, shortening wait times for customers who call via the uniﬁed national free-dial number. 111 Communication with Our Customers | Together with Our Customers | Social Report In addition, the system is organized to enable response in emergency situations. The system facilitates prompt response to customer requests and consultations and also strives for improved customer satisfaction. Volume of calls to Customer Support Centers and the Sumitomo Forestry Call Center, and breakdown of those calls * The Call Center has become a “general housing support” since July 2015 and has been receiving increased number of calls. Customer Surveys To accurately assess customer views and customer satisfaction, Sumitomo Forestry distributes a questionnaire three times: once when an owner moves in, and then during the second and tenth year of their residence. The survey questions primarily cover speciﬁcations, design, building materials, systems and ﬁxtures, and the support service provided by the staﬀ. The Company then statistically processes and analyzes these results, and applies any ﬁndings to product development and employee training. Customers are also given a short questionnaire at the end of any after-sales maintenance visit or inspection, requesting feedback on such subjects as the attitude and behavior of the maintenance contractor, as well as their response speed and repair techniques. In ﬁscal 2016 as an indicator of customer satisfaction, the percentage of customers who responded “I would recommend Sumitomo Forestry Home houses” was 86.8% in the survey of new owners, and 84.1% in the survey of second-year owners. Because the beneﬁts of improvements in customer satisfaction will only appear after ongoing eﬀorts, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to improve its eﬀorts, following a cycle of PDCA. 112 Communication with Our Customers | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Communicating Information to Customers in the Housing Business Opening a Hands-on Consulting Space Sumitomo Forestry established the Shinjuku Forest Maison Plaza as a dedicated hands-on consulting space for rental housing in October 2016. The Maison Plaza exhibits construction and equipment, gives advice about land use and rental management, and periodically holds seminars where people thinking about rental management for the ﬁrst time can participate. This venue is fulﬁlling its role as the base for informational communication about the utilization of land. Shinjuku Forest Maison Plaza This is the ﬁrst time a major housing manufacturer has established a facility with functions to oﬀer advice about rental management as well as hold exhibitions and seminars. In ﬁscal 2016, we had 445 groups visit us over six months, which surpassed our goal of attracting 300 groups to come. Technology Exhibition At House Exhibitions at which fosters opportunities to communicate with customers about home building, Sumitomo Forestry set up “technology exhibition houses” where displays special technologies and functionalities of Sumitomo Forestry Home Houses in major cities. The exhibition houses put in creativity in explaining excellent competencies of wooden homes and structural features of Big Frame Construction Method –Sumitomo Forestryʼs own building method that is Japanʼs ﬁrst timber rigid frame structure so that visitors are able to understand through direct exposure to the basic structures of the homes. Currently, the exhibition houses are in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya, and total visitors exceeded 3,106 groups in Technology Exhibition ﬁscal 2016. House's external and internal views 113 Communication with Our Customers | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Website Operation and Magazine Publication Sumitomo Forestry operates its Club Forest special website for owners of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses. As of March 2017, about 96,000 owners had registered as members. Lovely Family is a home and lifestyle magazine sent out twice a year. It also features details about Group company activities such as renovation and utilization of lands. About 280,000 prints were issued in ﬁscal 2016. The cover of Lovely Family Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. Establishes Century-old Home Club Regular Meet-and-Greet Bus Tour Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. established a Century-old Home Club in July 2013 as part of its safe and reliable renovation ideas. It is a members-only club with an aim of preserving historical family houses for future generations. Members include owners of historic houses (constructed prior to 1950) renovated by the company, people currently living in a historic house, or those who plan to purchase a historic house. Regular meeting 28 people from 13 groups participated in the fourth regular meet-and-greet bus tour in 2016, which visited traditionally constructed buildings such as historic houses built by Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech and the Urawa Kurashi No Hakubutsukan Minkaen (Urawa Old Houses Museum) in Saitama City in Saitama prefecture as well as the former Kyuhasumi Family House that is said to be the oldest private home. 114 Communication with Our Customers | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Appropriate Dissemination of Information and Protection of Personal Information Observance of Laws, Standards and Norms in Advertising and Publicity When creating advertisements, Sumitomo Forestry complies with relevant legislation, including the Building Lots and Buildings Transaction Business Act, the Act against Unjustiﬁable Premiums and Misleading Representations, and the Copyright Act. The Corporate Communications Department, the Intellectual Property Department and the Legal Group in the General Administration Department cooperate to conﬁrm and verify the content of advertisements as required. The Brand Communication Sumitomo Forestry did not violate any of the various Executive Committee laws and regulations related to advertising in ﬁscal 2016. Furthermore, the Company holds monthly meetings of the Brand Communication Committee, comprised of advertising personnel from relevant departments and relevant Japanese aﬃliates, and publicizes any matters necessary for preventing noncompliance. Through these eﬀorts, the Company made certain of prior checks, and endeavored to ensure that unreliable information was not communicated and customers not otherwise misled. In ﬁscal 2016, the Brand Communication Committee held a study session about the Act Against Unjustiﬁable Premiums and Misleading Representations as well as Trademark Registration by inviting both lectures from inside and outside the Group. This session brought understanding of the content of laws related to advertising and labeling as well as violations that can easily occur by providing explanations that included an introduction of speciﬁc examples. Additionally, the Committee hosted a web discussion sessions, created website management guidelines and provided Group website teams with information and instructions on personal information and information security. 115 Communication with Our Customers | Together with Our Customers | Social Report Systems for Protecting the Privacy of Customers (Protection of Personal Information) Sumitomo Forestry has formulated internal rules to safeguard the personal information of customers, such as the Personal Information Protection Policy and the Personal Information Protection Regulations. In addition, the executive oﬃcer responsible for general administration is designated as chief executive in charge of protection of personal information. The Company has also placed an information security oﬃcer in each department. In these ways, the Company has established a protection system covering Head Oﬃce through to each oﬃce. In ﬁscal 2016, one incident was reported about a personal information leak caused by sending an email to the wrong address. We took this issue to the Japan Federation of Housing Organizations, which is a housing agency of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. We reported the situation to the customer and apologized while working to prevent any recurrence. The Company has also established a help desk for inquiries regarding the handling of personal information within the Customer Service Department. In addition, collective training is provided for the head and general administration representative for each organization. E-learning is provided for all other employees and eﬀorts are made to increase awareness at subcontractors, in order to prevent the leaking of personal information. It is also mandatory for employees at Group companies to undertake the elearning training. Information Security Personal Information Protection Policy 116 Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Together with Our Business Partners Recognizing the Imperatives Promoting sustainable forest resources and wood procurement are extremely vital endeavors for the Sumitomo Forestry Group, which is expanding its business around “wood”. We believe initiatives are also necessary to respond to risk elements that include the laws in each country and the various regulations related to the illegal harvesting of timber. These eﬀorts strengthen our foundation of business by promoting the preservation, development, and planting of forests as well as eﬀectively using limited global resources such as the active use of timber cut from forests that have received Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certiﬁcation together with our business partners. Relevant Policies and Systems Sumitomo Forestry Group Green Procurement Guidelines Procurement Policy (extract) Basic Policy of Timber Basic Policy of Forest Certiﬁcation Procurement Systems Basic Policy of Conserving Basic Policy of Overseas Domestic Forest Resources Plantation Utilization Relevant Targets and Performance The Sumitomo Forestry Group has set and is actively promoting numerical ﬁscal 2020 CSR targets based on the belief that promoting sustainable forest management and wood procurement in and outside of Japan is one material issue. We are striving in activities such as fair and responsible procurement activities and procurement in-line with the sustainability of resources while linking and communicating with our business partners. 117 Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report About symbol for Independent assurance Activity Report Fair and Responsible Procurement Responsible Timber Procurement Encouraging Use of Forest Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Certiﬁcation Systems Forest Resources Using Overseas Plantation Communication with Our Business Partners 118 Fair and Responsible Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Fair and Responsible Procurement Basic Policy of Our Procurement The Sumitomo Forestry Group has been committed to responsible timber procurement and having established Timber Procurement Standard and Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in 2005 and 2007 respectively, to bring contributions to sustainable society via business activities of “wood” –a renewable resource. In July 2015, Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy were extended beyond timber and became subject to procurement of building materials, raw materials of products, and end products, and reestablished as Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy. The Groupʼs economically, socially and environmentally responsible procurement today is being carried out based on this policy. Sumitomo Forestry Group Procurement Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group utilizes wood as a renewable natural resource in its business operations. To contribute to a sustainable society, we are committed to procurement activities that take into account economic, environmental and societal interests and comply with the following policy: 1. Procurement based on legal and highly reliable supply chains Our procurement activities will strictly adhere to all relevant laws, regulations and societal norms, and be built on mutual understanding and trust with our business partners. Furthermore, to provide the highest quality products and services, we will work with our business partners to ensure that our procurement takes place within a sound and fair supply chain. 2. Procurement based on fair opportunity and competition We will provide all our suppliers, both Japanese and foreign, a fair opportunity for business. Selection of our business partners will be based on a comprehensive evaluation of the companyʼs reliability and technological expertise, the productʼs quality, economic eﬃciency, delivery date and environmental performance, and the companyʼs CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives, such as advocacy of basic human and worker rights, anticorruption eﬀorts and so on. 119 Fair and Responsible Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report 3. Procurement of sustainable timber and wood products Wood is a renewable natural resource. To actively utilize it, we will work with our business partners on the following initiatives related to the procurement of timber and wood products: ・Procure timber from forests that are sustainably managed ・Work to improve the traceability of procured timber and wood products ・Strictly adhere to the laws and regulations of the countries and regions we log in, protect biodiversity and forests with high conservation value, and respect the cultures, traditions and economies of regions that coexist in harmony with forests. 4. Communication To ensure the transparency of our procurement eﬀorts, we will disclose information appropriately. In addition, we will communicate with our stakeholders to further improve our procurement activities. Revised July, 2015 Green Procurement and CSR Procurement The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Green Procurement Guidelines in 2002. The Guidelines establish standards for procuring products from two perspectives: the supplier's stance toward the environment (corporate activities assessment) and the product's impact on the environment throughout its life cycle (product assessment). In 2013, the Group revised the Green Procurement Guidelines and added items to ensure progress of CSR initiatives concerning occupational health and safety and human rights under “corporate activity assessment.” As to suppliers of imported timber and timber products from abroad, the Group conducts survey of CSR activities and their progresses individually. Green Procurement Guidelines (extract) Corporate activities assessment 1. Acquisition of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation, and adoption of environmental policies and philosophy. 2. Active in global environmental conservation, such as biodiversity preservation and the prevention of global warming. 120 Fair and Responsible Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report 3. Committed to CSR in its entirety, such as workplace health and safety and respect for human rights. Product assessment 1. No use of hazardous materials which are likely to have an adverse eﬀect on health and the environment. 2. No leaching of hazardous materials from the product during construction or use. 3. Ability to be reused or recycled after use. 4. Use of processes and materials to lengthen the lifespan of the product. Revised January, 2013 121 Responsible Timber Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Responsible Timber Procurement Basic Policy of Timber Procurement Forests around the world are decreasing due to illegal logging, excessive slash-and-burn farming, conversion to agricultural land and other practices, and this has been a social issue on a global scale. Because timber is one renewable resource essential to Sumitomo Forestry Group's businesses, deforestation and forest degradation are also signiﬁcant challenges concerning sustainability of its business operations. As a responsible builder of wooden houses and buildings as well as a trader of timber and building materials, we work with our suppliers to build a reliable supply chain and contribute to developing a sustainable society. Promotion System of Timber Procurement Management Sumitomo Forestry Group established the Timber Procurement Committee, chaired by the head of the CSR Department and comprising managers from departments in charge of timber procurement for the trading and housing operations. The committee discusses issues related to group-wide timber procurement, including procurement standards and risk assessments for illegal logging. Timber Procurement Committee Enabling Sustainable Timber Procurement Procurement Policy Under the Sumitomo Group Procurement Policy, Sumitomo Forestry Group carries out due diligence on timber procurement to ensure that the procurement is performed in a sustainable manner with consideration of compliance, human rights, labor practice, biodiversity, and local communities. 122 Responsible Timber Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Compliance When performing due diligence, the Company ensures suppliers supply the timber that meets logging compliance requirements and use only the timber products made with raw materials that satisfy the requirements by consulting the provided information. Normally, the information include names and locations of the producers, held certiﬁcations or permits, procured product names, quantities of the products, used wood species, their logging sites, and their main buyers. Additionally, the aforementioned information sorted by country, region, wood species, and timber type is then compared with the procurement standards stipulated by Timber Procurement Committee for a risk assessment against illegal logging. For timber products found at medium to high risk, the Company requests additional information from their suppliers, sends its investigators for on-site inspections, and implement measures to mitigate the risk. Consideration for Human Rights, Labor, Biodiversity Conservation and Local Communities Following items are checked, through supplier surveys and local interviews for the products that are being procured: ・Whether the rights of workers and local inhabitants are abused in the area where we procure the products and their raw materials from. If this is the case, whether suppliers check their logging practices take place with consideration for these rights. ・Whether the high conservation values forests are included in the area where we procure the products and their raw materials from. If this is the case, whether suppliers check their logging practices with consideration to forests with high conservation value. 123 Responsible Timber Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Review Continued eﬀorts to improve the supply chain is encouraged through the reports on the progress of these activities from sections in charge of timber procurement. Timber Procurement Management System * In addition, non-compliance matters are reviewed through surveys and interview assessments. Timber Procurement Committee met three times in ﬁscal 2016 and conducted surveys at 110 suppliers for import timber to conﬁrm their compliance. Moreover, an on-site inspection was undertaken in Romania in April 2017. 124 Responsible Timber Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report On-Site Inspection in Romania Several environmental groups have expressed their concerns over illegal logging in the forest management and timer production in Romania in recent years. In this on-site inspection, we observed the lumber manufacturing of the supplier and the primary harvest of logs that is actually transported to the plant. The supplier properly checks transport permits and the logs bundled on the trailer when receiving raw material logs at the lumber manufacturing plant. For example, the visiting staﬀ was able to conﬁrm that the supplier is thorough in segregated management to make sure not to use logs brought in that exceeds the amount permitted and it is engaging in measures that include reporting to the forestry authorities. We received an explanation of forest management from a forest ranger on the harvest land and checked the actual hammer stamp mark and process when loading the trailer in the ﬁeld. In addition, we conﬁrmed the care in work to preserve the rare forest ecosystem by observing the forest conservation areas under the jurisdiction of Romania. Inspection of harvest land Check when loading the still covered in snow trailer Properly checking the Segregated management of delivery at the plant using round wood beyond the tablet terminals amount on the permit 125 Responsible Timber Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Current Timber Procurement Japan has announced the Act on Promotion of Use and Distribution of Legally-Harvested Wood and Wood Products (Clean Wood Act) as an eﬀort against illegally harvested timber on May 20, 2016, which was enacted on May 20, 2017. Interest in sustainable procurement is also growing with the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo set for 2020. The Sumitomo Forestry Group will precisely reﬂect the needs of the market and will continue to contribute to encouraging the standardization of forest certiﬁcation programs and certiﬁed materials. Procurement of Timber for House Building Materials The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs primary products, wooden houses, require a signiﬁcant amount of wood materials which constitute about 15% of weight of all materials used. In ﬁscal 2016, the Group used approximately 125,000 tons of wood in total. Total Material Weight Per-House Material Type Weight Wood 15.46t Metal 3.66t Plastic 1.90t Paper, Fiber 0.11t Glass, Ceramic, Unburnable Building Material 13.60t Concrete 53.17t Rubble 14.30t Housing Equipment 1.08t Total 103.28t * The weight per material type was provided by Sumitomo Forestry Tsukuba Research Institute based on 2012 BM147 Plan. 126 Responsible Timber Procurement | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Purchase and Sales of Timber and Timber Products Sumitomo Forestry Group is a trading company of timber building materials imports about 1,630 thousand m³ yearly of timber products such as wood and plywood from abroad. Breakdown of Imported Materials 127 Encouraging Use of Forest Certification Systems | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Encouraging Use of Forest Certiﬁcation Systems Basic Policy of Forest Certiﬁcation Systems The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to building reliable supply chains with its suppliers and procuring sustainable timber, and accordingly, uses and supports thirdparty certiﬁcation̶ forest certiﬁcation systems as indices that insure the timber are procured from sustainably managed forests. Moreover, the Group believes that by obtaining certiﬁcations itself and providing certiﬁed timber to markets and consumers, it is able to contribute to promote the forest certiﬁcation systems. The status of certiﬁcation at the Sumitomo Forestry Group has 219,000 hectors with the FM certiﬁcation and 11 organizations with the CoC certiﬁcation. Status of Sumitomo Forestry Group Forest Certiﬁcation/FM Certiﬁcation*1 Certiﬁed Certiﬁcation Date Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Certiﬁed Forests (Company) Area System Certiﬁed Number Issuing Body （ha） Japan Forest Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Technology 46,213 SGEC 2006/9/25 JAFTA-010 Company-owned forest Association （JAFTA） SW-FM/COCRainforest 11,770 FSC ™ 2011/9/12 005600 Alliance Open Bay Timber Ltd.（OBT） (Papua New Guinea) RA-CW/FMRainforest 8,150 FSC 2012/10/11 003093 Alliance OBT Total 19,920 PT. Wana Subur Lestari（WSL） LPPHPL-006PT Almasentra 40,750 PHPL *2 2013/6/25 （Indonesia） IDN Konsulindo PT. Mayangkara Tanaman 015/EQCPT Equality 74,870 PHPL *2 2013/9/24 Industri（MTI）（Indonesia） PHPL/IX/2013 Indonesia Koperasi Serba Usaha Alas SA-FM/COCMandiri KTI （KAM KTI） 1,005 FSC 2008/12/22 Woodmark 002083 （Indonesia） Koperasi Bromo Mandiri SA-FM/COC207 FSC 2017/1/4 Woodmark KTI（KBM KTI）（Indonesia） 005493 SGS South Tasman Pine Forests Ltd.（TPF） SGS-FM/COC36,200 FSC 2016/9/7 Africa (Pty) (New Zealand) 010806 Ltd 128 Encouraging Use of Forest Certification Systems | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report *1 Forest Management (FM) certiﬁcation authenticates sustainable forest management by having a third-party inspect based on objective indicators with focus on: (i) compliance with laws and system frameworks, (ii) forest ecosystem and biodiversity maintenance and conservation, (iii) respect for rights of indigenous people and local communities, and (iv) maintenance and enhancement of forest productivity. *2 Pengelolaan Hvtan Produksi Lestari (PHPL) is an Indonesian certiﬁcation of sustainable production forest maintenance. Status of Sumitomo Forestry Group Forest Certiﬁcation/ CoC Certiﬁcation*1 Certiﬁcation Date Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Organization System Certiﬁed Number Issuing Body CU-COC823910／ Control Union FSC 2006/3/28 CU-CWCertiﬁcations Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. 823910 International Marketing Department, and Branches, Timber and Building Japan Gas Materials Division Appliances PEFC 2008/9/22 CEF1201 Inspection Association （JIA） Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Timber and Building Materials Japan Forest Department and Hokkaido Branch, Technology Timber and Building Materials SGEC 2017/1/24 JIA－W045 Association Division （JAFTA） MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department, Housing Division Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Branch, Timber and Japan Forest Building Materials Division JAFTATechnology SGEC 2007/10/1 Building Materials Procurement and W038 *2 Association Logistics Department, Housing （JAFTA） Division Japan Forest Sumitomo Forestry Wood Products Technology SGEC 2006/9/25 JAFTA-W017 Co., Ltd. Association （JAFTA） SGSHK-COCFSC 2009/9/13 SGS 006693 Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan Forest SGEC 2007/12/26 JAFTA-W041 Technology Association（JAFTA） RA-COC001320 / FSC 2004/9/1 Rainforest Alliance RA-CWAlpine MDF Industries Pty 001320 Ltd. *3 (Australia) Engineered Wood PEFC 2011/2/1 001 Products Association 129 Encouraging Use of Forest Certification Systems | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Certiﬁcation Date Certiﬁcation Certiﬁcation Organization System Certiﬁed Number Issuing Body SAI-COCNelson Pine Industries Ltd.（NPIL） 001290 / QMI-SAI CANADA FSC 2009/6/22 (New Zealand） SAI-CWLimited 001290 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia（KTI） TT-COCFSC 2005/1/10 BM TRADA （Indonesia） 002009 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia（RPI） TT-COCFSC 2012/10/15 BM TRADA （Indonesia） 004325 TT-COCPT. Mutuagung PT.Sumitomo Forestry Indonesia FSC 2016/4/26 005903 Lestari RA-COCSumitomo Forestry Singapore Ltd. FSC 2008/1/28 005542／RARainforest Alliance CW-005542 SGSPEFC 2014/11/17 PEFC/COCSGS 1730 Sumitomo Forestry Dalian Ltd. SA-COCSoil Association FSC 2016/9/8 005319 Certiﬁcation Limited *1 CoC (Chain of Custody) certiﬁcation is a system to certify companies operating processing and distribution of forest products. It tracks the certiﬁed forest products (logged in the certiﬁed forests) in the course of processing and distribution and certiﬁes that the risk evaluation is conducted for non-certiﬁed timber, and allows to the certiﬁcation label on the products whose entire production process is CoC certiﬁed. *2 Includes operators other than Sumitomo Forestry Group companies due to being a comprehensive certiﬁcation. *3 Alpine MDF Industries is no longer a consolidated company of the Group due to the sale of all equity interest in March 2017. Major Forest Certiﬁcation Systems Forest Stewardship Council™(FSC) FSC is an organization founded in 1993 led by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) and consists of representatives from environmental organizations, forest workers, timber users and traders, human rights organizations, and local forestry unions. It is considered a pioneer amongst forest certiﬁcation system operators. Adhering to the 10 principles and 56 regulations encompassing environmental impact, local society, and indigenous people's rights, FSC-accredited certiﬁcation bodies will undertake reviews. Recently, country or regional standards as well as the review procedure for small-scale forest owners have been introduced to provide greater support for diverse forests and owners. 130 Encouraging Use of Forest Certification Systems | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation (PEFC) Forestry organizations of eleven European countries established PEFC together in 1999 as an organization to mutually authenticate the system of each country. PEFC does not directly authenticate an individual forest, but when the PEFC's required conditions that adapted “the inter-governmental process” implemented by 149 countries is met, the country's own forest certiﬁcation system is authenticated by PEFC. Joined by nonEuropean countries in 2003, the organization originally called Pan European Forest Certiﬁcation Schemes changed its name to Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation. Since then, PEFC has shown drastic growth, and to date its total certiﬁed area is the largest across the world. Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC) SGEC authenticates forest management that demonstrates both rich natural environment and sustainable timber production in Japan. With reverence for Japan's indigenous natural environment, social customs, and culture, the review premises on seven criteria. SGEC can also authenticates forestry operations and distribution systems under CoC. SGEC joined PEFC in November 2014 and submitted a mutual authentication application to PEFC in March 2015, which was mutually approved in June 2016. Promoting Wider Use of Certiﬁed Timber The utmost importance in the sales of certiﬁed timber is the separate management of certiﬁed and non-certiﬁed materials. The CoC certiﬁcation by incorporating a third-party authentication insures that the timber sold to customers are produced in the certiﬁed forests. The Sumitomo Forestry Group sets the proportion of certiﬁed timber among the sales volume of imported timber as an indicator and is working to increase the ﬁgure to 12% or above by 2020. In ﬁscal 2016, indicative ﬁgure was 10.9%. As for timber certiﬁed by SGEC, the certiﬁcation system for domestic produce, the Group has set the 2020 sales volume target at 85,000 m³. In ﬁscal 2016, the indicative ﬁgure was 67,800 m³. 131 Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources | Social Report Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources Basic Policy of Conserving Domestic Forest Resources The devastation of timber plantations such as Japanese cedar and cypress farmed cedar and Japanese cypress trees throughout each region of Japan is a concern. The reasons for this devastation include the stagnation of timber value and worsening proﬁtability as well as the inability for proper thinning or other management of the forests. The Government of Japan in order to avert exacerbation of the forest depredation by revitalizing the forestry industry, established a goal to raise Japanʼs timber self-eﬃciency to 50% by 2025. Sumitomo Forestry Group has acquired SGEC forest certiﬁcations * for the Companyowned forests of approximately 46,000 hectares as part of its sustainable forest management practice while using more domestically produced timber in all business areas in order to assist in vitalizing the forestry industry. * Forest certiﬁcation established by the Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council in 2003 Breakdown of Company-Owned Forests 132 Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources | Social Report Using More Domestic Timber in Home Products Sumitomo Forestry is working to increase the ratio of domestic timber usage for Sumitomo Forestry Home house through Percentage of development and incorporation of various component materials. Japanese timber Further into the future, the Company will improve the ratio to under Multiachieve the 2020 targets set for each main housing product Balance (construction method). Construction Method (FY2016) 71％ Percentage of Japanese timber under Big-Frame Construction Method (FY2016) 50％ Promoting the Use of Unused Wood Resource Unused wood resource is leftover timber from thinning and logging or wood residue that are unused due to curves and Volume of small size. Wood biomass power plants are operating in each unused wood area and the demand for wood biomass is growing following the resource adoption of the FIT law (Feed-in Tariﬀ for Renewable Energy). handled from By using unused wood resources, we can also expect an Japanese timber eﬀective increase in the value of forests while promoting (FY2020 Target) renewable energy. Sumitomo Forestry Forest Service has set targets for ﬁscal 2020 with the aim of building an eﬃcient and 185kt safe logging system for wood leftover from logging. Volume of unused wood resource handled from Japanese timber (FY2016) 191kt 133 Protecting and Utilizing Domestic Forest Resources | Social Report Exporting Domestic Timber Although timber consumption in Japan is on the decline, overseas demand for timber is forecasted to grow in emerging Volume of countries including China propelled by economic development exported and population growth. Inﬂuenced by such circumstance, Japanese timber Japanese timber exportation is also on the rise in recent years, (FY2020 Target) 200 thousand and thus, the Sumitomo Forestry Group set goals for ﬁscal 2020 and is entering new overseas market opportunities for domestic timber. m³ Export and Sales of Domestic Timber (FY2016) 70 thousand m³ About symbol for Independent assurance Toward the Future The Sumitomo Group plans to promote the acquisition of SGEC forest certiﬁcations when the forest management area expands due to new forest acquisitions in addition to the forests currently owned by the company. We will also contribute to the utilization of forests in Japan by continuing to actively use Japanese timber. 134 Using Overseas Plantation | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Using Overseas Plantation Basic Policy of Overseas Plantation Utilization Properly managed forests, which are planted regularly and logged based on annual growth provide sustainable timber and hold promise in mitigating our dependence on natural forests. At overseas plantations where growth of woods are faster than in Japan, the Sumitomo Forestry Group operates the plantation business well-thought-out for local communities and biodiversity and proactively procures products made with woods harvested from the plantations, and thereby develops sustainable supply chains. Overseas Plantation Data Managed Logged Planted Country Plantation Business Partner Area Area Area PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri (MTI) 104,664ha 2,141ha 1,829ha PT. Wana Subur Lestari (WSL) 40,750ha 3,366ha 2,722ha Indonesia PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) 10,260ha 114ha 1,932ha PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) *1 2,604ha 684ha 127ha Others *2 3,633ha 0ha 663ha 161,910ha 6,305ha 7,273ha Papua New Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT) 31,260ha 306ha 429ha Guinea Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) 5,134ha 78ha 180ha New Zealand Tasman Pine Forest Ltd. (TPF) *3 30,966ha 828ha 398ha Total 229,270ha 7,517ha 8,280ha *1 The number of seedlings distributed at RPT is estimated to convert as land area. Vegetation determined to have withered is included in the harvest *2 Others includes data of environmental reforestation for social contribution and consulting business for other companies *3 TPF completed the acquisition of the plantation area in June 2016 135 Using Overseas Plantation | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Actively Using Plantations and Certiﬁed Materials for Wooden Boards Sumitomo Forestry has set a ratio of products that use plantation trees and certiﬁed timber from the procurement of Plantationimport wood board products such as plywood as a 2020 target derived timber and it strives to expand this business. Plywood that uses 50% Panel ratio or more plantation timber, FSC-certiﬁed or PEFC-certiﬁed timber (FY2020 target) 33％ is marketed as Kikorin Plywood, and some of its revenue is invested in plantation businesses in Indonesia. At least Plantationderived timber Panel ratio (FY2016) 25.1％ Sales of Kikorin Plywood 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 31,500m³ 36,700m³ 31,100m³ 31,900m³ 28,100m³ 30,200m³ Distribution of Free Seedlings and Buy Back Guarantee of Logs Indonesian Group companies KTI and RPI distribute free tree seedlings to local communities guaranteeing that the companies will buy round logs as raw materials at the current market value once the seedlings grow into harvestable woods. In November 2015, KTI's aforementioned operations were recognized by the Indonesia Ministry of Environment and Forestry and awarded the Minister's Prize for contributing to local communities by generating stable income while protecting communal societies as well as environments. Number of Seedling Stocks Given to Indonesia Company FY2016 Performance KTI 3,290,000 RPI 800,000 136 Using Overseas Plantation | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Promoting Certiﬁcation of Forests Together With Local Communities KTI organized KSU ALAS MANDIRI KTI（KAM KTI）, which is a community plantation cooperative association. In 2008, KTI obtained the ﬁrst FSC TM-FM certiﬁcate for the 152-hectare plantation and has expanded its certiﬁcation to 1,005 hectares in 2015. Koperasi Bromo Mandiri-KTI(KBM KTI), which is a second reforestation cooperative with the same certiﬁcation, acquired a certiﬁcate for 206 hectares in January 2017. The area of certiﬁed forest has reached a total of 1,211 hectors. These certiﬁed forests will strengthen the manufacture and sale of products with high environmental value based on a growing supply of Falcata (Albizia falcataria) materials. Sustainable Plantation Business by Leveraging Forestry Certiﬁcation System Of approximately 30,000-hectare plantation owned and managed by a Papua New Guinean company, OBT, about two-third, equivalent to 20,000 hectares, is certiﬁed with FSCTM. Under the goal to plant on the 500-hectare land a year, OBT practices sustainable forest management that lays basis for communities and environment to function in harmony. The area planted in ﬁscal 2016 was 429 hectares. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry Group is acquiring FSC TM-FM certiﬁcates for all of its forest areas, including the roughly 30,000 hectares that expands the plantation business of TPF (Tasman Pine Forest); New Zealand and the 5,000 hectares of forest owned by NPIL. TPF practices sustainable forest management that lays basis for communities and environment to function in harmony by planting roughly 600 hectares of forest each year. Toward the Future The balance between the international supply and demand is estimated to become even tighter due to limited crude timber produced in a sustainable manner as demand for crude wood increases because of the growing population and economic growth of developing countries. Sumitomo Forestry will improve breeding and cultivation technologies and promote elite tree development to maximize the value of overseas plantation forests with the purpose of building plantations that bring long-lasting and stable proﬁts and pass down the global environment to the next generation. KTI will also promote the expansion of plantation forests through direct corporate management in addition to the free distribution of seedlings to local communities. We will expand stable and sustainable procurement sources of plantation forests based on the forest management that we have cultivated up until now which is friendly to both local communities and the environment. 137 Communication with Our Business Partners | Together with Our Business Partners | Social Report Communication with Our Business Partners Communication with Sumitomo Forestry's Business Partners Sumitomo Forestry's housing-business worksites are found in every region of the country, and they rely on the many supporting partner companies that the Sumitomo Forestry Group collaborates with. The Company considers communication with these companies to be vital in order to share with them its philosophy of improving the quality of homes while protecting the environment. Main Communication Activities with the Business Partners of Sumitomo Forestry's Housing Division Name /scale Description Material suppliers of Sumitomo Forestry (suppliers excluding onsite equipment manufacturers, precut factories, building material operators and frame centers) are evaluated every year on items Evaluation and feedback based on the that include a corporate overview, quality, cost, delivery period, Supplier Evaluation Standards Response environmental response as well as services. We provide feedback rate: 82.4% of main business partners from the evaluation results as a way to play a role in bettering (2016) our suppliers. In addition, we conduct plant audits of our suppliers regularly. In the future, we will review methods for auditing suppliers to further strengthen our quality control. Communication with Our Timber and Building Materials Business Partners In the Timber and Building Materials Business, given that it is characterized as being a regional industry, Sumitomo Forestry maintains close communication with the suppliers and purchasers of timber and building materials in each region. Main Communication Activities with the Business Partners of the Timber & Building Materials Division Name /scale Description Established in diﬀerent regions around Japan as a forum for The Sumirin club –a membership communication with business partners of timber and building organization to communicate with materials. Training sessions and information exchange meetings regional suppliers of timber and are held two or three times a year in each region, allowing building materials members to deepen mutual friendships, promote product R&D, Number of members: 868 companies enhance production and distribution, and support improvements (as of March 2017) in the industry as a whole. Publication of Building Materials With a history spanning more than half a century, this monthly Monthly magazine publishes timely information and topics regarding Monthly print run of approximately timber, building materials and the housing industry from a 4,100 copies distinctive perspective unique to Sumitomo Forestry. 138 Together with Our Shareholders and Investors | Social Report Together with Our Shareholders and Investors Recognizing Importance In recent years, institutional investors have shifted the way to evaluate a company. One emphasis from this perspective of evaluation is engagement. The dialogue between companies and their shareholders as well as investors is growing in terms of strategies and eﬀorts to improve corporate value. Trends to promote even broader engagement are growing after the publishing of the Stewardship Code even in Japan. The Sumitomo Forestry Group places great importance on engagement from the perspectives of properly assessing the corporate value and earning trust from the market. The Group discloses a wide range of information, including non-ﬁnancial information, in a timely and transparent manner to facilitate understanding among stakeholders of our management policies and business strategies, while regularly feeds back the opinions and requirements of investors who are a vital stakeholder into operations to put in place measures toward sustainable growth. Relevant Policies and Systems Basic Policy on Information Basic IR Policies Disclosure and Communication Basic Policy on Returns to Shareholders and Retained Relevant Targets and Performance The Sumitomo Forestry Group strives to release information that fulﬁlls obligations in transparent management and accountability. The Group promotes activities to fairly and accurately communicate with stakeholders through disclosure and information releases for an accurate evaluation in the stock market. 139 Together with Our Shareholders and Investors | Social Report Activity Report Information Disclosure and Returns to Shareholders Communication 140 Information Disclosure and Communication | Together with Our Shareholders and Investors | Social Report Information Disclosure and Communication Basic Policy on Information Disclosure and Communication In the interest of greater management transparency, Sumitomo Forestry takes a proactive approach to information disclosure. We strive to provide reporting and explanations in an easy to understand manner at the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June every year. We also publish a wealth of IR information in Japanese and English such as information about the settlement of accounts and monthly order information that includes Integrated Report Japanese reports short ﬁnancial statements and a summary of 2017 for shareholders ﬁnancial results and forecasts on our website. on business In addition, we also publish our CSR initiatives activities (Year in Japanese and English online. In addition to ended March 31, our Annual Report and the Japanese language 2017) report for shareholders on business activities, we also strive to actively provide information that includes the publishing of notiﬁcations for our Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders in both English and Japanese in print and online forms. Sumitomo Forestry publishes an Integrated Report instead of its traditional Annual Report as a way to further enhance the information that it discloses such as ESG in 2017. IR Library (Link to IR Information) 141 Information Disclosure and Communication | Together with Our Shareholders and Investors | Social Report Two-Way Communication with Shareholders and Investors General Meeting of Shareholders Sumitomo Forestry holds its Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders every June. Through various initiatives, the Company endeavors to get as many shareholders as possible to participate at the meeting and exercise their right to vote. These initiatives include sending out and posting online convocation notices (in Japanese and English) earlier than legally required, scheduling the meeting to avoid the date when most other shareholder meetings are held, and accommodating shareholders who wish to cast their votes online or via mobile phone. Individual Meetings Sumitomo Forestry holds individual meetings for institutional investors following the announcement of its quarterly results. In ﬁscal 2016, the Company held 169 of these individual meetings both in Japan and overseas. IR Informative Meetings for Individual Investors Sumitomo Forestry holds regular IR informative meetings for individual investors. During ﬁscal 2016, many investors attended the meetings held in Osaka and Tokyo. The meetings presented the growth strategy of the Sumitomo Forestry Group in addition to its business operations while its exhibition booth at the venue provided those investors who have requested with brieﬁngs on customized housing, rental housing, and renovation. IR Activities for Overseas Institutional Investors and Shareholders Sumitomo Forestry management team visits institutional investors and shareholders in Europe, North America, and Southeast Asia in addition to engaging in eﬀorts such as the distribution of English versions of ﬁnancial information to all of our institutional investors and shareholders overseas. These eﬀorts oﬀer us the chance to exchange ideas in addition to explain aspects of our business such as our business performance and business strategies. Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry will continue to communicate the business operations, corporate stance and future vision of the Sumitomo Forestry Group to not only shareholders, but all institutional and individual investors from overseas or in Japan in a fair and appropriate manner, and it will expand IR activities that are appropriately rated in stock markets. 142 Returns to Shareholders | Together with Our Shareholders and Investors | Social Report Returns to Shareholders Basic Policy on Returns to Shareholders and Retained Acknowledging that providing returns to shareholders is one of its most important tasks, Sumitomo Forestry has adopted a basic policy of paying stable and continuous returns. Going forward, in addition to improving return on equity (ROE) and enhancing shareholdersʼ equity by making good use of retained earnings for eﬀective investment and research and development activities that help improve long-term corporate value, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to pay an appropriate level of shareholder returns in line with earnings while reﬂecting an overall balanced consideration of factors such as business fundamentals, ﬁnancial conditions and cash ﬂow. Dividends in Fiscal 2016 In ﬁscal 2016 (the year to March 31, 2017), a year-end dividend of 20 yen per share and an interim dividend of 15 yen per share were issued. This corresponds to a fullyear dividend of 35 yen per share. Share Distribution by Shareholder Type (As of March 31, 2017) * Digits below unit values displayed are cutoﬀ on the chart. 143 Together with Our Employees | Social Report Together with Our Employees Recognizing Importance A wide range of themes have been raised concerning social issues related to employment and labor from human rights and the form of an equal workplace without discrimination to ensuring safety on-site, considerations toward work-life balance and the reduction of long working hours. We believe working to resolve these challenges is the driving force to improving corporate value and business promotion that have a positive eﬀect that include gaining human resources and improving the motivation of employees while eliminating risks on employees. Relevant Policies and Systems Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Basic Policy on the Employment Conduct and Treatment of Employees Sumitomo Forestry Group Basic Policy on Occupational Declaration on Empowering Health and Safety Women Basic Policy on Employee Work Basic Policy on Human Resources Styles Education Policy on Communication with The 6th Next Generation Law Employees Action Plan Relevant Targets and Performance Employee related initiatives are one of our CSR Material Issues. The Sumitomo Forestry Group set ﬁscal 2020 targets to actively promote fair employment and treatment, worklife balance and occupational health and safety in particular. In addition, we are enhancing our eﬀorts and measures to contribute to business development such as the promotion of diversity and human resource education. 144 Together with Our Employees | Social Report About symbol for Independent assurance Activity Report Fair Employment and Beneﬁt Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Human Resources Development Work-life Balance Communication with Employees Employee Data 145 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Fair Employment and Beneﬁts Basic Policy on the Employment and Treatment of Employees With respect to the employment and treatment of employees, in addition to respecting equal opportunity and diversity, the Company has prescribed in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct that it will not discriminate on the basis of gender, age, nationality, race, religion or disability. In its recruitment activities too, the Company emphasizes the ambition and volition of the applicant, and does not diﬀerentiate selection processes according to academic background or gender. At Group companies outside Japan, the employment of local staﬀ is actively promoted, and talented personnel are employed and promoted to management positions, irrespective of race or gender. As for the disciplinary punishment and dismissal of employees, if there has been a compliance violation, the employee will be dealt with appropriately in accordance with Employment Regulations. Unfair dismissals are not allowed. Recently, talent acquisition has been recognized as one of the major management issue for management in Japan triggered mainly by low birth rate and thereby aging population. Sumitomo Forestry communicates its employment and beneﬁt policies with potential employees during recruitment and expands supportive programs to foster diverse work styles and performance of female employees in eﬀort of acquiring valuable, next-generation talent. Sumitomo Forestry Group Code of Conduct Promotion System The Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department, which was established as an independent organization in the Personnel Department in April 2013, supports the utilization of a wide range of employees from female staﬀ to re-employed retirees and employees with disabilities as well as promotes diversity. 146 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Promoting the Active Involvement of Female Employees Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to creating “an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity,” as set out in its Action Guideline. We believe a diverse workforce and a business strategy developed from a wide range of ideas is important for the Company. As part of this eﬀort, we are striving to promote the participation of women in the belief that this will meet the social needs and signiﬁcantly contribute to increased corporate value. By expanding opportunities for women and by leveraging the creative power of women, we will integrate a diverse range of values that will spur innovation and enhance corporate value. 1. We will create a positive work environment for women 2. We will leverage womenʼs unique creative powers 3. We will spur innovation through the participation of women The Sumitomo Forestry Group is committed to a workplace environment where motivated employees can be actively Ratio of Female involved irrespective of gender, age, nationality, race, religion or employees in disability. In an endeavor to actively engage female employees management in particular, the Group has sought to improve its systems positions relating to childcare, education and training, and at the same 2020 targets time, has taken a proactive stance on promoting the use of (nonthese systems. consolidated) During ﬁscal 2013, the Group surveyed the attitude and needs of employees with respect to: work and careers; promoting the At least 5％ active involvement of female employees; and childbirth and parenting. A survey was conducted to gauge the awareness of Ratio of Female all female employees at Sumitomo Forestry to assist the Group employees in in promoting the active involvement of female employees and in supporting the workstyles of employees currently raising management children. In December 2013, the Group released the “Sumitomo positions Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women.” It was As of April 1, issued to the entire Group under the name of the President, 2017 and formally summarizes the signiﬁcance of promoting the (nonactive involvement of female employees into three policies. The consolidated) Group is actively engaged in activities under the policy described in the Declaration. 3.2％ 147 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report In December 2014, numerical targets for the appointment of women to managerial posts have been set in order to foster further empowerment of female employees at Sumitomo Forestry. The Company has publicly announced its goal of raising the ratio of female managers to at least 5% by 2020 (3.2% as of April 01, 2017), and is working to achieve this goal. In ﬁscal 2016, in accordance with The Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace of the Japanese Government, the Companyʼs ﬁrst phase action plan (April 1, 2016 – March 31, 2019) was implemented and has been available to the public. A mentoring system was also established with the purpose of further facilitating the success and support of women managers from July 2016 to March 2017. The mentoring system is a program where assigned mentors periodically interview mentees to address challenges mentees face in their work, elevate worries they might have and support the growth of the mentee. Six female manger mentees where mentored by male managers with the aim to further success and self-reformation. Employee Data Parental Support for Employees Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. First Term Action Plan (in Japanese) Employment and Promotion of Women (Non-Consolidated) FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Ratio of Female 17.7％ 18.4％ 19.2％ 19.9％ 20.1％ employees* Ratio of Female employees in 1.8％ 2.2％ 2.6％ 2.8％ 3.2％ * management positions Ratio of Female new 23.6％ 28.7％ 26.8％ 22.8％ 18.0％ graduates * Calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. 148 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Employment and Promotion of Women (Domestic Group Companies) FY 2016 FY 2017 Ratio of Female 26.2% 25.4% employees* Ratio of Female employees in 3.8% 5.0% * management positions Ratio of Female new 47.0% 36.7% graduates * Calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. Womenʼs Perspective Project Having started in March 2013, Womenʼs Perspective Project which gathered diverse female employees from the headquarters, branch oﬃces across Japan, and Group companies in intention to bring homes designed from their residentsʼ perspectives. Previously, the project provided the “comama” spatial design proposal and also nine houses built and sold in just half a year at East Hills Seya in the Ikoma district in Nara Prefecture. Brainstorming by project members In February 2015, the housing product “konoka” model house that incorporated female customer feedback was launched, and two months later in April, sales of the product began. Continuous eﬀorts in campaigns, internal training for sales, and event proposals and operations since the product launch resulted in over 900 contracts for new “konoka” houses over two years. In addition, “Forest Maison konoka”, a new rental housing product with a concept of more reliable, more safety, and more comfort from female perspective was released in August “Konoka” Model House at 2016. the No.2 Mitaka Housing Plaza Main Initiatives Aimed at Increasing the Motivation of Female Employees Sumitomo Forestry provides various training for female employees. The training for women salespersons in ﬁscal 2016 was held with the purpose of creating strategies to improve the ﬁrst contact with customers, which enhanced knowledge and motivation by sharing information beyond area and generation. The production training for female employees provided an informational exchange with other companies in the same industry as well as construction site tours for female on149 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report site supervisors with the goal of teaching successful examples of construction engineers who are women outside Sumitomo Forestry as well as improving skills and motivation. Main Initiatives Aimed at Increasing the Motivation of Female Employees Main Name of seminar Date participants Female Sales Staﬀ Training December 2016 37 Networking Event for Female Sales training Housing Sales Staﬀ: Joint November 2016 5 Program by Nine Housing Builders Production Production Training for February 2017 9 training Female Employees External Management May 2016–March 2017 3 Leadership Training Elective Training Joint Cross-Industry Business Female February 2017 1 Management Training Sumitomo Forestry Granted the Semi-Nadeshiko Brand Designation for FY2016 Sumitomo Forestry was granted the Semi-Nadeshiko Brand designation in March 2017. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry together with the Tokyo Stock Exchange emphasize the success of women and choose companies as Semi-Nadeshiko Brands who show excellence in promoting women's success next to Nadeshiko Brands. One reason Sumitomo Forestry may have been selected as a Semi-Nadeshiko Brand is thought to be the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration on Empowering Women, which was formulated to evaluate promotional measures such as the enhancement of childcare support and educational training programs. Promoting the Employment of Persons with Disabilities Sumitomo Forestry promotes the employment of people with disabilities, giving the highest priority to matching the Ratio of Disabled individuality of each person with a disability with the workplace Employees and business activities. The ratio of disabled employees as of As of March 31, end March, 2017 was 2.12 %. Furthermore, to improve the 2017 retention rates for current employees, the Company provides (Nonregular face-to-face meetings as well as phone interviews and Consolidated ) career advice as required. 2.12％ 150 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Employment of Persons with Disabilities (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Ratio of Disabled 1.95 2.18 2.24 2.12 2.12 Employees （％） Promoting Proactive Employment of Persons with Disabilities –Sumirin Wood Piece Co., Ltd. Founded Aiming to provide employment opportunities for persons with disabilities, the Company in July 2015 founded a subsidiary in Niihama, Ehime Prefecture in Japan with business lines such as shiitake mushroom farming, wooden products manufacturing, processing, and printing. The Sumitomo Forestry Group hired ﬁve persons who have intellectual and psychological disabilities in October 2016. In March 2017, new oﬃce Exterior of new Sumirin building was completed and in April the Sumirin Wood Wood Piece Co., Ltd oﬃce Piece obtained the certiﬁcation of a special subsidiary building company in accordance with the Act for Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities. Re-Employment of Retirees Sumitomo Forestry has a system in place whereby it re-employs personnel, who retired at 60, on temporary contracts until they turn 65, on the condition that they have had at least 10 years of continuous service, they have speciﬁc qualiﬁcations and experience, and they wish to be re-employed. The Company re-employed 46 people in ﬁscal 2016. They are all actively involved in the Company, making the most of their abilities and experience. Over the past three years, Sumitomo Forestry has re-employed 84.8% of employees who retired. As an interim measure following revision of the Act on Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons on April 1, 2013, the Company re-employs all workers who wish to return to work. Number of Re-Employed Retirees FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 33 28 43 34 46 151 Fair Employment and Benefits | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Return to Work Application System Sumitomo Forestry has operated the Return to Work Application System since ﬁscal 2008. The aims of the system are to meet the re-employment needs of workers to secure talented personnel who resign due to unavoidable circumstances such as childcare and eldercare. Employees register their wish to return to work at the time they resign, and applicants must have had worked for at least three consecutive years before the resignation. As at the end of March 2017, the Company received 140 applications. When the Company receives an application, it goes through a selection process based on the Companyʼs needs and the skills of the applicant. Applicants who are successfully re-employed within three years of the resignation are able to regain the same levels of position as before. Direct Employment of Non-Permanent Employees In recent years, regulations for dispatched employees have been strengthened to correct disparities arising out of diﬀerent forms of employment. In response, Sumitomo Forestry reviewed its personnel systems to appoint competent employees, and in April 2011, changed the status of its dispatched employees to directly employed ﬁxed-term employees, referred to as “partner employees.” The Company also operates a system for promoting partner employees to permanent status. It promoted 19 workers to permanent employee status in ﬁscal 2015, 14 in ﬁscal 2016, and 19 in ﬁscal 2017. Number of Directly Employed Non-Permanent Employees FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 38 28 19 14 19 Toward the Future In the future, Sumitomo Forestry will continue to promote diversity and inclusion based on Respect for Humanity̶We work to create an open and inclusive corporate culture that values diversity, which is one of our action guidelines. We also aim to be a “truly excellent company” in the housing and wood products businesses, by making eﬀorts to put in place eﬀective personnel systems, carrying out appropriate and eﬃcient placement of “human assets,” developing and training personnel, and building a group of employees who are always willing to take up challenges. 152 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Basic Policy on Occupational Health and Safety Sumitomo Forestry has established Rules for OHS Management with an aim of fostering a workplace environment in which employees can perform their jobs in a safe and healthy manner. The rules prescribe that a general OHS manager is to be stationed at each place of business regardless of how big it is, and every year, the Company checks on the status of the oﬃcer and OHS committee meetings. With an aim of preventing accidents at construction sites and maintaining the health of workers, each division, such as the Environment and Resources Division and the Housing Division, has also established separate OHS management policies and manuals in view of the distinctive characteristics of their respective businesses. Occupational Health and Safety Management System In addition to developing occupational safety and health management systems in accordance with the laws and regulations of the respective country, each Sumitomo Forestry Group company also promotes acquisition of certiﬁcations such as OHSAS *. Human Resources (HR) Department in responsible for OHS across the Group, and heads of HR provides OHS instructions and support to establish OHS system on each Company's level. The OHS Committee where general manager serves as chairman meets monthly has been established, and matters discussed are posted on the intranet for the purpose of information sharing and enlightenment. * Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS): An international standard developed for the purpose of reducing occupational health and safety risks and clarifying where responsibilities lie. Acquisition of Occupational Safety-Related Certiﬁcation Company Country Type of certiﬁcation Date acquired Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Japan OHSAS18001 February 2013 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) Indonesia OHSAS18001 March 2013 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) Indonesia OHSAS18001 October 2013 AS/NZS4801 December 2012 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) New Zealand ACC WSMP Tertiary November 2009 Alpine MDF Industries Pty. Ltd. (Alpine) * Australia AS/NZS4801 August 2010 * Alpine is no longer a consolidated company of the Group due to the sale of all equity interest in March 2017. 153 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Targets and Performance Concerning Occupational Injuries In Mid-Term CSR Management Plan, Sumitomo Forestry sets the critical target by FY2020 as “zero occupational injury and lost work time.” Its progress and results are explained below. Occupational Injuries (Non-Consolidated) *1 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Number of occupational 0 6 1 0 3 injuries (incidents) *2 Lost-time injury frequency 0 0.28 0.19 0.19 0.30 rate *3 Work-related illness frequency 0 0 0 0 0 rate *1 No work-related accidents resulting in death occurred during the reporting years shown. *2 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from wor in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan is disclosed. *3 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 Initiatives in Forestry In Japan, the Sumitomo Forestry Group manages 46,444 hectares of Company-owned forests and 1,106 hectares of forests contracted for management. Contractors conduct planting, weeding, improvement cutting, thinning and clear cutting operations. For the purpose of preventing occupational injury to these contractors, the Group conducts safety patrols and holds Workplace Safety Conferences at each forestry oﬃce once every half year. In ﬁscal 2016, there were three occupational injuries * involving contractors at forestry A safety patrol work sites in Company-owned forests. As a result, with the contractors involved, response measures to prevent recurrence were discussed and agreed. Additionally, warnings were issued to other contractors through the Workplace Safety Conferences. * The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan is disclosed. 154 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Number of Occupational Injuries Involving Contractors at Forestry Work Sites in Company-Owned Forests FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 1 0 2 1 3 Lectures Given by External Experts The Sumitomo Forestry Group in Japan has enhanced awareness-raising activities at its Workplace Safety Conferences, including occupational safety instructions using examples of common forestry accidents, as well as environmental education, lectures given by experts on such topics as emergency ﬁrst aid, and on-site safety guidance. Furthermore, so as to prevent lack of concentration when performing dangerous work by becoming accustomed to the work, the Group conducts On-site guidance by experts safety education repeatedly. (Hyuga Forestry Oﬃce) At the Workplace Safety Conferences held at various forestry oﬃces in ﬁscal 2016, experts have been invited from the Forestry and Timber Manufacturing Safety & Health Association to hold lectures on accident prevention measures based on analysis of causes of recent forestry occupational injuries, and on-site work safety guidance was conducted. Initiatives in the Manufacture of Wooden Building Materials Initiatives in Japan Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd.ʼs basic policy is to move “from zero accidents to zero danger.” Its goal is to achieve zero occupational injuries by nipping danger in the bud. To achieve this, Sumitomo Forestry Crest began operating an Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSMS) in July 2012, and acquired OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation in February 2013. Through repeating the PDCA management cycle with near-miss incident reports submitted voluntarily by employees and sharing opinions through small-circle activities at each workplace, eﬀorts are being made to reduce risks while engaging in production. In addition, there was also one occupational injury in ﬁscal 2016. Measures to prevent recurrence have been established by reviewing procedures and equipment based on inspections and factor analysis. 155 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Number of Occupational Injuries in the Manufacture of Wooden Building Materials FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Domestic Manufacturers 4 5 0 0 1 * The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan is disclosed. Safety Patrols and Risk Assessments Each plant of Sumitomo Forestry Crest regularly conducts safety patrols at the workplace with the goal to move “from zero accidents to zero danger”. Any sign of danger discovered in these patrols is immediately addressed with safety measures to prevent that risk from being realized. Furthermore, Sumitomo Forestry Crest is committed to ensuring the safety of its workplaces, by identifying A safety patrol operations and facilities at risk, such as of workers getting caught in machinery, and by focusing on reducing those risks. Overseas Initiatives The Sumitomo Forestry Group are strengthening safety measures at overseas manufacturing companies * where the number of occupational injuries increased in the previous year and has introduced measures that include the adoption of zero accident procedures (risk prediction training and risk assessment) in Indonesia where its manufacturing sites are concentrated. We also implemented safety promotion procedures at other preceding group companies. As a result, we were able to slightly reduce the number of occupational injury in Risk prediction training for FY2016 compared to the previous year. local employees at Indonesian manufacturers * Seven consolidated companies: Nelson Pine Industries, Alpine MDF Industries, Kutai Timber Indonesia, AST Indonesia, Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk, Canyon Creek Cabinet, and Vina Eco Board Number of Occupational Injuries in the Manufacture of Wood Building Materials FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Overseas Manufacturers * 19 13 6 18 16 * Indicates the number of injuries eligible for compensation beneﬁts for a temporary absence from work under the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan. 156 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Initiatives for Expatriates Living Abroad In case of injuries or illnesses including infectious diseases, the Company oﬀers services such as introducing medical institutions and making appointments with physicians and consultants for expatriate employees and their accompanying families as well as employees on business trips. In particular, Overseas Risk Management Manual that encompasses measures against infectious diseases such Overseas Assistance Card as AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, stipulates the safety management system. “The guidelines for expatriates and business travelers” is also included in the manual in which the Company summarizes risks in each country where it operates, and reviewed annually. Employees to be newly posted abroad are provided with instructions based on the manual. Initiatives in the Housing Business At the beginning of every ﬁscal year, Divisional Manager of the Housing Division formulates the Occupation Health and safety Policy to provide notiﬁcation based on circumstances such as the accidents that occurred in the previous period, the state of occupational health and safety promotion as well as compliance with relevant laws. In addition, permeating a safety culture has been designated as a basic policy for this period and we are working to achieve this in primarily three Safety check at construction ways; compliance with the law, promotion of occupation site health and safety education and eradication of occupational injuries. Always raising awareness toward the recognition of safety ﬁrst permeates this safety culture. Branches and building contractors set important management targets for the ﬁscal year to eliminate ﬁve-types of major accidents; falls, accidents with tools, things tipping over and accidents with heavy machines. 157 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Occupational Health and Safety System for Housing Business Sites Revised October 1, 2010 Lost-time injury frequency rate for contractors on housing construction sites FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Number of occupational injuries *1 10 11 11 6 12 Lost-time injury frequency rate *2 2.16 1.98 3.63 2.23 3.35 Work-related illness frequency rate 0 0 0 0 0 *1 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act of Japan is disclosed. *2 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours × 1,000,000 After review into housing construction-related working hours in ﬁscal 2014, the total working hours have been reduced in comparison to ﬁscal 2013 and earlier. About symbol for Independent assurance Training Designed to Improve Awareness for Occupational Health and Safety Based on the results of the monthly safety patrols and work site surveys, the Housing Division organizes training programs with speciﬁc cases promoting health and safety, targeting the OHS managers of each branch or region, as well as the leaders (subcontractors) in each job category on construction sites. In addition, training is provided for branches nationwide, designed for maintaining safety such as Training for circular saw * work when workers use grinders , which are fraught with great hazard, and when they work with circular saws, which are susceptible to accidents due to misuse despite being simple and easy to use. * Operation with an electric tool to cut by rotating a grinding stone 158 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group will strive to eliminate occupational injuries in wooden building materials and manufacturing facility businesses in Japan by extracting proposals for improvements from near-miss incident reports, comprehensive risk avoidance through safety patrols and risk assessment, safety knowledge through education and ongoing reaﬃrmation of that know-how. We will also advance the formation of a zero accident system in our wooden building materials and manufacturing facility businesses overseas by continuing and deepening ﬁscal 2016 eﬀorts once again in ﬁscal 2017 in addition to strengthening the safety promotion functions in our Overseas Business Division, accelerating the sharing of information about accidents and measures to prevent the recurrence, implementation of safety audits at plants, solidifying zero accident activities and establishing safety standards consistent at every company. In our forestry business, we will eradicate the causes of occupational accidents to achieve zero occupational injuries by introducing measures such as strengthening awareness-raising activities for safety operations and promoting mechanisms that aim to reduce the burden in chainsaw operations that results in many accidents. In our housing business, we will raise awareness about safety in our construction managers, people in charge of production, and all of our employees working on site and enhance leadership for safety awareness to permeate a safety culture. The people responsible for construction conﬁrm important items about safety have been recognized by all responsible workers and reaﬃrmed to evoke caution in order to eliminate occupational injuries. 159 Human Resources Development | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Human Resources Development Basic Policy on Human Resources Education Guided by the policy for human resources development of autonomy and support, Sumitomo Forestry aims to realize its Corporate Philosophy by developing employees with a strong sense of pride and motivation, and by creating a culture that is open and inclusive. Promotion System Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute, Personnel Department The Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute (SBC) within the Personnel Department of Sumitomo Forestry (SBC) plans and conducts training to teach business skills in which employees can participate widely even outside of their Group company or business division. In addition, meetings for people in charge of Sumitomo Forestry Group Training are held to exchange information about human resource development. Training and Education Department, Housing Division The Training and Education Department conducts practical education around the axes of the customer perspective and professionalism for employees who belong to the Housing Division (sales, design, interiors, production, general aﬀairs, and head oﬃce staﬀ). This department also supports training at each company by working closely with each Group company managed by the Housing Division. Group company and each department Training to develop professionalism in each ﬁeld is conducted at each Group company and in each department. Development of the Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute Under a theme of “Supporting Motivated People,” since the Sumitomo Forestry Business Institute (SBC) launched in ﬁscal 2011, the Institute has shifted emphasis, from training for each level, which had previously been advocated across-the-board, to more self-development and selective training, and the content of e-learning has been expanded. In addition to the training for each level that includes new employee training, we are conducting selective and elective group training jointly throughout the Group. SBC・elearning provides a ﬂexible learning environment to Group employees in Japan. 160 Human Resources Development | Together with Our Employees | Social Report SBC training system, Personnel Department (FY2016) 161 Human Resources Development | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Number of Employees Attending Main Training Programs (FY 2016) Number of people Number of people Training program attending attending (non-consolidated) (Group companies) Training for speciﬁc levels (12 903 207 courses) Selective training (17 courses) 65 30 Self-development training (62 471 35 courses) e-learning (6 mandatory 4,960 4,876 courses) Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Hours of training received 6.9 7.5 6.8 9.3 9.4 per employee Expenditure on training per 103,000 91,000 91,000 91,000 100,000 employee (yen) Support for Obtaining Qualiﬁcations and Attending External Education Sumitomo Forestry promotes independent eﬀorts for capacity building and career development. For instance, the Company's Regulations for Assistance in Obtaining Qualiﬁcations and Attending External Education include provisions for assistance when an employee seeks to obtain qualiﬁcations or use an external educational institution. With regard to obtaining qualiﬁcations needed for managing operations and qualiﬁcations recommended for capacity building, the regulations prescribe assistance limits for each qualiﬁcation. In particular, a lump-sum payment is provided to employees who pass the examination for ﬁrst-class registered architects to acquire a ﬁrst-class registered architects license. 18 employees satisﬁed the criteria in ﬁscal 2016. The Group has also established Regulations for External Study Opportunities for cases when an employee remains employed, but leaves their workplace to enroll in a graduate school in Japan or overseas. In ﬁscal 2016, one employee used this system. New Business Proposition Program̶Power for the Future Project Sumitomo Forestry has established the Power for the Future Project, a program for soliciting new business proposals, harnessing the ambitions and skills of employees to create new businesses. The project enables everyone who works in the Sumitomo Forestry Group in Japan to make new businesses proposals based on their own ideas. This program has held ﬁve times every couple of year since the inaugural program in ﬁscal 2006. Up until ﬁscal 2016, there have been six projects, including a day care service project, started. 162 Human Resources Development | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Handing Down the Techniques Used in Building Wooden Houses Sumitomo Forestry recognizes that in order to preserve the way of building houses that makes best use of the traditional Japanese wooden post-and-beam construction method, it is important to pass on these skills and techniques to the next generation of workers. The Sumitomo Forestry School of Professional Building Techniques is an in-house educational institution certiﬁed by the governor of Chiba Prefecture, and was founded by the Company in 1988 as a corporate boarding school for vocational training. Implementation of a one-year training curriculum, the school provides training for new employees at Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd. who aspire for a job in carpentry. In terms of construction-related subjects, students study classroom-based subjects such as an introduction to building, structure, drawing, methods of construction, materials and supervision, as well as practical subjects, such as tool operation and maintenance, the traditional technique of marking timber with sumi ink and a carpenter's square, Practical training in processing, safety work, model-based practical training, construction of a house demonstration-based practical training and computing with the goal of acquiring a 2nd class carpenter license upon completion. On completion of their training, graduates are assigned to places all around Japan, and after a few years, they return to the school to undertake 7–10 days of training in Japanese rooms* and in a preparatory course for acquiring the 1st class carpenter license as a certiﬁed specialist. In ﬁscal 2016, the school welcomed 63 new enrolments, including carpenters employed at partner ﬁrms outside the Company and saw 61 graduating. In ﬁscal 2017, the school had another 67 new enrolments. * Training designed to hand down time-honored techniques used around the tokonoma alcove, from generation to generation. Studies include ﬁtting cedar posts and cross-pieces. FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 (26th (27th (28th (29th (30th Total graduating graduating graduating graduating graduating students) students) students) students) students) Number of new 37 58 64 63 67 1,293 students Number of 35 56 57 61 1,162 graduates Students who acquired the 2nd class 28 46 54 57 365 carpenter license 163 Human Resources Development | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Toward the Future The Personnel Department will continue human resource development for certiﬁcations to realize the corporate philosophy by always reviewing and improving the content of training and the educational support systems. In the ﬁelds of traditional technology and a succession of skills, we have been expanding the employment scope since ﬁscal 2014 to respond to a lack of junior employees. The Sumitomo Forestry Group passes down techniques to the next generation by taking advantage of programs such as OJT after employees are assigned to a business site and follow-up training in technical schools based on the belief passing down these trades to the next generation is a duty of the Group. Moreover, we are focusing on cultivating carpenters able to participate in a wide range of areas such as renovation and large-scale wooden construction. Even in new business proposal systems, we will continue to promote the establishment of systems to create new business from inside the Group founded in concepts to design policies and operational methods appropriate for the generation. 164 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Work Life Balance Basic Policy on Employee Work Styles Sumitomo Forestry recognizes employees' diverse work styles and strives to create a workplace where they can be motivated in their jobs, and still enjoy a fulﬁlling private life. Reﬂecting these aims, the Company has worked on such initiatives as providing childcare and family care programs, promoting greater participation by women, and reducing overtime. In ﬁscal 2013, the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department was established within the Personnel Department, bringing together support desk functions relating to work styles and careers, including childcare and family care, career support, mental health and post-retirement re-employment. In developing a counseling system which is easier for employees to access, the Company supports diverse work styles. A ﬂextime system and a work interval system were adopted with the purpose of reducing long hours and improving productivity in ﬁscal 2017. The transition is not only in working hours but also from a labor system to a true count system in addition to adopting measures such as a per hour productivity assessment. These programs aim to improve employee satisfaction as well as productivity by preventing harm to health from accumulated fatigue due to long working hours in addition to heightening awareness about cost versus time to realize a work-life balance. Supporting the Workstyles of Employees Currently Raising Children Sumitomo Forestry has put in place a number of support programs that allow employees to work while also raising children. For example, supervisors conduct interviews with employees who plan to take childcare leave together with a person in charge of the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department. These interviews explain the programs related to childcare leave and provide advice about the workstyle after the employee returns to work in addition to introducing information such as examples of other employees who have found balance between raising children and work. Moreover, employees who want to work while raising children can apply for programs such as begin or end work earlier or later (transitioned to a ﬂextime system from ﬁscal 2017) and reduced working hours so that they can have a ﬂexible workstyle. 165 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Family Open Day Since July 2014, Sumitomo Forestry holds the “Family Open Day,” an event for the families of employees to visit their oﬃces. The ultimate aim of this event is to create pleasant work environment and lively atmosphere for all employees by expressing the Company's appreciation for the support provided by employees' families, assisting the families in understanding about the work at Sumitomo Forestry better, and fostering opportunities for employees Family Day at Tsukuba to gain mutual understanding with others. Research Institute In 2016, four branches held the event with 63 participants from 23 families. The children took part in the morning brieﬁng, exchanged “business cards,” and interviewed employees about their work. The Tsukuba Research Institute held a program to provide experiences that are hard to come by such as being in a strong storm as well as the chance to see white ants for the ﬁrst time this ﬁscal year. They also toured the showroom and experienced 3D house modeling. Sumitomo Forestry plans to continue this initiative in 2017, expanding it to multiple branches. The 6th Next Generation Law Action Plan (for Fiscal 2015 to 2018) Sumitomo Forestry formulates and implements action plans for supporting employees who are raising families, in accordance with the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children (Next Generation Law). Sumitomo Forestry has formulated its 6th Action Plan for ﬁscal 2015 to 2018 with the following targets. Kurumin mark 1. Host seminars themed on work style reforms in order to foster a work environment which actively involves female employees who are rearing infants 2. Hold “family days” to create a pleasant work environment for all employees to execute their talent 3. Create systems for male employees who are raising children to consult with superiors about available programs to encourage male employees to Iku-boss* Seminar participate in raising their children The usage status of programs relat ed to child Iku-boss* raising are also published on our intranet. Seminar Number of people attending Approx. 120 166 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report An Iku-boss* Seminar was held by inviting an outside instructor in February 2017 with the theme of renewing the way of thinking to continually improve results while realizing a workstyle in-line with each person's circumstances by limiting long hours according to an action plan. Approximately 120 people participated with most being managers who work at the head oﬃce. Sumitomo Forestry plans to continue to hold these seminars in the future. * Iku-boss is a boss who fulﬁlls his responsibility at work,encouraging their staﬀ's private life and carrier,also balancing their own work and life. Promoting Paternal Support for Male Employees In the process of receiving the lump-sum childcare allowance oﬀered to male employees with newly born children, the employees are required to submit “the questionnaire for a parental support request,” which is followed by an interview with a direct supervisor about the answers to the questionnaire as well as details of the request. The supervisor then adds resulting comments on the questionnaire including instructions for the subordinate and consideration that should be made by the Company, at the end of the process. This system is believed to encourage more male employees to take part in the parenting duties and raise mutual understanding between the parenting males and their colleagues. Main Childcare Support Programs (FY2016) Program Description Childcare leave may be taken by employees for the longer of the ﬁrst 18 Childcare leave months of the childʼs life or until March 31st immediately following the Description childʼs ﬁrst birthday Until the child completes the sixth grade of elementary school, employees may begin or end work earlier or later (transitioned to a ﬂextime system Shorter working hours from ﬁscal 2017), work shorter hours, or work a four-day week, and be exempted from overtime work Employees may take the equivalent of ten days a year in one-hour increments (revised to 30 minute increments from ﬁscal 2017; with full Leave to care for child and pay) to care for a sick or injured child until their children have completed attend special events the sixth grade of elementary school. Of these ten days, up to ﬁve days may be used for attending special events with their children. Employees with two or more children are granted an additional ﬁve days 167 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report *1 During pregnancy, childbirth leave, childcare leave, within one year after the childbirth *2 The longer of either 18 months or until March 31st following the ﬁrst birthday *3 Employees who have worked continuously for one year or more *4 Transitioned to a ﬂextime system in ﬁscal 2017 *5 Employees who have worked for six months or more Supporting Workstyles for Employees Caring for Family Members Sumitomo Forestry provides support to employees who are working while also nursing family members. In ﬁscal 2010, family care leave was revised so that employees may take up to 365 days of leave per applicable family member, and provisions were introduced enabling employees to begin and end work earlier or later, work shorter hours, or work a four-day week. The Company has also established family illness and injury leave, enabling employees to take up to 10 days of leave each year in 30 minute increments. We abolished the system to start and end work earlier or later following a revision to the personnel system and transitioned to a ﬂextime system from ﬁscal 2017. 168 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Main Family Care Support Programs and Usage (FY2016) Program Description Usage in FY2016 This system allows up to 365 cumulative days of leave per family Family care leave member requiring care, and is available to employees Employees may begin or end work earlier or later (transitioned to a Shorter working hours ﬂextime system from ﬁscal 2017), work shorter hours, or work a Number of family care support four-day week program users: 3 (earlier starting and ﬁnishing times; Regular employees may take the reduced overtime) Employees who equivalent of ten days a year in took family care leave: 2 hour increments (revised to 30 minute increments from ﬁscal 2017) to care for their family. Five Family illness and injury of the days annually may be used to care for family members who are ill or injured. Employees with two or more family members requiring care are granted an additional ﬁve days Family Care Support Program Performance(Non-consolidated) FY FY FY FY FY 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Family care leave 0 1 1 1 2 Family care support programs (special work hour arrangements including later start and earlier 1 1 2 3 3 end times; and restricted overtime work) 169 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Refresh Leave and Family Friendly Day Leave So that employees can engage energetically in their jobs with healthy body and mind, Sumitomo Forestry is developing workplace environments that allow employees to take leave as they wish. As part of those eﬀorts, employees are encouraged to take consecutive days of “refresh leave” at a time that suits them in addition to the summer and New Year holiday periods. Each workplace is required to draw up refresh leave schedules for individual employees, and ratios showing the percentage of schedules formulated and the percentage of employees who take refresh leave are tabulated for each department and posted to the in-house Web. This has created an environment making it easy for employees to take leave. At housing business branches, which are regularly closed on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, employees often meet with customers on the weekends, which sometimes makes it hard to take time oﬀ to participate in family events and other private occasions. This has been addressed with the introduction of Family Friendly Day leave, which allows employees to take either one Saturday or one Sunday oﬀ each month to spend with family or on a chosen pursuit. Branch employees are encouraged to cooperate on adjustment of job responsibilities and meeting schedules, thereby helping to create a workplace environment that makes it easy to take leave on the weekends. Refresh Leave and Family Friendly Day Programs Performance (Non-consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Percentage of refresh leave takers 38.0% 42.0% 50.0% 46.0% 42.3% Percentage of family friendly day takers 23.0% 26.0% 29.5% 26.0% 27.0% Encouraging Employees to Take Paid Leave Sumitomo Forestry encourages employees to take at least 10 days of planned paid leave each year, inclusive of refresh leave and the Paid leave usage summer holiday period. Each business site draws up an Annual ratio Vacation Schedule every January, and periodically reports to the (FY 2016) Personnel Department on how much paid leave has actually been (Nontaken. Based on this, the results for each site are published on the consolidated) intranet to encourage employees to take their paid leaves. Additionally, planned annual holidays which are holiday for all departments are set 35.9％ in the Housing Division (General rule of four days. Three days in ﬁscal 2016). As for ﬁscal 2016, the Company has consolidated the working hour management system in the way that not only employees but also their supervisors can see their leave plans, and thereby, enabled employees to plan their paid leaves better. The percentage of paid leave taken was 31.6%, 35.2%, 32.8%, and 35.9% in ﬁscal 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 respectively. The Company has again listed “take at least 10 days of paid leave” in its Mid-Term CSR Management Plan, and will continue to further promote this initiative during ﬁscal 2017. Employee Data 170 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Addressing Long Working Hours At Sumitomo Forestry, average overtime hours and individual overtime hours are reported to the head of each department to increase awareness on long working hours mitigation. Additionally, “Work Style Enhancement Committee” has been set up at branches of the Housing Division and each of the branches implement an initiative to address long working hours. As to the working system and operational ﬂow reform that are diﬃcult to tackle at a branch level, “Long Working Hours Mitigation Committee” set within the Housing Division continuously leads the long working hours mitigation campaign by making proposals for the systems improvement. Revisions to the Personnel System In ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry revised the personnel system to transition overtime work to an actual count system paying employees based on deemed number of working hours. Moreover, we are promoting a reduction in long working hours and higher productivity by adopting a ﬂextime system, work interval system and a productivity assessment by hour. The transition to an actual count system and the adoption of a productivity assessment primarily aims to grow the cost awareness by hour, reduce long hours as well as heighten the quality and productivity of work. We are also striving to equalize operational working hours overall by stipulating the total working hours per month in a ﬂextime system. In addition, the interval system makes sure employees have 11 hours of leisure time between the end of the work day until the start of the next work day and exempts employees from working at the start of a workday or core time if it overlaps this leisure time. These systems aim to prevent overwork and further the preservation of employee health. 171 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Mental Health Care Practical Mental Health Care Based on the Guidelines for Maintaining and Improving Workers' Mental Health formulated by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare in August 2000, Sumitomo Forestry implements four types of care for mental health: self-care; care provided by line managers; care provided by occupational health staﬀ within the workplace; and care using resources from outside the business. Mental health education for In April 2013, the Company established the Workstyle management Diversiﬁcation Department within the Personnel Department. It is responsible for providing support related to childcare and family care, career support and support for mental health. In order to further enhance mental health care, the Company put eﬀort into providing mentally ill individuals with follow-up support and help in returning to work. The Company assigned an employee, who is a qualiﬁed clinical psychologist, to the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department, and it worked in close cooperation with Medical Consultation and Treatment for Mind and Body, an external provider of the employee assistance program (EAP). *1 We adjust stratiﬁed working hours and the work load to suit the circumstances of each individual by adopting an occupational rehabilitation system to help employees return to work to create and execute rehabilitation plans so that each person can both physically and mentally get used to the work environment. Sumitomo Forestry distributes a Mental Absentee Guidebook when employees take leave with corporate rules and other information related to how to spend that time oﬀ as well as the suspension of their work to elevate worry as much as possible during their break. We also distribute a Guidebook for Managers to supervisors as well to provide information that includes ways to handle each situation. * Employee assistance program (EAP): A workplace mental health service 172 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Preventative Measures for Mental Health Care As part of its prevention of mental health disorders, the Company has oﬀered an online Mental Health Checkup (Self-Check), which was made mandatory after amendments to the Industrial Safety and Health Law in December 2015, to employees covered by health insurance (excluding those employees on long-term leave, such as maternity leave or convalescence leave). The Company has also provided an education program for managers run by the company counselor (clinical psychologist). The aim of this program is for those employees in managerial positions to appreciate the importance of mental healthcare and to implement appropriate prevention measures in their respective workplaces. The number of participants reached 161, 187, and 198 in ﬁscal 2013, 2014, and 2015, respectively. In ﬁscal 2016, emphasis was placed on the care of junior employees and 120 ﬁrst year employees took part in this self-care education. In addition, Sumitomo Forestry also conducted training with the basic knowledge of mental health and the how-tos to preventing mental disorders before they occur for trainers (32) in charge of the education of junior technical employees. An employee who is a certiﬁed public health nurse has been hired into the Workstyle Diversiﬁcation Department to not only oﬀer mental health care but also provide assistance such as various health consultations, enlightenment about health for new employees, and followup after health check-ups. We also conduct health check-ups before appointing or returning an employee to a post for overseas appointees as well as interview individuals, gain information and provide advice about the state of their health as well as address other needs they may have. Practical Mental Health Care Results FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Mental Health Checkup response rate 85.8% 92.8% 91.6% 88.2% Telework Program Sumitomo Forestry introduced the telework option in ﬁscal 2009 for such reasons as the time saved from commuting can be spent on work or family activities, and employees can concentrate when working in a quiet home environment. The program is for all employees except managers and supervisors, but there is no limit to the length of the period of use. In ﬁscal 2017, in order to promote diverse workstyles further, the Company will again work to expand use of the program, such as by explaining the program details and recommending its use to employees on an individual basis when they appear for childcare interviews or work style consultations. Employee Data 173 Work Life Balance | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Transfer Request Application Systems (Spouse Relocation / Family Care) In ﬁscal 2008, Sumitomo Forestry established a program facilitating the transfer of employees to a certain destination for reasons limited to marriage or a spouse transfer accompanied by a change of residence. The program enables employees to continue working for the Company even after marriage or their spouse being transferred. In ﬁscal 2014, with the new addition of “childcare” to the reasons for application, transfers are now considered in cases where an employee wants to live with their spouse for the purpose of balancing work and parenting. Also, a new system was established whereby employees can submit a transfer request for reasons of “family care.” Transfers are now also considered in cases where the location of employment restricts the employee from balancing work with family care. As at the end of March 2017, a total 29 employees have made use of these programs to transfer to a diﬀerent location. Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry has clearly established eﬀorts to reduce long hours and improve productivity that include the ﬂextime system, work interval system, and productivity assessment by hour adopted in ﬁscal 2017. In the future, we will promote various eﬀorts so that all of our employees will be able to work in good health with motivation and enthusiasm. 174 Communication with Employees | Social Report Communication with Employees Basic Policy on Communication with Employees Sumitomo Forestry strives to create an environment that facilitates free and vigorous expression as well as an exchange of opinions by employees so that they can perform their responsibilities with vigor, integrity and consideration for others. The Company wants each and every employee to grow within a corporate culture of respect for individual employees, and fair evaluation of accomplishments and eﬀorts. Communication in Employee Evaluation and Job Execution Sumitomo Forestry has a policy of providing all employees feedback on their evaluation results, with the main objective of nurturing and developing human resources through employee evaluations. Meetings between individual employees and supervisors must be held once every six months, providing an opportunity to set targets and receive an explanation of evaluation results. The scope of employees subject to the multi-faceted evaluation system (360 Degree Evaluation) expanded in ﬁscal 2016 from managers with subordinates to playing managers. This program increases management skills by providing feedback to evaluation results. Sumitomo Forestry also recognizes the continuous service of employees who have worked for 10 and 20 years to thank them for their contributions to the company over so many years. In addition, the Personnel Department conducts direct self-report hearings of all employees once a year to ascertain opinions on jobs and workplaces, transfer requests and family circumstances, among other matters. 175 Communication with Employees | Social Report Open Discussions Open discussions have been held on a regular basis since 2007 as a platform for discussion between the President and employees, with an aim of facilitating new ideas for the Sumitomo Forestry Group. In two discussions held during 2016, dialogues on a wide range of subjects unfolded with participants from seven companies within the Sumitomo Forestry Group on a theme of “How can we make the Sumitomo An open discussion Forestry Group better?” As an opportunity for face-toface dialogue between management and employees, discussions will be organized again in 2017. Employee Satisfaction Survey In August 2015, Sumitomo Forestry conducted its seventh bi-annual Employee Satisfaction Survey, targeting its 4,823 employees. This survey included items to gain feedback on ten indicators such as work motivation, career goals and employee satisfaction with a 92.5% response rate that showed 80.6% employee satisfaction from the people working at the company, which makes this the third consecutive year satisfaction has improved. These results also indicate the satisfaction of female employees is also growing with almost no disparity between men and women when considering the responses by gender. In light of the survey results, the Company made improvements on employeesʼ career support, for example, the expansion of career growth support for professionals with certain expertise. In the meantime, the Workstyle Improvement Committee was established within the Housing Division to work on reducing long working hours. 176 Communication with Employees | Social Report Employee Satisfaction Survey Trend Relations with the Labor Union As of April 1, 2017, all of our employees (3,481) eligible under the collective labor agreement to join the Sumitomo Forestry Labor Union have done so. Within the labor agreement completed between the Company and the Sumitomo Forestry Labor Union, the Company recognizes the Labor Unionʼs right to freely engage in activities and to collective bargaining, and promises to guarantee the stable livelihoods of labor-union members, and to maintain and improve labor conditions by establishing an OHS Committee comprised of both labor and management members. In 2016, joint labor-management discussions were held on 23 occasions, and following on from the previous year, consideration was given to measures for reducing long working hours and innovating work styles. Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry strives to create a workplace where employees can easily work with enthusiasm through personnel evaluation, employee satisfaction surveys, and communication with the labor union. In addition, we will also hold the open discussion regularly as discussion sessions between top management and employees while also innovating and improving through even more active debate such as through the participation of employees with diverse workstyles. 177 Employee Data | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Employee Data Employee Data Trends Number of Employees (Unit: Persons) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Non-consolidated 4,416 4,486 4,499 4,417 4,485 Consolidated 14,890 17,413 18,137 17,001 17,802 Breakdown of Number of Employee (Non-Consolidated) (Unit: Persons) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Management level 1,983 2,053 2,047 1,995 2,030 Non-management level 2,303 2,292 2,297 2,292 2,303 Contract employees /temporary 114 111 125 98 92 contract employees Hosted from other 16 30 30 32 60 companies Total 4,416 4,486 4,499 4,417 4,485 Breakdown of Number of Employee (Domestic Subsidiary Companies) (Unit: Persons) FY 2015 FY 2016 Management level 1,509 1,803 Non-management level 3,383 3,361 Contract employees /temporary 688 799 contract employees Hosted from other companies 330 263 Total 5,910 6,226 Breakdown of Number of Employees By Age (Non-Consolidated) (Unit: Persons) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Younger than 30 782 749 707 693 690 30-50 3,069 3,084 2,881 2,959 2,817 Older than 50 565 653 911 765 978 178 Employee Data | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Number of Newly Hired Graduates *(Non-Consolidated) (Unit: FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Persons) Male 55 60 73 80 100 Housing sales Female 16 13 17 21 13 Male 22 23 22 27 37 Housing engineering Female 7 8 13 7 9 Male 20 14 17 22 22 General management Female 7 6 5 6 6 Male 0 0 0 0 0 Clerical Female 0 13 6 4 7 Total 127 137 153 167 194 * Calculated based on the number of new graduate recruits as of April 1 of each ﬁscal year. Employment and Promotion of Women (Non-Consolidated) FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Female employees including 17.7 18.4 19.2 19.9 20.1 contract employees * (%) Female employees in 1.8 2.2 2.6 2.8 3.2 management positions * (%) Female new graduates (%) 23.6 28.7 26.8 22.8 18.0 * Calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. About symbol for Independent assurance Employment and Promotion of Women (Domestic Subsidiary Companies) FY 2016 FY 2017 Female employees including 26.2 25.4 contract employees * (%) Female employees in management 3.8 5.0 positions * (%) Female new graduates (%) 47.0 36.7 * Calculated based on the number of employees as of April 1 each year. 179 Employee Data | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Average annual pay (non-consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 8,165,504 yen 8,370,867 yen 8,337,767 yen 8,483,875 yen 8,518,404 yen Average Length of Service*(Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 14 years and 8 15 years and 0 15 years and 5 15 years and 3 15 years and 8 Male months months months months months 10 years and 11 11 years and 0 11 years and 0 11 years and 1 11 years and 1 Female months months months months months * Calculated at the end of the ﬁscal year (as of March 31 every year) Job Separation Rate*1 (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Voluntary separation rate 3.3 2.3 2.6 2.1 2.2 (%) Separation rate *2 (%) 4.2 2.9 3.2 3.1 3.3 *1 Calculated by dividing the number of people who left during the year by the number of employees at the beginning of the year. *2 The separation rate includes voluntary separations. Employment of Persons with Disabilities (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Ratio of Disabled Employees 1.95 2.18 2.24 2.12 2.12 (%) Employment of Persons with Disabilities *(Domestic Subsidiary Companies) FY 2015 FY 2016 Ratio of Disabled Employees (%) 1.45 1.45 * As of June each ﬁscal year Rate of Local Employment in Group Companies Outside Japan * FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Rate of Local Employment in Group Companies Outside 99.3 99.2 99.3 99.2 99.6 Japan (%) * Calculated by dividing the number of employees hired locally by consolidated subsidiaries and working for the company at the end of the year by the total number of employees at the end of the year 180 Employee Data | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Hours of training received 6.9 7.5 6.8 9.3 9.4 per employee Expenditure on training per 103,000 91,000 91,000 91,000 100,000 employee (yen) Work-Life Balance Program Usage (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Male 6 12 7 13 13 Number of childcare leave users Female 15 29 33 40 43 Percentage of Male 3.6 7.2 4.2 7.8 8.5 childcare leave users *1 (%) Female 78.9 100.0 103.0 105.0 95.7 Percentage of returnees after 100 92.8 96.4 96.2 97.6 childcare leave（%） Number of reduced hours 29 29 32 40 45 program users *2 Number of telework program 15 21 19 19 22 users *3 *1 The number of childcare leavers starting in the respective ﬁscal year divided by the number of employees who had a baby in respective ﬁscal year *2 Available for reasons such as childcare and family care; combined ﬁgures of employees on programs of the reduced hours of work and the four-day work per week *3 Available for any reasons other than childcare or family care Work-Life Balance Program Usage (Domestic Subsidiary Companies) FY 2015 FY 2016 Male 1 3 Number of childcare leave users Female 68 110 Male 0.6 5 Percentage of childcare leave users * (%) Female 115.3 102.8 * The number of childcare leavers starting in the respective ﬁscal year divided by the number of employees who had a baby in respective ﬁscal year Paid Leave Usage Ratio (Non-Consolidated) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Average paid leaves taken 5.9 6.1 6.7 6.3 6.9 (day) Paid leave usage ratio * (%) 30.4 31.6 35.2 32.8 35.9 * Paid leave entitlements are issued each year in January, therefore the table shows ﬁgures as of December 31 of the respective year. Calculated by dividing the number of days of paid leave taken by the number of days of paid leave issued. 181 Employee Data | Together with Our Employees | Social Report Paid Leave Usage Ratio (Domestic Subsidiary Companies) FY 2015 FY 2016 Average paid leaves taken (day) 7.1 7.3 Paid leave usage ratio * (%) 39.7 40.0 * Paid leave entitlements are issued each year in January, therefore the table shows ﬁgures as of December 31 of the respective year. Calculated by dividing the number of days of paid leave taken by the number of days of paid leave issued. Occupational Injuries (Non-Consolidated) *1 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Number of occupational 0 6 1 0 3 injuries (incidents) *2 Lost-time injury frequency 0 0.28 0.19 0.19 0.30 rate *3 Work-related illness 0 0 0 0 0 frequency rate *1 No work-related accidents resulting in death occurred during the reporting years shown. *2 The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from wor in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. *3 Lost-time injury frequency rate = Number of occupational fatalities or injuries resulting in an absence from work of at least one day ÷ Total number of working hours ✕ 1,000,000 Occupational Injuries (Domestic Subsidiary Companies) FY 2015 FY 2016 Number of work-related accidents * 10 8 * The number of work-related accidents resulting in payment of compensation beneﬁts for absence from work in accordance with the Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act is disclosed. Labor Union Membership (Non-Consolidated) * FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Labor union membership rate 100 100 100 100 100 (%) * As of April 1, 2017, the number of eligible employees is 3,481. The scope of eligibility for labor union membership is stipulated in the labor agreement. 182 Together with Local Communities | Social Report Together with Local Communities Recognizing Importance The Sumitomo Forestry Group recognizes the importance of contributing to the growth of local communities as well as protecting the local forest resources when starting and expanding businesses. Therefore, we would like to build an infrastructure for smooth operations and business expansion in each country and region by engaging in local social contribution activities and activities that focus on eﬀorts such as dialogue and cooperation with the local community in the promotion of overseas businesses. Relevant Policies and Systems Policy on Social Contribution Contributing to Communities Activities Where Sumitomo Forestry Operates Relevant Targets and Performance The Sumitomo Forestry Group actively promotes social contribution activities such as local contributions and environmental protection, contributions in the welfare and medical ﬁelds. We also promote donation activities with emphasis on the environmental ﬁeld to preserve forests and encourage ongoing use of wood resources as well as in the next generation education ﬁeld for the youth entrusted with our future. 183 Together with Local Communities | Social Report Activity Report Promotion of Social Contribution Examples of Social Contribution Activities Activities in Japan Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities 184 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Policy on Social Contribution Activities The Sumitomo Forestry Group advances social contribution activities in the areas of environment, community service, and next-generation development to protect abundant forests into the future and to contribute to sustainable use of wood resources and local community development. Fostering greater understanding about forests over a large section of society is particularly important as the social contribution activities concerning forest conservation is closely related to the Group's businesses. This motivates Sumitomo Forestry to dedicate itself to environmental education for elementary and junior high school students, such as lectures and hands-on learning in forests. The Company is also actively involved in activities which make a contribution to the wider society, such as the restoration of forests damaged by disaster. Sumitomo Forestry also supports volunteer activities undertaken by individual employees in local communities to create a workplace environment that encourages people to contribute to their local communities. Plans and KPIs of Social Contribution Activities Sumitomo Forestry is continuously holding the following activities. Introducing a Volunteer Leave Program To support its employees' volunteering activities, in May 2011 the Company established a volunteer leave program that allows employees a total of ﬁve days of leave a year for volunteer activities. Moreover, the Company provided special support for volunteer activities for the Great East Japan Earthquake, for a speciﬁc time period, it paid the travel expenses and volunteer insurance premiums of employees who wanted to help. In ﬁscal 2014, 2015 and 2016, the number of employees who took leave to participate was nine, six and one, respectively. 185 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Social Contribution Donations Breakdown of Social Contribution Donations by Category (FY2016) *1 900,000 dollars in donations for pediatric medical care and research through MainVue Homes (MV) as well as an expansion in the ratio of donations for social welfare contributions after an increase in the number of overseas Group companies *2 Includes donations and political contributions not corresponding to the items above Donating 100-ton CO2 Oﬀset Credit to Iseshima Summit Sumitomo Forestry donated 100 tons of J-VER credits in answer to the Japanese Governmentʼs call for cooperation of companies in carbon oﬀset for G7 Iseshima Summit held from May 26 through 27, 2016. The credit was given as for Company-owned forests in Sumitomo Forestry Kyushu Area in “Sustainable Forestry Management Promotion-Type Project” in 2009. The oﬀset credit was the forest absorption-type and registered as the ﬁrst in Japan. 186 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Expenditure on Social Contribution Activities Breakdown of Expenditure on Social Contribution Activities (FY2016) *1 Costs of community cleaning activities and the Forester House operation *2 Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori operation costs *3 Research and development costs for heritage and precious trees Contributions to Public Policy The Sumitomo Forestry Group coordinates and cooperates with national and local governments, the business community and others, making recommendations toward the improvement and resolution of worsening environmental and social issues. FY2016 Public Service Organization Position Name Ryu Yano, The Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Special adviser・ Chairman of the Industry Council member Board Ryu Yano, The Japan Chamber of Commerce and Special adviser Chairman of the Industry Board Ryu Yano, The Building & Housing Center of Japan Outside director Chairman of the Board Ryu Yano, Japan-China Association for Building and Supervisory Oﬃcer Chairman of the Housing Industry & Vice Chairperson Board 187 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Organization Position Name Ryu Yano, National Conference for Promoting Forestry Vice-chairperson Chairman of the Revival and Regional Revitalization Board Chairperson Ryu Yano, Organization for Landscape and Urban (Representative Chairman of the Green Infrastructure Supervisory Oﬃcer) Board Chairperson Ryu Yano, Greenery by Golf Group (Representative Chairman of the Supervisory Oﬃcer) Board Ryu Yano, Japan-Myanmar Association for Industry of Chairperson Chairman of the Housing and Urban Development Board Ryu Yano, Japan Global Exchange Forum for Housing, Supervisory Oﬃcer Chairman of the Building and Urban Development & Chairperson Board Executive Ryu Yano, International Housing & Home Warranty Committee Chairman of the Conference (IHHWC) Chairperson Board Keidanren Committee on Nature Akira Ichikawa, Vice-chairperson Conservation President/Director Akira Ichikawa, Japan Association of Corporate Executives Vice Chairperson President/Director The Machinami Foundation Director The Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Akira Ichikawa, Industry – Japan Committee for the JapanVice-chairperson President/Director New Zealand Business Council Akira Ichikawa, Gifu Academy of Forest Science and Culture Visiting Professor President/Director Japan Indonesia Association, Inc. Director Chairperson Wooden Home Builders Association of Akira Ichikawa, (Representative Japan President/Director Supervisory Oﬃcer) Vice Chairperson Akira Ichikawa, Japan Federation of Housing Organizations (Representative President/Director Supervisory Oﬃcer) Hitoshi Hayano, Member Japan-Project-Industry Council Representative Representative Director Institute for Innovative Healthcare Director 188 Promotion of Social Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Organization Position Name Akihisa Fukuda, Japan Lumber Importer's Association Chairperson Managing Executive Oﬃcer Japan 2x4 Home Builders Association Director Serviced Housing for the Elderly Kunihiko Takagiri, Association (Formerly the Kosen Auditor Managing Cooperative) Executive Oﬃcer Yoshihiro Japan Printed & Colored Plywood Executive Director Yoshioka, Manufacturer Association Executive Oﬃcer Central Japan Plywood Manufacturersʼ Director Association Japan Acoustic & Laminated Flooring Director Manufacturers Japan Overseas Plantation Center for Director Pulpwood Japan-Papua New Guinea Association Director Japan International Forestry Promotion and Supervisory Oﬃcer Cooperation Center Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council Chairperson Japan Federation of Housing Organizations Committee Hideki Nose, – Environment Committee chairperson Adviser Japan Federation of Housing Organizations Committee Hideki Nose, – International Foreign Relations chairperson Adviser Committee Institute for Building Environment and Director Energy Conservation Forest Management Association of Japan Director Japan Greenery Research and Development Trustee Center National Land Aﬀorestation Promotion Director Organization The Forest Culture Association Director 189 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Project National forest cloaking the foothills of Mt. Fuji was extensively damaged when a typhoon struck southern parts of the Kanto region in 1996. In 1998, setting out to restore the vitality of the original forest, Sumitomo Forestry launched a natural forest restoration project to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Companyʼs establishment; encompassing around 90 hectares of the damaged forest named Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori. The Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori is opened up not only for the volunteer activities in reforestation and environmental education programs, but also for NPOs and other organizations. A total of 1,468 people visited Mt.Fuji Manabi no Mori from inside and outside of the Company in ﬁscal 2016 with a total of more than 23,500 people visiting the project between 1998 and 2016. Volunteer Activities in Forestry Development Tree-planting activities carried out by many volunteers from both inside and outside the Company since the start of the project in 1998 have already been completed and the project is now in the cultivation stage. Cultivation activities such as underbrush clearing, pruning and thinning will be continued. Volunteer activities were implemented on 7 occasions in ﬁscal 2016, with participation by a total of 274 visitors. Company-led volunteering Forest Recovery Volunteer Activities Trend 190 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Environmental Education Program Sumitomo Forestry has been implementing an Environmental Education Program for local elementary and junior high school students since ﬁscal 2006 in collaboration with the NPO Whole Earth Institute. Activities include nature observation and games incorporating the ﬁve senses. The aim of these opportunities to rediscover the natural world is for the students to learn about the importance of nature and encourage them to consider new ways in which people Environmental Education can coexist with nature in the future. In ﬁscal 2016, a Program total of 794 students from 8 schools participated in the program. Environmental Education Program Trend Vegetation Monitoring and Wildlife Censuses Experts have been carrying out surveys, including vegetation monitoring and wildlife censuses, since ﬁscal 2000, providing valuable data for understanding the biodiversity of the region. Cultivating a forest is a never-ending job and Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori, too, is a 100year project. To ensure that the project is still running 100 years from now, forest management and environmental activities will be continued as a way to communicate the importance of nature to as many people as possible. Link to Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori (in Japanese) 191 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Forest Maintenance Activities at Gunma Manabi no Mori In July 2012, Sumitomo Forestry and Gunma Prefecture signed a prefectural forest maintenance partnership agreement, and are working with the prefectural authorities to promote the maintenance of forest at the foot of Mt. Akagi. Located within the jurisdiction of Maebashi City, Akagi Forest is owned by Gunma Prefecture, which promotes maintenance and conservation of its forests in cooperation with companies and organizations. During Gunma Manabi no Mori ﬁscal 2016, Sumitomo Forestry held Gunma Manabi no Mori in October. About 50 people participated, including employees of Sumitomo Forestry and partner builders and their families. In the activity, the participants experienced planting Japanese cypress seedlings and also thinning of grown trees with guidance from the local forestry. Maintaining and conserving forests requires ongoing care, and so two activities are planned again for ﬁscal 2017. As the August event in FY2016 had to be canceled due to a typhoon, the owners of Sumitomo Forestry Home will be invited to the July event in FY2017 as well. Passing Down Heritage and Precious Tress to the Next Generation Sumitomo Forestry uses the most cutting-edge biotechnology in addition to conventional grafting and cutting based on the request of owners to pass down heritage and precious trees to the next generation. We are also putting our strength into breeding seedlings that provide the properties in the ﬂowers and leaves of heritage and precious trees as a way to pass down both heritage and precious trees to the next generation. In addition, we are building a DNA database for trees to further advance a sophisticated program to identify individual varieties. 192 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Breeding uniquely sacred Kitano Sakura cherry blossom trees that change color from white to pink in the Kitano Tenmangu Honden (Main Shrine) in Kyoto We have been advancing research and development related to the breeding of “Kitanosakura” seedlings since 2014 to pass down the sacred Kitano Sakura trees located in front of the Kitano Tenmangu oﬃce in Kyoto, which are a unique species with ﬂowers that change color as they blossom. However, Sumitomo Forestry succeeded in breeding these trees through a stem apex culture, which is one type of tissue culture, in April 2016. Kitano Tenmangu is known for plums, but the Ukon horse track on the inner grounds of the main temple that opened in 807 was in fact a favorite place famous for cherry blossom viewing of Sugawara Michizane, who was a Captain of the guards of Ukon. The Ukon noh song set in the Ukon horse track sings of spring coming to reign as a goddess. Return of the tissue cultured seedlings and DNA analysis of the Sacred Kitano Tenmangu Plum Tree We succeeded in breeding seedlings through tissue cultures in 2015. Thereafter, the Sacred Kitano Tenmangu Plum Tree “Beniwa Konbai” that had been raised with the utmost care was returned to Kitano Tenmangu. Moreover, diﬀerent genes in the leaves and roots were discovered as a result of examining the genes of the Sacred Plum Tree estimated to be over 300 years old. These results indicated a great potential to breed these sacred trees through grafts. Documents The Sacred Kitano describe the breeding of plum trees from the end of the Tenmangu Plum Tree Heian Period through the Kamakura Period through “Beniwa Konbai” clone propagation such as grafting and cutting. We were unable to scientiﬁcally prove grafting was used in the Edo Period from DNA analysis results and the estimated ages of trees in this research. In the future, however, we believe it is possible to dig deeper into the history of grafting by examining the DNA of even older trees. 193 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Owners Networking “Fureai no Mori Tree-Planting Tour” In October 2016, Sumitomo Forestry Home Owner networking event Fureai Forest Aﬀorestation Tour was held at Ehime Prefecture Niihama Company-owned Forest, where Sumitomo Forestry began its history. This social event is aimed to provide an opportunity for the Sumitomo Forestry Home owners to witness the Groupʼs sustainable forest management ﬁrst hand and also to build good company-owner relationships. Tree-planting scene 28 people from 11 groups participated in the event and planted about 900 Japanese cypress trees, which is equivalent to 0.3 hectares. Conducting Courses for High School Students Under the Theme to Find New Potential of Wood to Rediscover the Power of Trees Sumitomo Forestry Group cooperated in the 16th Nikkei Education Challenge held in July 2016. The Group conducted a course under the theme to Find New Potential of Wood to Rediscover the Power of Trees for high school students who will be entrusted the future of our society. High school students learned the wonders of trees, the new potential of wood, and the current state of timber use in Japan as well as the importance of domestic timber use through participation in this program. The program introduced wonders of trees that included the functionality of wood as a material and the beautiful aging of trees as time passed like the wind with course content able to evoke interest and understanding in the high school students. At the same time, the program shared the current reality of insuﬃcient use of domestic timber regardless of the fact that roughly 70% of the land in Japan is covered in forest. In addition, the course appealed to the social mission and signiﬁcance of the Sumitomo Forestry Group in actively using domestic wood as well as promoting the reforestation of forests and plantations as well as the revitalization of local regions. 194 Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan | Social Report Conducting Corporate Research Seminars for SGH-designated Ehime Prefectural Matsuyama Higashi High School As part of the Super Global High School (SGH) Program underway since 2014, the students of Matsuyama Higashi High School visit Niihama, Ehime, where the Sumitomo Forestry Group was founded, to take part in a seminar every year. The seminar held in June 2016 was made up of two sections; a lecture to introduce the businesses of the Sumitomo Forestry Group as well as a discussion about the experiences of employees working abroad among Field work scene other things in addition to ﬁeld work at the Forester House in Kyubesshi. These students learned about the corporate spirit passed down through the close to 325year history of Sumitomo Forestry as well as the contributions to current business expansion overseas. In ﬁscal 2014 and ﬁscal 2015, students visited the Djakarta oﬃce to experience the Sumitomo Forestry business expansion in Indonesia. Sumitomo Forestry sponsors and cooperates with the Super Global High School Program to foster global leaders starting from high school who can participate on the international stage through these series of activities. 195 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities Contributing to Communities Where Sumitomo Forestry Operates The Sumitomo Forestry Group aims to contribute to sustainable local development through its operations. When starting new businesses or expanding its overseas business sites, the Group's policy is to consider the environment, revitalize local economies and promote employment and thereby operate in harmony with local communities. Activities Which Contribute to Local Communities in Indonesia Support for Children Through the KTI Educational Foundation PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) founded the KTI Educational Foundation in 2000 to commemorate its 30th anniversary with the purpose of improving the livelihood of people in Indonesia through education as well as engageing in social activities. This foundation primarily provides support for academic supplies and uniforms at elementary and junior high schools to impoverished children in Probolinggo in the East Java province where a Sumitomo Forestry Group plant is Children that received desks located. In ﬁscal 2016, the foundation provided support and other items donated by for academic supplies to 30 children as well as ﬁnancial the KTI Educational support to children with disabilities. Foundation Community Development through Project EARTH Initiatives Sumitomo Forestry conducts Project EARTH as an eﬀort to oﬀset the carbon dioxide emitted in processes from the harvest of primary building materials to transport, fabrication, and building of detached houses in Japan by planting in degraded forests and on unstable agricultural land in Indonesia. Since 2009, the project also encompassed activities leading to enhanced regional infrastructure, such as the Kindergarten at the town of preparation of roads necessary for the reforestation Supit Ulan, which has work, thereby contributing to improvement of the commenced reforestation livelihoods of residents. The project also regularly donates study tools to local elementary schools and kindergartens. Sumitomo Forestry also makes regular donations such as academic supplies to kindergartens and elementary schools. 196 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report In the future, the project will manage plantation land such as planting, cultivation and ﬁre prevention measures, develop seedbeds in locations seedlings are distributed, and continue to support reforestation through local communities who have participated. News Release: KTI Reforestation Cooperative Newly Acquires the FSC Forest Certiﬁcation (in Japanese) Seven-year old balsa trees in Supit Ulan Contributing to the Community through Free Seedling Distribution and Support for Infrastructure Provision PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, which conducts the manufacture and sales of particle board, distributes free seedlings to local residents and purchases mature trees to use as raw material, which helps the community economically and in terms of greening. In addition, the company continues to support mosque repair work and in road surfacing. Donation of saplings to the local Kendal Regency Respect for Traditional Cultures at Overseas Plantations The Sumitomo Forestry Group entered into an advisory agreement with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the World Bank's group institute, related the Indonesian plantation forest operations in 2012. We are conducting surveys on business land together with the IFC based on the concepts of High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF) to not only persevere rare ﬂora and fauna as well as the ecosystem, but also in an eﬀort to conserve the forests important to the traditional and Village meeting cultural identity of the local community. 197 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Contributing to Technical Development and Reforestation for Sustainable Peatland Use Our plantation forest operations conducted in Indonesiaʼs West Kalimantan Barat strive to develop sustainable reforestation techniques in degraded forests on peatlands. Peatlands that accumulate a large amount of carbon dioxide result in large-scale ﬁres in addition to drying out and breaking down the peat buried in the ground while generating carbon dioxide emissions. Therefore, we have been conducting technical development able to sustain a ﬁxed water level in water Land for plantation forest routes based on a massive amount of accumulated data operations designed based to prevent the land from drying out throughout the on detailed data year. These results have been announced at relevant government agencies, universities and other institutes and some aspects have even been adopted as new policy measures. In addition, we are also striving to popularize techniques with a low environmental impact by actively releasing technical overviews. The technology we have developed also has the potential to be utilized in reforestation of areas devastated by largescale ﬁres. Monitoring the water level in peatlands Provision of Infrastructure and Building a Primary School at Business Site PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri (MTI), a large-scale plantation business operator in Indonesia, views sustainable development of local communities as a vital managerial challenge, and thereby, undertaking community services that meet the needs of local residents in the areas of education, medicine and hygiene, infrastructure development, agriculture, and livelihood enhancement. Support for stationary at Since ﬁscal 2015, the main building of an elementary elementary schools in school was built in the neighborhood of the Group's operating areas operating area, and the support for volunteer teachers at the school has begun. Additionally, to prevent outbreaks of forest ﬁres which have risk of destroying the foundation of community livelihoods and the natural environment, boards to inform people about the risk of ﬁre were put up in the community, and in the meantime, ﬁre extinguishing training was carried out with the local residents. Fire risk board put up at a village 198 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Exhibition as Part of a Green Forestry Expo in Indonesia In May 2016, seven Sumitomo Forestry Group companies* based in Indonesia collaborated to exhibit at the IndoGreen Forestry Expo. They were awarded third prize in the private industry category of a competition for exhibitors. At the exhibition, panels of photographs and product samples were used to introduce visitors to how the Group is developing a sustainable forestry industry in Booth bustling with many Indonesia of “harvesting, using and replanting,” which visitors contributes to the environment and society. Topics included social contribution through aﬀorestation, manufacturing business and zero emission eﬀorts. Visitors to the exhibition were given seedlings of Acacia and fruit trees. In addition, local children and government agencies such as representatives from the Indonesia Environment and Forestry Ministry were given the opportunity to feel the timber for themselves, in the form of blocks made of balsa. This Expo became an Children playing with balsa invaluable place to nurture interest in the importance of blocks at the exhibition forests and wood with the Sumitomo Forestry Group. * Seven companies: PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, Pt. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, Sumitomo Forestry Indonesia, PT. Wana Subur Lestari, PT. Mayangkara Tanaman Industri, AST Indonesia and Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk 199 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Building Social Infrastructure in Papua New Guinea Open Bay Timber Ltd. (OBT) in Papua New Guinea has been operating plantation forest since 1984 and it contributes greatly to the economic development of each region of Kaboku, Mokolkol, Alienande, and Mevelo districts. In April 2007, OBT became a Group company of Sumitomo Forestry to further healthy expansion and eﬀective use of reforestation timber resources. Four-wheel drive vehicle to OBT also operates hospitals and super markets for their transport patients available employees and local residents to use because the at the clinic preparation of social infrastructure is insuﬃcient in Papua New Guinea. In neighboring villages, OBT nurses periodically visit neighboring villages to perform infant health checkups and provide advice to the sick. In ﬁscal 2016, eﬀorts were undertaken to provide resources to build church facilities and raise awareness about the prevention of AIDS in local residents from neighboring villages. Furthermore, company-owned fourwheel drive vehicle was arranged as dedicated clinic vehicles to transport patients to larger hospitals. Support for Childrenʼs Hospitals in Australia The Henley Properties Group builds and sells detached and multi-unit housing and spec homes in Australia and the United States. The Groupʼs social contribution activities include the Good Friday Charity Auction, whereby the auctioning of a spec home, built with residential land developer, materials supplier and other business partner cooperation, raises money which is donated to childrenʼs hospitals and other facilities. Detached house auction Several hundred business partners from the provision of land to design, estimation, material manufacturing, procurement, and labor management have participated in these activities. Since these eﬀorts began in 1993, more than 13 million Australian dollars in total donations have been provided through the auction of 37 houses to be used for the medical costs of children suﬀering from intractable diseases. The 23rd auction in ﬁscal 2016 was held in March in Victoria, Australia. The two-story house built in Mickleham, Melbourne reached a successful bid of 663,000 Australian dollars. 200 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Cooperating in Local Rescue Activities Tasman Pine Forest (TPF) in New Zealand became a sponsor of the Nelson Marlborough Rescue Helicopter Trust, which operates rescue helicopters, and it plans to donate 50,000 New Zealand dollars in 2017. Rescue helicopters are deployed roughly 400 times a year for natural disasters that occur in the region and for leisure accidents. The Tasman Pine logo is scheduled to be posted on the helicopter. Support for the Next Generation in the United States Through Joint Eﬀorts with Local Residents The Canyon Creek Cabinet Company, which manufactures and sells wooden cabinets in the United States, continually makes contributions to the region from providing oﬀcuts of timber produced in manufacturing products to local toy makers to make donations of wooden toys and puzzles to child protection facilities and children's hospitals. Construction of Monastic Schools in Myanmar Sumitomo Forestry is involved in the Myanmar Monastic School Support Team, a body that was established to support the construction of monastic school-style community schools in Myanmar. Activities which began in 2014 have completed three monastic-style schools as of November 2016 thanks to the donations of companies and individuals who see the beneﬁt. These schools were only simple schoolhouses before they were rebuilt with an environment that prevented classes from School before rebuilding continuing on days there was heavy rain, especially in the rainy season. At the completion of a school, the donor companies held an opening ceremony with participants from advocating companies and an opportunity to engage with the local children. Moving forward, the Myanmar Monastic School Support Team will continue to provide support with a goal of building one school per year. Exterior of Monastic School after rebuilding 201 Examples of Overseas Community Development and Regional Contribution Activities | Together with Local Communities | Social Report Construction of Monastic Schools by Myanmar Monastic School Support Team, in Number Construction Number of Monastic School Completion Sponsors Region Students Wutt Kyway Taw End of Mingaladon 18 companies, Pyay Monastery October, Township, Yangon Approx. 260 4 individuals School 2014 City End of Mingaladon Pyin Nyar Theingi 18 companies, November, Township, Yangon Approx. 120 Nun School 4 individuals 2015 City South Dagon Myittar Yaung Chi November 19 companies, Township, Yangon Approx. 180 Nun School 2016 5 individuals City Support and Cooperation in Nepal Manaslu Forest Restoration Project with Planting Technologies Sumitomo Forestry provides tree-planting technological support and cooperation in the Manaslu Forest Restoration Project in Nepal led by the NPO Peak Aid, where alpinist Ken Noguchi serves as a representative. Manaslu is one of the mountains in the Himalayas and its peak reaches 8,000 meters up in the air. The mountain once had virgin forests with rich vegetation and soil; nonetheless, recent population growth in the villages and deregulated logging have depredated the forests. The degraded forest system has resulted in increased frequency of landslide and adversely aﬀecting lives of the villagers. Sumitomo Forestry, therefore, has begun providing advice from the technical aspect by sending experts of nurturing seedlings and forests to the project site. In ﬁscal 2016, we gave advice on seedlings production, proposed sites for reforestation, and reforestation methods locally in the second year of this three-year activity. 202 Environmental Report Environmental Management Environmental Impact of Business Activities Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste Forest Management Biodiversity Conservation Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances Efficient Use of Water Resources Environmental Accounting Environmental Data for Group Companies 203 Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group The Sumitomo Forestry Group lists “Environmental Responsibility” as one of the Action Guidelines of its Corporate Philosophy and states, “We are dedicated to eﬀectively addressing environmental issues with the aim of achieving a sustainable society.” The Group established its Environmental Philosophy in December 1994 and Group-wide Environmental Policies in October 2000. We also formulated the Mid-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010-FY2014) with Mid-term environmental targets for the ﬁrst time in ﬁscal 2009 and established the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan (FY2015-FY2020) that includes environmental targets in ﬁscal 2014. The plan is incorporated into CSR budgets as numerical targets for each ﬁscal year and environmental activities are steadily enhanced through implementation of the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle at each organization. Moreover, since July 2015, the Group has initiated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy, bringing together the Environmental Philosophy, the Environmental Policies, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity, and the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Action Guidelines. This Environmental Policy applies to the product life cycle and all business processes from product development, design and manufacturing to material procurement, distribution, waste management and services in all businesses of the Sumitomo Forestry Group to promote businesses that help contributed to a sustainable society. To share and raise awareness of the Environmental Policies among Group employees, they were printed in employee handbooks. Opportunities to read through and discuss them were also arranged, for example as part of new employee trainings, ISO 14001 internal environmental auditor trainings courses or departmental meetings. 204 Environmental Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy Through our experience nurturing forests since our founding, Sumitomo Forestry Group has learned to appreciate the wonders of wood and the importance of nature. As a corporate entity with a close aﬃnity to nature, we will pursue business activities that balance both environmental and economic interests and contribute to a sustainable society. 1. Develop business operations centered on wood and forests We will cultivate forests and their ability to preserve and enhance the rich ecosystem to protect biodiversity, actively utilize timber resources and create new corporate value. 2. Develop and oﬀer environmentally conscious products and services We will develop and sell products and services that are environmentally conscious throughout the entire product lifecycle. 3. Minimize and improve environmental impact To minimize and improve environmental impact, we will employ procurement practices that prevent environmental pollution and climate change and promote the eﬀective utilization of natural resources. 4. Ensure strict legal compliance We will adhere to all environmental laws, rules and regulations, global standards, voluntary standards and accords with stakeholders. 5. Make continual improvements to our environmental management system We will accurately access environment-related risks associated with our business activities and with a mid-to-long-term outlook, set and work to fulﬁll yearly environment goals. In addition, we will regularly evaluate our environmental management system and make continual improvements. 6. Promote environmental education We will provide environmental education for all parties involved in Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs business operations and encourage voluntary environmental eﬀorts. 7. Pursue active communication We will actively disclose information about our environmental policies and initiatives and pursue activities that convey the wonders of trees and forests and the importance of nature. Corporate Philosophy and CSR Management of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 205 Environmental Management Structure | Environmental Management | Environmental Report Environmental Management Structure Environmental Management Structure To ensure that management is practiced in accordance with the Environmental Policies, whose objective is to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has established an environmental management structure with the President of Sumitomo Forestry assuming overall responsibility. Beneath the President are the Executive Oﬃcer in Charge of CSR and the General Manager of the CSR Department. Regular checks on the progress of environmental activities advanced by divisions and departments within the Group and related issues are conducted against the “CSR budget,” which sets forth numerical targets for each ﬁscal year, to raise the eﬀectiveness of those activities. 206 Environmental Management Structure | Environmental Management | Environmental Report Environmental Management Structure (as of April 2017) 207 Environmental Management Structure | Environmental Management | Environmental Report Roles of Environmental Management Personnel Group Overall Environmental Representative: President and Representative Director Group Environmental Management Oﬃcer: Executive Oﬃcer in Charge of CSR Group Environmental Manager: General Manager, CSR Dept. Division Environmental Management Oﬃcers: General Manager, Administration Dept. (Timber & Building Materials Div.); General Manager, Administration & Planning Dept. (Housing Div.); General Manager, Overseas Administration Dept. (Overseas Business Div.) Department Environmental Managers: General managers, presidents of group company etc. Environmental activity personnel: Environmental promotion personnel ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Sumitomo Forestry introduced an environmental management system in ﬁscal 1995 and acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation for ISO 14001 its housing operations in ﬁscal 1997 ahead of other players in Certiﬁcation the housing industry. Certiﬁcation was subsequently acquired for (Based on sales) other operations with all departments and divisions in the Company achieving integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in ﬁscal 87.3％ 2002. The scope of certiﬁed Group companies has been extended over businesses that have a large inﬂuence on the environment, and today the Group has four certiﬁed companies in Japan. Progress is also being made on certiﬁcation of overseas Group companies, focused on manufacturing companies, with six companies already certiﬁed. As of April 2017, the certiﬁcation rate of consolidated organizations was 87.3% (based on sales). 208 Environmental Management Structure | Environmental Management | Environmental Report Sumitomo Forestry Group ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation Company Name Date acquired Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. August 2002*1 (excl. overseas operations) Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping November Co., Ltd. 2002*2 Consolidated in Japan Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., September Expanded Ltd. 2003*2 certiﬁcation Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech March 2013*2 Co., Ltd. Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. August 2014*2 PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI) July 2001 Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL) July 2003 PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) October 2005 PT. AST Indonesia (ASTI) January 2007 Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO) March 2014 Pan Asia Packing Ltd. (PAP) April 2017 *1 Certiﬁcation was acquired by individual departments and divisions from 1997 before integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation was acquired for the entire company. *2 Acquired by inclusion in Sumitomo Forestryʼs integrated certiﬁcation Audits by External Certiﬁcation Bodies Companies covered by the integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in Japan undergo routine reviews conducted once a year by certiﬁcation body JIC Quality Assurance Ltd. In ﬁscal 2016, 55 departments at 5 companies went under review for migration and renewal to the new ISO14001:2015 (JISQ14001:2015) standards between May and June. The reviews recommended 73 improvements, but found one small nonconformance. The discovered small nonconformance was related to determining the competence as well as eﬀectiveness of processes related to appropriate education and training, which was a new requirement added to the standards. Corrective actions were taken, including revising the manual, and conﬁrmation of these corrective measures were sent to the review registration agency. Registration for the migration to these new standards was approved August 6, 2016. 209 Environmental Management Structure | Environmental Management | Environmental Report In addition to examining methods of improvement and taking action for each of the observation items, notices were issued by the CSR Department to share information such as small irregularities on any issues common to the Group companies, and internal environmental audits were conducted to check the implementation of preventive measures. Manufacturing plants overseas are in the process of migrating to the new standards just as the plants in Japan. Internal Environmental Audits In addition to reviews conducted by external certiﬁcation bodies, companies covered by the integrated ISO 14001 certiﬁcation periodically carry out internal environmental audits. These audits are implemented by employees who have passed an exam upon completion of an in-house training course to become internal environmental auditors. In ﬁscal 2016, two courses of internal auditor development trainings were held; one for the Company-certiﬁed auditors based on old standards and the other for ones based on new standards were oﬀered following the amendments of the international standards in September 2015. In total 12-session courses, the Company certiﬁed 316 internal environmental auditors trained accordingly to the new standards. In ﬁscal 2016, the internal environmental audit expanded to 132 departments (1.8 times the previous year) to conﬁrm the migration status to the new standards as soon as possible. When irregularities due to the amendments were found and or improvement was suggested, the audited departments took corrective actions and subsequently submitted the action reports to the audit department. Audit results were reported to management by the General Manager of the CSR Department and a review was conducted. Compliance and Violations of Environmental Laws There were no signiﬁcant violations * of any environment-related Signiﬁcant laws or ordinances in the past four years. violations in the last four * Violation with a penalty or punishment of one million yen or more years 0 210 Environmental Risk Management | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Environmental Risk Management Environmental Risk Countermeasures The Sumitomo Forestry Group is striving to reduce and to prevent the manifestation of the risks and impact which business activities have upon the global environment and society such as the disposal of industrial waste, soil and water pollution caused by toxic substances, noise and vibration. In ﬁscal 2016, there were no signiﬁcant violations of any environment-related laws or ordinances. Processing of Industrial Waste Construction-related waste makes up the highest percentage of industrial waste that is illegally dumped in Japan. Viewing the environmental risks presented by the processing of industrial waste as one of the biggest in terms of the potential impact on society and business, the Sumitomo Forestry Group works to ensure that industrial waste is disposed of appropriately. Speciﬁcally, to comply with the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act and other related laws and regulations, the Group has established a set of industrial waste management regulations covering appropriate disposal, reduction, recycling and reuse of industrial, as well as manufacturing regulations stipulating standards essential for production activities. In keeping with these regulations, voluntary audits of waste manifests and terms of outsourcing agreements with waste processors are carried out twice a year for each Group company oﬃce in Japan emitting industrial waste. If an audit concludes that corrective action is required, appropriate action is taken and it is subsequently conﬁrmed through reports submitted in line with the industrial waste management system that waste is being properly treated. In addition, industrial waste managers at each oﬃce conduct site checks of contractorsʼ waste treatment plants at least once a year. In ﬁscal 2016, Housing Divisional Managers conducted on-site inspections 570 times for 470 waste treatment plants of approximately 340 waste contractors. Divisions other than the Housing Division and oﬃces of Group companies are being instructed to continue using waste treatment plants which the Housing Division has already inspected. To be able to determine whether industrial waste is being processed in an appropriate manner, the Group asks waste treatment contractors to employ electronic manifests. All branches of the Housing Division and all contractors accepting industrial waste from new housing construction sites have already introduced electronic manifests. In ﬁscal 2016, 98% of all manifests, including those for housing demolition waste, were electronic. 211 Environmental Risk Management | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting In conjunction with this, training is also provided for employees who coordinate the processing of industrial waste. In ﬁscal 2016, a total of 142 people participated in the training, including newly appointed personnel in charge of industrial waste processing at Group companies in Japan. Moreover, training was conducted in the same way for building contractors, demolition contractors and industrial waste disposal operators. Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste Soil Contamination Soil contamination is diﬃcult to discover as contaminants build up and spread underground out of sight. The Sumitomo Forestry Group implements soil contamination countermeasures for land owned or administered by the Group and conducts voluntary soil contamination studies prior to new land purchases in the condominiums business. Water Pollution Water pollution creates the risks of human health being directly aﬀected by contamination of drinking water and of contamination aﬀecting the habitats of organisms living in rivers, lakes and seas. Inspections entrusted to external measurement agencies are conducted twice a month and daily water quality tests are done for the waste water expelled from waste water processing facilities in the Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Imari Plant (formerly the No. 2 Kyushu Plant), which is a speciﬁed oﬃce under the amended Water Pollution Control Act of Japan, and the inspection results are issued to the local municipals every six months. In particular, the frequency of water quality test at our company has transitioned from twice a week to daily as a way to grasp the changes quickly and respond because the reference values in the Agreement of Pollution Control were exceeded due to limitations (dilution) for rapid changes of Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) values following the contamination of waste water with high COD values in the water samplings and inspections done by the city in January 2016. Water is also sampled and inspected by the prefecture once a year and by the city three times a year. Through this measure, all inspections found the level of water pollution to be within the statutory limit for wastewater. In addition, the Tsukuba Research Institute is considered a speciﬁed oﬃce under the amended Water Pollution Control Act of Japan and therefore, delivers notiﬁcation of updates to some testing equipment and new installations according to this law. The Institute also conducts water quality inspections once every month through an external measurement agency to monitor those results and issue reports to Tsukuba City once every six months. Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances 212 Environmental Risk Management | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Contamination by Hazardous Chemicals Contamination caused by hazardous chemicals leads to risks of a major impact on human health or the environment and the risk of a disaster. The Sumitomo Forestry Group keeps track of amounts of hazardous chemicals including volatile organic compounds (VOC) used and discharged as part of appropriate management, meanwhile making an eﬀort to reduce the use of these chemicals. The Group also takes appropriate action in response to the Air Pollution Control Act. Sumitomo Forestry Crest's Niihama Plant equipped with boilers and Kagoshima and Shizuoka plants equipped with incinerator make regular measurements of emission volumes and concentrations of NOx, SOx and soot and dust, and dioxins, respectively, and monitor that these ﬁgures are maintained below the statutory limits. Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances Noise and Vibrations Sumitomo Forestry makes an eﬀort to prevent noise and vibrations during housing construction. When complaints about noise or vibrations are received, the circumstances are recorded and the information is shared with the rest of Group to prevent the occurrence of similar incidents. Sumitomo Forestry Crest conﬁrms that noise levels within the site boundaries of plants are below the statutory limit by taking regular measurements. No complaints about noise or vibrations having a major impact on the environment were received from local residents during ﬁscal 2016. Global Warming (Addressing the Amended CFC Act) In April 2015, the Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law came into force for the purpose of promoting drastic measures over the entire lifecycle of chloroﬂuorocarbons that have a strong greenhouse eﬀect, from manufacture to disposal. In most cases, the Sumitomo Forestry Group leases its oﬃces in buildings, and since the Group is primarily engaged in the construction and sale of housing and the manufacture and distribution of processed wood products, it does not own (or manage) that much commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment (air-conditioners, refrigerators, etc.). However, in response to the enactment of this law, we are conducting periodic simple inspections of the same equipment that is using ﬂuorocarbons as a coolant as well as executing legal and periodic inspections for devices with compressors that have 7.5kW or higher rated output. In ﬁscal 2016, we replaced the air-conditioning system to be more environmentally friendly as part of the renovations to the oﬃce of the roadside store (corporate building) of the Housing Division Utsunomiya Branch (Oyama Sales Oﬃce). 213 Environmental Risk Management | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Understanding Environmental Risks The Sumitomo Forestry Group is aware of the risk upon our business activities from environmental changes such as climate change or reduced biodiversity and works to gather related information, analyze this information as necessary as a way to evaluate business risks. In addition, speciﬁc response measures and their evaluation factors are determined based on the degree of risk and the progress toward vital risks is reported to the CSR Risk Management Committee every quarter. Risks Related to Climate Change Natural Disasters Damage from a major earthquake, windstorm, ﬂood or other natural disaster could result in signiﬁcant costs arising from restoring operations at facilities, verifying the safety of delivered housing products, delays in the completion and handover of contracted properties, or other events. Such costs could inﬂuence the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. Setting Carbon Pricing Such as Mandatory Emission Reductions As the move towards reduction of greenhouse gases takes shape globally, there is the possibility that reduction obligations will be imposed upon businesses in countries where the Sumitomo Forestry Group has bases. If Group companies with bases in these countries are unable to meet reduction obligations, they will be required to purchase emission credits, creating the risk of increased business costs. In Japan too, future changes in new international frameworks could result in adjustments to domestic systems for carbon pricing that includes emission credits, which could inﬂuence business activities and costs. Environmental Adaptation of Products and Services With the revision of Japanʼs energy eﬃciency standards in ﬁscal 2013 (from ﬁscal 2020, houses will be required to comply with energy eﬃciency standards), it is expected that demand will grow for life cycle carbon minus (LCCM) housing able to reduce CO 2 to less than zero. If the Sumitomo Forestry Group does not respond swiftly, we risk losing market share. There is also a risk that, if signiﬁcant climate change occurs, we will be expected to change housing speciﬁcations or provide after service to adapt to these changes. 214 Environmental Risk Management | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Changes to Suppliers and the Impact upon Operation of Company-owned Forests Because Sumitomo Forestry positions timber as its principal material and product, the risk exists of having to change suppliers in the event of limitations being imposed due to the depletion of timber resources or changes to habitats resulting from climate change. Climate changes, including average temperature or annual rainfall, damage due to storm or ﬂood, and ecosystem changes also pose risks to company-owned forests by impacting upon forest preservation, tree growth and upon vegetation. Energy Supply Shortages In countries like New Zealand, where hydroelectric power is used, there is a risk that a change in the amount of rainfall will cause dam levels to fall and lead to a disruption of supply from hydroelectric power stations, forcing Sumitomo Forestry Group sites in those countries to suspend plant operations. Risks Related to Biodiversity Change Changes in Timber Quality and Volume The Sumitomo Forestry Group is among the top Japanese procurers of forest timber by volume. Trees represent the blessing of biodiversity which, if lost, poses a risk to the foundation of our business. Furthermore, should the quality or volume change, the required response may lead to signiﬁcant cost increases. Strengthening of Related Laws and Regulations The establishment and strengthening of laws and regulations for preventing loss of biodiversity continues. Anticipated risks include eﬀects on operation of Company-owned forests, having to adapt timber procurement in terms of regions, tree species and volume, and having to adapt housing construction business in terms of regions, scale and greening. Should the Group fail to deal with the associated laws and regulations, compliance risks will emerge. Corporate Image Deterioration Any mistake in addressing biodiversity may be detrimental to the corporate image, directly aﬀecting sales and other performance indicators. 215 Environmental Risk Management | Environmental Management | Environmental Reporting Impact upon Fund Procurement Financial institutions and similar organizations are making the implementation of environmental assessments and biodiversity initiatives a condition of lending. Corporate credit rating agencies and investors, too, are adopting increasingly detailed assessment criteria for credit rating and socially responsible investment (SRI), including biodiversity initiatives as an assessment category. These growing trends may potentially aﬀect funds procurement. Risks Associated with Illegal Logging Strengthening of Related Laws and Regulations Illegal logging of forests is recognized as a crucial issue globally, and progress is being made to strengthen related laws and regulations in a number of countries and regions. If the Sumitomo Forestry Group does not respond appropriately to such laws and regulations in its harvesting and procurement, there is the potential of compliance risk arising or indemnity being incurred. Corporate Image Deterioration Should the Sumitomo Forestry Group deal in illegally logged timber due to a neglect to exercise the appropriate duty of care, there is the potential of damage to our corporate image which could have a direct impact upon sales and other business results. 216 Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Environmental Impact of Business Activities Balance of Input & Output The Sumitomo Forestry Group accurately understands how its business activities impact the environment and make evaluations and manage them in its environmental management. As such, data on environmental impact is collected at each stage from energy and raw material input to manufacturing and disposal per plant and business to utilize them for reduction initiatives. Balance of Input & Output of the Sumitomo Forestry Group 217 Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Balance of Input & Output of Manufacturing and Power Generation Plants in Japan* * Boundary: Tsukuba Research Institute, Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. (Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant), Mombetsu Biomass Electric Power Co., Ltd., Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd., Okhotsk Bio Energy Co., Ltd. and Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. 218 Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Material Balance of Overseas Plants* * Boundary: PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia (KTI), PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI), PT. Sinar Rimba Pasiﬁk (SRP; Indonesia), PT. AST Indonesia (ASTI), Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. (Australia), Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. (NPIL; New Zealand), Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. (VECO; Vietnam) and Canyon Creek Cabinet Company (America) 219 Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Flow and Material Balance of Domestic Housing-Related Business* * Boundary: Sumitomo Forestry Housing Division, Sumitomo Forestry Archi Techno Co., Ltd. (Design), Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Co., Ltd. (Execution), Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. (Renovations), and Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. (Garden Landscaping /Greening) About symbol for Independent assurance Boundaries and Method of Data Aggregation 220 Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Implementation of Life Cycle Assessments In ﬁscal 2006, the Sumitomo Forestry Group carried out life cycle assessments (LCA) *1 at each of its businesses with the help of Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology (TUAT) to ascertain the environmental impact of its products. Since then, the Group has introduced carbon footprint (CFP)*2 labels for individual products and carried out life cycle assessments of detached housing among other initiatives. For example, Group company PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia (RPI) conducts LCAs of particle board (PB) that it manufactures and sells, covering the production and transportation of the raw materials through to manufacturing of the products. The company also voluntarily displays CFP labels on PB products based on LCA results. RPI started displaying CFP labels on PB products in In ﬁscal 2015, the Group conducted assessments on 2009 (ﬁrst time for construction of and waste from the 26 year-old Indonesian companies in Company-build home and 300 year-old home the timber products market) renovations. The comparison of LCA results between renovation including energy-eﬃciency reform and rebuilding found that renovation practices are able to achieve both greater convenience and reduction of environmental burden. Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy *1 A method of evaluating the overall environmental impact of a product throughout its life cycle (all stages, including raw material procurement, manufacturing, transportation, sale, use, reuse and disposal). *2 A measure indicating the amount of greenhouse gases emitted over the entire life cycle of a product or service converted into CO 2 . Review of Methodology of carbon ﬁxation through Harvested Wood Products (HWP) Sumitomo Forestry is working together with International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO) in the ITTO-led HWP research program for consolidation of the HWP carbon ﬁxation methodology. HWP stands for Harvested Wood Products. In international negotiations concerning climate change, eﬃcacy of carbon ﬁxation by timber products have been discussed. The 17th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP17) decided that change of carbon storage in home-building timber can be reported as either a countryʼs greenhouse gas absorbance or emissions during the second commitment period. This demonstrates that international authorities validated the eﬀect of increased carbon storage by timber products towards mitigation of the global temperature rise. 221 Boundaries and Method of Data Aggregation (Balance of Input & Output) | Environmental Report Boundaries and Method of Data Aggregation (Balance of Input & Output) Boundaries (Organizational Range) Indication Classiﬁcation Boundary All Business Activities All Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. [Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant], Sumirin Agro-Products Domestic Plants and Co., Ltd. [Shinshiro Plant, Tobishima Plant], Japan Bio Power Generation Energy Co., Ltd., Okhotsk Bio Energy Co., Ltd., Tsukuba Business Research Institute, and Mombetsu Biomass Electric Power Co., Ltd. By PT.Rimba Partikel Indonesia, Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd., Business Overseas Plants PT. AST Indonesia, PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, Nelson Pine Activity Industries Ltd. and Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Forestry [Housing Division], Sumitomo Forestry Domestic Housing-Related Home Tech Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering Business Co., Ltd., Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. and Sumitomo Forestry Archi Techno Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Forestry and Group companies other than the Oﬃces and other sites above All Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies Prerequisites Indication Prerequisites Classiﬁcation Energy/CO 2 Energy use and CO2 emissions at each plant Raw materials used as building materials, potting mix, Raw materials Domestic Plants and etc. Power Generation Water use in production such as building materials Business Water and potting mix, etc. Waste in production such as building materials and Waste potting mix, etc. Energy/CO 2 Energy use and CO2 emissions at each plant Raw materials Raw materials used as timber products, etc Overseas Plants Water Water use in production such as timber products, etc. Waste Waste in production such as timber products, etc. 222 Boundaries and Method of Data Aggregation (Balance of Input & Output) | Environmental Report Indication Prerequisites Classiﬁcation Energy use and CO2 emissions for business sites Energy/CO 2 (including exhibition sites) related to the housing business Domestic HousingRaw materials Materials invested in housing construction Related Business Water use at business sites related to the housing Water business Waste emitted from housing construction (including Waste renovations) and demolition Energy use and CO2 emissions at Sumitomo Forestry and other business sites of Group companies not Energy/CO 2 related to domestic or overseas manufacturing or design, construction and sales of houses Water use at Sumitomo Forestry and other business Oﬃces and other sites of Group companies not related to domestic or Water sites overseas manufacturing or design, construction and sales of houses Waste at Sumitomo Forestry and other business sites of Group companies not related to domestic or Waste overseas manufacturing or design, construction and sales of houses Aggregation Method CO2︓Refer to the pages below Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation Waste: Calculating Emissions with Data Collected from Manifests 223 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Reducing CO2 Emissions from Oﬃces At oﬃces, the Sumitomo Forestry Group CO2 emissions in ﬁscal 2016 were 32,660 t-CO 2, 7.8% and 1.4% reductions compared to the base year (ﬁscal 2013) for the Mid-Term CSR Management Plan by ﬁscal 2020 and the previous year, respectively. All business sites of Group companies in Japan are advancing the introduction of fuel-eﬃcient vehicles to make 393 of the 433 company-owned vehicles fuelPower generation through eﬃcient vehicles in ﬁscal 2016 (91% adoption rate of solar panels installed April fuel-eﬃcient vehicles). In addition, the Group has 2012 at the Omiya Katakura encouraged employees who drive on the job at oﬃces model homes (Saitama) and business sites of Group companies in Japan to participate in the Eco Training course run by the Japan Automobile Federation (JAF). These eﬀorts have reduced the CO2 resulting from the use of gasoline 3.3% compared to the previous ﬁscal year. The Group has also worked to reduce power consumption. In the Housing Division, power consumption has been reduced by moving to a “free address” oﬃce system (where personnel are not assigned to ﬁxed desks) to make more eﬃcient use of oﬃce space. In addition, the division has also proceeded to install solar power generation systems and LED lighting at its model homes and other business sites. The Group will continue to reduce CO 2 emissions, such as by implementing promotion of eco-drive, to raise awareness among employees. 224 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Reduce total CO2 emissions from all oﬃces of domestic and overseas consolidated companies by 7% compared to ﬁscal 2013 by ﬁscal 2020. In ﬁscal 2016, the total amount of CO 2 emissions in the oﬃce category dropped by 7.8% to 32,660 t-CO2. The Group will start the eco-drive curriculum in addition to ongoing safe-drive training provided by the Housing Division with the aim to lower gasoline-derived CO 2 emissions towards the following yearʼs target. CO2 Emissions (t-CO2) from Oﬃces FY 2013 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2020 FY (Base (Results) (Results) (Target) (Target) (Target) Year) 35,440 33,130 32,660 33,746 32,887 32,959 Total CO 2 Emissions t-CO 2 t-CO 2 t-CO 2 t-CO 2 t-CO 2 t-CO 2 Compared to 2013 Percentage 6.5％ 7.8％ 4.8％ 7.2％ 7.0％ Change reduction reduction reduction reduction reduction Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Reducing CO2 Emissions Outside Oﬃces To address CO2 emissions collectively, the Group set manufacturing plants of Sumitomo Forestry Crest and Sumirin Agro Products, Tsukuba Research Institute, the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center, Fill Care, Kawanokita Development, and Japan Bio Energy as domestic non-oﬃce category constituents, as well as RPI, ASTI, KTI, Alpine, VECO, and NPILʼs overseas manufacturing plants, SRP, OBT, and Canyon Creek as overseas nonoﬃce category constituents with their respective reduction targets. 225 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Mid-Term CSR Management Plan Set company-speciﬁc reduction targets for CO2 emissions; i.e. over 1% average percent per-unit emission reduction between ﬁscal 2015 to 2020 In ﬁscal 2016, we advanced reductions by improving production eﬃciency and operational skills such as at manufacturing plants as applicable departments in Japan. In applicable departments overseas, we worked to put in place measures to reduce CO2 for plants impacted by factors such as increased equipment due to changes to methods for electrical use (purchased) and the start of new businesses. Major Non-Oﬃce CO2 Emission Reduction Performance and Targets (Per-unit Emissions) FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2016 FY 2017 Company Name (Results) (Target) (Results) (Target) Sumitomo Forestry Crest 26.1％ reduction 9.5％ reduction 4.5％ reduction 1.7％ reduction Co., Ltd. Sumirin Agro-Products 18.6％ reduction 2.7％ increase 54.6％ increase 16.9％ reduction Co., Ltd. PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia 53.1％ increase 18.3％ reduction 15.8％ increase 10.1％ reduction (RPI) PT. AST Indonesia 7.3％ increase 0.9％ increase 16.0％ increase 8.5% reduction (ASTI) PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia 5.9％ increase 1.9％ reduction 3.1％ increase 0.9％ reduction (KTI) Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. 5.5％ increase 4.6％ increase 10.6％ reduction 3.3％ increase (Alpine) Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. 5.2％ reduction 0.4％ reduction 0.7％ reduction 2.7％ increase (NPIL) Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. 5.7％ reduction 2.2％ increase 5.4％ reduction 7.4％ reduction (VECO) * Increases and decreases are in reference to respective previous years. Med-Term CSR Management Plan 226 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Reducing CO2 Emissions from Transportation Under the revised Act on the Rational Use of Energy in Japan, consigners *1 are required to reduce per-unit energy consumption by an annual average of 1% or more in the medium to long term in relation to the transportation of goods. Sumitomo Forestry and Sumitomo Forestry Crest fall under the category of “speciﬁed consigner” (annual freight transportation volume is 30 million ton-km *2 or more), obligating them to submit reports to the Japanese Government. Sumitomo Forestry therefore sets a target each ﬁscal year to reduce per-unit energy consumption *3 in transportation by 1% or more compared to the previous year. Sumitomo Forestry Crest also sets targets to reduce per-unit energy consumption compared to the previous year. In ﬁscal 2016, Sumitomo Forestry's per-unit energy consumption was 83.9% compared to the previous year and Sumitomo Forestry Crest's was 96.9%. Ongoing eﬀorts will be made to reduce CO 2 emissions through cooperation with transportation partners on such measures as improving loading eﬃciency, shifting from land to sea transportation, and utilizing the return leg of construction material deliveries to transport waste. Eﬀorts will also be made in ascertaining CO 2 emissions across the entire supply chain, which includes both domestic and international transportation. *1 Cosigners as deﬁned in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy in Japan is someone who transports cargo to carriers for our businesses *2 Freight transportation volume (ton-kilometers) = freight weight (tons) × distance travelled (km) *3 Sumitomo Forestry measures energy consumption per unit of volume handled. Sumitomo Forestry Crest measures energy consumption per unit of net sales Energy Consumption From Transportation, CO2 Emissions and Energy Consumption Per-Unit (FY2016 Performance) Energy Use CO 2 emissions Energy Consumption Per Unit (Crude Oil Equivalent) 0.00164kL/m 3 Sumitomo Forestry 3,327kL 8,906t-CO 2 (Ratio to Previous FY: 83.9%) 0.0000595kL/1,000 Yen Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. 2,135kL 5,670t-CO 2 (Ratio to Previous FY: 96.9%) 227 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Establishment of an Eﬃcient Delivery Sumitomo Forestry is reducing the CO 2 emissions in its transportation processes by bringing together Sumitomo Forestry Home houses from multiple manufactures momentarily at relay centers in 28 locations throughout Japan with a system to consolidate and transport shipments. Home Eco Logistics takes on logistics operations for the Sumitomo Forestry Group with the housing business at the core and also actively puts forward proposals for eﬃcient logistics operations to material manufacturers, housing manufacturers, housing construction companies and building material distributors. In the year to March 2017, we asked six construction material operators for consulting focused on more eﬃcient operations in warehouses as well as rational proposals for inventory management. As of March 2017, Home Eco Logistics provided logistics operations to more than 40 companies. In the future, we will actively strive in cooperative distribution through multiple companies because of insuﬃcient shipment capacity forecast due to a decrease in the amount of new housing construction. Greenhouse Gas Emissions per Scope Based on the GHG Protocol Since ﬁscal 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has ascertained the volume of its CO 2 emissions according to diﬀerent scopes *1 based on the GHG Protocol, a set of widely used international accounting tools for quantifying GHG emissions. In view of the increasing demand of renewable energy in recent years, the Sumitomo Forestry Group entered the biomass power generation business in 2011 and has begun operation of Okhotsk Bio Energy in December 2016 as a consolidated subsidiary. This power plant uses coal as supplemental fuel for smooth operation and maintenance while using wood leftover from logging as the primary fuel. Therefore, the total CO 2 emissions in scope 1 and 2 for ﬁscal 2016 at the Sumitomo Forestry Group was 336,017 t-CO 2, which is a 72.4% increase compared to the previous year (196,963 t-CO 2, a 1% increase compared to the previous year when comparing the existing businesses with the previous year). In addition, when looking by business, our overseas business made up 44.9% while our plants and power generation business in Japan composes 43.7%. We started to calculate Scope 3 in ﬁscal 2013 and the targets for this calculation largely expanded in ﬁscal 2015. In the future, we will examine targets via SBT *2 in an eﬀort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions another level. *1 The GHG Protocol requires businesses to disclose their greenhouse gas emissions according to the following categories Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions of a company, including emissions from fuel consumption. E.g. CO 2 emissions from the use of gasoline for company vehicles. Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and heating. E.g. CO 2 emissions from the use of electricity by oﬃces. Scope 3: GHG emissions occurring in the supply chain. E.g. CO 2 emissions generated during the use of products sold. *2 Science Based Targets. These targets are set for companies to achieve reduction goals in-line with scientiﬁc knowledge to limit the raising average temperature around the world to 2°C or less. 228 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2 Emission Trends Scope 1 and 2 Breakdown by Business (FY 2016) FY 2016 Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 Emissions Breakdown Domestic and Overseas Oﬃce Domestic Non-Oﬃce Overseas Non-Oﬃce Total Scope 1 20 kt-CO 2 140 kt-CO 2 25 kt-CO 2 185 kt-CO 2 Scope 2 13 kt-CO 2 11 kt-CO 2 128 kt-CO 2 151 kt-CO 2 Total 33 kt-CO 2 151 kt-CO 2 153 kt-CO 2 336 kt-CO 2 229 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Scope 3 Three-Year Data of CO 2 Emissions by Category (t-CO 2 ) Boundary of Emissions included in the Category FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Category 1 Purchased Emissions from upstream of purchased products and products during new home construction and ー 1,187,600 1,227,877 services building material business Emissions from upstream of purchased 2 Capital goods ー 42,323 61,411 equipment 3 Fuels and energyEmissions from purchased fuels, electricity, related activities heat capacity, and water, as well as transport ー 4,393 8,518 *2 excluded from Scope of purchased fuels 1 and 2 11,604 264,736 Estimate Estimate covering for Emissions from transport of timber from logging sites, purchased items in building Sumitomo marine 4 Transport and materials, raw materials to plants and Forestry transport deliver 268,114 (Upstream) products to clients in the timber production and Group added to business, and transport by sea in the companies the building material business in Timber FY2014 Production ﬁgure Business 5 Waste generated Emissions from waste treatment and its ー 10,839 9,682 through businesses transport Emissions related to business trips of 6 Business trips employees such as use of public ー 1,393 1,429 transportation and accommodation 7 Employee Emissions from employee commuting ー 1,476 3,122 *3 commute (Emissions from use of upstream leased 8 Leased property property such as oﬃce buildings, heavy ー ー ー (Upstream) machinery, vehicles, and facilities are included in Scope 1 or 2) 9 Transport and Emissions from transport of sold products in deliver Timber Production Business (for wood yard ー 11,717 6,781 *2 (Downstream) pick up) Emissions from processing of raw wood into 10 Processing of plywood as well as of sold precut processing ー 51,733 50,410 sold products of sold lumber 11 Use of purchased Emissions from sold homes while in use (for 2,163,805 2,015,591 2,054,110 products sixty years) 230 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting (t-CO 2 ) Boundary of Emissions included in the Category FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Category 53,416 (Demolition + disposal 12 Disposal of sold Emissions from demolition and disposal of (landﬁll, 48,435 42,279 products homes sold by the Company incineration, and recycling) is estimated) (Tenants must belong to the Group and the 13 Leased property ﬁgures are included in Scope 1 and 2 of the ー ー ー (Downstream) Group) 14 Franchised (excluded) ー ー ー Emissions from the investees (based on the 15 Investment ー 94,671 91,279 Company's proportional share) *1 Above data include domestic businesses only. *All categories other than Category 4, 11, and 12 are disclosed since ﬁscal 2015. Some of the numerical values that are used are data such as that from the database published by the Ministry of the Environment. The data with greater accuracy will be obtained progressively in the future by requesting the provision of primary data. *2 The estimated transport distance changes as follows as of ﬁscal 2016. City: Revised from 50 km to 20 km; Prefecture: Did not change from 100 km; Between Prefectures: Revised from 500 km to 300 km *3 Train and bus commuting was calculated in ﬁscal 2015 and commuting by motor vehicle was added as of ﬁscal 2016. FY2016 Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accrued From Corporate Activities 231 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Emission Trends in Scope 1, 2, and 3 * Scope 3 has expanded the range of calculation from three conventional categories to 15 categories since ﬁscal 2015. Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation About symbol for Independent assurance 232 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation Boundary of CO2 Emissions (Organizational Range) The amount of CO2 emissions published in this report is an aggregation for companies throughout the Group, including all consolidated subsidiaries in and outside of Japan unless otherwise noted. Furthermore, the boundaries of calculating CO 2 emmissions by scope are as shown below. ・Scope 1 and 2 All Group companies, including consolidated subsidiaries in and outside of Japan ・Scope 3 Group companies, including consolidated subsidiaries in Japan List of Applicable Companies Scope 1 CO2 Emissions The CO2 emissions both inside and outside of Japan are calculated by using heat conversion as well as the carbon dioxide emission coeﬃcients stipulated in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Scope 2 CO2 Emissions The CO2 emissions caused by use of purchased electricity in Japan are calculated by the carbon dioxide emission coeﬃcient for each power provider in each ﬁscal year stipulated in the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming. The CO2 emissions due to the use of purchased heat are calculated by the CO 2 emission coeﬃcient stipulated in the Law Concerning the Promotion of the Measures to Cope with Global Warming. The CO2 emissions for ﬁscal 2016 due to the use of purchased electricity overseas is calculated by the CO2 coeﬃcient below for each country. 233 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Australia︓0.735kgCO 2/kWh America︓0.486kgCO2/kWh China︓0.680kgCO2/kWh Indonesia︓0.736kgCO2/kWh Vietnam︓0.355kgCO2/kWh New Zealand︓0.131kgCO 2/kWh Singapore︓0.441kgCO 2/kWh Malaysia︓0.666kgCO2/kWh Thailand︓0.531kgCO2/kWh About Scope 3 Calculation Category 1 Purchased products and services (Portion of outside contracts during construction of wooden detached houses) Σ (energy use during on-site construction per home × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient by energy) × Portion of outside contracts used in houses completed in the current ﬁscal year (Procurement of the Timber & Building Materials Businesses) Σ (Amount of procurement or net sales of sold products × Per unit emissions by quantity or monetary value) Category 2 Capital goods Σ(Capital goods procurement value by Japanese companies in the Group × Per unit emissions by industrial division) Category 3 Fuel and energy-related activities excluded from Scope 1 and 2 (Procurement) Σ (Energy and water use × Per unit emissions of energy) (Transport from retailers)* The target of calculations is the use on operational sites such as plants Σ (Energy use (weight conversion) × Estimated transport distance × Per unit use of fuel in ton-kilometers × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient) * Calculation based on transportation scenario 234 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Category 4 Transport and shipping (upstream) (Transport in Japan) CO2 emissions related to owner shipments (value to report based on the energy saving law; however, this excludes waste transport) * Waste transport is included in Category 5 (Transport by sea) Σ (Amount of import products procured × Distance to transport by sea from the country of procurement × Per unit emissions of ship transport) Category 5 Waste generated through businesses Σ (Amount of emissions by type of waste × Per unit emissions by the type of waste or processing method) Category 6 Business trips Number of employees of Group companies in Japan × Per unit emissions during business trips Category 7 Employee commute (Type of transportation: Train/bus) Number of employees of Group companies in Japan × Per unit emissions during commute * Per unit emissions during commute: Calculated from the emissions during commute for the past three years (2013, 2014, 2015) of Group companies in Japan (Type of transportation: Automobile) Distributed transportation costs ÷ Average gasoline unit price for the current ﬁscal year × Per unit emissions during gasoline combustion * Emissions during commute using employee-owned vehicles is included in Scope 1 Category 9 Transport and shipping (downstream) (Wood yard pick up such as the plywood or ﬁberboard that is sold) Σ (Sales volume × Estimated transport distance × Per unit fuel use in ton-kilometer × CO2 emissions coeﬃcient) * Calculation based on transport scenario 235 Boundaries and Methods of CO2 Emissions Calculation | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Reporting Category 10 Processing of sold products (Plywood work and Precut factories) Σ (Sales volume of crude wood and processed materials × Per unit emissions during processing) * Per unit is based on the LCA procurement implemented in the past by the company Category 11 Use of sold products (CO2 emissions during habitability) Σ(Annual energy use per household × CO 2 emissions coeﬃcient by energy) × Number of households × Number of houses completed by construction method for ﬁscal 2016 * Emissions related to renovations are omitted because there is a possibility to count a portion of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions twice for aﬃliate companies engaged in the renovations business (Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd.) * Energy use per household (electricity/city gas): Calculated by using the Building Research Instituteʼs energy consumption performance calculator program Category 12 Waste of sold products (CO2 emissions during demolition) Σ(Fuel use during demolition per household × CO 2 emissions coeﬃcient by fuel) × Number of houses completed for the current ﬁscal year * Fuel use during demolition per household (diesel/gasoline): Estimated based on sample surveys related to the fuel use in model house demolition conducted by Sumitomo Forestry in 2006 (CO2 emissions during disposal (including transport)) Σ(Amount of waste during demolition per household × Per unit emissions by volume reduction rate , disposal rate , recycling rate for each type of waste × Per unit emissions by type of waste or processing method) × Number of houses completed in the current ﬁscal year * Amount of waste during demolition per household: The amount of waste produced during demolition annually by Sumitomo Forestry Group for ﬁscal 2016 is calculated by converting the equivalent building weight of the standard plan (ﬂoor area:147m²) of Sumitomo Forestry for ﬁscal 2010 Category 15 Investments Σ (Scope 1 and 2 emissions from companies the Group invests × Equity interest of Sumitomo Forestry Group) * Scope 1 and 2 emissions are the public values from the company the Group invests or the values released in the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures 236 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy Promotion of net zero energy house (ZEH) speciﬁcations The household sector in Japan still has high level emission of CO2 although the trend has slowed down. The Japanese Standardization Government revised *1 the energy eﬃciency standards for of ZEH targets housing and other buildings in October 2013, and these have (2020) been in full force since April 1, 2015. Compliance with the energy eﬃciency standards will gradually be made compulsory 80％ *3 for all new houses and buildings by 2020. Sumitomo Forestry provides approximately 8,000 custom-made Standardization detached houses a year in Japan with these circumstances as a of ZEH results backdrop. Therefore, we released Green Smart in 2014 to (FY 2016) facilitate the building of high insulation eﬃciency, timber as a renewable resource and advanced technology while also 32％ *3 providing living spaces that value both the living environment and the global environment. Wood is conventionally a renewable natural resource that absorbs and stores CO2 during its growth process. As well as using wood for its principal structural members, Sumitomo Forestry has oﬀered housing proposals where residents can live comfortably all year round by incorporating its Ryouonbou design, which takes advantage of natural blessings such as the wind and sun. “Green Smart” fuses the Companyʼs expertise in utilizing these “unique characteristics of wood and blessings of nature” together with its technologies for the “reduction of energy consumption” (such as improvements in thermal insulation) and its technologies for the “smart use of energy” (such as equipment for generating and storing energy, and HEMS*2). By boosting energy eﬃciency in the house, the Company seeks to reduce CO2 emissions during occupancy. The Japanese Governmentʼs 2014 Basic Energy Plan sets the goal to realize net Zero Energy Houses (ZEH) in regular newbuilds by 2020. Sumitomo Forestry has set the goal to standard ZEH at 80%*3 by ﬁscal 2020, and it has reached 32% as of ﬁscal 2016. Our housing technologies outlined in the Green Smart leverage features of wooden materials and natural resources as they are in new-builds from April 2017, and the provision of ZEH will be promoted through further reinforcement of the insulation eﬃciency of buildings and openings and the installation of a solar power generation 237 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report system as standard speciﬁcations to enable essentially zero annual consumption of primary energy. *1 As a consequence of the revisions, the evaluation now covers comprehensive energy eﬃciency, including thermal insulation, the use of natural energy and installation of energy-eﬃcient devices *2 Home Energy Management System̶a system whereby residents can visualize the amounts of energy they generate and use *3 Values include Nearly ZEH while they exclude Hokkaido and Okinawa Pref. for their cold and hot weather respectively. The ﬁscal 2016 results and 2020 targets for Hokkaido are respectively 0% and 51%. While ZEH is deﬁned as a primary energy reduction rate of 100% including solar power, Nearly ZEH is deﬁned as between 75% to 100%. Features of Green Smart Improves the thermal insulation performance of ceilings, external walls, ﬂoors, windows, etc. Uses low-emissivity (low-E) double glazing ﬁlled with argon gas for large windows where the greatest heat is lost Thermal insulation using low-E glass Adopts aluminum and plastic composite frames with high insulation properties that uses low-emissivity (low-E) double glazing ﬁlled with argon gas for large windows in houses in the ZEH speciﬁcations (since April 2017) 238 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report (1) Strengthening insulation of structural framework (enhanced thermal insulation under ﬂooring) (2) Strengthening insulation of openings (thermal insulation frames) Aluminum and plastic composite frames with high insulation properties Uses wood, which has lower CO2 emissions during the processing stage, and which has better thermal insulation compared to iron and concrete The “Ryouonbou” design utilizes a sense of comfort Thermal conductivity of brought about by nature diﬀerent materials Installs solar power generation systems and residential fuel cell units (Ene-Farm) Also installs household storage batteries and HEMS, which allows residents to visually gauge their energy The HEMS screen usage “Ryouonbou” design concept (in Japanese) Green Smart (in Japanese) 239 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Trends in installation rates of environmentally conscious equipment (new orders) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Solar power generation 45% 51% 43% 35% 48% systems Ene-Farm 41% 53% 51% 43% 34% units*1 Eco One*2 ー ー ー ー 16% Environmentally conscious equipment 62% 72% 66% 58% 68% installation rate*3 *1 Fuel cell units for households *2 Hybrid electric and gas hot water and central heating systems *3 Installation rate of solar power generation system or Ene-Farms until ﬁscal 2015. Fiscal 2016 includes Eco One on the left Sales of The Forest BF Detached Houses that Achieve Open Spaces and ZEH Start Sumitomo Forestry further evolved its unique Big-Frame Construction Method (BF Method) with the release of The Forest BF throughout Japan (excluding Okinawa Pref.) in April 2017. The Forest BF provides comfortable habitability in even more open spaces than before through ﬂexibility in the height of ceilings and beams with new patented technology. In addition to oﬀering Combining Comfortable insulation eﬃciency greater than the local standards, Habitability and High The Forest BF can also achieve ZEH, which requires Environmental Performance zero or less primary energy consumption each year, in The Forest BF through equipment such as solar power generation systems. Moreover, we have adopted versatile partitions that do not require structural materials to build a structure with less waste when changing room plans such as the partitions separating living areas for children and parents alike. This product aims to receive orders of 5,500 houses a year. Creating Expansive Open Spaces with Custom Ceiling Heights and New Technology Launch of “The Forest BF” custom-built detached houses 240 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report CSR Activity Highlight: Contributing to a Lowcarbon Society The Forest BF page (in Japanese) Overseas Development of Energy-Eﬃcient Housing In April 2010, Henley Properties (QLD) Pty Ltd. a Group company of Australia became the ﬁrst company in Australia to make available a zero-emissions demonstration house that is expected to achieve energy-saving beneﬁts of more than 70% compared to existing homes of a similar size. In March 2012, the company constructed a community place, under a zeroemissions model, in a residential lot in Southeast Melbourne in cooperation with local government. The Community place based on building features a solar power generation system, a the zero-emissions model solar hot water heater, a 6,000-liter rainwater tank, and a home energy management system (HEMS). Combined with double-glazed windows and a concrete slab and walls providing excellent thermal insulation, the building has earned an eight-star energy rating *. In December 2012, the company completed a house for a general customer with a nine-star energy rating. With environmental awareness increasing, the need for energy eﬃciency in Australia is mounting. Henley Properties is working to promote the widespread adoption of these homes. * An evaluation of the energy burden for heating and cooling the inside of a building in Australia. Insulation, windows, the type, size and orientation of the building, and the climatic zone are all factors. The highest rating of 10 stars indicates that no heating or cooling whatsoever is needed to maintain a comfortable indoor living environment. Five stars indicates that the building has high insulation performance, but that a minimum of energy is required for heating and cooling Proposals for Energy-Saving Renovations Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. promotes renovations from energy-saving points of view. This brings success in reducing the environmental impact by proposing solutions through thermo insulation as well as installation of facility equipment with high energy eﬃciency together with better basic home functionality such as seismic resistance and thermal eﬃciency. The insulation renovation, speciﬁcally, can mitigate the health risk from heat shock in addition to lower the cost of heating and lighting. We propose new lifestyles that reduce the energy consumed in daily life and decrease lifetime heating and lighting costs by heightening insulation eﬃciency and using energysaving equipment. 241 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Number of energy-saving renovations* * Number of renovated properties with a contract price of at least 8 million yen Research and Development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus (LCCM) Housing Sumitomo Forestry is engaged in the development of Life Cycle Carbon Minus housing to achieve negative CO 2 emissions across the entire life cycle of a home̶from material procurement, occupation and renovation through to demolition and disposal̶by using environmental sound equipment such as solar power systems. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has also begun research into the eﬃcient use of energy as a new initiative from ﬁscal 2016. We have advanced the preparations for solar power generation systems such as the creation of energy consumption models that estimate various family and lifestyle behaviors that include renovations of experimental facilities at the research center to conduct veriﬁcation experiments to advance household consumption based on the demand for technology that eﬀectively utilizes not only the conventional electricity sells but also power generated by other means in households with ﬁxed price purchasing periods and output control as well as other measures. We will further testing that uses actual buildings and develop technology to eﬃciently use energy in the future. Environmental Impact of Business Activities 242 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Oﬀsetting CO2 through Project EARTH The volume of CO2 emitted during the process of harvesting timber used for principal structural members through to the processing, transportation and construction of Sumitomo Forestry Home houses is around six tons per home. Sumitomo Forestry is implementing an initiative called “Project EARTH” in which this CO 2 is oﬀset through reforestation activities. The initiative will oﬀset CO 2 emissions for all custom-built and spec homes sold between ﬁscal 2009 and ﬁscal 2016, and involves planting around 4.8 million trees on a total 2,400 hectares of land and managing cultivation of those trees for 10 years after planting. Reforestation will take two forms̶environmental reforestation aiming to revive ecosystems on degraded land, and industrial tree plantation to be advanced together with the community to both realize sustainable forest management and contribute to the region. Project EARTH carried out in East Java, Indonesia Environmental Reforestation in an Indonesian National Park Since ﬁscal 2009, Sumitomo Forestry has been carrying out an environmental reforestation project on degraded land in Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park, located in East Java, Indonesia. This had involved developing a 6meter ﬁrebreak in the plantation forest stretching a total length of 12 km, as well as improving ﬁreﬁghting equipment and conducting patrols. However, in October and November 2014, ﬁres broke out in areas outside the plantation forest. The ﬁres spread, aﬀecting about Site of the environmental 400 hectares of previously aﬀorested land, and the reforestation project in situation was that about half of the planted trees would Bromo Tengger Semeru wither and die. National Park ﬁre In 2016, withered plantation trees were all replanted extinguishing training and eﬀort is currently being poured into ﬁre prevention measures by taking advantage of this training. 243 Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Industrial Tree Plantation in East Java, Indonesia Since ﬁscal 2010, Sumitomo Forestry has been carrying out an industrial tree plantation project in collaboration with the community, centered on Supiturang village at the foot of Mt. Semeru in Lumajang Regency, East Java. This is a sustainable forestry project whereby part of the proﬁts from harvesting matured trees will be distributed to improve the livelihoods of community residents, while the remainder is used to cover the costs of replanting and cultivation and other expenses. By ﬁscal 2016, a total around 1,908 hectares of forest had been planted. The trees panted at the beginning of the project have already matured and due harvested. Therefore, replanting and logging are carried out simultaneously. The 206 hectares of forest owned by the KBM-KTI plantation cooperative that supports this project has also acquired the the FSC-FM (Forest Stewardship Council forest certiﬁcation) on January 4, 2017. Harvest in Supit Ulan village Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group will continue to increase the performance and lower costs of thermal insulation and environmental devices found in communities and living environments to achieve an 80% ZEH standardization rate by ﬁscal 2020 in new housing construction. We will strive to standardize energy savings and energy creation for the global environment and comfortable lifestyles of customers. In the research and development of LCCM housing, we are also examining the utilization of fuels such as pellets for wood biomass energy as an eﬀort related to the use of renewable energy which has not been taken advantage of up until now, We will continue sustainable management of environmental reforestation projects on overseas plantations in 2017. Sumitomo Forestry Group also plans to focus on cultivating seedbeds for Project Earth to operate community cooperative type industrial tree plantations independently with local residents. 244 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business Wood Biomass Power Generation Business The Sumitomo Forestry Group operates wood biomass power generation facilities that are fueled by recycled chips primarily using leftover from construction as raw materials, wood not suitable as a building material, and thinning leftover in forests. The CO2 emitted by burning wood does not contribute to CO2 in the atmosphere as part of the life cycle of the timber because the CO2 in the atmosphere is absorbed the Mombetsu Biomass through photosynthesis as the trees grow (concept of Power Plant carbon neutrality). Therefore, the Group has been engaged in wood biomass power generation as a type of business that contributes greatly to the advancement of forestry, such as the eﬀective use of wood, reductions in CO2 emissions and the maintenance of local forest environments. In addition to the Kawasaki Biomass Electric Power Corporation (33MW) already in operation since February 2011, the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant, one of Japan's largest wooden biomass power generations (50MW), started operation using Japanese timber as fuel in December 2016 and the Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Business (5.9MW) started operations in April 2017. The Sumitomo Forestry Group is also expanding its wood biomass power generation business to four plants throughout Japan, with the Hachinohe Biomass Power Generation Plant (12.4MW) scheduled to begin operations in April 2018. Drawing on its past experience in the wood biomass power generation business, the Group will continue to expand renewable energy business operations suited to local conditions and other requirements. 245 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report The Groupʼs Wood Biomass Power Generation Business Power Start Business Location generation of Main features capacity operations Largest biomass power generation facility in Japan that primarily burns scrap wood as fuel Utilizes recycled chips produced by using construction debris and Kawasaki Biomass Power waste pallets from Tokyo and Generation Business Kanagawa surrounding suburbs, as well as February (Joint investment with Sumitomo Prefecture 33MW thinnings and pruned branches 2011 Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd. and Kawasaki City Equipped with environmental Fuluhashi EPO Corporation) mechanisms, such as ﬂue gas desulfurization equipment, an exhaust gas denitrizer and a bag ﬁlter, the urban-oriented biomass power generation facility clears Kawasaki Cityʼs strict environmental standards Thinnings, wood left over from logging and unused wooden materials are primarily procured from within a 75km radius of the Mombetsu Biomass Power power plant and turned into chips Generation Business Hokkaido December 50MW at an adjacent plant before being (Joint investment with Sumitomo Mombetsu City 2016 used as fuel Joint Electric Power Co., Ltd.) Palm kernel shell, plus some coal is also partially used as an auxiliary fuel Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Business Hokkaido All of the fuels are from unused (Joint investment with Mitsui & Tomakomai 5.9MW April 2017 forest material in Hokkaido. Co., Ltd., Iwakura Corporation City and Hokkaido Gas Co., Ltd.) Thinnings from the SanpachiKamikita-Shimokita region of Hachinohe Biomass Power Aomori Prefecture, timber oﬀcuts, Generation Business Aomori and railway forest thinnings from Approx. April 2018 (Joint investment with Sumitomo Prefecture the nearby railway lines will be 12.4MW (Planned) Osaka Cement Co., Ltd. and East Hachinohe City used as the main source of fuel Japan Railway Company) Some palm kernel shell will be used 246 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Japan Bioenergy Co., Ltd. recognized as Superior Industrial Waste Processor Japan Bioenergy Co., Ltd., which manufactures and sells wood biomass chips, was recognized as a superior industrial waste disposal operator in May 2016 by Kawasaki City. The system to recognize businesses as superior industrial waste disposal operators evaluates and certiﬁes excellent industrial waste disposal operators through the prefecture or city. In order to receive this recognition, the business must satisfy all of the standards that include legal compliance, business transparency, eﬀorts in environmental friendliness, and a healthy ﬁnancial strength. The validity of certiﬁcation in industrial waste disposal is extended from ﬁve to seven years by receiving recognition through this system. Solar Power Generation Business Sumitomo Forestry owns a solar power generation facility that generates 3,429 kW in Kashima City, Ibaraki Prefecture. The Company gives consideration to mitigating the environmental impact of the power generation facility and expanding applications for the use of timber by installing some wooden mounting frames that are mainly made of domestically produced Japanese cedar. Solar panels and environmentally friendly wooden frames Transitioning to Renewable Power Generation The Sumitomo Forestry Group is advancing renewable power generation by establishing solar power generation systems at model homes as a prerequisite for power use at companies in addition to its wood biomass power generation and solar power generation businesses. In ﬁscal 2016, the combined output of power generation that resulted from all of these eﬀorts was 201,660,000 kWh. 247 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Shift in Renewable Power Generation*1 *1 Results are only for solar power generation in ﬁscal 2015 *2 The amount of electricity generated from wood biomass power generation covers only consolidated subsidiaries and includes the use of coal as an auxiliary fuel to ensure smooth operation and maintenance Contributing to Reductions in Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Utilizing Forest Management and Reforestation Know-How The Sumitomo Forestry Group applies its expertise in areas such as sustainable forest management and reforestation to projects that contribute to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The Group will gather the knowledge to apply with new systems, such as REDD+*, which is currently under consideration by the United Nations, and the Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM), which is being proposed for introduction by the Japanese Government, as well as to gathering knowledge required for those projects. * The developed version of REDD, Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation. The concept REDD+ includes, besides that of REDD, the positive emission reduction of GHGs through sustainable management and conservation of forest and enhancement of forest carbon stocks. REDD+ project examples (link to an external website, In Japanese) 248 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Coﬀee farming technical training to revitalize and protect forests in Vietnam Japanʼs Ministry of the Environment has contracted the Global Environment Centre Foundation (GEC) to implement a Joint Crediting Mechanism (JCM) feasibility study program, and in ﬁscal 2013, Sumitomo Forestry was awarded a contract to conduct a study. Since then, the Company has conducted a feasibility study for a project in Dien Bien Province, northwestern Vietnam that would preserve and regenerate forests that had been degraded due to slash-and-burn cultivation, Demonstration farm in improve the livelihoods of local residents, and reduce Vietnam for coﬀee farming GHG emissions through biomass power generation using technical training timber supplied from those sustainable forests. The region is vital as a water source with the area being home to a number of dams used for power generation. It is also one of Vietnamʼs poorest regions. This project contributes to environmental protection and the sustainable growth of the region. In ﬁscal 2015, the Company started oﬀering a coaching program on coﬀee farming and process techniques, as a support that can Study being conducted in generate cash income. Coﬀee had been grown at a Vietnam small scale in the region in the past although local farmers lacked know-hows and techniques. The coaching program is expected to have contributed to yield increase and quality improvement of the coﬀee produced at the farm. The Company will continue coordinating and cooperating with Japanese Government oﬃcials, government authorities in Vietnam, the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), and ASKUL Corporation. Participation in the Japan Public-Private Platform for REDD+ The Japan Public-Private Platform for REDD+ was established in November 2014 by the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the Forestry and Forest Products Research Institute, an independent administrative corporation. Sumitomo Forestry joined the platform as a member of the Executive Committee, in a move to conserve forests in developing nations and to contribute to sustainable development such as mitigating climate change, preserving biodiversity and reducing poverty. The aim of the platform is to promote REDD+ activities, and moving forward, by expanding its circle of activities, it will contribute to global warming countermeasures through public-private collaboration. 249 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Adapting to Climate Change Preparing and Operating Disaster Recovery Guidelines Disaster Recovery Guidelines were put in place in the Housing Division and measures and action for operations were deﬁned to quickly and accurately respond to damages from natural disasters to our customers houses as they become more prevalent due to climate change. In these times of peace, each relevant department is putting together actions such as the response to natural disasters in the form of disaster recovery oﬃces. In addition, each branch prepares customer management ledgers, stores and manages emergency supplies (sheets, sandbags, garbage bags, ropes, etc.) based on a Memorandum for Cooperation in Emergencies entered into with building contractors to review the emergency contact network at the beginning of each term. When a disaster occurs or is expected to occur, the disaster recovery oﬃces link and respond with all relevant departments to establish a disaster response headquarters in each target region. In addition, we immediately undertake disaster recovery measures by putting in place a disaster recovery oﬃce within the Housing Division as necessary. These systems smoothly execute preventive, emergency response and recovery measures as well as other actions. Selling Houses with High Disaster Preparedness On November 4, 2016, BF-Si Resilience Plus was released to pursue security, safety and comfort when disasters such as earthquakes or ﬂooding strike. Big-Frame Construction Method that boasts a structural strength only oﬀered by Sumitomo Forestry ensures the safety of buildings and provides functionality for an uninterrupted lifestyle until recovery even when lifelines are cut thanks to equipment such as enhanced storage space, solar power generation systems, wall-mounted electrical boards and water tanks. A video intercom with a network camera allows the interior to be clearly seen with a wireless camera as well as gives owners the ability to check the state of their house in a disaster even while out-and-about. 250 Contributing to the Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business | Environmental Impact of Business Activities | Environmental Report Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry Group plans to work to expand renewable energy businesses even further while cooperating with partners who have energy development know-how as the Japanese government targets to reach a 22% to 24% ratio of renewable energy for the total amount of power consumed by 2030 deﬁned in the Energy Mix Policy formulated by the Japanese government in June 2015. Moreover, we will protect the global environment and forests worldwide as well as contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases by continuing to provide consulting services appropriate for the needs of comprehensive forest management overseas through the use of our know-how in forest management and reforestation. 251 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste Initiatives Towards Zero Emissions in Japan Aiming to build resource-circulating society, the Sumitomo Forestry Group makes eﬀorts in attaining zero emissions and reducing industrial waste generated at the same time. The Group promotes zero emissions initiatives by mitigating generation and reusing and recycling of industrial waste with intention to reduce the environmental burden and enhance eﬀective use of resources. The Groupʼs Mid-Term Environmental Management Plan ended in ﬁscal 2014 deﬁned “zero emissions” as no incineration or landﬁll of industrial waste (recycling rate of 98% or more) generated by domestic manufacturing facilities and new housing construction sites. Based on this deﬁnition, the Group achieved zero emissions at domestic manufacturing facilities (Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. and Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd.) in ﬁscal 2009. As for new housing construction sites, including exterior landscaping, the Group achieved zero emissions in the Tokyo metropolitan area in ﬁscal 2012. In ﬁscal 2015 onwards, adhering to Sumitomo Forestry Group Mid-Term CSR Management Plan with its target year being ﬁscal 2020, the Group continuously works towards zero emissions at new housing construction sites and higher recycling rates at renovation sites and sales of building-related materials. Strict separations of waste according to materials are essential for recycling. Therefore, the Group will raise employee awareness on and enforce appropriate waste disposal process altogether to improve the overall recycling rate and achieving the rate of 98% by ﬁscal 2020. Going forward, the Group will analyze the content of the generated waste and the extent to which it is being recycled at new and other construction sites, and develop environmentally conscious products, adopting rational design techniques and ensure that waste is thoroughly sorted at production sites to achieve zero emission. Improving Recycling Rate at Construction Sites of New Houses At Sumitomo Forestryʼs new housing construction sites, strict sorting of industrial waste generated at the sites has been implemented as part of the eﬀort to increase recycling. In the Tokyo metropolitan area, the Company obtained “inter-region recovery and recycling certiﬁcation” from Ministry of Environment in 2012, established the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center, and implemented streamlined sorting of waste. Additionally, as to in other areas, the Company utilizes inbound material transporters in collecting and transferring waste. 252 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Recycling Rate for New Housing Construction Sites (Housing Division, Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd., MOCCA (Timber Solutions) Department, and Sumitomo Forestry Home Engineering CO., Ltd. Breakdown of Waste Disposal Process for New Housing Construction Sites (FY2016) About symbol for Independent assurance Initiative for Reduction of Industrial Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites When we construct new houses, generating waste is unavoidable. The Sumitomo Forestry Group has striven in waste reduction activities in ﬁscal 2016 in particular with a foundation in reduce, reuse, and recycle (3Rs). In July 2014, we set up the Waste Reduction Working Group comprising representatives from the product development, materials, logistics, design, production and environment divisions. The working group has held monthly meetings, and developed and implemented speciﬁc measures. 253 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting The working group analyzed a wide variety of waste generated at new housing construction sites. As a result of the analysis of the working group in the reduction waste, we have learned two-thirds of the total waste is made of three types --packaging materials (cardboard), wood waste and waste gypsum board-and have become the focus of the reducing eﬀort. In ﬁscal 2016, this allowed us to dramatically reduce the amount of gypsum board oﬀcuts by changing the construction method around openings for steel plate shear reinforcement. We have also changed the cost bearing mechanism for waste treatment from pay according to the scale of the house to pay per amount of waste actually generated during the construction of a new house. We are raising awareness of workers at construction sites by linking the amount of waste and the cost and providing feedback in the form of waste emission data. The Sumitomo Forestry Group upholds the 2020 target in its Mid-Term CSR Management Plan to reduce the waste generated at the new housing construction sites by 30% from the ﬁscal 2013 level. In ﬁscal 2016, the disposed industrial waste per new house has decreased by 8.8% from the ﬁscal 2013 level. Reduction Rate of Industrial Waste Generated at New Housing Construction Sites Reduction Rate FY 2013 (Baseline) ­ FY 2015 ▲2.5％ FY 2016 ▲8.8％ FY 2020 (Target Year) ▲30％ Breakdown of Waste Generated from New Housing Construction Sites (FY 2016) 254 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Operations at the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center In December 2010, Sumitomo Forestry obtained the National Permit System for waste processing* from the Ministry of the Environment. This made it possible to use the return journey of trucks transporting materials to new housing construction sites to recover waste and collect it at relay centers registered as collection points under the National Permit System. The Company took advantage of the system to establish The Metropolitan Area the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center with capability Recycling Center for advanced sorting of waste in Kazo, Saitama Prefecture. The center started operating in ﬁscal 2012 and covers all areas of the seven prefectures of Tokyo, Kanagawa, Chiba, Saitama, Ibaraki, Tochigi and Gunma. In ﬁscal 2016, the Group has expanded its eﬀorts for waste recovery under the National Permit System to 26 branches in 18 prefectures outside the Tokyo metropolitan area. The establishment of the Metropolitan Area Recycling Center enabled collection and analysis of waste-associated data. The establishment of this center made the collection and analysis of data about waste possible. We reduce waste emissions by providing data such as the amount of waste by product, by speciﬁcation, and by building contractor to each department from product development and materials to design, production and logistics. * A special system under the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act, removing the need for manufacturers to have a permit for waste collection and haulage if they are collecting waste across a wide area for the purpose of recycling 255 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Flow of materials distribution and collection of industrial waste Strengthening Waste Management through Construction Process Management Systems Sumitomo Forestry has built a system whereby the emission of waste at sites and the delivery status of waste to waste treatment plants can be conﬁrmed on a mobile phone. By checking the images collected in the system against the categories and volumes of demolition waste lodged by waste processors based on electronic manifests, the Company has strengthened its system for managing demolition waste. By the end of ﬁscal 2013, introduction of this system had been completed for almost all demolition contractors, allowing the Company to check that waste emitted from the Companyʼs sites is being taken properly to waste treatment plants. Initiatives at Domestic Plants of Building Components Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. managed to achieve zero emissions (recycling rates of over 98%) again at all plants in ﬁscal 2016 as a result of each plant continuing with eﬀorts to reduce waste emissions, for example by tightening the sorting of industrial waste and selling it for a proﬁt. 256 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Recycling Rates at Domestic Plants of Building Components Breakdown of Waste Generated at Domestic Plants of Building Components (FY 2016) Initiatives Other than New Housing Construction Sites or Domestic Plants of Building Components At each waste-generating enterprise such as sites of renovation and housing materials sales, initiatives to reduce amounts of waste generated are implemented at a department level. For renovation sites, using protective materials attribute to mitigating waste generation. The recycling rate in ﬁscal 2016 was 76.2%. 257 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Breakdown of Waste Generated Other than New Housing Construction Sites or Domestic Plants of Building Components (FY 2016) Recycling wood waste materials from renovation sites In ﬁscal 2014, Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Co., Ltd. began recycling wood waste materials generated at its renovation sites. The recycled wood waste is used as raw materials for particle board, and is processed into wall surfaces, entrance hall storage areas and other products at the Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. manufacturing site. These interior materials are then used at the renovation sites. Particle board used recycled wood waste from renovation sites at the Sumitomo Forestry Home Tech Initiatives for Zero Emissions at Overseas Manufacturing Facilities The six main manufacturing companies outside Japan *, besides complying with local laws, are advancing initiatives based on the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs deﬁnition of zero emissions. For example, in Indonesia, PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia collects wood waste generated during the particle board manufacturing process and reuses it as boiler fuel or in wood building materials. In ﬁscal 2016, three companies̶ Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd., Nelson Pine Industries Ltd., and Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. ̶achieved zero emissions. PT. AST Indonesia increased the amount of sales of securities more than roughly 50% compared to the previous ﬁscal year and it aims to achieve zero emissions in the future. 258 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting * Indonesia: PT. Kutai Timber Indonesia, PT. Rimba Partikel Indonesia, and PT. AST Indonesia Australia: Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. New Zealand: Nelson Pine Industries Ltd. Vietnam: Vina Eco Board Co., Ltd. Breakdown of Waste Generated at Overseas Manufacturing Plants (FY 2016) Proper Disposal of Demolition Waste Sumitomo Forestry was promoting resource recycling even before the enactment of the Construction Material Recycling Act implemented in 2002 by ensuring that materials were properly sorted during demolition prior to the construction of a new house and that waste remained sorted for processing afterwards. Since the enactment in 2002, the Company has recycled the items required under the Act (wood waste, concrete, etc.), sorting them at the sites where the waste is generated. The recycling rate for concrete and metal waste was almost 100% in ﬁscal 2016, as it was the previous year. A 100% recycling rate was achieved for wood waste through measures including the thorough removal of extraneous matter. We strive for appropriate processing while developing recycling routes for rooﬁng tiles, glass, ceramics, gypsum board and other composite waste for even further improvement of recycling rates. 259 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Breakdown of Demolition Waste Generated (FY 2016) Education for New Construction and Demolition Contractors Demolition contractors report about industrial waste to the head division from the start to the completion of demolition with pictures and materials recording the work based on a manual. The head division comprehensively checks these reports and, if there are any inconsistencies, education and comprehension tests about industrial waste is conducted for new construction contractors with monthly construction contractor meetings as an important management branch to conﬁrm the capabilities. Recycling of Wood Resources into Chips The Sumitomo Forestry Group contributes to resource recycling through its wood chip operations, whereby oﬀcuts generated during the timber milling process and wood waste from new housing construction and demolition sites are turned into wood chips to be used as a raw material for products such as paper and particle board, and also as a fuel for power-generating boilers or other equipment. Looking at the volume of wood chips handled in ﬁscal 2016, the Group began dealing in wood chips for export and so there was an increase in the volume of wood chips used as raw material (from demolition waste) compared to the previous ﬁscal year. On the other hand, the amount of raw materials declined as a backlash from the last-minute surge in demand prior to the consumption tax increase, and so the volume of wood chips for use as fuel (from demolition waste) also decreased. In ﬁscal 2017, the Group expects to handle the same volume of wood chips used as a raw material for paper and particle board as in ﬁscal 2016. In addition, the Group expects that the volume of wood chips it handles for use as fuel will further increase through meeting the growing demand for fuel used in biomass power generation. 260 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste | Environmental Reporting Handling Volume of Wood Chips Eﬀective Utilization of Used Activated Carbon from Water Puriﬁcation Plants The Tokyo Metropolitan Government (TMG) Bureau of Waterworks uses an advanced water treatment system combining ozonation and the use of biological activated carbon. Group company Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. is making eﬀective use of this used activated carbon to develop and market potting media for agriculture and horticulture and a soil improvement agent for greening. (Left) Used activated Joint research conducted with the TMG found that these carbon(Right) Farming and items were eﬀective in promoting plant growth, and the garden products made from two parties applied for a joint patent based on the it research results. The amount of used activated carbon in ﬁscal 2016 was 1,877m³, which decreased 0.5% compared to the previous ﬁscal year. In ﬁscal 2017, sales of Tane Baido and Karuido products that use activated carbon are expected to go up with an estimate of 3,000m³, a 59.8% increase compared to ﬁscal 2016. 261 Sustainable Forest Management | Environmental Report Sustainable Forest Management Sustainable Forest Management Forests perform a variety of functions for the public good, such as storing and purifying water, preventing ﬂoods and landslides, absorbing and retaining CO 2 which is linked to global warming, and preserving biodiversity. On a basis of appropriate management, the Sumitomo Forestry Group advances sustainable forest management both in Japan and overseas to ensure that timber resources will be available in perpetuity while preserving the public functions of forests. Forest Management and Timber Usage 262 Sustainable Forest Management | Environmental Report Cultivation̶Preserving the Public Functions of Forests Through Appropriate Management The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages a total 46,444 hectares of its own forests in Japan and a total of around 230,000 hectares of plantation forests overseas. The Group works to maintain and enhance the public functions of these forests by carrying out underbrush clearing, pruning, thinning and other appropriate management required for them to grow. Carbon stocks* of the Company-owned forests in Japan in ﬁscal 2016, the amount of immobilized carbon dioxide at beginning of ﬁscal 2016 were 12,540,000 t-CO 2 (up by 140,000 t-CO2 from the previous ﬁscal year) whereas those of overseas plantations were 7,830,000 t-CO 2 (up 477 t-CO2). * The amount of CO 2 absorbed by forests and stored as carbon. Calculated using a formula that multiply volume density, carbon content, and other coeﬃcients set per type of tree against the accumulated amount in the forest. Furthermore, if there is a purchase of large forest during this period, they are omitted as its increase of accumulated amount within the last year cannot be identiﬁed. Natural trees and planted trees are within the scope in Japan but only planted tree are included for overseas. Carbon Stock of Forests in Japan and Overseas *1 Domestic: Carbon stock as of the beginning of each ﬁscal year *2 Overseas: Carbon stock as of the beginning of each calendar year 263 Sustainable Forest Management | Environmental Report Harvesting̶Supplying Timber Products Through Systematic Harvesting The Sumitomo Group logged 58,362 m³ of trees in Japan and 1,161,680 m³ of trees in overseas in ﬁscal 2016 in forests it owns or manages based on long-term logging plans. Harvested trees are milled and processed before ﬁnally reaching the market as products such as housing and furniture. In the case of timber turned into structural members for housing, the products are used for several decades. Carbon stock of the timber Trees retain CO2 as carbon even after they are turned used in the construction of into products. Using timber products and constructing houses and MOCCA (timber wooden houses can therefore be likened to building solutions) activities in Japan forests in the city. in ﬁscal 2016 The total domestic carbon stocks in timber that was used in construction of the houses in the MOCCA (timber sollutions) activities in ﬁscal 2016 reached 228,000 t-CO2. The Sumitomo Forestry Group helps to increase carbon stocks even in cities by advancing the construction of houses and the MOCCA activities, thereby contributing to global warming prevention eﬀorts. * Calculated as carbon dioxide ﬁxation per newly built buildings multiplied by number of complete buildings until ﬁscal 2015. From this ﬁscal year, CO2 ﬁxation is calculated by separating actual amount of wood used for new housing, rental housing, and MOCCA business and calculating the carbon content based on their speciﬁc gravity. Usage̶Wood Can Be Reused and Does Not Increase CO 2 Even after being dismantled or at the end of their product life, wooden construction and timber products can be reused as ﬁberboard or other wood materials in construction or as raw material for making paper, and all that time it will continue to retain CO 2. The CO2 released when timber is ultimately burned as a wood fuel is what has been absorbed from the atmosphere as trees grow, and therefore it does not represent an increase in CO2 in the atmosphere over the life cycle of the tree. 264 Sustainable Forest Management | Environmental Report Planting–Preparing for the Next Cycle Harvesting and using timber alone will lead to a diminishing of forest resources. The Sumitomo Forestry Group therefore promotes sustainable forest management by always planting new trees after harvesting. In ﬁscal 2016, the Group planted approximately 119 hectares of forests in Japan and around 8,280 hectares overseas. The newly planted trees will absorb CO 2 during their growth and retain it as carbon. 265 Forest Management in Japan | Forest Management | Environmental Report Forest Management in Japan Preserving and Increasing Forest Resources through Management of Company-Owned Fo rests Sumitomo Forestry owns a total Distribution and area of company-owned forests 46,444 hectares of forest in (as of March 31, 2017) Japan (around 1/900 of the countryʼs land area). Companyowned forests are categorized as either “commercial forests,” where the production of timber is the priority, or “environmental forests,” where conservation of the environment is the focus. Sumitomo Forestry acquired a forestry certiﬁcation from Japanʼs Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC)*1 for all Company-owned forests*2 in 2006 and third-party evaluations have conﬁrmed that the forests are being properly managed, including with regard to measures to conserve biodiversity. New forest purchases after the acquisition of the forest certiﬁcation have each been under evaluation for certiﬁcation and our certiﬁcation rate is 100%. Forest operations include appropriate thinning, which helps to preserve and increase forest resources, while taking into consideration the surrounding environment including the ecosystem. Sumitomo Forestry also aims for highly productive management of its forests based on operational plans that follow the principle of performing the appropriate management for the appropriate tree species on the suited land. *1 Japan's own forestry certiﬁcation system through which forest management is veriﬁed as sustainable by third parties. Certiﬁcation is based on seven criteria that include the preservation of biodiversity and the conservation and maintenance of soil and water resources. Social awareness is growing due to recognition of the PEFC *3 forestry certiﬁcation system, an international certiﬁcation system, since June 2016. *2 The forests owned by Sumitomo Forestry exclude the lands leased to Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd., which is a Group company responsible for operating a golf course *3 Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiﬁcation Schemes is an international NGO that mutually recognizes certiﬁcation standards created in each country and region as criteria to share internationally. As of March 2017, forestry certiﬁcation systems in 49 countries have joined PEFC of which 39 have been mutually recognized as forestry certiﬁcation systems. 266 Forest Management in Japan | Forest Management | Environmental Report Promoting Eﬀective Wood Procurement Through the Adoption of High-performa nce Silviculture Machines Eﬀectively Extracting Unused Forest Materials for Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant introduced Scandinavian harvesters and forwarders able to turn in small circles in 2015 to begin eﬀorts to deliver log harvest/thinnings (wood leftover from logging) as fuel materials to the Plant. Moreover, by selecting forestry equipment with high-level driving performance in narrow forest areas, operators are able to execute all harvesting and transport operations while on the machine. We consider this is an initiative that improves safety and will play a role even in eliminating occupational injuries. Scandinavian harvester *1 Scandinavian forwarder*2 *1 Harvester: Self-propelled high-performance forestry machine that brings together each operation to cut, delimb, and vertically cross-cut *3 timber, which had traditionally been done with a chainsaw *2 Forwarder: Self-propelled high-performance forestry machine that collects and feeds vertically cross-cut *3 timber on a cargo bed *3 Cross-cut: To cut crude timber to a standard length 267 Forest Management in Japan | Forest Management | Environmental Report Taking Hold of Potential in New Forests Eﬀorts in Fast-growing Trees Sumitomo Forestry has begun eﬀorts in fast-growing tree forests that are gaining more attention in recent years. Fast-growing trees are trees such as Chinese ﬁr, chinaberry, willow and white birch that grow quickly and allow harvests in a short cutting cycle compared to Japanese cedar or Japanese cypress. The Hyuga Forestry Oﬃce is conducting a test harvest of Chinese ﬁr in the Hitoyoshi company-owned forest in Kumamoto prefecture. This test monitors aspects that include the reduction in weeding and tolerance against elements like wild animals through growth surveys and other research to examine the potential as a new tree species for garden vegetation. Chinese ﬁr In addition, we have begun experiments of planting willow with focus on use as fuel chips for biomass power generation at the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant. We are investigating the potential use as fuel for biomass power generation while aiming to reduce costs such as harvesting and cultivation by planting and cultivating these trees in unused agricultural land with better topographical conditions than forests. Supporting the Adoption of Forestry ICT Platforms at Municipalities While quantity of forest resources are analyzed through aerial surveys and forest resource data systems are prepared in some advancing areas, many of the forests in Japan do not have suﬃcient forest resource information. Sumitomo Forestry built the Forestry ICT Platform together with AS Locus Corporation as a measure to address this situation. The Forestry ICT Platform is a holistic system with a wide range of functionality related to advance forest resource information as well as forests and forestry that has been provided to municipalities throughout Japan and organizations in the forestry business since 2013. The major features of this platform are the ability to optimize and provide it to each region it is adopted with the various forest and forestry data as well as features built-in based on the characteristics of the region. We have supported 11 municipalities with the platform as of the end of ﬁscal 2016. Sakawa township, Kochi Pref. that introduced the platform in ﬁscal 2016 analyzed the forest resources through aerial surveys and was able to realize applications to data systems related to local surveys and other functions to make forestry practices more eﬃcient by creating data from information such as tree heights and chest height diameters for each and every cedar and Japanese cypress in the entire area. In the 268 Forest Management in Japan | Forest Management | Environmental Report future, we expect the Forestry ICT Platform to contribute to further evolution of forests in Japan as the platform spreads nationally. system screen（geographical information） system screen (forest resources information) Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry will promote the utilization of forests as a leader in the forest industry by continually pursuing many potentials of forests and forestry through eﬀorts that include more eﬃcient forestry operations through the adoption of better highperformance forestry equipment as well as the use of ICT technology. In addition, we will promote and maintain a 100% SGEC forest certiﬁcation rate for both existing company-owned forests and newly acquired forests to promote environmentallyfriendly forest management. 269 Forest Management Overseas | Forest Management | Environmental Report Forest Management Overseas Forest Management Overseas The Sumitomo Forestry Group is expanding three approaches to conducting plantation forest operations; industrial tree plantation, environmental reforestation, and “social forestry”. The purpose of industrial tree plantation is to produce wood and increase the supply of plantation timber (raw material). By zoning its managed land appropriately, the Group aims to achieve both the conservation of valuable ecosystems and the development of local communities through plantation forest operations. In addition, the Group also conducts environmental reforestation, aimed at planting trees for the environmental conservation. It aims to contribute to environmental conservation through the expansion of forested areas and the fulﬁllment of the ecosystem services function of forests, by actively planting trees on land where natural regeneration would otherwise be diﬃcult. The Group has also been engaged in “social forestry” which shares the economic beneﬁts of forest plantation with local communities while enlisting the cooperation of local residents. Overseas Plantation List Plantation Forest Operations in West Kalimantan, Indonesia (Industrial tree Plantation) Since 2010, under the license from Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry permitting utilization of timber from commercial forests *1, Sumitomo Forestry has been committed to a large-scale forest plantation business conducted in cooperation with the ALAS Kusuma Group, a company involved in forestry management and plywood manufacturing in Indonesia. The project covers the area where repeated illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming practices have persisted, and further forest degradation is foreseen. In these types of lands, Sumitomo Forestry Group actively uses devastated forests with low production as plantation forests while taking on the responsibility of preserving forests with high conservation value. In addition, we believe it is important to prevent further degradation of forests by providing an economic infrastructure to local communities through businesses. The Group aims to plant various tree species appropriate for each piece of land with consideration to diﬀerent environmental factors such as the soil and moisture content in its plantation forest operations. Furthermore, we conduct research and monitoring based on the latest knowledge from third parties to continually improve our operations. The planting, cultivation and harvesting work done by human hands largely contributes to local communities by creating jobs. * Issued by the Indonesian government, this is a business license to engage in industrial tree plantation operations in Indonesia. The license is valid for 60 to 100 years. 270 Forest Management Overseas | Forest Management | Environmental Report Reforestation project in collaboration with the ALAS Kusuma Group ・Signed a contract with International Finance Corporation (IFC)̶member of the World Bank Group for the provision of advisory services. In accordance with the concept of High Conservation Values Forests (HCVF) *1 that draws great attention in recent years, Sumitomo Forestry conducted assessments on its operational properties with IFC and investigated 2012 whether the property use plan is implemented as stated and adequate consideration is made for biodiversity and livelihood of local residents. The reports of the investigation results were audited by a third-party organization, and valuable comments made by stakeholders on the report will be adapted in the business plan. ・Held public hearings where stakeholders such as local residents, companies in the communities, academics, NGOs, and government oﬃcers were invited to share the results of the investigations. 2013 ・Obtained the PHPL certiﬁcation, formally called Sertiﬁkat Pengelolaan Hutan Produksi Lestari issued by Ministry of Forestry (Departemen Kehutanan) on sustainable forest management. ・Held public hearings with stakeholders prior to plantation forest harvest with the aim of deepening stakeholdersʼ understanding about our businesses and consideration to environment and social issues that we promote. This venue also actively pursued 2015 cooperation from our stakeholders to prevent forest ﬁres. Participants not only shared a lot of positive feedback but also gave us comments fruitful in the formulation of our business plans. 271 Forest Management Overseas | Forest Management | Environmental Report ・Entered into MOU with the Sustainable Forest Management Section of the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry for a pilot project (model commercialization) to create a model case for plantation forest operations in peat lands. This agreement is for a ﬁve year term. A task force team was organized jointly with the Ministry of Environment and 2016 Forestry and gained approval for the activity items. ・The Commissioner of Peat Land Recovery visited the local grounds to observe the peat management technology. Gained high praise for groundwater level control technology and the newest initiatives founded in data as well as introduced both in a public venue for government oﬃcials as beneﬁcial examples for Indonesia. * HCVF outlines methods to objectively extract each and every multifaceted values of forests beyond the value as absorbers of greenhouse gases, encompassing the value as habitats of rare, endangered animal species, the value as water sources, the value as providers of essential natural services such as prevention of soil erosion, and the land that has an intimate relationship with the lifestyle and culture of local communities. Conservation of Peat Swamp Forests Conventionally, reforestation in peatlands * has dried the land by digging many drainage routes for planting. However, drying-out land results in the decomposition of organic matter in the peat soil and acts to heighten global warming due to the emission of greenhouse gases. Dried peat, once ignited, is very diﬃcult to extinguish, creating the risk of large-scale forest ﬁres. The soil needs to always be in a damp state to prevent ﬁres, but this means maintaining a constant groundwater level throughout the year through proper water level management is extremely vital. Therefore, in drawing up a forestation plan, the Sumitomo Forestry conducts detailed measurements and surveys based on which the following areas are identiﬁed: (1) forests to be protected with riparian forest and high rarity value, (2) areas to set as buﬀer zones between protection zones and plantation zones, and ﬁnally (3) areas the ﬁnal determination as plantation zones. In plantation zones, water routes that function as round log transport, water level control, and ﬁre belts are constructed while allowing a constant water level in the peatlands to always be maintained without aﬀecting the rivers by not directly connecting the water routes and the rivers. Maintaining a constant groundwater level not only prevents forest ﬁres and minimizes the breakdown of peats but also limits the emission of greenhouse gases. * Characteristics of the peat soil found in the peat swamps is known to emit enormous amounts of greenhouse gases, typically carbon dioxide and methane gas, if the soil was inappropriately exploited. Owing to joint researches by Japanese and Indonesian academic institutes, this project takes consideration to minimize greenhouse gas emissions that accrue as the peaty soil dissolves during exploitations. 272 Forest Management Overseas | Forest Management | Environmental Report Forest Management Consulting Business Overseas Corporate needs for forest management are diverse. In recent years, there has been a considerable number of companies conducting forest conservation activities and planting activities in developing countries, for the purpose of mitigating the impact on forests in overseas countries and regions where they are doing business, or for the purpose of fulﬁlling their corporate social responsibility. Drawing on its knowledge of forest management in Japan and overseas, Sumitomo Forestry implements its consulting business for restoration of degraded forests in tropical regions, the rehabilitation of biodiversity, and for the protection and cultivation of forests that takes into account local communities. The Company plans to enhance the value of existing projects in cooperation with local governments and relevant organizations, and to promote the proposal of new mechanisms such as REDD+ as well as ongoing projects that contribute to local economies through forest management and agricultural production. 273 Forest Management Overseas | Forest Management | Environmental Report Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd.'s Project for the Rehabilitation and Regeneration of the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary (environmental reforestation / social forestry) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. has been involved in eﬀorts for restoring the devastated forests in the Paliyan Wildlife Sanctuary (Gunung Kidul Regency in the Special Region of Yogyakarta) in Indonesia since 2005. Sumitomo Forestry has provided associated consulting services. During the ﬁrst phase of activities to March 2011, around 300,000 trees were planted on 350 hectares of Pepper farming through the land. As second term activities since April 2011, with a agricultural guidance goal of creating a framework for local people to program voluntarily protect their abundant forest areas, Sumitomo Forestry has been providing support for an agricultural guidance program aimed at improving the livelihoods of local residents, the establishment of an inclusive organization to examine ways of managing protected forests, and an environmental education program in cooperation with local schools. As third term activities since April 2016, we have been supporting additional planting in areas with few trees in protected forests as well as social forestry through local communities around protected forests. As part of this project, the Company has also opened the doors to its plantation forests, seminar house and other related facilities in a positive eﬀort to make information on its experiences and know-how on forest restoration available to the public. These have been well attended by local elementary and middle school students, by Indonesian and foreign university students and experts in such ﬁelds as forestry, the environment and education, as well as by many government oﬃcials. 274 Forest Management Overseas | Forest Management | Environmental Report Technical support (citizen participation type reforestation) consulting services related to Indonesian Forestry Conservation Plans through environment programs for free capital assistance (environmental reforestation / social forestry) The Japan International Cooperation System is working in citizen participation type reforestation in Manupeu Tanah Daru National Park in Indonesia (East Nusa Tenggara), Bromo Tengger Semeru National Park (East Java) and Ujung Kulon National Park (West Java) over ﬁve years starting in 2015. Sumitomo Forestry has been involved as a consultant in these activities. Reforestation was conducted in ﬁscal 2015 and ﬁscal 2016. In ﬁscal 2017, Sumitomo Forestry implemented ﬁre prevention Work to carry out seedlings measures through maintenance such as cutting grass, from seedbeds to plantation patrols, and environmental education for citizens. The forests in Manupeu Tanah purpose of these operations is to teach forest Daru National Park management to the citizens for when they take over the forests via planting activities done together with the local citizens in each region. Responsible Timber Procurement Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Toward the Future Sumitomo Forestry is expanding its experience, technology and know-how that it has cultivated up until now globally and practices forest management able to co-exist with both the environment and society. In the future, we will aim to maximize the value of plantation forests based on extremely accurate management plans and management systems while deepening links to government agencies and academic institutes in each country. 275 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation Declaration of Biodiversity and Biodiversity Action Guidelines Sumitomo Forestry established its policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-owned Forests in Japan in ﬁscal 2006, and its Timber Procurement Philosophy and Policy in ﬁscal 2007. The Company also revised its Environmental Policies in ﬁscal 2007 to incorporate biodiversity considerations. Then in March 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group established its Declaration of Biodiversity, setting out the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs understanding of and stance on biodiversity; Biodiversity Action Guidelines, specifying an internal set of guidelines; and Biodiversity Long-Term Targets as speciﬁc goals of activity. In July 2015, the Group initiated the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy, bringing together the Environmental Philosophy, the Environmental Policies *, the Sumitomo Forestry Group Declaration of Biodiversity, and the Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Action Guidelines. Therefore, the eﬀorts in biodiversity are also operated based on the policies integrated in the Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy. * The Sumitomo Forestry Group formulated the Environmental Philosophy in 1994 and the Environmental Policies in 2000. Sumitomo Forestry Group Environmental Policy Environmental Management Structure Long-Term Biodiversity Targets As well as advancing biodiversity conservation initiatives, the Group established its LongTerm Biodiversity Targets in March 2012 as a way of contributing to the international community in respect to attainment of the Aichi Biodiversity Targets adopted at the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10) in 2010. Rough schedules for achieving each of the long-term targets were put in place covering the period up until 2020 and serve as a guideline for advancing initiatives. 276 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Long-term Biodiversity Targets (summary) Group-wide Targets 1 (Aim to achieve sustainable forests) In all timber-related businesses, from upstream to downstream, we will work to prevent a reduction in forest areas and pursue forest sustainability. ・We will strive to regenerate forests through reforestation and natural regeneration and logging a planned, sustainable manner hat takes into account the forestʼs ability to grow. ・We will increase the procurement and use of sustainable timber, such as forest certiﬁed timber, plantation forest timber and Japanese timber. ・We will promote the eﬃcient use as well as the recycling and reuse of timber. 2 (Increase the amount of CO2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber) By cultivating healthy forests and promoting the use of timber through the greater use of timber construction materials and the construction of wooden buildings, we will strive to increase the amount of CO2 absorbed by and sequestered in forests and timber to contribute to the protection of biodiversity and the alleviation of climate change. Individual targets 3 (Forests) We will promote forest management that regenerates, maintains and increases biodiversity. ・We will carry out zoning to protect ecosystems and the habitats of living creatures. ・We will ensure that in terms of area, 20% or more of our Company-owned forests in Japan are environment forests that emphasize environmental conservation. ・We will maintain that 100% Company-owned forests remain forest-certiﬁed. ・We will maintain and increase biodiversity at our operation sites based on results of our biodiversity monitoring of Company-owned forests in Japan. ・We will conduct operations at plantation forests overseas while considering how best to contribute to local communities, economies and education. 277 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report 4 (Products) We will provide products and services that take into account biodiversity, such as forest-certiﬁed timber and products and services that have undergone environmental assessment. 5 (Construction) We will work to develop homes and communities that are in harmony with the natural environment and their surrounding urban landscapes. 6 (Design) We will manage and minimize the generation of waste by promoting a zeroemissions policy in building and construction. 7 (Greening) We will be considerate to the surrounding ecosystems and tree species and actively cultivate native species. 8 (Plants) We will manage and minimize pollutants, waste and noise, and reduce their impact on biodiversity. 9 (Public relations) We will actively communicate the importance of biodiversity to all stakeholders, including customers, business partners, and local communities. 10 (Research) We will gather the latest information and develop conservation technologies to implement biodiversity initiatives. 11 (Social contribution) We will protect trees that are historically and culturally important and also preserve their genetic material. Company Structure for Biodiversity Conservation In accordance with our environmental management structure, the Representative Director and President is the person in charge of Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs initiatives to protect biodiversity, and the Executive Oﬃcer in charge of the CSR Promotion Department and the General Manager of the CSR Promotion Division manage Sumitomo Forestry Group company activities. Environmental Management Structure 278 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Commitment to Protected Areas To manufacture and secure timber resources, Sumitomo Forestry owns or manages many forests both in Japan and overseas. None of these forests is located in areas designated as world heritage sites. Furthermore, we have not and will not operate in areas designated as world natural heritage sites. Regardless of land ownership, national parks in Japan, which has a small land area, operate under the Regional Natural Park System and many national parks include private property. A portion of Sumitomo Forestryʼs Company-owned forests are located inside national park areas, and as is the case for other areas designated as protected forests or other, we operate in strict compliance with all legal regulations. The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages 46,444 hectares of Company-owned forests in Japan and approximately 230,000 hectares of forests overseas. These managed forests are categorized as environmental forests, economic forests and other. Both in Japan and overseas, a nature conservation area is created according to its categorization as an environmental forest or protected forest and operations in such areas are not permitted in principle. Speciﬁcally, at the operation site of the Indonesian aﬃliated company PT. Wana Subur Lestari (hereinafter, WSL), we concluded an advisory contract with International Finance Corporation (IFC), a World Bank Group organization, to designate High Conservation Value Forests (HCVF). These protected areas account for over 20% of our operating land, higher than the 17% goal for protected regions set out in the Aichi Biodiversity Targets. Evaluation of Stakeholder Initiatives At WSL, we worked jointly with IFC to survey our operation sites as part of the process of designating HCVF, and investigated if operation site land-use plans were appropriately implemented and if adequate consideration to biodiversity and the lifestyle of local residents was given. Based on the results of these surveys, we held stakeholder meetings (local residents, surrounding companies, academics, NGOs, government oﬃcials) to exchange opinions. In the future, we will hold similar opportunities to exchange opinions as needed. In addition, in our urban greening business, we obtain third-party evaluations by actively encouraging our customers to register for “Ikimono Kyozon Jigyousho” certiﬁcation set by the Association for Business Innovation in Harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) or the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) green certiﬁcation implemented by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. 279 Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Support of Related Initiatives and Cooperation with Organizations Sumitomo Forestry participates in many organizations that are actively involved in biodiversity conservation. The president of Sumitomo Forestry serves as vice chairman of the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation, made up of Keidanren member companies. In addition, employees are temporarily assigned to serve as secretariat members and committee members are dispatched to the planning task force, which is in charge of operations. We also participate in Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), made up of companies passionate about biodiversity, and conduct joint research on corporate biodiversity initiatives in numerous subcommittee meetings. In the Double 20 Project in Japan to achieve the targets for Aichi, we have registered three projects as of June 2016; The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Long-term Targets, Sumitomo Forestry-owned Forest Operations Friendly to Biodiversity, and the Environmental Education Program at Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Project. These three projects are highly praised for many reasons that include the creation of many independent links, content with a great impact that utilizes the features of the company in its eﬀorts and for the ripple eﬀects to related industries that can be expected thanks to the relationship outlined with Aichi targets. In March 2017, these projects were bundled and recognized as a business tie-up with the Japan Committee for United Nations Development Business (UNBD-J; 10th). Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. is actively striving toward the registration of certiﬁcations in the JBIB Guidelines for Sustainable Business Sites promoted by the Association for Business Innovation in harmony with Nature and Community (ABINC) and the SEGES Green Certiﬁcation promoted by the Organization for Landscape and urban Green Infrastructure for properties undertaken with the environmental greening business. Moreover, the chairman of Sumitomo Forestry acts as the chairman of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. Sumitomo Forestry Group biodiversity conservations activities have been certiﬁed as an aﬃliated operation of the Japan Committee for United Nations Development Business (UNBD-J) (in Japanese) Toward the Future As in the past, we will continue to work steadily to promote initiatives in line with Sumitomo Forestryʼs Long-Term Biodiversity Targets for 2020. In addition, we will consider ways to quantify and measure the impact Sumitomo Forestry Group operations have on biodiversity and natural resources. 280 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan The Policy on Biodiversity Conservation for Company-owned forests in Japan calls for eﬀorts to promote diversity of ecosystems through proper management of protected areas and consideration toward the continuity of forests, diversity of species through protection of rare ﬂora and fauna, and genetic diversity through the maintenance of populations. In keeping with these policies, forests are subject to appropriate zoning and management according to certain criteria, such as the increment of trees. Sumitomo Forestry is also making eﬀorts to create endangered species lists and manuals and conduct monitoring surveys of wildlife. Policy on Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan(Excerpt) (Formulated June 2006) 1. Diversity of ecosystems We will properly manage strictly protected areas designated under the Natural Parks Law and other legislation in a manner stipulated by the law. In other areas, we will ensure continuity of forests by limiting the area of forest harvested, particularly when clear cutting is conducted. 2. Diversity of species We will work to prevent a decline in the number of species existing in natural forests by refraining from expansive planting projects and other extreme activities involving the replacement of species that would have a major impact on existing ecosystems. We will also give the utmost consideration to the protection of rare ﬂora and fauna in all operations, making reference to the Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book. 3. Genetic diversity Genetic variation and the maintenance of populations to support them will become issues in the future. However, analysis is complicated and therefore we will closely watch monitoring activities carried out by government and public institutions and their ﬁndings. 281 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Red Data Book and Riparian Forest Management Manual Sumitomo Forestry creates a Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Book listing ﬂora and fauna at threat of extinction which may exist in Company-owned forests and distributes it to employees and contractors involved in forest management. By carrying the book with them during operations, personnel can refer to the opinions of specialists when they come across ﬂora and fauna included in the book and take action. In ﬁscal 2016, the Company reviewed the Sumitomo Forestry Red Data Sumitomo Forestry Red Book (Osaka Oﬃce Mie Oﬃce Edition) in order to newly Data Book add species mapped in the forestry. The Company has also created the Riparian Forest Management Manual to ensure the appropriate management and preservation of areas around bodies of water that are rich in biodiversity. Wildlife Monitoring Surveys Sumitomo Forestry monitors wildlife inhabiting Company-owned forests. Every year, surveys are conducted in one of four areas̶ Mombetsu (Hokkaido), Niihama (Shikoku), Hyuga (Kyushu) and Hyogo/Mie (Honshu). Data for each area is therefore accumulated in four-year cycles. This is used to create basic reference materials relating to biodiversity and to ascertain the impact of forestry on the surrounding environment over the long-term. In ﬁscal 2016, we conducted monitoring surveys that included (1) mammal surveys, (2) ﬁxed-point surveys of birds of prey, and (3) bird surveys and ﬁxed-point imaging for the creation of growth potential maps for birds of prey (mountain hawk-eagles) in Niihama. In the surveys for this year, we were unable to conﬁrm any mountain hawk-eagles, but we were able to see forest appropriate for hawk nesting and land appropriate for hunting in a mosaic shape as well as a good environment for nurturing mountain hawkeagles in company-owned forests. 282 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Species of mammals and birds conﬁrmed by past surveys Managed Veriﬁed mammal and avian species Area (ha) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CompanyMammals 14 11 10 owned 14,783 forests in Birds 31 34 24 Shikoku CompanyMammals 11 12 owned 9,182 forests in Birds 33 29 Kyushu CompanyMammals 10 9 owned 18,199 forests in Birds 38 40 Hokkaido Companyowned (Wakayama) forests in 10 Honshu Mammals 12 (Hyogo) *2013 6 acquisitions in Okayama, 4,280 Hyogo, and Mie (Wakayama) *2015 29 additional Birds 25 acquisitions (Hyogo) 21 in Wakayama All 46,444 * Conducted in two areas in 2015; Wakayama and Hyogo Japanese deer conﬁrmed in Japanese monkeys Niihama (Shikoku) forests conﬁrmed in Niihama in 2016 (Shikoku) forests in 2016 283 Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Biodiversity Conservation in Plantation Forests Overseas Indonesia has the third largest area of rainforest in the world, however, it is said that around 700,000 hectares of forest are lost each year due to such factors as forest ﬁres, illegal logging and slash-and-burn farming. The Sumitomo Forestry Group runs a largescale plantation in West Kalimantan, Indonesia. The forests are planted and managed using methods suited to each area based on appropriate zoning that takes into account biodiversity considerations. In ﬁscal 2012, for the purpose of objectively reviewing the methods used for selecting and managing protected areas set up within the boundary of the plantation site, the Group entered into an advisory agreement with the International Finance Cooperation (IFC), an independent organization and member of the World Bank Group, and in ﬁscal 2013, identiﬁed high conservation value forests (HCVF) areas within the site. The results of this review will be reﬂected in future business plans. Also in ﬁscal 2013, the Group acquired PHPL (Sertiﬁkat Pengelolaan Hutan Produksi Lestari), a certiﬁcation of the Ministry of Forestry of Indonesia for sustainable forest management. In ﬁscal 2016, the Sustainable Forest Management section of the Indonesia Ministry of Environment and Forestry and the model commercialization entered into a MOU. Forest Management Overseas Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group will work to establish forest management in Company-owned forests that also conserves biodiversity by conducting monitoring surveys for mammals and other speciﬁed species while promoting greater awareness about the understanding and conservation of rare species. 284 Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services Harmonic Plants® for the Conservation of Biodiversity Through the Greening Business Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. is selecting greening plants based on the garden vegetation plans according to factors such as the impact on the ecosystem and genetic system to protect the biodiversity in Japan. These greening plants that are biodirvisty friendly have been named Harmonic Plants ® and are used throughout the entire greening business. There are plants that have grown in Japan since long ago (native plants), plants that have come to Japan from abroad (migration plants) and garden plants (agrotype) for trees. Among these migration plants, there are species that will overrun areas where native plants live due to their characteristics, which endanger the biodiversity of the region (invasive plants *) Garden vegetation plans are separated into four areas that take into account the conservation level (protected areas, conservation areas, satoyama areas, urban areas) to select plant species based on these areas. For example, in urban areas when building gardens for residences, the colorfulness is represented by selecting a balance of greening plants from non-invasive migration plants around a main selection of native plants, including agrotype plants. In addition, the Group has in place a policy of not using invasive plants that clearly have an adverse impact on local ecosystems and a division responsible for coordinating technology at Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping Co., Ltd. checks that such species are not used. * Speciﬁed alien species and alien species requiring caution as stipulated by the Invasive Alien Species Act Eﬀorts for the Entrenched Widespread Use of Harmonic Plants® Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping has adopted garden vegetation that is friendly to biodiversity in Sumitomo Forestry custom-built detached houses and condominiums. In 285 Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report October 2014, in conjunction with Sumitomo Forestry, the Company launched a new concept of complete garden proposals called “Sumitomo Forestry Gardens.” The proposals, which integrate home and garden design, include plans for planting that take biodiversity into account based on Harmonic Plants ®. In ﬁscal 2016, all of the garden work in housing exteriors of the 832 condominiums that were completed utilized garden vegetation via Harmonic Plants ®. It also used Harmonic Plants® in landscaping at all 17 Sumitomo Forestry model homes that opened during ﬁscal 2014, in an eﬀort not only for Harmonic Plants ® to be incorporated into planting proposals for customers, but also to raise awareness among employees. Native species are one class of Harmonic Plants ®. Targets for the number of native species planted have been established in the Mid-Term Environmental Management Plan, and in ﬁscal 2016, 30,614 native species were planted at Sumitomo Forestryʼs custom-built detached houses and subdivision homes. “Sumitomo Forestry Gardens” Mid-Term CSR Management Plan About symbol for Independent assurance Biodiversity Consulting Business Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System Certiﬁcation Support Knowledge in expert ﬁelds around green assets such as urban greening and biological survey risk management are required to respond to the broad needs of green zones in demand in an environmental era. Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping together with Sumitomo Forestry, InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc., and Regional Environmental Planning, Inc. have worked to popularize social contribution green zones that use company-owned green environments via consultant services with the organization of a consultant team called the Eco-Asset™ Consortium. The Forest of Toyota, which the Eco-Asset™ Consortium consulted on about the green conservation plan, was highly praised and received the 3rd Green Society Award in October 2015. The Green Society Award is held by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure to evaluate greening from green land open to the general public to biodiversity conservation activities and it is the premiere award that praises social contribution through greening. Meidensha Corporation Oﬃce Biodiversity Project Sumitomo Forestry Landscaping with the cooperation of the companies participating in the Eco-Asset™ Consortium is supporting biodiversity eﬀorts that utilize existing green areas at the Meidensha Corporation Numazu site. This Numazu site of the Meidensha is the core production site of the Meidensha Group, which began business in 1961 surrounded by the rich natural environment of Numazu from Mt. Fuji and Suruga Bay to 286 Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services | Biodiversity Conservation | Environmental Report the natural springs of Kakitagawa River. The land holds a wide range of potential in a diverse ecosystem with a natural impact on both the nature of hilly areas running to Mt. Fuji to the north and the seaside of Suruga Bay to the south. The Eco-Asset™ Consortium propose programs to interact with nature that use existing green lands. In ﬁscal 2016, we held biodiversity activities twice with the participation of our employees. Area with a view of Mt. Fuji Atrocalopteryx atrata conﬁrmed on the grounds (lives on the high-quality of water in the clear streams) 80 employees and their families Creating a life map and monitoring participated in Biodiversity Activity over conducted with employee participation the two days Toward the Future The Sumitomo Group will continue to popularize social contribution greening in the future through consulting services while protecting biodiversity in Japan through the standardization and advancement of Harmonic Plants ®. In addition, we will propose the construction of oﬃces that coexist with nature through eﬀorts such as activities to learn and interact with life nearby. 287 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances Management of Chemical Substances Management of Chemical Substances at Plants in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group manages chemical substances at each of three relevant Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. plants (Kashima Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant) in accordance with the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law related to promoting understanding, management, and reforms for designated chemical substance emissions to the environment in Japan. Management Table of Chemical Substances at Plants in Japan (FY 2016) Total Transfer Designated Emissions (kg /year) Name of Total (kg /year) Conversion Applicable Applicable Chemical Chemical Use Air into Company Department Substance Substance (kg /year) *For VOC Water Soil Landﬁll Sewerage Unrelated Products Number Disposal Oﬃces regulations Methylene 186 chloride 13,703 9,600 0 0 0 0 4,100 2 Kashima (dichloromethane) Plant Methylenebis 448 (4,1phenylene) 1,179 0 0 0 0 0 70 0 diisocyanate Subtotal 14,882 9,600 0 0 0 0 4,170 2 Methylene Niihama 186 chloride 4,550 2,800 0 0 0 0 1,700 0.5 Plant (dichloromethane) Subtotal 4,550 2,800 0 0 0 0 1,700 0.5 Acrylic acid and 4 water-soluble 11,347 0 0 0 0 0 0 11,327 salts 7 n-Butyl acrylate 12,372 0 0 0 0 0 35 12,335 Sumitomo 84 Glyoxal 2,240 0 0 0 0 0 4.3 2,156 Forestry 134 Vinyl acetate 2,166,429 2,400 96 0 0 0 46 2,195,175 Crest Co., Ltd. 349 Phenol 56,160 0 1 0 0 0 18 56,141 The water-soluble salts of 395 3,451 0 0 0 0 0 8.6 3,435 peroxydisulfuric Imari acid Plant Poly (oxyethylene) = 407 Alkylether 2,328 0 12 0 0 0 6.4 2,269 (alkyl group: C12~C15) 411 Formaldehyde 158,286 49 0 0 0 0 290 166,591 415 Methacrylic acid 1,386 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,429 Methylenebis 448 (4,1phenylene) 9,688 0 0 0 0 0 45 9,643 diisocyanate Subtotal 2,423,687 2,449 109 0 0 0 453.3 2,460,501 Total 2,443,119 14,849 109 0 0 0 6,323.3 2,460,504 About symbol for Independent assurance 288 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Management of Chemical Substances at Plants Overseas Chemical substances, including adhesives and coatings, in the table below are managed at overseas plants in accordance with the management regulations for chemical substances in each country. Management Table of Chemical Substances at Plants in Overseas (FY 2016) Total Transfer Emissions (t/year) (t/year) Applicable Total Use Country Name of Chemical Substance Air Company (t/year) Conversion *For VOC Waters, etc into Products regulations KTI Indonesia Adhesives at MA, UA, etc. 15,867 － － 10,859 ASTI Indonesia Styrene, xylene, solvents 23 － － 6 RPI Indonesia Isocyanate /formaldehyde 658 － － 400 NPIL New Zealand Formaldehyde 371 － － 371 VECO Vietnam Isocyanate /formaldehyde, etc. 403 0 146 257 United States CCC MEK, alcohols, etc 193 165 － 28 of America Total 17,515 165 146 11,920 Management of Air Pollutants Management of Air Pollutants at Plants in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group periodically conducts emission concentration tests for dioxins, NOx, SOx, and smoke dust in the air for each relevant plant at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. (Kashima Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant), the Shinshiro Plant at Sumirin Agro Products and at the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant in accordance with the Air Pollution Control Act as well as local regulations. 289 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Management Table of Air Pollutants at Plants in Japan (FY 2016) (Baseline) Emissions to Applicable Applicable Measured Emissions Measured the Air Company Department Substances (kg /year) Unit Concentration （mg-TEQ） Sumitomo Kashima Plant Dioxin ­ ng-TEQ/m³ 5 3.3 89 Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Dioxin ­ ng-TEQ/m³ 5 0.5 2 (Baseline) Dry gas ﬂow Applicable Applicable Measured Emissions Measured rate Company Department Substances (kg /year) Unit Concentration （Nm³/h） SOx (Sulfur oxide) 852 K Value 3.5 ＜ 0.01 2,303 Sumitomo Niihama Plant NOx (Nitrogen 272 ppm 350 45.4 2,303 Forestry Crest oxide) Co., Ltd. Soot and dust 284 g /Nm³ 0.3 0.115 2,303 Imari Plant SOx (Sulfur oxide) 2,033 K Value 17.5 ー ー SOx (Sulfur oxide) 28 K Value 17.5 1.53 11,400 Sumirin AgroNOx (Nitrogen Shinshiro Plant 225 ppm 200 50 11,400 Products oxide) Soot and dust 42 g /Nm³ 0.2 ＜ 0.005 11,400 SOx (Sulfur oxide) 84,559 ppm 700 55.8 181,750 Mombetsu Biomass Electric NOx (Nitrogen 109,149 ppm 250 100.8 181,750 Power Co., Ltd. oxide) Soot and dust 209 g /Nm³ 0.1 ＜ 0.005 181,750 Management of Air Pollutants at Plants Overseas At overseas plants, the Sumitomo Forestry Group measures the concentration of NOx, SOx and smoke dust in Indonesia and Vietnam as well as VOC emission in the United States of America in accordance with the regulations of each country and region. Management Table of Air Pollutants at Plants Overseas (FY 2016) (Baseline) Dry gas ﬂow Applicable Measured Country Measured Substances rate Company Unit Concentration （Nm³/h） CO (Carbon monoxide) μg /Nm³ 22,600 1,495.0 ­ SOx (Sulfur oxide) μg /Nm³ 262 1.6 ­ NOx (Nitrogen oxide) μg /Nm³ 92.5 23.0 ­ KTI Indonesia H 2 S (Hydrogen sulﬁde) μg /Nm³ 42 0.1 ­ NH 3 (Ammonia) μg /Nm³ 1,360 50.3 ­ O 3 (Ozone) μg /Nm³ 200 3.1 ­ Soot and dust mg /Nm³ 0.26 0.18 ­ SOx (Sulfur oxide) mg /Nm³ 800 Not detected ­ RPI Indonesia NOx (Nitrogen oxide) mg /Nm³ 1,000 116 ­ Soot and dust mg /Nm³ 350 295.5 ­ CO (Carbon monoxide) μg /Nm³ 15,000 2,289.0 ­ SOx (Sulfur oxide) μg /Nm³ 632 8.1 ­ ASTI Indonesia NOx (Nitrogen oxide) μg /Nm³ 316 5.2 ­ H 2 S (Hydrogen sulﬁde) μg /Nm³ 0.02 0.001 ­ NH 3 (Ammonia) ppm 2.0 0.054 ­ SOx (Sulfur oxide) mg /Nm³ 500 8.12 ­ VECO Vietnam NOx (Nitrogen oxide) mg /Nm³ 850 464.88 ­ Soot and dust mg /Nm³ 200 71.88 ­ 290 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Management of Water Pollutants Management of Water Pollutants in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts periodic water quality concentration tests of waste water at all of the relevant plants at the Tsukuba Research Institute and Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. (Kashima Plant, Shizuoka Plant, Niihama Plant, Imari Plant) in accordance with the Water Pollution Control Act of Japan. Management Table of Water Quality at Plants in Japan (FY 2016) Applicable Applicable (Baseline) Measured Test Items Company Department Unit Concentration pH － 5〜9 7.3 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L ＜600 14.0 SS (Suspended Solids) mg /L ＜600 25.0 Total n-hexane extract substances mg /L ＜5 ＜1 (mineral oils) Total n-hexane extract substances mg /L ＜30 ＜1 (animal and plant oils and fats) Iodine consumption mg /L ＜220 ＜5 Sumitomo Tsukuba Research Phenols mg /L ＜5 ＜0.025 Forestry Institute Copper content mg /L ＜3 ＜0.02 Zinc content mg /L ＜2 0.03 Soluble iron content mg /L ＜10 0.08 Soluble manganese content mg /L ＜10 ＜0.02 Cyanogen compound mg /L ＜1 ＜0.1 Chromium hexavalent compound mg /L ＜0.5 ＜0.005 Benzene mg /L ＜0.1 ＜0.001 Boron and other compounds mg /L ＜10 0.03 Fluorine and other compounds mg /L ＜8 ＜0.17 pH － 5.8〜8.6 10.8 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L － 3.0 Kashima Plant COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 10.0 6.6 SS (Suspended Solids) mg /L 10.0 6.0 pH － 5.8〜8.6 7.2 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L < 160 8.4 Shizuoka Plant COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L － ­ Sumitomo SS (Suspended Solids) mg /L < 200 6.6 Forestry Crest pH － 5.8〜8.6 7.2 Co., Ltd. BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L － ­ Niihama Plant COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 160 7.0 SS (Suspended Solids) mg /L 200.0 44.7 pH － 5.8〜8.6 7.7 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L － ­ Imari Plant COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 70 31.3 SS (Suspended Solids) mg /L 70.0 8.1 291 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Management of Water Pollutants Overseas The Sumitomo Forestry Group conducts concentration tests of water pollutants at overseas plants in accordance with the water quality regulations for waste water in each country. Management Table of Water Quality at Plants Overseas (FY 2016) Applicable (Baseline) Measured Country Test Items Company Unit Concentration pH － 6〜9 7.0 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 75.0 4.2 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 125.0 10.3 KTI Indonesia TSS (Total Suspended Solids) mg /L 50.0 5.3 NH3-N (Ammonia concentration) mg /L 4.0 0.0 Fenol (Fenol concentration) mg /L 0.3 0.0 pH － 6〜9 8.6 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 75 4.4 RPI Indonesia COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 125 12.4 NH 3 -N (Ammonia concentration) mg /L 4 0.2 Fenol (Fenol concentration) mg /L 0 ＜0.001 pH － 6〜9 7.0 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 50.0 16.0 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 100.0 34.6 Soluble iron content mg /L 5 0.0043 Soluble manganese content mg /L 2 <0.0059 Copper content mg /L 2 0.0094 Zinc content mg /L 5 0.0062 ASTI Indonesia Chromium hexavalent compound mg /L 0.1 0.0001 Chromium compound mg /L 0.5 0.0322 Cadmium compound mg /L 0.05 <0.0013 Lead compound mg /L 0.1 0.0659 Hydrogen sulﬁde compound mg /L 0.05 0.0058 Nitrate compound mg /L 20 0.4537 Nitrite compound mg /L 1 0.0062 pH － 5〜9 7.4 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 100 60.3 VECO Vietnam COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) mg /L 300 138.4 SS (Suspended Solids) mg /L 200 24.1 pH － 6〜9 Conformity BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) kg /day 2,350 Conformity NPIL New Zealand COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) kg /day 6,400 Conformity SS (Suspended Solids) kg /day 650 Conformity Appropriate Disposal of Building Materials Containing Asbestos The Sumitomo Forestry Group has secured the proper disposal routes for asbestos. Sumitomo Forestry strives to prevent the spread of asbestos in the demolition work of residences through the formulation of the Guide for Appropriate Measures during Demolition Work. The Group is also engaged in proper disposal of asbestos in the buildings of each oﬃce based on the law. 292 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Proper Disposal of Building Materials Containing Asbestos We are also furthering the proper management and processing of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) contained in equipment such as spent high-voltage capacitors in accordance with the Act on Special Measures Concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes. Sumitomo Forestry Crest disposed 9,955 kg of PCB following ﬁscal 2015 due to changes such as the removal of equipment following the close of plants in ﬁscal 2016. As of the end of ﬁscal 2016, the Company has stored 225 units and it is using 44 units. In addition, Tsukuba Research Institute and Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd. currently have ﬁve units of such equipment in use and a total of 274 units that are being managed. Disposal Status of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) Waste *1 Total Disposal in FY 2015 Total Disposal in FY 2016 Applicable Company Applicable Facility (kg) *1 (kg) *1 Imari Plant 1,637 1,385 Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., (Former) Nagoya Plant *2 1,720 0 Ltd. (Former) Kyushu Plant *2 3,695 8,570 Subtotal 7,052 9,955 *1 The total disposal amount is based on the disposal notiﬁcation and includes the weight of the storage container. *2 The (Former) Nagoya Plant and the (Former) Kyushu Plant were closed in June 2015. Management Status of Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) *1 FY 2017 Onward Estimated Applicable Company Applicable Facility Management Status Processing (Units) Sumitomo Forestry Tsukuba Research Institute 4 Capacitors in use Fluorescent light stabilizers in Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., 225 (Former) Nagoya Plant *2 storage Ltd. 44 Transformers in use Kawanokita Development Co., Course Management Building 1 Power receiving panels in use Ltd. Subtotal 274 *1 The equipment included above is equipment currently in use or in storage which is being evaluated for processing *2 The (Former) Nagoya Plant was closed in end of June 2015. 293 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report Management of Fluorocarbon Emissions The Sumitomo Forestry Group is managing ﬂuorocarbon emissions related to the ﬂuorocarbon gases that are used as coolants by equipment such as air-conditioning and refrigeration at aﬃliate companies, and for testing equipment at the Tsukuba Research Institute, through periodic inspections of ﬂuorocarbon leakage indicated in the table below in accordance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons enacted April 2015. Management Status of Fluorocarbon Emissions Calculated Amount of Leaked FY 2016 Fluorocarbons Filled Applicable Company Applicable Facility Fluorocarbons (kg) (kg CO 2 ) Tsukuba Research Institute Sumitomo Forestry 28.6 52,299 (Testing equipment, etc.) Fill Care Co., Ltd. Day Forest Higashi-Yamata 1.0 ­ Fill Care Co., Ltd. Grand Forest Hikawadai 0.3 ­ Kawanokita Development Co., Restaurant 11.0 ­ Ltd. Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. Oﬃce 3.0 ­ Total 43.8 52,299 * Fluorocarbon emissions are managed by the amount of ﬂuorocarbons ﬁlled at periodic inspections of the equipment Project for Soil Puriﬁcation Technology and Environmental Remediation Aided by Plants An issue in re-using the site of an old factory is the environmental impact associated with soil contamination and the cost burden of any remedial measures. For example, under the revised Fire Service Act of Japan, gasoline stations are now obliged to repair any underground tanks that have lain under the ground for more than 40 years, and as a consequence of this, it is expected that between 1,000 and 2,000 stations will close down each year. Grass laid on the site where a gasoline station once In order to meet the demand for environmental stood remediation and measures dealing with soil contamination, the Sumitomo Forestry Group has been working on cleansing contaminated soil by using the functions of plants (phytoremediation). As part of this, during ﬁscal 2012, in collaboration with JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy (JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation at the time), the Group developed a method for purifying soil contaminated with oil using Burning Field, a variety of Japanese lawn-grass independently registered by the Group. 294 Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances | Environmental Report One of the functions possessed by the variety of Japanese lawn-grass used in this method is that the nutrients transpiring from its roots activate microorganisms in the soil, and the upshot of this is that it has the potential to inexpensively reduce the oil content in polluted soil. This method has been adopted at nine sites so far to purify areas where gasoline stands or oil depots once stood, with puriﬁcation at three sites now complete. In ﬁscal 2013 and 2014, the Ministry of the Environment conducted a study on low-cost, low-impact technologies for surveying and for counteracting contaminated soil in addition to presenting the Environmental Measures Exemplary Eﬀorts Awards (Minister of the Environment Award) in 2013. The study found that oil-degrading microorganisms tend to become more active, and were recognized as having potential to be applied at sites heavily contaminated with oil. Moving forward, by steadily producing results in soil puriﬁcation based on this technique, the Group will continue to help resolve the nationwide problem of oil contamination. 295 Efficient Use of Water Resources | Environmental Report Eﬃcient Use of Water Resources Reduction of Water Consumption in Business Activities Around the world, there is a growing sense of crisis over water shortages. It is expected that this problem will become more and more urgent as the demand for water rises with population increase and economic growth in developing countries. In addition to manufacturing plants inside and outside Japan, since ﬁscal 2012, the Sumitomo Forestry Group began examining the consumption of water and the associated sources at bases where actual water usage is measurable, such as at buildings owned by the Sumitomo Forestry Group. Plants in Japan primarily manufacture processed wood products, such as interior materials for housing, and thus do not use large amounts of water. Nevertheless, in order to use water resources as eﬀectively as possible, the Group employs water-saving initiatives at each plant. The Group will work to set reduction target values of water consumption every year at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. (adhesive production), Kawanokita Development Co., Ltd. (operation of a golf course), and Fill Care Co., Ltd. (operation of nursing care facilities) that use a relatively large amount of water. The water consumption reduction target in ﬁscal 2017 is 1.19% for the entire Group in Japan, except our biomass power generation business that started operation in mid 2016. In ﬁscal 2015, Sumitomo Forestry conducted sample survey of water used at new housing construction sites and found the volume of water used per 1m² of ﬂoor area is approximately 0.0887 m³. Water Consumption trends of the Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies*1 Plants and Power Generation Oﬃce Departments in Japan, etc. Overseas Business Departments in Japan Total (Unit: m³) Plants (Unit: m³) FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2016 FY 2016 Service 64,064 170,117 80,052 22,492 17,612 114,028 581,263 775,343 water Ground 2,970 3,438 0 *2 201 124 0 *2 168,007 168,007 water Industrial 109,500 120,306 131,206 173,468 166,444 717,998 215,065 1,064,269 water Total 176,534 293,861 211,258 196,161 184,180 832,026 964,335 2,007,619 *1 Covers sites where actual water usage is measurable, such as at buildings owned by the Sumitomo Forestry Group. *2 Ground water up to ﬁscal 2015 includes water purchased from the water authorities as a ground water source. Since ﬁscal 2016, water purchased from the water authorities is all included as service water based on standard disclosure. About symbol for Independent assurance 296 Efficient Use of Water Resources | Environmental Report Eﬀorts at Sumitomo Forestry Crest Sumitomo Forestry Crestʼs Imari (former Kyushu No.2) Plant manufactures synthetic resin adhesives and other products. It primarily promotes three measures for reducing water usage. First, it uses industrial water to cool manufacturing equipment. Then, it reuses the water to dilute plant eﬄuent. Measuring the COD of eﬄuent Measures Used at the Sumitomo Forestry Crestʼs Imari Plant for Saving Water 1. Collect some of the water used for washing equipment, and reuse it as a raw material. 2. Improve the proportion of rainwater used, such as by upgrading the pumps used for collecting rainwater. 3. Maintain water-quality control by measuring COD* and treat wastewater using only the minimum amount of water necessary. * Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD): An indication of the amount of oxygen required to oxidize an organic compound in water; one of the most important indicators of water quality. Participation in Relevant Incentives The Sumitomo Forestry Group did not participate in incentives related to water, but the Group plans to ﬁrst answer the questionnaire received for CDP Water sent for the ﬁrst time to the Sumitomo Forestry Group in ﬁscal 2017 to disclose more detailed information about eﬀorts on risks related to water. Toward the Future The Sumitomo Forestry Group is operating its businesses in water-stressed areas and plans to consider reduction in water consumption in these areas. We also plan to look into aggregating the water consumption at overseas aﬃliated companies other than manufacturing facilities not currently included in the total. 297 Environmental Accounting | Environmental Report Environmental Accounting Tabulated Results for Fiscal 2016 Sumitomo Forestry publicizes aggregated data of environmental conservation costs and eﬀects and also economic impact of its activities for the purpose of promoting environmentally sound management. Note: The basis of calculation includes Sumitomo Forestry on a non-consolidated basis and certain Group companies Environmental Preservation Costs Cost Cost Category Main Activities (Million yen) Sustainable forestry cultivation 656 Environment-related business Global environmental (Overseas consulting, REDD+ business, 96 protection costs *1 etc.) Costs within Carbon oﬀset 62 operational area Promotion of appropriate treatment, reduction, and recycling of industrial 6,116 Resource recycling waste costs *2 Waste wood chip distribution operations 265 Recycling Used Activated Carbon, etc. 315 Upstream / Downstream costs *3 Green purchasing 37 Operation and promotion of environmental management 158 (ISO14001 certiﬁcation, environmental education, LCA surveys, etc.) Monitoring of environmental burdens 1 Management activity costs *4 Disclosure and administration of environmental information (CSR Report, environment-related 19 advertising, environment-related exhibitions, etc.) R&D activities related to environmental R&D costs *5 783 conservation Management and operation of Mt. Fuji 19 Manabi no Mori Management and operation of Forester 8 Social contribution costs *6 House Other social contribution activities 2 Donations to the Keidanren Nature 2 Conservation Fund Total 8,538 298 Environmental Accounting | Environmental Report *1 Global environmental protection costs: Expenditures for preservation and management of Company-owned forests to foster sustainable forestry, expenditures in Japan and overseas relating to the environmental business, and overseas reforestation expenses for implementing carbon oﬀset. *2 Resource recycling costs: Expenditures on waste wood distribution operations and sorting, recycling, appropriate treatment, transportation and management of construction waste, as well as costs incurred in the recycling of used activated carbon, etc. *3 Upstream/Downstream costs: Expenditures for green purchasing. *4 Management activity costs: Oﬃce expenses and auditing costs relating to maintenance of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation; expenditures relating to disclosure of environmental information through advertising, environment-related exhibitions and the CSR Reports; expenditures relating to lectures on environmental education; and costs for life cycle assessment inspections. *5 R&D costs: Expenditures for environment-related research conducted at the Tsukuba Research Institute *6 Social contribution costs: Expenditures related to operating the Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori natural forest restoration project, and maintaining and operating Forester House; expenditures related to other social contribution activities; donations to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund; and provision of ﬁnancial assistance to the Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund commissioned by the Keidanren Committee on Natur Conservation. Link to the Keidanren Committee on Nature Conservation Environmental Beneﬁts Category Description Results Volume of recycled waste wood from distribution 1,149 Beneﬁts from costs operations(converted into chip equivalents) thousand m³ within operational area Volume sold of potting mix using recycled sediment from water 18 kt puriﬁcation Beneﬁts from Upstream/Downstream Green procurement ratio 71.0％ costs Beneﬁts from management activity Employees designated as internal environmental auditors 316 costs -Flowers that change from white to pink, and a possible new variety -Initiative to Protect our Precious Trees: Success in Propagating Sapling Using Tissue Culture from Sacred “Kitano Sakura” Cherry Tree, Follows on from Last Year's “Beniwa Kombai” Plum Tree Project Japan Bio Energy Co., Ltd. Certiﬁed as a superior industrial waste disposal operator by Kawasaki City -Aiming for regional revitalization by reviving forestry -Started the creation of Forest and Forestry Master Plan in Beneﬁts from R&D costs Itoshima, Fukuoka Acquired new minister certiﬁcations for ﬁre resistance laminated engineered wood at four companies -Realizing dramatic cost reductions by rationalizing FR Wood® material speciﬁcations --Japan's largest 50MW biomass power generation built as a power plant that uses Japanese timber as fuel -Started operations of the Mombetsu Biomass Power Plant -Sugawara no Michizane Heisei Tobiume Project -Returning cultivated seedlings of sacred Beniwa Konbai trees to Kitano Tenmangu Possibilities of grafting through DNA analysis 299 Environmental Accounting | Environmental Report Category Description Results Volunteers who participated in Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori project 274 Children participating in the Environmental Education Program at 794 Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori project Visitors to Forester House 2,765 KTI Reforestation Cooperative Newly Acquires the FSC Forest Certiﬁcation Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Report 2016 Beneﬁts of social Presented the Judging Panel Chairman Commendation Award at contribution costs the 20th Environmental Communication Awards! Sumitomo Forestry Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Environmental Education Program Judging Panel Chairman Commendation Award from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology The Sumitomo Forestry Groupʼs Biodiversity Conservation Activities Recognized as a Business Tie-up with the Japan Committee for United Nations Development Business (UNDB-J) 300 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Environmental Data for Group Companies Environmental Data of Group Companies in Japan The Sumitomo Forestry Group reports information about its environmental impact of each company and each plant for domestic manufacturers and power plants that have a large inﬂuence on the environment. Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. Kashima Shizuoka Niihama Item (unit) Imari Plant Subtotal Plant Plant Plant Energy Input (GJ) 29,242 25,156 23,416 15,035 92,849 Raw Material Input (t) 9,451 33,935 4,445 12,513 60,344 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 4,725 5,773 93 93 10,684 Lakes Lake Kitaura in Kasumigaura (Protected Groundwater region: A Main Water Source Oigawa River － Reservoirs － portion is part Basin of SuigoTsukuba Quasi-National Park) Industrial water － － 6,482 193,540 200,022 River -Aritagawa River Groundwater basin (partly (water Mt. Kurokami Main Water Source － － － authority in mammal and Niihama City) avian species wildlife refuge) Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) 1,446 1,264 1,642 900 5,252 Methane (CH 4 ) * － 5 5 － 10 Dinitrogen oxide － 0.5 0.4 － 1 (N 2 O) * Waste generations (t) 2,166 2,097 903 291 5,457 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 3,603 0 6,575 0 10,178 Ocean 0 0 0 0 0 Rivers 0 5,773 0 0 5,773 Lakes 0 0 0 178,335 178,335 301 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Kashima Shizuoka Niihama Item (unit) Imari Plant Subtotal Plant Plant Plant Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SO x ) － － 852 2,033 2,885 Nitrogen oxide (NO x ) － － 272 － 272 Soot and dust － － 284 － 284 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide Sumirin Agro-Products Co., Ltd. Item (unit) Tobishima Plant Shinshiro Plant Subtotal Energy Input (GJ) 2,576 5,516 8,092 Raw Material Input (t) 15,779 5,986 21,765 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 487 402 889 River -Toyokawa River -Kiso-gawa Main Water Source Prefectural Water － River Basin System Industrial water － － － Main Water Source － Well water － Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) 153 350 503 Methane (CH 4 ) * － － － Dinitrogen oxide (N 2 O) * － － － Waste generations (t) 42 23 65 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 0 0 0 Ocean 487 0 487 Rivers 0 402 402 Lakes 0 0 0 Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SO x ) － 28 28 Nitrogen oxide (NO x ) － 225 225 Soot and dust － 42 42 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide 302 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Power Plants Mombetsu Japan Bio Okhotsk Bio Biomass Item (unit) Energy Co., Energy Co., Subtotal Electric Power Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Energy Input (GJ) 9,022 10,409 2,929,929 2,949,360 Raw Material Input (ｔ) 54,168 86,666 0 140,834 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 5,136 269 393 5,798 Lake Sagami, Sagamihara Shokotsu River Shokotsu River Main Water Source River System － System System and Miyagase Dam Industrial water － － 517,976 517,976 Main Water Source － － － － Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) 207 709 90,343 91,259 Methane (CH 4 ) * － － 2,668 2,668 Dinitrogen oxide (N 2 O) * － － 46,043 46,043 Waste generations (t) 502 0 8,229 8,731 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 0 208 218,852 219,060 Ocean 514 0 0 514 Rivers 0 0 0 0 Lakes 0 0 0 0 Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SO x ) － － 84,559 84,559 Nitrogen oxide (NO x ) － － 109,149 109,149 Soot and dust － － 209 209 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide 303 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report Total for All Plants in Japan Item (unit) Total Energy Input (GJ) 3,050,301 Raw Material Input (ｔ) 222,943 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 17,371 Main Water Source － Industrial water 717,998 Main Water Source － Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) 97,014 Methane (CH 4 ) * 2,678 Dinitrogen oxide (N 2 O) * 46,044 Waste generations (t) 14,253 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 229,238 Ocean 1,001 Rivers 6,175 Lakes 178,335 Emissions to the air (kg) Sulfur oxide (SO x ) 87,472 Nitrogen oxide (NO x ) 109,646 Soot and dust 535 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide Environmental Data of Group Companies Overseas The Sumitomo Forestry Group reports information about its environmental impact for each plant for overseas manufacturers that have a large inﬂuence on the environment. Overseas Manufacturers 1/2 PT. Rimba Alpine MDF PT. AST PT. Kutai Partikel Industries Pty Item (unit) Indonesia Timber Indonesia Ltd. (ALPINE (ASTI) Indonesia (KTI) (RPI) MDF) Energy Input (GJ) 288,473 544,717 85,978 703,693 Raw Material Input (ｔ) 166,080 234,323 93,399 555,636 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 0 128,793 31,374 0 Industrial water 0 0 7,530 207,535 Ground water 54,708 0 0 113,299 304 Environmental Data for Group Companies | Environmental Report PT. Rimba Alpine MDF PT. AST PT. Kutai Partikel Industries Pty Item (unit) Indonesia Timber Indonesia Ltd. (ALPINE (ASTI) Indonesia (KTI) (RPI) MDF) Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) 20,112 39,996 6,321 49,619 Methane (CH 4 ) * 471 1,388 0 386 Dinitrogen oxide (N 2 O) * 44 130 0 36 Waste generations (t) 21,476 52,238 3,237 35,179 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 0 47,996 0 0 Ocean 0 0 0 125,665 Rivers 53,472 0 31,374 0 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide Overseas Manufacturers 2/2 Nelson Pine Vina Eco Board Canyon Creek Item (unit) Industries Ltd. Co., Ltd. Cabinet Total (NPIL) (VECO) Company (CC) Energy Input (GJ) 1,013,096 331,056 63,884 3,030,896 Raw Material Input (ｔ) 766,222 192,074 9,346 2,017,080 Water Resource Use (m³) Service Water 352,761 68,335 － 581,263 Industrial water 0 0 － 215,065 Ground water 0 0 － 168,007 Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO 2 ) Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) 13,917 12,215 3,269 145,450 Methane (CH 4 ) * 1,406 86 0 3,737 Dinitrogen oxide (N 2 O) * 131 8 0 349 Waste generations (t) 111,664 22,416 － 246,210 Water discharge (m³) Sewerage 338,814 14,338 － 401,198 Ocean 0 0 － 125,665 Rivers 0 0 － 84,846 * Methane and dinitrogen oxide are converted and calculated as carbon dioxide 305 Corporate Profile Corporate Proﬁle Corporate Proﬁle Company Name Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. Address of Headquarters Keidanren Kaikan, 3-2, Otemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8270, Japan Paid-in Capital ¥27,672 million Incorporated February 20, 1948 Founded 1691 Number of Employees Non-consolidated: 4,485; Consolidated: 17,802 (as of March 31, 2017) Business scope Environment and Resources Business Management of forests; development of new forestry and environment-related business; management of biomass power generation business and other environmental energy business, as well as plantation forest operations overseas; consulting on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Japan and overseas Timber & Building Materials Businesses Purchase, manufacture, secondary processing and sales of timber (logs, wood chips, processed timber, engineered wood, etc.) and building materials (plywood, ﬁberboard, processed wood materials, concrete and ceramic building materials, metal building materials, housing systems and ﬁxtures, etc.) Overseas Business Manufacture and sales of timber and building materials; contract construction and sales of detached houses, etc. overseas. Housing Businesses Contract construction, after-sales maintenance and renovation of detached houses and multi-unit residences; sales of spec homes; sales of interior products; rental, management, sales, and brokerage of property; contract work for housing exteriors, garden landscaping and urban greening; CAD work and site surveys, etc. Lifestyle Services Operation of private-pay elderly care facilities; equipment leasing; insurance agency; manufacture and sales of gardening products; development of information systems; temporary staﬃng, etc. Company-owned forest 46,444 ha (As of March 31, 2017) 306 Corporate Profile Key Financial Data Consolidated Net Sales, Operating Income, Recurring Income and Net Income FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Net Sales (Billions of 845.2 973.0 997.3 1040.5 1113.4 yen) Operating Income 25.3（3.0%） 33.4 (3.4%) 34.0 (3.4%) 30.1 (2.9%) 54.0 (4.8%) (Billions of yen) Recurring Income 27.0（3.2%） 33.6 (3.4%) 36.4 (3.7%) 30.5 (2.9%) 57.8 (5.2%) (Billions of yen) Net Income (Billions of 15.9（1.9%） 22.5 (2.3%) 18.6（1.9%） 9.7（0.9%） 34.5（3.1%） yen) * Percentages indicate the ratio to net sales Consolidated Net Sales and Ratio of Net Sales by Segment (FY2016) Timber & Building Housing Overseas Other Materials Businesses Businesses Businesses Businesses Net Sales (Billions of 424.4 466.3 247.9 23.0 yen) Ratio of Net 36.5% 40.1% 21.3% 2.0% Sales (%) *1 Percentages indicate the ratio to net sales *2 The net sales of each segment include the internal net sales between segments and transfers. Therefore, the total net sales of each segment do not match the consolidated net sales (1,113.4 billion yen) Performance Highlights (Link to IR Information) 307 Editorial Policy Editorial Policy Editorial Policy The CSR Report is an important tool for communicating with all stakeholders, and as such, The Sumitomo Forestry Group publishes the report every year on its website. On the website of ﬁscal 2017 edition, beginning with “Message from the President” and CSR Activity Highlights, the CSR information is classiﬁed into four parts: CSR Management, “Management System,” “Social Report,” and “Environmental Report,” each of which contains basic concepts and policies to tangible actions the Group has taken. We appreciate your feedback on our wide range of CSR activities. Sumitomo Forestry CSR Report Questionnaire Boundary of the Report: The scope of this report is Sumitomo Forestry, its aﬃliated companies, and some aﬃliated companies accounted for by the equity-method. * In this report, Sumitomo Forestry refers to Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. and the Sumitomo Forestry Group includes aﬃliated companies in Japan and overseas as well as some aﬃliated companies accounted for by the equity-method List of Sumitomo Forestry Group Companies Published: Japanese Version: July 2017; English Version: November 2017 Reporting Period: Japan: April 2016 to March 2017 * The period also includes some activities from April 2017 as well as future expectations Overseas: January 2016 to December 2016 * The actual performance of Alpine MDF Industries Pty Ltd. (Alpine) is reported between January 2016 and March 2017 because Alpine is no longer a consolidated company of the Group after all equity interests were sold in end of March 2017 Reference Guidelines: G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Edition G4), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)・ Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Edition), Japanese Ministry of the Environment・ISO 26000:2010 Guidance on Social Responsibility, This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 308 Editorial Policy Reliability of Report Content The environmental and social performance indicators in the report have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. with the third-party assurance mark . Furthermore, the respective departments of the Sumitomo Forestry Group have endeavored to ensure accuracy by using appropriate measurements and data collection methods for the initiatives and results reported in the CSR Report. These methods are also disclosed when relevant. 309 External Recognition External Recognition Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Indices Interest in Social Responsible Investment (SRI) that considers environment and social contribution on top of ﬁnancial aspects are on the rise in recent years when making investments. Sumitomo Forestry Group has been included in the following Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) and ESG Indices as of July 2017. FTSE4Good Global Index Evaluation of companies that fulﬁll international standards in environment, social, and governance aspects by FTSE Russell, a group company of London Stock Exchange. Sumitomo Forestry has been consecutively included in the FTSE4Good Global Index every year since 2004. Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MSSRI) Investment index for Japanese companies co-developed by Morningstar Japan K.K. and Public Resources Foundation. 150 companies are listed among 4,000 listed companies in Japan as leading socially responsible company. Sumitomo Forestry has been consecutively included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) since 2008. SNAM Sustainability Index ESG evaluation by Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Asset Management Co., Ltd. (SNAM). Evaluated based on environmental survey by Sompo Risk Management & Health Care Inc. and social and governance survey by IntegreX Inc. Sumitomo Forestry has been consecutively included in the SNAM Sustainability Index since ﬁscal 2013. FTSE Blossom Japan Index An ESG index for Japanese stocks by FTSE Russell, Ltd. and selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) as one of its three ESG indices in July 2017. 310 External Recognition MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index Index for Japanese stocks selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) as one of its three ESG indices in July 2017. With Free ﬂoat-adjusted market capitalization weighted index based on the MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index of MSCI, Inc. as a parent index, it represents relative sector weights of companies that excel in ESG. MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Index for Japanese stocks selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund, Japan (GPIF) as one of its three ESG indices in July 2017. With MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index as a parent index, it represents weighs of companies that excel in gender diversity in the sector. * The inclusion of Sumitomo Forestry in any MSCI Index, and the use of MSCI logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herein, do not constitute a sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of Sumitomo Forestry by MSCI or any of its aﬃliates. the MSCI Indexes are the exclusive property of MSCI. MSCI and the MSCI Index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of MSCI or its aﬃliates. Awards and Recognition by Third Parties in Fiscal 2016 Scope of Date Award/Organizer Recognition Recognition The Kids Design Award Presented to Sumitomo Forestry for 60-spec Sound Insulation Sound-proof Flooring and to Sumitomo Forestry Crest Co., Ltd. for Wooden Indirect Lighting Providing Better Sleep Quality and Less Fatigue as well as for the Tadaima Storage Series Housing and Interior Materials Sumitomo 10th Kids Design Forestry Award July 2016 Sumitomo Kids Design Forestry Crest Association Co., Ltd. News Release (In Japanese) 311 External Recognition Scope of Date Award/Organizer Recognition Recognition The Good Design Awards were presented for three initiatives that included comfortable space design that takes advantages of the quality and features of wood and technical proposals that communicate Sumitomo FY2016 Good Design the realization of safe and secure lifestyles Forestry September Awards Sumitomo 2016 Japan Institute of Forestry Home Design Promotion Tech News Release (In Japanese) The Wood Design Awards Presented to Two Initiatives that Includes Kids Furniture Using Cypress as Materials Developed Through Corporate Cooperation and Research into the Relaxing Eﬀect of Wood Wood Design Award 2016 Sumitomo October 2016 Wood Design Award Forestry Operational Secretariat News Release (In Japanese) 54th National Skills One Employee Wins Bronze Medal Two Employees Competition the Fighting Spirit Award in the Carpentry Category Sumitomo Japan Vocational at the National Skills Competition Forestry Home October 2016 Ability Development Engineering Co., Association Ltd News Release (In Japanese) (JAVADA) Sumitomo Forestry Makes the CDP 2016 Climate A List, the Highest Rating of the CDP Climate Change Report CDP Climate Change Sumitomo October 2016 2016 Forestry CDP News Release Selected by RobecoSAM for Excellence in Sustainability Performance Selected for “Bronze Class” in the Homebuilding Industry Category for RobecoSAM Two Consecutive Years Sustainability Award Sumitomo January 2017 2017 Forestry RobecoSAM News Release 312 External Recognition Scope of Date Award/Organizer Recognition Recognition 29th Technical Grand Prix Japan Vocational One Employee Awarded Bronze Medal in Carpentry Category at an Expert Craftspersons Competition to Sumitomo Ability Development February be the Best in Japan Forestry Home Association/ The 2017 Engineering Co., National Federation Ltd of Certiﬁed Skilled News Release (In Japanese) Workers Associations 20th Environmental Sumitomo Forestry Group CSR Report 2016 Communication Awarded the Special Judge's Panel Prize for Awards Environmental Reporting (Judging Panel Chairman February Commendation Award at the 20th Environmental Sumitomo Ministry of the 2017 Communication Awards) Forestry Environment/Global Environmental Forum News Release (In Japanese) Selected as a “2017 Certiﬁed Health and Productivity Management Organization» 2017 Certiﬁed Health and Productivity Management February Sumitomo Organization 2017 Forestry Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry/Nippon Kenko Kaigi News Release 3rd Health Science Research into “Bedroom Environment Combining a Business Best Wooden Interior with Indirect Lighting to Improve Selection Sleep Quality and Reduce Fatigue” Selected for Sumitomo March 2017 Eﬀorts in the Research and Development Category Organization of Forestry Health Science Business Innovation News Release (In Japanese) Recognized for Support to the Tobitate! (Leap for Tomorrow) Study Abroad Initiative Program to Dark-Blue Ribbon Assist High School and University Students to Medal Study Abroad in Cooperation with the Japanese Sumitomo March 2017 Japanese Government Forestry Government News Release (In Japanese) Award for Corporate Promotion of Experience-based Mt. Fuji Manabi no Mori Environmental Education Learning Activities Program Presented the Judging Panel Chairman Commendation Award Sumitomo March 2017 for the Youth Forestry Ministry of education, Culture, News Release (In Japanese) Sports, Science and Technology 313 External Recognition GRI G4 Content Index This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GRI G4 Content Index Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report 314 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table GRI G4 Report Context and Correspondence General Standard Disclosures ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Strategy and Analysis a. Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or G4-1 equivalent senior position) about the 6.2 Message from the relevance of sustainability to the President organization and the organizationʼs strategy for addressing sustainability. Message from the a. Provide a description of key impacts, President risks, and opportunities. G4-2 6.2 Risk Management The organization should provide two concise narrative sections on key Environmental Risk impacts, risks, and opportunities. Management IR Library Organizational Proﬁle G4-3 ＊ a. Report the name of the organization. Corporate Proﬁle Corporate Proﬁle a. Report the primary brands, products, G4-4 ＊ Our Business and services. List of Services a. Report the location of the G4-5 ＊ Corporate Proﬁle organizationʼs headquarters. 315 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the G4-6 ＊ organization has signiﬁcant operations Sumitomo Forestry or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the Group sustainability topics covered in the report. a. Report the nature of ownership and G4-7 ＊ Corporate Proﬁle legal form. a. Report the markets served (including Corporate Proﬁle geographic breakdown, sectors served, G4-8 ＊ and types of customers and Sumitomo Forestry beneﬁciaries). Group a. Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees Total number of operations Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for Corporate Proﬁle G4-9 ＊ public sector organizations) Performance Highlights Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 6.4 G4-10 ＊ e. Report whether a substantial portion Employee Data 6.4.3 of the organizationʼs work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any signiﬁcant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). 316 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure 6.4 a. Report the percentage of total 6.4.3 Communication with G4-11 ＊ employees covered by collective 6.4.4 Employees bargaining agreements. 6.4.5 Employee Data 6.3.10 a. Describe the organizationʼs supply Responsible Timber G4-12 ＊ chain. Procurement a. Report any signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the organizationʼs size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Corporate Proﬁle G4-13 ＊ Changes in the share capital Performance Highlights structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Risk Management Housing Safety, Quality Control, and Universal Design Safety and Quality Control of Nona. Report whether and how the Residential Buildings G4-14 ＊ precautionary approach or principle is 6.2 addressed by the organization. Fair and Responsible Procurement Occupational Health and Safety Management of Hazardous Chemical Substances a.List externally developed economic, Corporate Philosophy environmental and social charters, and CSR Management G4-15 ＊ principles, or other initiatives to which 6.2 the organization subscribes or which it Promotion of Social endorses. Contribution Activities 317 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance Promotion of Social G4-16 ＊ 6.2 body Contribution Activities Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Views membership as strategic Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organizationʼs consolidated ﬁnancial Our Business G4-17 ＊ statements or equivalent documents. 6.2 Sumitomo Forestry b. Report whether any entity included in Group the organizationʼs consolidated ﬁnancial a. Explain the process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. CSR Material Issues G4-18 ＊ and Mid-Term CSR b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles Management Plan for Deﬁning Report Content. a. List all the material Aspects identiﬁed CSR Material Issues G4-19 ＊ in the process for deﬁning report and Mid-Term CSR content. Management Plan 318 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: CSR Material Issues G4-20 ＊ -The list of entities or groups and Mid-Term CSR of entities included in G4-17 Management Plan for which the Aspect is not material or -The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, G4-21 ＊ groups of entities or elements for Editorial Policy which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identiﬁed Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization a. Report the eﬀect of any restatements of information provided in previous G4-22 ＊ reports, and the reasons for such restatements. a. Report signiﬁcant changes from G4-23 ＊ previous reporting periods in the Scope Editorial Policy and Aspect Boundaries. 319 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Stakeholder Engagement a. Provide a list of stakeholder groups Stakeholder G4-24 ＊ 6.2 engaged by the organization. Engagement a. Report the basis for identiﬁcation and G4-25 ＊ selection of stakeholders with whom to 6.2 engage. a. Report the organizationʼs approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and G4-26 ＊ by stakeholder group, and an indication 6.2 Stakeholder of whether any of the engagement was Engagement undertaken speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process. a. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and G4-27 ＊ 6.2 Social Report concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Proﬁle a. Reporting period (such as ﬁscal or G4-28 ＊ calendar year) for information Editorial Policy provided. a. Date of most recent previous report (if G4-29 ＊ Editorial Policy any). a. Reporting cycle (such as annual, G4-30 ＊ Editorial Policy biennial). a. Provide the contact point for questions G4-31 ＊ Questionnaire regarding the report or its contents. 320 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure GRI Content Index a. Report the ʻin accordanceʼ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). c. Report the reference to the External G4-32 ＊ Assurance Report, if the report has GRI Content Index been externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ʻin accordanceʼ with the Guidelines.) Assurance a. Report the organizationʼs policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Independent Assurance G4-33 ＊ 7.5.3 c. Report the relationship between the Report organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organizationʼs sustainability report. Governance Governance Structure and Composition a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of Corporate Governance the highest governance body. Identify G4-34 ＊ any committees responsible for Environmental decision-making on economic, Management Structure environmental and social impacts. a. Report the process for delegating Corporate Governance authority for economic, environmental Environmental G4-35 and social topics from the highest Management Structure governance body to senior executives Communication with and other employees. Employees 321 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for Corporate Governance G4-36 economic, environmental and social Environmental topics, and whether post holders report Management Structure directly to the highest governance body. a. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest Corporate Governance governance body on economic, Information Disclosure G4-37 environmental and social topics. If and Communication consultation is delegated, describe to Communication with whom and any feedback processes to Employees the highest governance body. a. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive Independence Tenure on the governance body Number of each individualʼs other signiﬁcant positions and G4-38 Corporate Governance commitments, and the nature of the commitments Gender Membership of under-represented social groups ompetences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation a. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive oﬃcer (and, if so, his or her G4-39 Corporate Governance function within the organizationʼs management and the reasons for this arrangement). 322 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered G4-40 Corporate Governance Whether and how independence is considered Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved a. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conﬂicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as G4-41 Corporate Governance a minimum: Cross-board membership Compliance Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures Highest Governance Bodyʼs Role in Setting Purpose, Values, and Strategy a. Report the highest governance bodyʼs and senior executivesʼ roles in the development, approval, and updating of Corporate Governance G4-42 the organizationʼs purpose, value or Environmental mission statements, strategies, policies, Management Structure and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Highest Governance Bodyʼs Competencies and Performance Evaluation a. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance G4-43 bodyʼs collective knowledge of Corporate Governance economic, environmental and social topics. 323 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance bodyʼs performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such G4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment. Corporate Governance b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance bodyʼs performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Highest Governance Bodyʼs Role in Risk Management a. Report the highest governance bodyʼs role in the identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the Corporate Governance highest governance bodyʼs role in the Risk Management implementation of due diligence G4-45 6.2 Fair and Responsible processes. Procurement b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the Environmental highest governance bodyʼs identiﬁcation Management Structure and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. a. Report the highest governance bodyʼs role in reviewing the eﬀectiveness of G4-46 the organizationʼs risk management Risk Management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Corporate Governance a. Report the frequency of the highest Risk Management governance bodyʼs review of economic, G4-47 6.2 Fair and Responsible environmental and social impacts, Procurement risks, and opportunities. Environmental Impact of Business Activities 324 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Highest Governance Bodyʼs Role in Sustainability Reporting a. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and G4-48 approves the organizationʼs Environmental sustainability report and ensures that Management Structure all material Aspects are covered. Highest Governance Bodyʼs Role in Evaluating Economic, Environmental and Social Performance Corporate Governance Risk Management a. Report the process for communicating Compliance G4-49 critical concerns to the highest 6.2 Information Disclosure governance body. and Communication Communication with Employees a. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest G4-50 Compliance governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Remuneration and Incentives a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: Fixed pay and variable pay: Performance-based pay Equity-based pay Bonuses Deferred or vested shares Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Termination payments G4-51 Clawbacks 6.2 Corporate Governance Retirement beneﬁts, including the diﬀerence between beneﬁt schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance bodyʼs and senior executivesʼ economic,environmental and social objectives. 325 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and G4-52 whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. a. Report how stakeholdersʼ views are Corporate Governance sought and taken into account Information Disclosure G4-53 regarding remuneration, including the 6.2 and Communication results of votes on remuneration Communication with policies and proposals, if applicable. Employees a. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organizationʼs highest-paid individual in each country G4-54 of signiﬁcant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. a. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organizationʼs highest-paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations G4-55 to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity a. Describe the organizationʼs values, principles, standards and norms of Corporate Philosophy G4-56 ＊ 4.4 behavior such as codes of conduct and and CSR Management codes of ethics. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Intellectual Property ethical and lawful behavior, and G4-57 Management matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice Compliance lines. 326 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, Intellectual Property G4-58 and matters related to organizational Management integrity, such as escalation through Compliance line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. * Core Indicator Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Economic Aspect: Economic Performance 6.8.1 Returns to 6.8.2 Shareholders Direct economic value generated and 6.8.3 Intellectual Property G4-EC1 distributed 6.8.7 Management Corporate Proﬁle 6.8.9 Financial Results Environmental Risk Financial implications and other risks and Management G4-EC2 opportunities for the organizationʼs 6.5.5 Contributing to the activities due to climate change Reduction of Greenhouse Gases through Our Business Coverage of the organizationʼs deﬁned G4-EC3 6.8.7 IR Library beneﬁt plan obligations Financial assistance received from G4-EC4 government Aspect: Market Presence 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratios of standard entry level wage by 6.4.3 G4-EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage 6.4.4 at signiﬁcant locations of operation 6.8.1 6.8.2 327 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure 6.4.3 Proportion of senior management hired 6.8.1 Fair Employment and G4-EC6 from the local community at signiﬁcant 6.8.2 Beneﬁts locations of operation 6.8.5 Employee Data 6.8.7 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Fair and Responsible Procurement Promotion of Social Contribution Activities Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy Contributing to the Reduction of 6.3.9 Greenhouse Gases 6.8.1 Through Our Development and impact of infrastructure Business G4-EC7 6.8.2 investments and services supported 6.8.7 Forest Management 6.8.9 in Japan Forest Management Overseas Biodiversity Conservation in Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 Risk Management Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, 6.8.1 G4-EC8 including the extent of impacts 6.8.2 Environmental Risk 6.8.5 Management 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 Aspect: Procurement Practices 6.4.3 6.6.6 Proportion of spending on local suppliers G4-EC9 6.8.1 at signiﬁcant locations of operation 6.8.2 6.8.7 328 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Environmental Aspect: Materials 6.5.1 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.2 Environmental Impact 6.5.4 of Business Activities 6.5.1 Reduction, Recycling Percentage of materials used that are G4-EN2 6.5.2 and Appropriate recycled input materials 6.5.4 Disposal of Waste Aspect: Energy 6.5.1 Energy consumption within the Environmental Impact G4-EN3 6.5.2 organization of Business Activities 6.5.4 Saving of Energy and 6.5.1 Reduction of Energy consumption outside of the G4-EN4 6.5.2 Greenhouse Gas organization 6.5.4 Emissions During Occupancy Saving of Energy and 6.5.1 Reduction of G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.2 Greenhouse Gas 6.5.4 Emissions from Business Activities Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas 6.5.1 Emissions from 6.5.2 Business Activities G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 6.5.4 Saving of Energy and 6.5.5 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy 6.5.1 Contributing to the Reductions in energy requirements of 6.5.2 Reduction of G4-EN7 Greenhouse Gases products and services 6.5.4 6.5.5 Through Our Business 329 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Water Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6.5.1 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.2 Eﬃcient Use of Water 6.5.4 Resources Environmental Data for Group Companies 6.5.1 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by Environmental Data G4-EN9 6.5.2 withdrawal of water for Group Companies 6.5.4 6.5.1 Percentage and total volume of water G4-EN10 6.5.2 recycled and reused 6.5.4 Aspect: Biodiversity Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed Conservation in 6.5.1 Company-Owned in, or adjacent to, protected areas and G4-EN11 6.5.2 Forests in Japan and areas of high biodiversity value outside 6.5.6 Plantation Forests protected areas Overseas Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan Environmental Risk Management Policies and Targets Description of signiﬁcant impacts of for Biodiversity activities, products, and services on 6.5.1 Conservation G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas 6.5.2 Biodiversity of high biodiversity value outside 6.5.6 Conservation in protected areas Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services 330 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan Policies and Targets for Biodiversity Conservation 6.5.1 Biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.2 Conservation in 6.5.6 Company-Owned Forests in Japan and Plantation Forests Overseas Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services Biodiversity Total number of IUCN Red List species Conservation in 6.5.1 and national conservation list species Company-Owned G4-EN14 6.5.2 with habitats in areas aﬀected by Forests in Japan and 6.5.6 operations, by level of extinction risk Plantation Forests Overseas Aspect: Emissions Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6.5.1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Saving of Energy and G4-EN15 6.5.2 (Scope 1) Reduction of 6.5.5 Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6.5.1 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Saving of Energy and G4-EN16 6.5.2 emissions (Scope 2) Reduction of 6.5.5 Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities Environmental Impact of Business Activities 6.5.1 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) Saving of Energy and G4-EN17 6.5.2 emissions (Scope 3) Reduction of 6.5.5 Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities 331 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Saving of Energy and 6.5.1 Reduction of Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN18 6.5.2 Greenhouse Gas intensity 6.5.5 Emissions from Business Activities Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy 6.5.1 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Contributing to the G4-EN19 6.5.2 emissions Reduction of 6.5.5 Greenhouse Gases Through Our Business Sustainable Forest Management 6.5.1 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 6.5.2 G4-EN20 (ODS) 6.5.3 6.5.5 Management of 6.5.1 Hazardous Chemical NOX, SOX, and other signiﬁcant air G4-EN21 6.5.2 Substances emissions 6.5.3 Environmental Data for Group Companies Aspect: Eﬄuents and Waste 6.5.1 Total water discharge by quality and Environmental Impact G4-EN22 6.5.2 destination of Business Activities 6.5.3 Environmental Impact Total weight of waste by type and 6.5 of Business Activities G4-EN23 disposal method 6.5.3 Reduction, Recycling and Appropriate Disposal of Waste 6.5.1 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant G4-EN24 6.5.2 spills 6.5.3 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed 6.5.1 hazardous under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 6.5.2 Convention2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, 6.5.3 and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally 332 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Identity, size, protected status, and 6.5.1 biodiversity value of water bodies and 6.5.2 G4-EN26 related habitats signiﬁcantly aﬀected by 6.5.3 the organization's discharges of water 6.5.4 and runoﬀ 6.5.6 Aspect: Products and Services Saving of Energy and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Occupancy Contributing to the 6.5.1 Reduction of 6.5.2 Greenhouse Gases Extent of impact mitigation of 6.5.3 Through Our G4-EN27 environmental impacts of products and 6.5.4 Business services 6.5.5 Forest Management 6.7.5 in Japan Forest Management Overseas Conservation of Biodiversity Through Business and Services Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5.1 6.5.2 Reduction, Recycling a. Report the percentage of reclaimed G4-EN28 6.5.3 and Appropriate products and their packaging materials 6.5.4 Disposal of Waste for each product category. 6.7.5 b. Report how the data for this Indicator has been collected. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and 6.5.1 total number of non-monetary sanctions G4-EN29 6.5.2 for non-compliance with environmental 4.6 laws and regulations Aspect: Transport Environmental Impact Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of of Business Activities 6.5.1 transporting products and other goods 6.5.2 Saving of Energy and G4-EN30 and materials for the organizationʼs 6.5.4 Reduction of operations, and transporting members of 6.6.6 Greenhouse Gas the workforce Emissions from Business Activities 333 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Overall Promotion of Social Total environmental protection 6.5.1 Contribution Activities G4-EN31 expenditures and investments by type 6.5.2 Environmental Accounting Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment 6.3.5 6.5.1 Percentage of new suppliers that were G4-EN32 6.5.2 screened using environmental criteria 6.6.6 7.3.1 6.3.5 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 6.5.1 G4-EN33 environmental impacts in the supply 6.5.2 chain and actions taken 6.6.6 7.3.1 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about 6.3.6 environmental impacts ﬁled, addressed, G4-EN34 6.5.1 and resolved through formal grievance 6.5.2 mechanisms Social Labor practices and decent work Aspect: Employment Total number and rates of new employee 6.4.1 G4-LA1 hires and employee turnover by age 6.4.2 Employee Data group, gender, and region 6.4.3 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees 6.4.1 that are not provided to temporary or 6.4.2 G4-LA2 part-time employees, by signiﬁcant 6.4.4 locations of operation 6.8.7 6.4.1 Return to work and retention rates after G4-LA3 6.4.2 Employee Data parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding 6.4.1 operational changes, including whether 6.4.2 G4-LA4 these are speciﬁed in collective 6.4.3 agreements 6.4.5 334 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker 6.4.1 G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help 6.4.2 Communication with monitor and advise on Occupational 6.4.6 Employees Health and Safety (OHS) programs Type of injury and rates of injury, 6.4.1 occupational diseases, lost days, and Occupational Health 6.4.2 G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of workand Safety 6.4.6 related fatalities, by region and by 6.8.8 Employee Data gender 6.4.1 6.4.2 6.4.6 Workers with high incidence or high risk Occupational Health G4-LA7 6.8 of diseases related to their occupation and Safety 6.8.3 6.8.4 6.8.8 6.4.1 Health and safety topics covered in Communication with G4-LA8 6.4.2 formal agreements with trade unions Employees 6.4.6 Aspect: Training and Education Average hours of training per year per 6.4.1 G4-LA9 employee by gender, and by employee 6.4.2 Employee Data category 6.4.7 Programs for skills management and 6.4.1 lifelong learning that support the 6.4.2 Human Resources G4-LA10 continued employability of employees and 6.4.7 Development assist them in managing career endings 6.8.5 Percentage of employees receiving 6.4.1 regular performance and career Human Resources G4-LA11 6.4.2 development reviews, by gender and by Development 6.4.7 employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and 6.2.3 breakdown of employees per employee Corporate 6.3.7 G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, Governance 6.3.10 minority group membership, and other 6.4.1 Employee Data indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men 6.3.7 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 6.4.1 G4-LA13 women to men by employee category, by 6.4.2 signiﬁcant locations of operation 6.4.3 6.4.4 335 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Percentage of new suppliers that were 6.3.5 screened using labor practices criteria 6.4.1 6.4.2 G4-LA14 a. Report the percentage of new 6.4.3 suppliers that were screened using 6.6.6 labor practices criteria. 7.3.1 6.3.5 6.4.1 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 6.4.2 Occupational Health G4-LA15 impacts for labor practices in the supply 6.4.3 and Safety chain and actions taken 6.6.6 7.3.1 Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor 6.3.6 G4-LA16 practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved 6.4.1 Compliance through formal grievance mechanisms 6.4.2 Human Rights Aspect: Investment 4.8 Total number and percentage of 6.3.1 signiﬁcant investment agreements and 6.3.2 G4-HR1 contracts that include human rights Respect for Human 6.3.3 clauses or that underwent human rights Rights 6.3.5 screening 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on 4.8 human rights policies or procedures 6.3.1 Respect for Human G4-HR2 concerning aspects of human rights that 6.3.2 Rights are relevant to operations, including the 6.3.5 percentage of employees trained Aspect: Non-discrimination 4.8 6.3.1 Total number of incidents of 6.3.2 G4-HR3 discrimination and corrective actions 6.3.6 taken 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3 336 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6.3.1 6.3.2 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in 6.3.3 which the right to exercise freedom of 6.3.4 G4-HR4 association and collective bargaining may 6.3.5 be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and 6.3.8 measures taken to support these rights 6.3.10 6.4.5 6.6.6 Aspect: Child Labor 4.8 6.3.1 Responsible Timber 6.3.2 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as Procurement 6.3.3 having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of Communication with 6.3.4 G4-HR5 child labor, and measures taken to Our Business 6.3.5 contribute to the eﬀective abolition of Partners 6.3.7 child labor 6.3.10 Respect for Human 6.6.6 Rights 6.8.4 Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor 4.8 Fair and Responsible 6.3.1 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as Procurement 6.3.2 having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of Communication with 6.3.3 G4-HR6 forced or compulsory labor, and measures Our Business 6.3.4 to contribute to the elimination of all Partners 6.3.5 forms of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.10 Respect for Human 6.6.6 Rights Aspect: Security Practices 4.8 Percentage of security personnel trained 6.3.1 in the organizationʼs human rights 6.3.2 G4-HR7 policies or procedures that are relevant 6.3.4 to operations 6.3.5 6.6.6 Aspect: Indigenous Rights 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 Total number of incidents of violations 6.3.4 G4-HR8 involving rights of indigenous peoples and 6.3.6 actions taken 6.3.7 6.3.8 6.6.7 6.8.3 337 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Assessment 4.8 Total number and percentage of 6.3.1 Respect for Human operations that have been subject to 6.3.2 Rights G4-HR9 human rights reviews or impact 6.3.3 Communication with assessments 6.3.4 Our Business 6.3.5 Partners Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment 4.8 6.3.1 6.3.2 Communication with Percentage of new suppliers that were G4-HR10 6.3.3 Our Business screened using human rights criteria 6.3.4 Partners 6.3.5 6.6.6 4.8 6.3.1 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 6.3.2 Responsible Timber G4-HR11 human rights impacts in the supply chain 6.3.3 Procurement and actions taken 6.3.4 Respect for Human 6.3.5 Rights 6.6.6 Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human 4.8 rights impacts ﬁled, addressed, and 6.3.1 G4-HR12 Compliance resolved through formal grievance 6.3.2 mechanisms 6.3.6 Society Aspect: Local Communities Examples of Social Contribution Activities in Japan 6.3.9 Examples of Overseas Percentage of operations with Community 6.5.1 implemented local community Development and G4-SO1 6.5.2 engagement, impact assessments, and Regional Contribution 6.5.3 development programs Activities 6.8 Forest Management in Japan Forest Management Overseas Operations with signiﬁcant actual or 6.3.9 G4-SO2 potential negative impacts on local 6.5.3 communities 6.8 338 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of 6.6.1 operations assessed for risks related to G4-SO3 6.6.2 Compliance corruption and the signiﬁcant risks 6.6.3 identiﬁed 6.6.1 Communication and training on anti6.6.2 G4-SO4 Compliance corruption policies and procedures 6.6.3 6.6.6 6.6.1 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and G4-SO5 6.6.2 Compliance actions taken 6.6.3 Aspect: Public Policy 6.6.1 Total value of political contributions by G4-SO6 6.6.2 country and recipient/beneﬁciary 6.6.4 Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior 6.6.1 Total number of legal actions for anti6.6.2 G4-SO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Compliance 6.6.5 monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6.7 Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and 4.6 total number of non-monetary sanctions G4-S08 6.6.1 for non-compliance with laws and 6.6.2 regulations Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society 6.3.5 6.6.1 Percentage of new suppliers that were 6.6.2 G4-SO9 screened using criteria for impacts on 6.6.6 society 6.8.1 6.8.2 7.3.1 6.3.5 6.6.1 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 6.6.2 G4-S10 impacts on society in the supply chain 6.6.6 Responsible Timber and actions taken 6.8.1 Procurement 6.8.2 7.3.1 339 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society 6.3.6 Number of grievances about impacts on 6.6.1 G4-SO11 society ﬁled, addressed, and resolved 6.6.2 through formal grievance mechanisms 6.8.1 6.8.2 Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Responsible Timber Procurement Housing Safety, 6.7.1 Quality Control, and Percentage of signiﬁcant product and 6.7.2 Universal Design service categories for which health and G4-PR1 6.7.4 safety impacts are assessed for Safety and Quality 6.7.5 improvement Control of Non6.8.8 Residential Buildings Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials 4.6 Total number of incidents of non6.7.1 compliance with regulations and voluntary 6.7.2 G4-PR2 codes concerning the health and safety 6.7.4 impacts of products and services during 6.7.5 their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.8.8 Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Responsible Timber Procurement Type of product and service information 6.7.1 Housing Safety, required by the organizationʼs procedures 6.7.2 Quality Control, and for product and service information and 6.7.3 Universal Design G4-PR3 labeling, and percentage of signiﬁcant 6.7.4 Safety and Quality product and service categories subject to 6.7.5 Control of Nonsuch information requirements 6.7.9 Residential Buildings Safety and Quality Control of Building Materials 4.6 Total number of incidents of non6.7.1 compliance with regulations and voluntary 6.7.2 G4-PR4 codes concerning product and service 6.7.3 information and labeling, by type of 6.7.4 outcomes 6.7.5 6.7.9 340 GRI G4 Content Index and Compatibility Table ISO26000 G4 Disclosure Location Disclosure Housing Safety, 6.7.1 Quality Control, and Results of surveys measuring customer G4-PR5 6.7.2 Universal Design satisfaction 6.7.6 Communication with Our Customers Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary 4.6 codes concerning marketing 6.7.1 Communication with G4-PR7 communications, including advertising, 6.7.2 Our Customers promotion, and sponsorship, by type of 6.7.3 outcomes Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints 6.7.1 G4-PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy 6.7.2 Communication with and losses of customer data 6.7.7 Our Customers Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for 4.6 non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.7.1 G4-PR9 concerning the provision and use of 6.7.2 products and services 6.7.6 341 342
