2017 IK Investment Partners’ Communication on Progress C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 2 Contents 03. Letter from our CEO 13. ESG in practice 05. Connecting the dots: IK and ESG 14. IKARE and its current projects 07. Definition of ESG 16. ESG 2018 and beyond 09. ESG opportunities in 2017 11. Adhering to the ten principles of the UNGC I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 3 Letter from our CEO IK Investment Partners (IK) has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact initiative since 2013. This third Communication on Progress (COP) report highlights activities undertaken between 9 December 2016 and 7 December 2017. FIRST, I AM pleased to reaffirm IK’s support for the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. For IK, the COP is an important demonstration of our commitment to transparency and accountability. Importantly too, it is a tool through which we can update stakeholders on our sustainability performance. In this report therefore, we describe our actions to support the Global Compact and its principles. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders We have published a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement, using our primary channels of communication. declaring our zero tolerance approach to modern slavery. By reviewing our As a private equity firm, we have become increasingly aware of a profound suppliers, IK is in a better position to understand all potential modern slavery shift in our industry, as more and more participants recognise the risks related to our business. importance of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, with Internally, we have also conducted ESG training to the investment teams regard to both portfolio companies and their own internal structures and so that they may perform their work in accordance with IK’s responsible behaviours. investment commitment. IK has a rather different perspective. As a firm with Nordic roots, responsible investing (RI) has been central to our philosophy and culture for IN LINE WITH our long-standing support for RI and the actions that we have many years, not simply because we believe that it is right but also because it taken, we felt it was time also to become a signatory to the UN Principles for makes sound commercial sense. Responsible Investment (PRI), the main industry ESG-foused body representing asset owners and managers. PRI's platform allows its IN RECENT YEARS, we have both formalised and strengthened our commitment signatories to pool resources and share information. For IK, climate change to RI across IK Investment Partners and among the portfolio companies that is an area of particular focus where we believe engaging with the PRI will we invest in. Last year was no exception. foster long-term value creation as we transition to a low-carbon economy. In our previous COP report, we said that we would be forming an ESG Fundamentally, success cannot simply focus on what we and our portfolio steering committee during 2017 to provide guidance and direction for our companies do to generate revenues; it is about how we achieve those firm and our portfolio companies. We have duly established that committee, revenues and the effect that our actions has on all our stakeholders. run by our internal ESG champion, Mikaela Hedborg, alongside partners We believe that building better businesses is intrinsically linked to drawn from across the firm. We have also created an ESG Manual and an responsible investment and that sustainable growth is best achieved by ESG Knowledge Library, which act as a locus of information for all our implementing the right approach to ESG. This has been a key part of our professionals, providing advice and support operationally and strategically. investment approach for decades. We are more committed than ever to The library includes guidance on drafting ESG-related policies, self investing responsibly and fostering respect for ESG issues within our firm assessment tools as well as case studies, and is updated continuously. and across our stakeholder universe. We have been diligent in our approach to ethics more broadly. In 2016, for example, we established a Code of Ethics, as part of a determination to deliver sustainable value for all our stakeholders, by maintaining high standards of governance and business ethics across the firm and our portfolio companies. The Code is continually adapted to ensure it is fit for Christopher Masek purpose. Chief Executive Officer, IK I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 4 IK Investment Partners >€9 billion Commitment to Accountability of capital investing raised responsibly Leading Pan-European private equity firm 113 investments Building stronger and better businesses Integrity since 1989 Unique Northern Continental Active European footprint Generated strong returns ownership 85 exits across model economic cycles Multiple Fund Defining and Venture Strategies delivering philanthropy transformational activities with agendas IKARE Professionalism I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 5 Private equity as an ownership model PRIVATE EQITY AS an ownership model is an asset class for institutional investors invest their own money alongside their fund investors, they have a direct such as banks, pension funds and insurance companies designated to help stake in the company’s success. companies grow and develop in a sustainable way, working closely with the When the strategies and plans identified at the time of the investment management team of the portfolio company. In general, a private equity have been carried out, the fund will look to divest the portfolio company investment has three stages: the initial transaction, the development of the through different exit routes, such as a trade sale, when the company is sold portfolio company and the sale of the company. to an industrial buyer, a secondary sale, in which the company is sold to Once a private equity fund has acquired a portfolio company, the advisor another fund which can continue to develop the company, or an IPO, where applies its expertise to drive the company’s corporate strategy, accelerating the private equity fund often stays on as an owner for a period of time. growth organically, through strategic acquisitions or by restructuring in each According to data from Invest Europe, the total amount of equity invested case improving efficiency and profitability. As private equity fund managers in European companies by private equity funds reached €52.5bn in 2016. Connecting the dots: IK and ESG At IK, Responsible Investing (RI) lies at the heart of who we are and what we do HAVING ACCUMULATED CLOSE to 30 years’ experience in the private equity Deeply committed to fostering growth, we apply an active approach to our market, IK knows that strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) investments and aim to create robust, well positioned companies with solid practices correlate positively with enhanced financial performance within long-term prospects. Our portfolio companies represent more than 25,000 portfolio companies as well as enrich society more broadly. As such, employees across the globe and revenues of €3.7bn. We are proud of our Responsible Investment (RI) is integral to IK’s business philosophy. portfolio companies which, under IK’s stewardship, have provided domestic Focused on investing in companies with strong underlying potential, we and international employment opportunities, enhanced economic growth are proud to support the IK Funds as they partner with management teams and contributed to local communities. and investors to grow businesses, improve performance and create This year we strengthened our internal processes in a number of ways to sustainable value for all our stakeholders. ensure that our commitment to RI is both recognised and consistently We strive to create sustainable value for all IK stakeholders by instituting implemented across the firm. We belive we have made progress but we are and maintaining high standards of governance and business ethics within the keenly aware that there is always more to do to enhance ESG practices at Firm, IK Funds and portfolio companies. Working with management teams, our portfolio companies and within IK itself. we help portfolio companies recognise and manage the opportunities and risks associated with ESG factors. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 6 Creating sustainable value: How we do it IK ensures a structured approach to investment from the moment we consider a potential investment to the point at which we invest. With the help of the IK Way toolkit , ESG is embedded into every stage of the investment process PRE-INVESTMENT ACTIVE OWNERSHIP EXIT 01. During the pre-investment stage, ESG-related risks and opportunities are identified for each investment opportunity. If it transpires that a potential investment does not conform to IK’s RI policy, the opportunity will not be pursued. 02. Each investment opportunity is discussed at a bi-weekly Business Development Meeting, enabling the deal teams to benefit from the collective experience of the entire investment team. A detailed presentation is made to the Investment Committee, which includes financial and non-financial information as well as a mandatory assessment of ESG factors relevant to the investment. 03. Depending on the materiality of the ESG risks identified, IK may choose not to pursue an investment opportunity or to invest, but in such case embed corrective actions in the post-acquisition Full Potential Plan. Not all ESG factors are equally impactful for all companies. Therefore we ask portfolio companies to 04. focus on ESG factors with a direct or indirect impact on an organisation’s ability to create, preserve or erode economic, environmental and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society at large . Following acquisition, IK commisions an independent ESG review to better understand which ESG factors should be considered being of material character. 05. Successful sustainability practices depend on continuous improvement in combination with monitoring results and acting when performance is unsatisfactory. IK has developed a process for monitoring its portfolio companies’ ESG progress. Portfolio companies disclose ESG information through our reporting toolkit Baxon, which brings to life an integrated reporting view across the full investment cycle. 06. Once an investment is divested, IK’s ESG team strives to assess the ESG-related contribution to value creation throughout the active ownership phase. The original ESG review serves as a baseline against which the ESG performance is analysed. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 7 Definition of ESG COMPANIES | LIO IN T FO DU O R ST P R | IA S L R A O D T V S V E IS IN O R | S | | IK PROF LO ES NITIES | S MMU SI ON TR CO AL A T S L EG CA RS LDE IC HO E AK ST Y P E A K R T R N E E R H S T O A | N D OVERNME S | G NT ER S LI | M PP ED SU IA Climate change Labour rights and labour conditions Regulation Pollution and contamination of land, air and water Health and safety Anti-bribery and corruption measures Eco-efficiency and resource efficiency Treatment of customers and communities Business ethics Waste management Human rights Transparency and accountability Natural resource scarcity Diversity Board composition and independence Biodiversity Supply chain management Shareholder rights Data privacy and cyber security I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 8 IK's ESG journey Engaging in RI has been an integral part of IK’s culture since the firm was founded. For the past 10 years, we have been developing a more structured approach to help us create sustainable value. 2012 2016 IK Code of Ethics adopted – First independent ESG review for an IK (last updated 2017) portfolio company commissioned 2014 – IK RI Policy formally adopted (last updated 2017) 2007 – Formal integration of ESG criteria into IK's investment process – IK becomes a signatory of the UN Global First structured review of IK Compact initiative portfolio companies' ESG – Integration of ESG awarness and approch matters into the IK Annual Investor Meeting 2011 2015 Dedicated ESG manager appointed 2013 – IK RI questionnaire adopted – First Communication on progress (COP) report published – Audit & ESG committee – ESG risk screening tool governance structure developed established I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 9 Making the most of ESG opportunities in 2017 IK RI ESG training questionnaire IK ESG Steering revised Committee established in order to provide support, guidance and oversight ESG of IK’s ESG progress monitoring process ESG Manual Carbon developed to further strengthen IK's internal ESG processes Footprint measured for UN Principles for the first time Responsible Investment (PRI) UNGC signatory roundtable on 510 EU Minerals downloads of Regulation IK's RI policy hosted (2017YTD) E&S Assessment Tool implemented to screen for ESG Modern Slavery Act inherent sector risks Knowledge Library established to support the implementation of ESG-related policies across the portfolio I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 10 Summary of IK's ESG commitment All information below is based on the investments in the IK VIII Fund, IK VIII Fund and IK Small Cap I Fund unless otherwise stated. Not including Debitor Inkasso and Studienkreis which were signed on 27 October 2017 and 22 November 2017 respectively. 100% 97% 88% ESG ASSESSMENT INCLUDED PART OF PORTFOLIO COMPANIES PART OF ANNUAL REVIEWS IN INVESTMENT COMMIT TEE FOR WHICH AN INDEPENDENT ESG WHICH INCLUDED AN ESG MEMORANDUM REVIEW HAS BEEN COMMISSIONED SECTION1) ESG Risks ESG Opportunities Occupational Health and Safety Human Capital Management Supply Chain Management Increased Public Disclosure of ESG Activities Environmental Impact Formalised ESG Policies Anti-bribery and Corruption Practices Occupational Health and Safety Product Safety and Liability Environmental Impact Links to the UN Sustainable Development Goals At IK, we recognise the importance of supporting the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The following Sustainable Development Goals have been deemed of relevance for the portfolio companies in IK Funds. The size of the box represents the numbers of portfolio companies linked with the goal. The higher the box is placed, the larger opportunity it represents in terms of value creation. 1) Based on the 3 investments held by the IK VIII Fund, 15 investments held by the IK VII Fund and 7 investments held by the IK Small Cap I Fund in Q1-17. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 11 The UN Global Compact initiative principles IK is committed to the principles of the Global Compact initiative and ensuring that its portfolio companies adhere to these principles as well Our principles 2. Labour IK’s responsible investment commitments, as found in our RI policy, are Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the based on the following principles: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Respect for the internationally proclaimed human rights principles Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; (Principles 1-2) Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively (Principle 3) Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Working conditions that surpass basic health and safety standards occupation. (Principles 4-5) Equal opportunity independent of gender, race or religion (Principle 6) IK Investment Partners believes that a good working environment and equal Environmental responsibility (Principles 7-9) opportunities for all are a fundamental right for every employee. The conduct of good governance practices, in particular with relation As part of our Responsible Investment policy, we will not invest in a to bribery and conflicts of interest (Principle 10) company that is engaging in child labour or forced labour. Both within our firm and among our portfolio companies, we support diversity and we actively encourage employee engagement, development and promotion. We believe that, as owners, we have a responsibility to lead by example. As 1. Human Rights such, our Human Resources Policy supports best practice in terms of labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of and employment, including equal opportunities and diversity. We also have a internationally proclaimed human rights Health and Safety Policy. Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our portfolio companies employ more than 25,000 people and we stress that employees’ rights and working conditions must be respected. For many of Support for individual and collective human rights is a fundamental part of our management teams, this is a priority. In 2017. 92% of IK Funds's portfolio the culture at IK Investment Partners. We support the Universal Declaration companies had a Human Resources policy or Code of Conduct (covering HR of Human Rights and we will not carry out business with countries and topics) in place. regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known, such as torture, We are committed to continued progress both within IK Investment Partners politically motivated disappearance, etc. As part of our Responsible and among our portfolio companies, with regard to fair, equal and effective Investment policy, we will not invest in companies which do not respect labour conditions. internationally proclaimed human rights principles. As owners of companies with operations across the globe, we are deeply aware of our human rights responsibilities. We encourage our portfolio companies to support human rights and we are committed to continued progress both within IK Investment Partners and among our portfolio companies. We will not carry out business with countries and regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 12 3. Environment 4. Anti-corruption Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, environmental changes including extortion and bribery Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility IK Investment Partners does not condone corruption, extortion or bribery in Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally any form. friendly technologies As an owner of companies with operations around the world, robust anti-corruption policies and regulatory compliance play an essential role in IK Investment Partners supports the UNGC’s environmental principles and we our ability to do business ethically and with integrity. endeavour to uphold them within our firm and across our portfolio companies. We understand the damage caused by bribery and corruption and we We believe in the promotion of greater environmental responsibility and we work hard to guard our employees and those of our portfolio firms against encourage our portfolio companies, where relevant, to develop sustainable their corrosive influence. products, services and solutions. IK Investment Partners is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not We actively encourage our portfolio companies to be mindful of their participate in corruption, bribery or extortion. Our Compliance Officer is environment and we monitor their progress throughout our holding period. External responsible for anti-corruption within IK Investment Partners and our consultants provide initial input and the Board of Directors of every portfolio Anti-Corruption policy sets out what could be considered bribery in terms company ensures that environmental policies are regularly reviewed and assessed. of business operations and relations. The policy covers the receiving of Each portfolio company also has an Audit & ESG committee, responsible for hospitality and gifts as well, and IK Investment Partners provides staff with monitoring environmental policies and reporting directly to the Board of Directors. regular training and updates. We also have a Whistleblowing policy and Among the portfolio companies, 65% have an environmental and/or waste Conflicts of Interest policy. management policy (2017). Among the portfolio companies, 70% have an ABC policy (2017). We are committed to delivering continued progress on environmental issues both within IK Investment Partners and among our portfolio companies. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 13 ESG in practice SCHOCK The world's leading manufacturer of Environmental Facts top-quality granite kitchen sinks Achievements Fund: IK VIII Fund Since 1924, the company has gained a Halved water consumption Acquisition date: December 2016 reputation for innovation, quality and A raw materials efficiency of 90% Country: Germany technological excellence Recycled 95% of the water used in the Sector: Consumer goods Since 2007, SCHOCK has implemented a raft production process SCHOCK's business links to Sustainable of measures to reduce their carbon footprint, Development Goals: including increasing the proportion of renewable energy sourced from power suppliers, encouraging Skype meetings and online conferences in lieu of travel, and carrying out on-site energy efficiency improvements Third Bridge A leading provider of expert calls to Governance Achievements Facts business investors and consultants, Compliance training for all employees Fund: IK Small Cap I Fund covering the US, Asia and Europe Industry-leading IT systems to record Acquisition date: August 2017 By leveraging its internal expert base and compliance steps Country: United Kingdom utilising its research analysts, Third Bridge Compliance handbook Sector: Business services can identify the most appropriate experts Code of Ethics Third Bridge's business links to Sustainable based on the client needs Development Goal: A set of robust compliance policies and procedures to reach the best possible level of compliance, and represent a safe way for investors to interact with industry experts Ramudden A leading Nordic work zone safety and Social Achievements Facts traffic control service provider 'Passion for Health initiative' to encourage Fund: IK VII Fund The service offering includes rental of road employees to exercise regularly Acquisition date: June 2014 barriers, signage, traffic and road signs, In addition to appointing a health coach, Country: Sweden concrete systems, industrial heating solutions, the company has hired Thomas Fogdö, Sector: Business services traffic arrangement plans, surveillance and former alpine skier, as a mental coach Ramudden's business links to Sustainable maintenance service as well as safety Over 100 employees participated in the Development Goal: education programmes 'Wings for Life World Run' in this and last Since the company was found in 2005, it years to raise money for research into has focused on staff wellbeing spinal cord injuries The company appointed a dedicated health coach I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 14 Our extended commitment: IKARE IK Aid and Relief Enterprise (IKARE Ltd) is the venture philanthropy arm of IK Investment Partners. Founded and supported by IK Investment Partners, IKARE uses venture philanthropy principles to make a positive long-term impact ENGAGING IN PHILANTHROPY has been an integral part of IK’s culture since principles of venture philanthropy. As such, IKARE aims to overlay private the firm was founded in 1989. But, as IK developed, the partners wanted equity investment techniques, and other business expertise and practices, to adopt a more structured approach to charitable donations and link into causes or 'investees', thereby contributing more than just funding. them more closely to their core business. They wanted to make a IKARE and IK as donors have been able to strengthen health infrastructures, difference, federate staff and leave something sustainable behind. That providing countries with better foundations for reaching the SDGs through is why IKARE was set up as an independent charity, imbued with the different initiatives. 2016 – Shifo and Dokolo District Local Government, supported by IKARE, embarks on the 2013 first-ever district wide implementation of the MyChild Card system 2006 IKARE with Ceva sponsors ‘Cows against Malaria’ study, conducted by a group of researchers from Liverpool University and 2015 IKARE partners with Shifo – WASH initiative in Bwaise was launched by SSPP in co-operation with the target communities and their CBOs the London School of Hygiene IKARE launched, mainly Foundation to work on focusing on ‘Stamp Out MyChild system in the Sleeping sickness’ in Uganda Dokolo district 2014 2009 IKARE invests in MYC4 micro IKARE embarks on Kampala Slums WASH initiative financing platform, providing loans to small businesses in Africa I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 15 MyChild Card MYCHILD CARD IS a simple but highly effective platform to help ensure that no child dies or suffers from preventable or curable diseases. Developed by Shifo Foundation and supported by IKARE, the system has been successfully implemented in Dokolo district, Uganda, paving the way for global expansion. In January 2017, six months after Shifo began training healthcare workers and implementing MyChild solution, all 16 operational health centres in the Dokolo district transitioned to MyChild cards. Piloted by IKARE, this was the first-ever district-wide implementation of MyChild solution and the effects were immediate. Time spent by health workers on administration and reporting was reduced by 70 per cent, allowing them to devote more time to health education for families with children. By the end of September 2017, 12,867 children in Dokolo had been registered and issued with unique IDs. Within that group, 4,600 children had been fully immunized and 3,604 text reminders had been sent. Previously, there was no reliable record of the number of annual births, nor the number of under-fives in Dokolo. But IKARE and Shifo have catered for registering up to 20,000 children aged 0-5 per year for five years, or 100,000 children in total. The proportion of newborns registered, as a percentage of children aged 0-5, is gradually increasing and has now reached 63%. This hopefully implies that every child under the age of five will soon have received their MyChild Card and thus been registered and immunized. The system has already attracted the attention of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation (Gavi), a Switzerland-based public private partnership, whose supporters include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the World Bank, Unicef and the World Health Organisation. Kampala Slums Wash initiative IN 2014, THE Ugandan Student Support Philanthropy Programme (SSPP) undertook an experimental water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) intervention in the Kikoni slum areas of Kampala. Supported and mentored by IKARE and local partner, High Heights Services, the SSPP achieved considerable success – so much so that the programme attracted the attention of the Kampala City Council Authority and Ministry of Lands. The SSPP were then asked to undertake a slightly larger pilot in the Bwaise slum, home to an estimated 90,000 people. This pilot was launched in October 2016, aiming to improve cleanliness at water sources and reduce the frequency of water-borne diseases such as diarrhoea, cholera and typhoid. The initial outcome of the pilot scheme was very positive. Communities were highly engaged in keeping the three selected water sources clean and families with Solvatten units reported an average 70% reduction in diarrhoea cases. To further strengthen the outcomes of this pilot and ensure a longer-term sustainable impact, IKARE agreed to undertake a post-pilot programme with the SSPP. This programme, kick-started in April 2017, focuses on building awareness around the importance of ‘WASH’ through a range of initiatives, including drama groups. The programme also involves strengthening accounting and reporting capacity at SSPP and assessing the sustainability and scalability of different business plans aiming at securing a sustainability platform for the SSPP. The Power of Partnerships UGANDA IS ONE of 38 countries in sub-Saharan Africa affected by human and animal sleeping sickness. But it is the only country to host both varieties of the parasites that affect humans. Areas endemic to the disease are heavily infested with tsetse flies. Over the past 100 years, numerous efforts have been undertaken to control the disease. Now, finally, there is progress, thanks at least in part to the Stamp Out Sleeping Sickness (SOS) initiative, supported by IKARE. In October 2017, the Ugandan Trypanosomiasis Control Council (UTCC) and its executive arm, COCTU, celebrated their Silver Jubilee. It was a proud moment, as IKARE director Anne Holm Ranaleet, explains: “Slowly but surely our efforts over the last 10 years to control the disease are paying off and we can see a steady lowering in the number of Human African Trypanosomiasis (HAT) cases to very few cases per year.” Two initiatives in particular have contributed to this development. The Tiny Targets + Rapid diagnosis activities carried out in the West Nile region, and our SOS initiative in Northern Uganda. I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 16 2018 and beyond Engage with the UN PRI Measure and to further enhance reduce IK's IK's ESG practices Carbon Develop IK's footprint RI questionnaire and ESG monitoring tools Expand the IK ESG Knowledge Library Continue to support the UN Global Compact Assess and address climate change impact for IK and portfolio companies I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R ES S 2 017 IK Investment Partners The Adelphi 1-11 John Adam Street London WC2N 6HT United Kingdom T: +44 20 7304 4300 W: www.ikinvest.com Communications & ESG Contact: Mikaela Hedborg Director Communications & ESG E: mikaela.hedborg@ikinvest.com T: +44 20 7304 7134 I K I N V ES T M E N T PA R T N E R S
