COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) K-One Technology Bhd Report for:UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Assessment Date : 12 May 2017 Assessment Criteria : Communication on Progress in Human Right, Labour, Environment and Anti Corruption. Assessment Team : Martin Lim, Goo Kok Khian, Loh Wai Keong , Lim Yong Hui, Jennifer Leong and Tan Seok Koon COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) General Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: 12 May 2016 To: 12 May 2017 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Please provide a statement of your company's chief executive expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing your company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles (Please include name and title of the chief executive at the bottom of the statement). António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA 12 May 2017 Dear Honorable Secretary-General In K-One, our commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles remains firm. Our vision and mission is to be one of the leading global design, development and manufacturing enterprise of electronic end products, built upon values which are socially responsible and sustainable. Towards this end, we believe the Global Compact’s principles are embedded within our Group’s business practices, policies and operations to achieve sustainability objectives. Our sustainability objectives cover among other key initiatives, environment resources, conservation, waste reduction, development/purchase of sustainable materials and the communication of such objectives to be practised by our supply chain. K-One’s commitment and reaffirmation to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) are in line with the Group’s vision and core values to build a responsible and sustainable culture in our corporate social engagements, business practices and policies. We want to deliver value not just financially but also in terms of non-business interests such as a caring social responsibility to provide livelihood to the less fortunate, environment preservation, good work ethics and professionalism, conducive working environment, health and safety, just to name a few. We are continuously communicating our Group and company’s policies and procedures with regard to our adherence to the Global Compact’s ten principles to all employees and related parties, including business partners, suppliers and other stakeholders where appropriate. We provide regular training to employees and other interested parties to promote awareness related to environmental, health and safety as well as corporate social responsibility. Looking ahead, as part of our efforts to operate with the gentlest environmental footprint possible and Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs), we shall explore new ways that we can apply our technology along with the innovative attitude of our employees to improve social and environmental concerns, in line with local/international standards and best practices. Yours sincerely Martin Lim CEO K-One Technology Bhd COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk ‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Respect for freedom of speech  No discrimination on race, age, gender, religion and disability in hiring  Full implementation of minimum wage policy stipulated by the Malaysian government  Compliance to all local Employment/Labor Act policies Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Quarterly staff dialogues with 2-way communication  Education of good health and safety practices for all levels of staff  Provision of adequate facilities such as canteen and water which are hygienic  Staff are not allowed to work overtime which exceeds that stipulated by the local Labor Act Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Annual Performance Based Review COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights ‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  No hiring of staff below 16 years old  No compulsory overtime  Timely payment of salaries  No illegal deduction of wages Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations.  All hired staff are above 16 years old  Working of overtime needs to be applied and requires approval of supervisor/manager  Biometric access system to monitor overtime of individual staff  All salaries are paid latest by last day of the month  Pay slips are provided to staff to indicate details of their wages  Measurement of outcomes Description  of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. Annual – Performance Based Review COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection  To provide hassle-free integrated one-stop technology solutions which are of quality, cost competitive, on-time delivery and environmentally friendly to customers in the consumer electronics, IoT, industrial, security surveillance, automotive, and medical/healthcare industries  To design, develop, manufacture and market products that are safe for their intended use and do not adversely affect the environment  To promote conservation, preservation of environment and prevention of pollution through management of significant environmental aspects  To meet or exceed all applicable legal and other requirements such as customer requirements through continuous improvement of our Quality and Environmental Management System with commitment of all staff Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents  Perform Aspect & Impact analysis for new production line and equipment set up  Bi-monthly review on consumption of resources such as water, electricity, paper and packaging materials with reduction goals  Development of green materials in product and compliance tests such as XRF test.  Use recycled paper for internal distribution documents to promote 3R practice.  Implement conflict mineral reporting template in the supplier qualification process.  Installed motion-sensing at the defined areas whereby lightings will be switched on/off automatically to conserve energy.  Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance  Perform Aspect & Impact analysis by identifying the objectives and programs for meeting them (including improvement) for new production line and equipment set up  Head of Departments monitor water, electricity, paper and packaging materials consumption trends and patterns bi-monthly against reduction goals.  Development of green materials in product and compliance tests such as XRF test.  Use recycled paper for internal distribution documents to promote 3R practice.  Heads of Department ensure suppliers provide accuracy reporting as per conflict mineral reporting template in the supplier qualification process. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti ‐corruption.  Do not deal with any supplier that has monopoly over any goods or services. We address our intolerance towards corruption or bribery in our Employees’ Handbook  We regard bribery as a major misconduct which includes acceptance of bribes directly by the employee or indirectly through members of the employee’s family.  We also have policies such as Unethical/Unlawful Conduct Reporting Policy & Procedures that address bribery.  All these contribute to the promotion of an ethical environment that makes corruption/bribery unacceptable. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents.  The Unethical/Unlawful Conduct Reporting Policy & Procedures provide an effective means to individuals for reporting unethical/unlawful conduct which includes but not limited to taking or soliciting bribes.  Our Board of Directors closely oversees the senior management’s activities and with the assistance of the internal and external auditors, secures assurance concerning the state of our organization’s system of internal control.  We take reasonable steps to ensure that our books, records and overall financial reporting are transparent. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance.  Risk assessment deciding where we should focus our resources in conducting anti-corruption audits.  Pre-site planning and procedures notification letter or other communication to the unit to be audited.  Fieldwork Test for compliance with the various elements of the anti-corruption compliance program.  Reporting
