UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Human rights & labour Environment Anti-corruption Code of Conduct for service providers MISSION To develop reliable waste water and stormwater management, tailored to our customers’ requirements, with respect for those around us and the environment. UN GLOBAL COMPACT 3 ABOUT AQUAFIN M ore than 1,000 employees work for Aquafin to help ensure clean watercourses and a living environment in harmony with water. Since its establishment by the Flemish Region in 1990, the company has raised the treatment level in Flanders from just 30% to 83%. Aquafin collects the domestic waste water from the municipal sewers in collector sewers and transports it to waste water treatment plants, where it is processed in accordance with EU and Flemish standards. It is Aquafin’s responsibility to ensure the optimum operation and maintenance of the infrastructure in which the region has invested. Aquafin also offers the same services for the municipal sewer system. We want to create real added value for society and the living environment. Accordingly, we also help the communities deal with stormwater differently, by making more space for it and integrating it into public areas. Starting with the design, we pay attention to the entire lifecycle of the infrastructure, continuing to keep a close eye on its operation once it is up and running. Smart energy consumption, recovery of raw materials from waste water and reducing emissions in the water treatment process and discharge of untreated waste water are central to our activities. Based on our expertise and experience, Aquafin has become a much sought-after partner in research projects aimed amongst other objectives at implementing the EU Water Framework Directive, both in Belgium and abroad. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INTRODUCTION W hen I joined Aquafin as CEO, it was clear from the start that I would be part of a ‘warm’ company with a strong focus on people. This is expressed in various ways: from how you are received as a new colleague to the many spontaneous initiatives to support social projects, locally and internationally. This caring approach also translates into aiming for the highest safety standards for our employees and their colleagues from our partner firms. The circumstances in which they work on a daily basis aren’t always easy. With the recent flooding along the coast still fresh in my mind, I automatically think of the emergency intervention that sometimes has to be carried out at any time of the day or night as well as underground work on our infrastructure. Last year, we have therefore focussed intensely on raising awareness of safety and tightening up our safety instructions. We need to continue and even expand these efforts in future, since we believe that every accident can be prevented with the right attitude to safety. Sustainability, not just in how we deal with people, but also in the use of energy and raw materials, has been part of our operations for a long time. A prime example is the constantly increasing generation of green electricity by the fermentation of biomass produced in our water treatment processes. A need has gradually arisen for consistent leadership with a vision of what ‘corporate social responsibility’ actually means for Aquafin. In living out this vision, we are partly inspired by the United Nations’ ‘Sustainable development goals’. We’re convinced that by what we do and how we do it, we can help ensure these goals are achieved. Alongside our core business, collecting and treating domestic waste water, we also want to add value to society in other areas. By drawing up stormwater plans, for example, with which we help municipalities defend themselves against the effects of climate change. We do this by adapting buffer and soakaway technology so that the risk of flooding in case of heavy rainfall is considerably reduced. This also tops up groundwater levels. Absolutely vital since, despite rising water bills, thanks to its high population density, Flanders is one of the areas with the most vulnerable water supply in Europe. We all experienced this during a lengthy period of extreme drought this year. In the press, we launched the proposal to use treated waste water for a range of specific applications in agriculture and industry. This met with an enthusiastic response and also led to further discussions with a view to the systematic purchasing of treated waste water. Along with the recovery of raw materials, energy and heat in the water treatment process, this is a further opportunity for Aquafin to contribute to the circular economy. Jan Goossens general manager COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 5 AQUAFIN AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights & labour In the first half of 2017, Aquafin also tightened up the rules > Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect for wearing personal protective equipment and descending the protection of internationally proclaimed human into enclosed spaces and communicated them to all rights. concerned. Even if this is not acted on, the STOP principle > Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that should be invoked here. they are not complicit in human rights abuses. > Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the In 2016, we recorded 22 lost time accidents, with a lower elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory severity than in previous years. All efforts relating to safe labour. working are designed to lead to no more occupational > Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the accidents happening at Aquafin’s sites and plants. effective abolition of child labour. As a company incorporated under Belgian law, Aquafin is subject to Belgian social legislation. Protecting human rights, banning forced and child labour these are fundamental principles of Belgian and European social legislation. In complying with Belgian legislation, Aquafin respects these 4 principles. FOCUS ON SAFETY Safety is a basic right under European and Belgian legislation. Our own employees and everyone who carries out work on our infrastructure are exposed to specific risks. Aquafin wants all of these people to be able to go home safely after work, which is why we place such emphasis on safety. The company supplies the necessary information and tools for this through various channels including posters, leaflets, training courses, e-learning, guidelines, ergotools, personal protective equipment, etc. In 2016, Aquafin outlined a programme for raising awareness of safety among our own employees and contractors. For example, at the end of 2016, Aquafin introduced the STOP principle. This authorises everyone at one of the company’s sites or plants to stop working if the work cannot be carried out safely, until the unsafe situation has been eliminated. The company organised an internal survey about the safety culture. Based on the results, further work was carried out around strong leadership and taking responsibility at all levels. 6 UN GLOBAL COMPACT > Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom > Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the of association and the effective recognition of elimination of discrimination in respect of the right to collective bargaining. employment and occupation. As prescribed by Belgian law, Aquafin has a Works Council As required by Belgian law, Aquafin does not discriminate and a Health and Safety Committee with equal between people on the basis of ethnic or social origin, representation. The employee representatives represent gender, age, sexual orientation, political or religious beliefs the various categories of employees: white collar, or whether or not they are members of a trade union. executives and young workers (no one has bluecollar status at Aquafin). Employees are free to decide which In view of the high engineering content of the company’s trade union to join, if any. Both the Works Council and activities, most applicants to Aquafin remain male. the Health and Safety Committee meet on a regular basis. Nevertheless, for senior technical profiles, the number of The minutes of these meetings are accessible to all men and women remains very evenly balanced. In 2016 employees. the ratio (expressed in FTE) was 813 men to 148 women. In 2016, the Works Council met 11 times and the Health and Under Belgian law, companies with more than 20 employees Safety Committee also met 10 times. are required to draw up an employment plan designed to maintain or increase the number of employees aged 45 or older. Aquafin has drawn up such a plan in conjunction with the social partners. This plan is reviewed and updated on an annual basis. However, due to the low staff turnover, the average age of our employees is constantly rising. To maintain a healthy mix of age bands, we make a special effort to attract young employees as well. Aquafin views a diversified workforce as a definite asset. All employees, regardless of qualifications, position and seniority, are classed as white-collar workers. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 7 HOME OF ABILITY TO WORK We also formulated clear company goals in the Strategic Aquafin Management Plan (SAMP), which were commuThe “home of ability to work” is the metaphor that Aquafin nicated across the whole organisation. These goals were uses for its HR policy. It comprises all the elements needed then translated into team goals and goals at an individual to feel good about work. The company engaged in specific level. In this way, everyone is clear about how their work campaigns based on each of these elements. contributes to the company’s results. Why work for Aquafin? > Clean watercourses and a living environment in Ability to work harmony with water? You see the results of your work right away! > Here, you share ideas with management and take Work the initiative. > Do you want to develop further in your job or would you rather change roles? You’re in the Standards and values driving seat of your career. > You belong to a warm company, with a family atmosphere and strong team spirit. Competencies Health Work-life balance © Vlaamse overheid > Competencies: Encouraging personal development through job rotation, job crafting, career planning, informal learning, knowledge sharing, etc. > Health: Physical workability and a psychosocial well-being policy > Work-life balance: Working independently of location and time within a clear agreement framework Regarding the “Work” element, in 2016, Aquafin began a review of its remuneration policy in close consultation with the trade union partners. This exercise continues in 2017. 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environment > Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Aquafin is responsible for the development and management of the regional infrastructure for the treatment of domestic waste water in Flanders. We also offer the same services for the municipal sewer system. The water we discharge into a watercourse following treatment must comply with Flemish standards, which are even stricter than European ones. In 2016, 98.99% of waste water treatment plants complied with all applicable standards. But incidents can also be caused by factors such as That’s an excellent result, the best for years. However, technical problems, power failures, illegal discharges into the situation didn’t look so good after the first half of the sewer system by external parties, etc. the year all down to a very wet spring. Dilution of the waste water with connected rainwater has a major impact We follow up all alerts very closely and are able to keep on the meeting of standards. In periods of heavy rainfall, intervention times very short. Every quarter, we also concentrations of substances to be removed are often analyse reported incidents internally to learn from them already below the treatment standard. In order to still and formulate actions. comply with the removal percentages, in the past, expensive chemicals often had to be added to the treatment process, despite the excellent quality of the treated waste water. In 2016, Aquafin and its Ecological > Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives Regulator at the Flemish Environment Agency reached to promote greater environmental responsibility. agreement on a different way of calculating the removal percentages, which reduces the impact of dilution on treatment results. The fact that fewer chemicals have to be added now is good news for the environment too. Aquafin’s infrastructure works inevitably cause disruption to local residents, retailers and passing traffic. They often fail All critical elements of Aquafin’s waste water treatment to make the connection with the positive outcome for plants and pumping stations are monitored constantly by the environment. So we inform them in detail about why alarms. Online controls enable the treatment process to be our works are necessary and listen to their concerns and adjusted very quickly if required. requirements. Our Contact Centre is the first point of contact for citizens with questions and reports. Before the Even with close monitoring, incidents can happen. In accorlaunch of a project with an impact on the surrounding area, dance with the Management Agreement with the Flemish we organise an information evening during which, together Region, Aquafin must report every incident in which with the project partners, we explain the purpose of the untreated waste water spills into a watercourse and/or works and outline how the works will progress and which the meeting of standards is in jeopardy to the Flemish diversions will be set up. Environment Agency. Of the 547 reports we made to the Flemish Environment Agency last year, 359 had an Aquafin wants to present its mission and vision to people ecological impact. In total, we lost 9,865 population who aren’t affected by our infrastructure works too, so that equivalents of pollution load, 15% more than in 2015. they are familiar with the purpose of our works. In 2016, 627 group tours took place of several of our waste water Both the total number of incidents and the number of treatment plants equipped for this purpose. We invite incidents with an ecological impact are significantly higher local residents to come and take a look at new waste than the previous year, also due to the wet spring. In case water treatment plants and take a tour to learn about the of excessive rain, the probability of washing away of clay treatment process. In 2016, we organised nine neighbourand blocking of pumps increases. hood tours. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 9 To make the general public even more aware of the importance of good water quality, we also work with Natuurpunt. In the summer of 2017, we invited people to play “bingo by the stream”. They could tick off the animals and plants they spotted on a scorecard. The perfect opportunity to find out about aquatic life and the need for clean watercourses. A changing climate means that we are increasingly faced with problems to do with water quantity. Overijse commissioned Aquafin to draw up a stormwater plan to ensure that stormwater flowing down a hillside could no longer cause flooding in the centre. The municipality had already opened up the IJse again in the centre and created a pond, which serves as a storage basin. Specially for primary schools, Aquafin joined up with MOS (Milieuzorg op School) to mark World Toilet Day Aquafin took great care to make the event itself sustainable (19 November) by organising a competition in which (vegetarian offering, green children’s entertainment, waste they could win a makeover of their toilets. In this way, policy, etc.). We entered for OVAM’s GroenEvent (green we rewarded schools that make sustainability and event) award and were a finalist in that competition. education about rational use of water central factors in the design of their toilets. RECYCLING TREATED WASTE WATER TO TACKLE DROUGHT Due to the changing climate, we won’t only have to protect ourselves against flooding resulting from increasingly intensive downpours. Climatologists are also predicting lengthy periods of drought during which water resources will come under pressure. In addition, Flanders is one of the most sensitive regions to water stress in Europe, partly due to high population density and dramatically low groundwater levels in some areas. During the extreme drought in June 2017, Aquafin strongly made the case of the recycling of treated waste water in the press. It is actually perfectly usable for applications not requiring drinking water quality and can be upgraded to any quality. Many farmers and other businesses gratefully took up MAKING ROOM FOR WATER Aquafin’s offer. Demand was particularly high in West HIGHLIGHTED AT CHAP’EAU Flanders, where a ban on collecting surface water applied for a while. Together with municipalities and provincial For the third year in a row, Aquafin organised “Chap’eau”, councils, Aquafin will now investigate how treated waste together with the municipalities, the Flemish Environment water can become a systematic alternative to other water Agency, the Flemish Region, technical partners and other sources. organisations that help to ensure clean watercourses. Chap’eau is a freely accessible event at which we celebrate progress in water quality at a different location each year. In 2016 it was the turn of Overijse, where water is also given its proper place in public spaces. After all it’s not just good water quality that’s a challenge. 10 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Raising awareness through support for water projects in developing countries Our passion for clean watercourses extends beyond national borders. We want to help improve access to clean drinking water and hygienic sanitation for all. Every year, our shareholder makes a budget available to support water projects in developing countries. One of the criteria for supporting a project financially is that our own employees get the opportunity to volunteer for the project. And the project owners receive free professional advice into the bargain. Or extra helping hands such as in the project in Kenya (photo), where several colleagues laid the necessary drainage pipes together with non-profit organisation Kitanda, for example. We also work with the ngo Protos and the non-profit organisation Young Water Solutions, for example. GREATER BIODIVERSITY ON OUR Aquafin has also joined in with the “Lean and green” OPERATING SITES project in which we commit to reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% in five years through more sustainable mobility. Aquafin runs more than 300 waste water treatment plants. Through sustainable grounds management and Thanks to satellite offices and flexible workplaces, Aquafin creation of flower meadows and amphibian ponds, we try aims to reduce the number of kilometres travelled to and to increase biodiversity on our operating sites. A master’s from work and on business. In 2016, we decided to move degree student is currently designing a biodiversity plan our satellite office in Ghent to a different location which for our plant at Lokeren as an internship assignment. is more energy-efficient and more accessible by public This plan will advise us about how we can raise the nature transport. value of this location even further. WORKING TOWARDS GREENER > Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the MOBILITY development and diffusion of environmentally Through all kinds of initiatives, Aquafin aims to encourage friendly technologies. as many employees as possible to move around in as environmentally friendly a manner as possible while travelling to and from work and during working hours. Throughout 2016, on average, 160 employees cycled to and REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION from work on a regular basis. The company has acquired Water treatment is an energy-intensive process. The energy two e-bikes for short journeys out of head office and an bill for Aquafin’s treatment activities accounts for around LNG car and an electric car for longer journeys. Employees a quarter of our total operating costs. for whom a company car forms part of their salary package can now opt for an environmentally friendly car and are In 2011, Aquafin’s Management Committee and Board of incentivised to do so via a higher budget. Directors approved the energy policy statement, aimed at cutting primary energy consumption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 11 In line with the European climate objectives and the In 2015, 36% of the non-digested sludge and the sludge commitment of Belgium, Aquafin aims to achieve the that remains after the sludge digestion process was following energy-related goals by 2020, compared with dried in our own sludge drying plants in Deurne, the reference year of 2010: Houthalen or Leuven. We supply the dried sludge to the cement industry in the form of granules or pellets 1. Reduce consumption of primary energy by 20% for co-incineration in cement furnaces, to replace 2. Generate 13% of green electricity fossil fuels. 3. Reduce transportation by 20% 3. Reduce transportation by 20% 1. 20% less primary energy In order for the excess sludge produced during the Once again in 2016, Aquafin carried out a number of treatment process to be processed, it needs to be projects leading to a reduction in the energy consumptransported to centralised processing plants. The less tion of our waste water treatment plants. For example, water the sludge contains, the lower the volume and we systematically replaced our old aeration systems therefore the less transportation is required. Aquafin with new, low-energy fine bubble aeration. We also therefore does all it can to reduce the dry solids content formulated further campaigns to reduce consumption. of the sludge. In 2016, the liquid sludge content increased further to 4.89%, from 4.07% in 2010. The number of Aquafin reached an agreement with the Flemish Region kilometres driven with liquid sludge is 560,000 km about establishing an Energy Fund. This fund’s resources lower than in 2010, for the same quantity of sludge. are invested in projects aimed at saving energy. This may include more efficient devices or processes that can The efforts we make to reduce our energy consumption reduce our energy consumption or investments enabling not only have a financial impact but also help to reduce us to generate energy ourselves. The only condition is our ecological footprint. The following estimate was that the payback period must not be longer than made of the CO2 emissions of our business based on 9 years. In 2017, we aim to replace several energythree scopes or sources: intensive blowers in aeration basins with lower energy • Scope 1: direct discharge, for which Aquafin itself is models. In future, the energy savings we make ourselves responsible. will be able to top up the Energy Fund. More major • Scope 2: indirect emissions from purchased electricity. modifications of the infrastructure have to be included • Scope 3: all other indirect emissions from sources in the Optimisation Programme awarded to Aquafin beyond the control of Aquafin each year by the Flemish Region. 2. Generate 13% of green electricity SOURCES TONNE CO2-EQ Through the digestion of sludge, a by-product of water 2015 2016 treatment, Aquafin can generate its own green electricity. Scope 1 This proportion is rising year by year and exceeded Natural gas 6,820 6,681 132 GWH, total electricity consumption, in 2016. Heating oil 538 452 The company is investigating how the yield from Fuel for company vehicles 2,312 2,533 sludge digestion can be increased further. CH4-emission* 48,026 54,211 N2O-emission* 75,811 70,188 Scope 2 Electricity 40,610 32,220 Scope 3 Fuel for transportation of sludge 2,535 2,667 Use of chemicals 9,566 14,832 * Flat rate based on loads processed 12 UN GLOBAL COMPACT WWTP AS A RECYCLING PLANT Domestic waste water Watercourse Waste water treatment plants Drinking water production ↘ Basis for drinking water ↘ Ultrapure water Sludge granules ↘ Cement industry Phosphorus ↘ Fertilizers C Carbon ↘ Biocoal Cellulose ↘ Bioplastics ↘ Insulation materials Electricity COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 13 Anti-corruption > Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption, extortion and bribery are prohibited under Belgian law, which we respect at Aquafin. The internal auditor, external auditor and the financial regulator for the Flemish Region all supervise the company. RECOVERY OF RAW MATERIALS The internal auditor carries out quality audits on the Scarcity of natural resources and the continuing quest for procedures followed within the company. Ernst & Young renewable energy are without a doubt among the greatest Assurance Services have been appointed as external auditors challenges of the 21st century. Heat from waste water and of the financial statements. The financial regulator for the residue of materials found in it turn a waste water the Flemish Region checks the invoices falling under the treatment plant into a potential recycling plant. Aquafin is Management Agreement with the Flemish Region. a partner in many projects designed to test techniques for recovering raw materials and energy from the water Aquafin has produced a supplement to the terms of treatment process. For instance, phosphorus is a mineral employment on the subject of conflicts of interest. During of which natural reserves are under severe threat. It is the past year, an integrity policy has also been developed abundantly present in urine and could therefore be and will be introduced in the company during 2017. recovered via the treatment process. Together with European partners, we are investigating various ways: from the sludge mass, from sludge water and even from the ashes of incinerated sludge. The organic matter in waste water also has potential for creating raw materials. For instance, it is possible to ferment domestic waste water and water treatment sludge to form volatile fatty acids. These are then used to produce bioplastic, omega 3 fatty acids for the food industry and microbial oils. Aquafin is involved in the European research project “Volatile” around this theme. The toilet paper we flush away leaves its trace in water treatment too. The cellulose left behind makes a perfect ingredient for insulation materials and bioplastic. We have a test set-up for the recovery of cellulose and are looking into possible outlets with the Dutch water boards. Following a positive feasibility study, we began a detailed study in conjunction with the City of Antwerp and energy grid operator Eandis to heat a new district of Antwerp with heat from the sewage which Aquafin collects and treats at the plant in Deurne. When the system is fully operational, up to 4,000 tonnes of CO2 will be prevented. 14 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Code of Conduct for CIRCULAR PURCHASING WITH service providers GREEN DEAL Aquafin has joined Vlaanderen Circulair’s “Green Deal Circular Purchasing” programme aimed at maximum The company is obviously fully in control of compliance with cooperation to close cycles. Together with all actors in the the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact as far as Aquafin life-cycle of a product, we aim to find dynamic, flexible itself is concerned. Since we also expect service providers with solutions which meet consumers’ constantly changing and which we work to apply these principles, we incorporate a often temporary requirements. The ultimate aim is to Code of Conduct into each set of specifications. This contains throw away less while aiming for maximum retention of the basic requirements to be fulfilled by service providers product value, components and materials. Initially, Aquafin with respect to their responsibility to stakeholders and the will design two purchasing accounts around this concept. environment. Aquafin reserves the right to request a selfassessment or to carry out checks at any time. The Code of Conduct comprises the following rules: SUSTAINABLE WORK CLOTHING Twenty colleagues who themselves wear work clothing are 1. Compliance with the law helping design the new work clothing currently being 2. Ban on corruption and bribery developed. The clothing not only has to be attractive and 3. Respect for employees’ basic human rights practical, we are also determined to go for the most 4. Ban on child labour sustainable option. Durability and avoiding micro-plastics 5. Employees’ health and safety are already major criteria. We are also investigating the 6. Protection of the environment possibility of recycling the current clothing, which is being 7. Endeavour to ensure compliance with the Code of discarded, to make insulation materials, for example, Conduct within their own supply chain and noninstead of destroying it. discrimination in the selection and treatment of their own suppliers Aquafin’s Corporate Governance Charter is available at A new lease of life for ICT equipment www.aquafin.be. In 2016, Aquafin donated old ICT equipment to Out of Use, which recycles it in a sustainable manner into new raw materials. For each laptop or PC, Natuurpunt purchases 1m² of land and plants a tree on it. With the equipment we donated in 2016, our employees were able to plant 110 trees in November. After the purchase of new laptops in the spring of 2017, Aquafin donated the old equipment partly to Close The Gap and partly to Flemish schools. Clean watercourses for subsequent generations and a living environment in harmony with water. Aquafin NV Dijkstraat 8 2630 Aartselaar 03 450 45 11 www.aquafin.be Publisher: Jan Goossens, general manager, Aquafin NV, Dijkstraat 8, 2630 Aartselaar.
