Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 2017 PREFACE BY THE CEO The Vaillant Group combines its sustainability activities to form a strategic programme – S.E.E.D.S. This involves setting binding, measurable targets, deriving specific measures and continuously reviewing the results obtained in relation to four fields of focus: Environment, Employees, Development & Products, and Society. All activities are Group-wide and transparent. In view of the above, our membership of the United Nations Global Compact represents a conscious step towards increased transparency and visible corporate responsibility. The initiative, founded by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, aims to strengthen the social commitment of businesses by inviting them to affirm a catalogue of basic values. The Vaillant Group is explicitly committed to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in the fields of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption, and undertakes to continue fostering and supporting them in its sphere of influence. We report annually on our progress in implementing the Global Compact in our day-to-day business in the form of a Communication on Progress. Furthermore, we will detail significant developments in the implementation of the Ten Principles in the Vaillant Group Sustainability Report. Remscheid, 11 October 2017 Dr Carsten Voigtländer, CEO ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This document’s purpose is to provide information on the Vaillant Group’s progress with respect to the implementation of the Ten Principles enshrined in the Global Compact in the day-to-day practice of our business. The action we have taken in this field is founded on our expressed corporate principles and our management systems. The reporting period for this Communication on Progress encompasses the Vaillant Group’s sixth year of Global Compact membership, from 15 October 2016 to 11 October 2017. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2016/2017 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 1: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • We source 100% of our Support of human rights sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing • Vaillant Group Guideline on comply with the principles volume from suppliers who the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing Principle 2: • Supplier management • Implementation of supplier that they comply with the Non-complicity in human system (pre-selection of audits on the basis of Global Compact’s rights abuses suppliers, assessment of questionnaires on social principles. The target which suppliers, purchasing terms criteria had originally been aimed and conditions, contractual for by 2020 has therefore conditions) already been achieved. • Vaillant Group Social • Approx. 180 audits Accountability Policy conducted in the supply chain during the reporting period LABOUR STANDARDS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2016/2017 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 3: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Suppliers to provide a • We source 100% of our Upholding freedom of sustainability programme written commitment to standard purchasing association and recognition • Vaillant Group Guideline comply with the principles volume from suppliers who of the right to collective on the Global Compact of the Global Compact have confirmed in writing bargaining • Supplier management • Supplier audits that they comply with the system (pre-selection of • At the main sites of the Global Compact’s suppliers, assessment of Vaillant Group, we are principles. The target Principle 4: suppliers, purchasing bound by collective which had originally been Elimination of forced and terms and conditions) agreements. Where aimed for by 2020 has compulsory labour • UK Modern Slavery Act minimum wages exist, therefore already been they are not undercut by achieved. us in remuneration. • Approx. 180 audits Principle 5: • The Group has about 70% conducted in the supply Abolition of child labour of employees covered by chain during the reporting collective bargaining period agreements, in Germany • For the first time a written about 80%. statement has been issued • UK Modern Slavery Act in which the company statement commits to the measures of the UK Modern Slavery Act. Principle 6: • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Continuous Elimination of Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, communication campaign discrimination entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s addressing all employees integrity, passion Group-wide values • HR measures adopted • Vaillant supports the Fair towards implementation of Company initiative, which the Group values requires members to (management training, commit to treating interns employee/team fairly. workshops, Spirit weeks) • Podium discussion in the Turkish national company on International Women’s Day 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2016/2017 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 7: • Multi-site certification • Annual environmental • All Vaillant Group Precautionary approach to pursuant to EN ISO 14001 audits production and R&D sites environmental challenges and OHSAS 18001 • Binding environmental are certified or part of a • S.E.E.D.S. strategic targets to be agreed and multi-site certification, sustainability programme degree of target approx. 10 system audits • Vaillant Group achievement to be conducted. Environmental Policy measured • Realisation of energy • Group-wide sustainability • All sustainability indicators efficiency and targets for 2020 in the to be incorporated into a environmental projects at Environment field of focus: central reporting tool, the a range of locations (e.g. 25% reduction in CO₂ Vaillant Group use of green electricity at emissions, 25% increase Sustainability Scorecard all German locations, in energy efficiency, 50% • Waste reduction: increased CO2 reduction of cut in water consumption Expanded use of reusable approx. 12,000 tons in and 20% in waste packaging for production 2017, daylight and T5 • Group-wide sustainability materials fluorescent tubes in targets for 2020 in the • Energy efficiency: New Bozüyük, saving 228,000 Development & Products heating systems in our kWh of electricity, field of focus: buildings to be run only on paperless office at the 80% of our sales revenues highly efficient condensing Viennese site) to be generated with devices, CHPs and • Sustainability issues highly efficient products; a technologies based on further incorporated into 15% reduction in renewable energies. Vaillant Group process greenhouse gases emitted Existing systems and map by our product portfolio; lighting technology to be • Process integration of the 15% increase in material successively modernised. 6 Green Rules to assist efficiency • Sustainability standards to the development of • Process integration of be integrated into Vaillant sustainable heating environmental issues Group processes technology • Consideration of • Improvements in key sustainability criteria within environmental indicators the scope of the and heightened 2020 Sustainable Building environmental targets (see Guideline key indicators section in the current Sustainability Report) • Locally adapting S.E.E.D.S. for the Austrian sales company GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2016/2017 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 8: Promoting • Group-wide sustainability • Suppliers to provide a • We source 100% of our environmental targets for 2020 in the written commitment to standard purchasing responsibility Environment field of focus: adhere to environmental volume from suppliers who 25% reduction in CO₂ standards have confirmed in writing emissions, 25% increase • Supplier audits that they comply with the in energy efficiency, 50% • Environmental Global Compact’s cut in water consumption responsibility taken into principles. The target and 20% in waste account to a greater extent which had originally been • Group-wide sustainability when selecting suppliers aimed for by 2020 has targets for 2020 in the and service providers therefore already been Development & Products • Internal, Group-wide achieved. field of focus: competition for the • Approx. 180 audits 80% of our sales revenues S.E.E.D.S. Award conducted in the supply to be generated with • Sustainability to be a chain during the reporting highly efficient products; a compulsory part of period 15% reduction in vocational training and of • Sustainability Brochure greenhouse gases emitted Corporate Basics induction reissued and distributed by our product portfolio; training for new employees via customer forums, sales 15% increase in material • Vaillant Group is involved partners and industry fairs efficiency in a range of initiatives and • We have worked with • Vaillant Group Corporate networks whose purpose is installers to hold Responsibility Framework to work towards workshops on sustainable • Vaillant Group vision responsible management corporate governance. “Taking care of a better of natural resources. For • Support provided to climate. Inside each home example, the company is a environmental community and the world around it.” partner organisation of projects at a range of German sustainability company locations conference, “Deutscher (examples: fitting Nachhaltigkeitstag”, and is technology in the SOS a member of the German Children’s Villages in Association of Germany, Austria, Environmental Macedonia in line with a Management (B.A.U.M. Group-wide strategic e.V.) and of the partnership) Sustainability Leadership • Integrating improvement Forum convened by suggestions concerning B.A.U.M. e.V. / Centre for sustainability into idea Sustainability Management management at Leuphana University, • Internal network of Lüneburg. international Sustainability Ambassadors to promote GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2016/2017 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS • The Vaillant Group is a the objective of using strategic partner of SOS sustainable practices in all Children’s Villages Intl. company divisions set up • S.E.E.D.S. Ambassadors • Sustainability survey of network 140 suppliers carried out Principle 9: • S.E.E.D.S. strategic • Expansion of our portfolio • In 2016, the majority – Development and diffusion sustainability programme of high-efficiency products 66.9% – of the Vaillant of environmentally-friendly • Vaillant Group product • Training to be provided for Group’s product sales technologies strategy focusing on highinstallers revenues were generated efficiency technologies, with high-efficiency synced-up systems and technologies and renewable energies renewable energy • Group-wide sustainability systems. targets for 2020 in the • Expansion of sales of Development & Products Green iQ products, field of focus: extension of product range 80% of our sales revenues • Ongoing training on to be generated with environmentally-friendly highly efficient products; a technologies for partner 15% reduction in installers greenhouse gases emitted by our product portfolio; 15% increase in material efficiency ANTI-CORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT OUR PRINCIPLES AND MEASURES PROGRESS IN 2016/2017 PRINCIPLE SYSTEMS Principle 10: • Vaillant Group “Corporate • Group-wide compliance • Compliance training Action against corruption Governance Code” training in the field of sessions conducted in the • Vaillant Group “Code of anti-corruption field of anti-corruption: Behaviour” • Group-wide internal during the period • Vaillant Group “Antiapproval required for gifts 15.10.2016 to 11.10.2017, Corruption” Directive and benefits that are to be no training sessions were • Vaillant Group “Fraud granted to individuals conducted in Germany; 4 Response” Directive above a certain threshold training sessions were • Reviewing compliance attended by 29 participants with the Group “Antiabroad. Corruption” Directive by means of an internal Group audit • Application of the Group “Fraud Response” Directive • Vaillant Group Spirit • In-house campaign on the • Vaillant Group Spirit: Our company values Vaillant Group Spirit, Group-wide entrepreneurship, trust, promoting the company’s communication campaign integrity, passion Group-wide values addressing all employees • HR measures adopted continuously towards implementation of the Group values
