2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Accelerating Global Problem Solving 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 2 Contents Governance Environment GRI Index Message from Culture of Integrity Environment Roadmap Organizational Profile Chuck Robbins Governance and CSR Priorities Environmental Sustainability Strategy Materials Ethics and Integrity Our Story Society Energy and GHG Emissions Governance Strategy and Priorities Product End of Life and Waste from Operations Stakeholder Engagement The Details Attracting, Keeping, and Sharing Great Talent Water Use Reporting Practice Inclusion and Collaboration Biodiversity and Land Use Economic Community Impact Non-GHG Emissions Environmental Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Effluents (Liquid) Social Strategic Social Investments Appendix UNSDG Index Socioeconomic Research United Nations Sustainable Human Rights Development Goals chart (UNSDG) Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 3 A message from Chuck Robbins We have a bold aspiration to positively impact one billion people around the world by 2025, and I’m FY17 excited that we are well on our way to achieving that •4 4% of Cisco employees volunteered or made goal. In the pages ahead, you will learn about the charitable donations—up 7% from FY16 impact we’re making, and the programs we are driving •1 .3 million students worldwide participated in As I reflect on the progress we made in fiscal year 2017, around the world. To help us accelerate our progress, we’re also building a network of global problem Cisco Networking Academy—marking 20 years I’ve never been more certain that what is good for people, solvers—innovators, entrepreneurs, and change agents— of changing worlds society, and the planet is good for business. across Cisco and in communities around the globe, •$  355 million in corporate and Cisco Foundation cash and this report details our work with these key partners. and in-kind contributions The second half of our report covers the details of our It’s clear that our world is more connected, and • Positively impacted more than 154 million people FY17 CSR performance, as well as our strategy interconnected, than ever before, and that trend is through investments in technology based programs and goals. growing, with an estimated 500 billion devices and of nonprofit organizations things projected to be connected to the Internet by The future is ours to build, and we have the capability 2030. Explosive growth in innovations like augmented to shape it responsibly. Join us as we leverage our •A  chieved our 2013-2017 Scope 1 and 2 GHG reducreality, virtual reality, artificial intelligence, and the technology, expertise, and relationships to build a tion goals, and set new five-year targets aligned with Internet of Things is also transforming our global network of global problem solvers to help create an the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change landscape in unprecedented ways. inclusive and sustainable world. These advancements create tremendous business opportunities—but we cannot consider them in isolation. Sincerely, While we are delivering innovation to our customers, and focusing on growth, it is imperative for us to consider how all that we do makes an impact on the world around us. At Cisco, that concern sits at the heart of our focus on Chuck Robbins Corporate Social Responsibility, and it is core to who we are. From our culture of integrity and inclusion, our CEO, Cisco strategic investments in building skills for the jobs of the future, and the way we manage and support our global supply chain, to how we operate in support of environmental sustainability, our CSR and business strategies are tightly integrated. Our customers expect this from us, because they want to do business with a company they believe is socially and environmentally responsible. We are committed to meeting their expectations, and we hold ourselves accountable by continuing to report our progress toward the universal principles embodied in the United Nations Global Compact. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 4 Learn more about our CSR priorities. Focused to achieve greatest impact Corporate Social Responsibility is integrated into our business strategy and functions. It’s core to our purpose, our culture, and how we invest our resources. We focus on issues most relevant to our business and where we believe we can have the greatest impact. Here are just a few: Focus Goals FY17 Progress People Achieve 80% employee engagement Employee engagement increased by about 7%, with 44% of employees Enable people to reach their full by 2020 volunteering or making charitable donations potential in a digital economy Reach two million Cisco Networking 1.3 million students in 180 countries participated in the program, a 19 percent Academy students per year by 2021 increase over FY16 Society Positively impact one billion people Our nonprofit partners report that our cash grant investments positively Scaling inclusive social and by 2025 impacted more than 154 million people in FY17. The cumulative total since we economic impact in countries announced the initiative in FY15 is 232M, which puts us at 23% of our goal. around the world Planet Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG Met five-year goals set in February 2013 to reduce total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Advancing environmentally emissions worldwide by 60% absolute emissions worldwide by 40% absolute by 2017, and to use electricity generated sustainable growth in a by 2022 (FY07 baseline) from renewable sources for at least 25% of our global electricity every year digital world through FY17 (reaching 77% in FY17). Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 85% By the end of FY17, we had invested more than $50 million in over 450 energy of our global electricity by 2022 efficiency and renewable energy projects. Cisco set a new five-year goal in-line with recommendations of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 5 Accelerating global problem solving For 33 years we have been at the center of digital transformation, making the connections that make innovation possible. This year we unveiled one of the most significant breakthroughs in enterprise networking—an intentbased network that constantly learns, adapts, and protects. This new intuitive network is the result of thousands of smart, talented, passionate Cisco “ employees working together to imagine what’s possible and solve what was considered unsolvable. Empowering our employees to tackle big challenges is one way we’re accelerating global problem solving. Empowering a global community of problem solvers— customers, partners, nonprofits, and everyday people— In a digitally connected world anyone is how we take it to scale. In our dynamic, hyper-connected digital world, anyone can be a global problem solver. By can become a global problem solver. At Cisco, we turn that opportunity into action. combining the power of the network We’re well on our way to positively impacting one billion people by 2025. We’re focused on helping people develop the digital skills to participate, innovate, with innovative, entrepreneurial, and and thrive in the digital economy. We’re investing in breakthrough, early-stage, technology-based solutions passionate people, we accelerate solutions that create positive change.” that address social and environmental challenges and have the potential to scale, replicate, and be sustainable. And we’re working with governments, educational institutions, customers, NGOs, and other partners to support progress and drive inclusive growth. Tae Yoo Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and CSR, Cisco 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 6 We foster an open, trusting, equitable, and inclusive community where diverse thoughts, ideas, and 44% of employees volunteered or obstacles are shared and heard. We take a “one-sizemade donations fits-one” approach that enables everyone to play to their unique strengths and career aspirations. 46% We want people to grow at Cisco, so we invest in creating leaders and fostering high-performance teams. We focus on helping people be at their best every day. This includes creating a community, Team Space, where employees can share priorities, challenges, and goals, and request the support they diversity on our Executive need. We enable employees to assess their strengths, Leadership Team and to better understand the strengths of their teammates. Empowering our people to We encourage our people to take an entrepreneurial approach to problem solving. We created the 48% companywide Innovate Everywhere Challenge, where lead and innovate “Cisco Founders” can share and develop innovative ideas, and “Cisco Angels” help and invest in developing those ideas. of employees The people of Cisco are passionate about sharing their participated At Cisco, we share a simple cultural agreement: Connect time and talents to help others in the community. We in the Innovate want everyone to have Time2Give, so we offer full-time Everywhere everything. Innovate everywhere. Benefit everyone. Cisco employees five days off per year to volunteer. In Challenge Creativity and innovation require diverse talents, FY17, over 12,000 employees used their Time2Give experiences, and perspectives. Our executive benefit to solve problems and improve lives—from leadership team is one of the most diverse in our building homes in Romania and working with migrant industry, and today Cisco has the most diverse families in China, to judging a school’s science fair. workforce we’ve had since 2000. Fair, inclusive, Did you know? #WeAreCisco See what makes us special. and competitive pay is a top commitment. We Chuck Robbins was one of the first have a robust system to analyze and evaluate our executives to sign The Multiplier Effect compensation. Where we see gaps, we fix them. Pledge challenging leaders to sponsor one diverse person to the next level in their career. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 7 “We are focused on growing individual strengths and skills for career growth and development, helping our leaders build world class teams and driving innovation by aligning teams across the company to win together. This is Our People Deal and how we create the best employee and team experience.” Fran Katsoudas Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer, Cisco 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 8 Solving industry challenges “Encrypted Traffic Finding malware in encrypted traffic is Analytics (ETA) is a one of the biggest challenges facing huge advancement network security. in Cisco’s goal to use The encryption that protects private data, also protects the network to apply malware from detection. Cisco Fellow David McGrew security everywhere. and his team of data scientists took on the challenge— And I’m excited to and solved it. By combining machine learning with Cisco’s massive networking traffic data set, the work with Cisco’s team figured out how to recognize malware without product teams on decrypting information. This innovation, Encrypted Traffic Analytics (ETA), is now part of one of the most new ways to use the ” significant breakthroughs in enterprise networking: network to detect and Cisco’s The Network. Intuitive. stop malware. David McGrew Fellow, Advanced Security Research Group, Cisco 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 9 GOALS Addressing issues that • Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 60% absolute by 2022 (FY07 baseline) impact our planet • Use electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 85% of our global electricity by 2022 Solving the world’s most pressing environmental challenges is a business and CSR priority. The earth’s natural cycles— carbon, resource, and biological—are being disrupted. And these disruptions impact people, society, the planet, and in turn, our global economy. 41% Cisco is uniquely positioned to help address the issues that impact our planet. As a business, we set longterm goals to reduce the environmental impacts from our products and operations, and work with our supply Absolute reduction in chain partners to reduce their impact and increase Cisco Scope 1 and 2 their energy efficiency. We responsibly manage the GHG emissions life cycle of our products and solutions, and implement Learn more about our worldwide from FY07 baseline to FY17 circular economy principles to conserve the earth’s environmental strategy, resources. We drive continual improvement in our goals and progress. 80% business processes and offerings to address our environmental impacts using a certified Environmental Management System. And we engage employees as problem solvers—empowering them to innovate solutions and participate in actions, such as reducing of FY17 Cisco global or even eliminating paper cup use, that make a electricity consumption from renewable sources meaningful difference at work and in communities around the world. Our broader opportunity for positive impact comes from enabling our customers to work more efficiently and effectively with a smaller environmental footprint. B  y the end of FY17, we had invested more This comes from offering better alternatives, such as than $50 million in over 450 energy efficiency workplace collaboration, teleworking, and mobility and renewable energy projects. See Energy solutions. We are also using technology in innovative and GHG Emissions data for more details. ways to address threats to the biological cycles of our planet. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 10 Solving threats to species In some cultures, rhino horns are believed to have medicinal powers. This inflates the demand and price of horns, making these animals a prime target for poachers and organized crime. With an average loss of three animals per day, the “The program started with the plight of the animals,” rhino is on a fast track to extinction by 2025. But said Neil Harris, senior manager, Cisco Systems. “So an employee team at Cisco saw the opportunity many people at Cisco care about these animals and to use our technology, know-how and passion for want to be part of protecting them. We were pushing conservation to address the threat. against an open door because Cisco cares. We can Taking an outcome-driven approach, members of the take on these types of challenges, think big, and apply Cisco team spent time in Africa, learning firsthand our technology precisely to solve the needs of those “ from the local experts about the challenges and on the ground.” needs. The issues are complex and the environment is harsh. The solution had to be adaptable, resilient, easy to operate and maintain—and not only protect the animals, but also benefit the people and communities around them. The rhinos and other animals on the reserve attract tourism, which is vital T  here is a strong ‘you can to the local economy. do it’ culture at Cisco. We The result is the Connected Conservation program have the space, support, that uses technology to track human movement in and and encouragement to think around game reserves, detecting suspicious activity before harm can occur. The program, being piloted at differently, turn issues into a popular southern Africa game reserve, has helped opportunities—and to make a reduce poaching by 96 percent since 2015. difference in the world.” Neil Harris Senior Manager, Cisco 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 11 “We all have a role to play in supporting environmental sustainability and protecting our planet. We’re committed to reducing the environmental impacts of our products and operations, while innovating solutions that support a stronger, healthier planet.” Rebecca Jacoby Senior Vice President, Operations, Cisco PHOTO COURTESY OF NRG 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 12 GOAL Our goal is to avoid 1 million metric tonne of GHG emissions from Cisco’s supply chain by 2020. In total, the Cisco Partner Energy Management program saved more than 18M kWh of energy across these two initial sites. This avoided 11,493 metric tonne CO2e, which is equivalent to the GHG emissions. One partner took an early lead in embracing the challenge. They developed and deployed their own IoT energy management system in their Thailand facility. This end-to-end energy management approach includes deploying the top industry energy management standards, engaging employees on the line, and building the system architecture to monitor Collaborating to reduce the and control energy in real-time. Cisco provided guidance for the digitization of their carbon footprint of our products manufacturing data and also prompted long-term GHG reduction goals that are connected to actionable plans. Through this process, the Thailand-based partner found they were able to strengthen their measurement and verification processes. This, in turn, validated their Connecting Cisco's IoT management solution to thousands of return on investment in energy efficiency programs, sensors at a partner's factory gave us tremendous insights paving the way with executive leadership to make even more strategic GHG reduction investments. about how our supply chain can produce our products using As the success of digitization across our extended less energy and with a smaller carbon footprint. operations grows, Cisco and our partners are boosting energy efficiency while reducing the total carbon Armed with this information, we challenged all footprint of our products. What’s more, collaborating our contract manufacturing partners to embrace with our partners and learning from our mutual success digitization within the factory by leveraging the power better enables Cisco to deliver strong IoT solutions to of the network. To keep us all on track, we set specific our customer manufacturing facilities worldwide. energy reduction goals for each of our partners and are engaging them directly to build verifiable energy Learn more about how Cisco’s supply chain manages management programs. and controls GHG emissions. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 13 Unleashing a digitally savvy Focusedoffor network greatest problem impact solvers Cisco Networking Academy Fifty billion things will be connected to the Internet by 2020—and that number will grow tenfold in the decade that follows. 7.8M Students An estimated 1.4 million new full-time jobs will emerge by 2020 for people who can solve problems, think creatively, and have the digital skills needed by IoT. Industries and markets are shifting. Regardless of 5.7 million unfilled jobs2. Nearly half of U.S. employers for the jobs of tomorrow. Innovators driven to find 22K role or business, digital skills are (or soon will be) report that they can’t find qualified candidates3. As better ways to address challenges. Entrepreneurs who a requirement. digitization expands in both developed and developing create economic opportunity while making a positive countries, demand for people with digital skills will impact in their community and beyond. Change agents There’s already a gap between employment grow exponentially. who disrupt the status quo to find a better, more opportunities and people with the skills to fill the open Educators sustainable way. positions. In the U.S., for example, there were 7 million We’re on a mission to accelerate a new era of digitally 10.4K people unemployed in March 20171—yet there were savvy problem solvers. People equipped with the skills Learn more about 1 Employment Situation Summary, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2017 our CSR priorities. Learning Institution Partners 2 Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey Highlights, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2017 3 2016-2017 Talent Shortage Survey, Manpower 2016 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 14 GOAL: Reach two million Cisco Networking Academy students per year by 2021 jobs and industry-recognized certifications. They get practical, hands-on experience as they learn, and gain the skills needed to get certified, land a job, earn a promotion, and even start their own business. We work with our partners to establish initiatives that promote workforce readiness and socioeconomic development. We believe opportunity to learn and grow must be open to everyone. We built Networking Academy to be adaptable for students with diverse abilities. Over the past decade, more than 3,000 students with disabilities have benefited from Networking Academy courses— and we want to more than triple that number to 10,000 in the next five years. We work with organizations, like Celebrating 20 years Deaf Aid, to empower students with vision, hearing, and select physical disabilities. of changing lives As the broader information technology industry sees fewer women seeking IT careers, Cisco Networking Academy sees an upward trend in female participation rates. In FY17, 24 percent of our global students were female. Some countries, such as Oman, Peru, 70% Twenty years ago, Cisco donated networking equipment United Arab Emirates, Nigeria, and Tunisia saw female to a local school. We quickly learned that technology, participation rates of 40-70 percent. without the skills to use it, is of little value. We set Networking Academy students are sought after by employers seeking entry-level IT talent. Through of Networking Academy students out to change that in a big way. our Talent Bridge employment program, we connect who complete Foundational and Career-Ready courses land new We created Cisco Networking Academy and proved Cisco and our channel partners with qualified talent or better jobs, take on increased that technology, when combined with education, from around the world. Since 2016, more than 1,200 responsibility, or earn higher pay. students have found jobs through Talent Bridge. changes lives. Two decades and more than 7.8 million students later, Learn more about Cisco Networking Academy and be the Networking Academy program has expanded to inspired by the stories of global problem solvers. 180 countries. Working with educational institutions across the globe, we prepare students for entry-level 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 15 Fostering socially aware problem solvers Nineteen years ago, teachers Jeff Mason and Rod Thompson brought Cisco Networking Academy to students at Newport High School in Bellevue, Washington. Through Networking Academy's programs with Bellevue Community College and Clark College, high school students can earn college credits while preparing for their Cisco certification. Newport High School offers courses that prepare students for three certifications: CCNA Routing and Switching, CCNP Routing and Switching, and CCNA Security. All students are expected to take the certification exam in the class in which they are enrolled—and the results are impressive. Seventy-eight percent of these high school students earned their certifications last year. “I would do senior year What’s particularly unique about this program is the one more time just to experiential learning that happens far beyond Newport go on this trip again. High. Each year, the teachers take 14 students to work in underserved communities around the world for two That’s how much this weeks. Past trips have benefited people in Antigua, means to me. I will Slovakia, Turkey, and Uganda. Here, the students apply ” their networking and problem-solving skills as they remember this forever. design and build 25-30 Internet-connected computer labs in 10 days. The hands-on technology experience Sanya is invaluable, but the impact this program has on the Newport High School graduate students and the communities they touch is far greater. and Cisco Networking Academy student 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 16 Making strategic social investments for an inclusive digital economy Positively impacted more than 154 We take a venture-capital-like approach to making strategic social investments. Cisco Public Benefit Investment and the Cisco tracking, learning, and adjusting until the solution can Foundation support nonprofit organizations that be scaled, replicated, and sustained for impact. leverage technology to support underserved Learn more about our strategic investments and the million people communities around the world to meet critical human good work these nonprofit global problem solvers needs and disaster relief, build a digital foundation to are doing. improve education, and drive economic empowerment and an inclusive digital economy. Strategic Investment Focus Areas More than just providing essential grant funding, Cisco and the Cisco Foundation support these nonprofit •C  ritical human needs organizations technical and managerial expertise. We and disaster relief work alongside the nonprofit organization, testing, • Educational opportunity • Economic empowerment 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 17 Opportunity International (Opportunity) is a global nonprofit that empowers people living in poverty to transform their lives, their children’s futures, and their communities through financial products, services, and training. Opportunity believes access to financial services—coupled with training and other key initiatives—leads to increased economic activity in the poor communities they serve. Their clients are primarily poor women, farmers, and rural young people who achieve increases in productivity and incomes that allow them to invest in education, food, housing, health, and small business. Cisco previously provided Opportunity with seed funding to design and pilot digital mobile money solutions in three countries in Africa. In just over Supporting access to two years, that program scaled to reach more than 400,000 people in six countries. Based on the success economic opportunity of this initiative, Cisco expanded its program with Opportunity, providing multi-year support including cash grants, donations of Cisco technology, and expertise to apply digitization solutions to transform the organization’s global operations. Cisco’s support More than 2.5 billion people globally are unbanked. will enable Opportunity to improve efficiency in its Of these, up to 2 billion have access to a mobile phone and business operations, scale operations to connect more people to financial services, deepen the impact of its would benefit from mobile financial services. programs, and enhance impact evaluation. This will Mobile financial services enable the unbanked to enable Opportunity to achieve its goal of creating access financial products and services, and contribute 20 million jobs and positively impacting 100 million to economic growth. A Boston Consulting Group lives by 2020. study that examined the impact of mobile financial This is just one example of Cisco’s strategic social services across multiple countries found that mobile investments impacting the world. Learn more about our financial services have the power to increase gross full portfolio of investments. domestic product (GDP) by up to 5 percent (Telenor Group 2012). 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 18 Mary Elizabeth McCulloch, Student, Pennsylvania State University The Voz Box uses wearable sensors and Bluetooth technology to create a network around the person that can detect small movements. The sensors can be placed anywhere on the body—finger, elbow, knee, foot, eye—and can be recalibrated for different placements as user needs change. The network connects to a small, portable multi-lingual speechgenerating device. It does not require an Internet connection to operate, making it accessible to more people in the world. Mary Elizabeth’s innovative, problem-solving device Investing in social and was the US$100,000 Grand Prize winner of the inaugural 2017 Global Problem Solver Challenge. The Challenge recognized 10 teams of post-secondary environmental entrepreneurs students and recent graduates whose ideas use the IoT to create breakthrough technologies, products, and services that drive economic development, solve social and environmental problems, and promote inclusion. Working at an orphanage in Ecuador where children and adults Our mission with this competition is to provide visibility, with disabilities were unable to speak, Pennsylvania State funding, and encouragement to help these social University student Mary Elizabeth McCulloch became inspired entrepreneurs advance their innovations to solve Meet our other to give a voice to those without. pressing problems in their community and around the 2017 Challenge Winners world, and to help them become job creators as their businesses grow and thrive. More than 1100 students Traditional speech devices can be expensive, making and recent graduates from 450 schools across six them out of reach for the millions of people who need continents registered in the 2017 Challenge. them. Mary Elizabeth and her team at Project Vive set out to make an affordable speech-generating device that would respond to the unique and changing capabilities of each user. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 19 Accelerating an inclusive digital economy Public universities are essential to preparing the leaders, innovators, and entrepreneurs of tomorrow. We believe they also play a vital role in enabling local economic development. In 2016, we began working with Arizona State from the Cisco corporate advised fund at Silicon Valley universities play a lead role in shaping new ideas University (ASU), to empower minority youths to Community Foundation, the program provides students and industries that create the jobs of the future. We succeed in their education and careers. The ASU with Cisco curriculum as well as career and college encourage these universities to collaborate with local Poder (which means “power” in Spanish) initiative preparation training. industries, government agencies, NGOs, community gives underserved community college students the colleges, and schools, to close skills gaps and foster The collaboration with ASU laid the foundation for opportunity to be global problem solvers—creating job growth, incubate innovation, and encourage an a broader public university grant-making program, solutions to pressing societal problems by harnessing entrepreneurial approach to problem solving. which we launched in FY17. Our intent is to help public the power of technology. Supported by grant funding 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 20 Solving problems together We made a tremendous amount of progress in 2017, which we hope you will explore in more detail in the section that follows. Yet we know there’s much more opportunity ahead. Through our CSR programs, we will continue to focus on issues most relevant to our business and where we believe we can make the greatest impact: enabling people to reach their full potential in the digital economy; partnering to scale positive, inclusive social and economic impact in countries around the world; and advancing environmentally sustainable growth in a “In today’s world, connected world. innovative solutions There has never been a better time to be a global can be developed by problem solver. The IoT, augmented reality, artificial anyone, anywhere— intelligence, mobile, cloud—our world is connected, and interconnected, like never before. The opportunities and then scaled to are infinite. We believe impact multiplies and help people around innovative solutions arise when passionate people and transformative technology come together. By the world. This is the empowering a network of talented, innovative, power of connection, entrepreneurial problem solvers to capitalize on ” digitization, we can unlock the potential for all people to and no one connects be included, and for society and the planet to thrive for better than Cisco. generations to come. Chuck Robbins CEO, Cisco 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 21 The Details In “Our Story,” we discussed our strategy for addressing CSR’s greatest challenges and accelerating global problem solving. Here in “The Details,” we transition into a format tailored to analysts and investors, who are typically seeking more detail on the three pillars of our performance: Governance, Society, and Environment. This part of the report sets out our strategy, goals, and progress on Cisco’s CSR strategy. Report Scope and Boundary Assurance Strategy, Goals and Progress GRI 102-50 GRI 102-56 This report closes out on a number of 3-year CSR This report covers fiscal year results for the period The data in the Environment chapter are subject goals that were established in 2015. Our new goals, ended July 29, 2017. Data includes all of our operations to internal and external audits in line with our which were profiled in Our Story, are explained in more around the world, unless otherwise stated. Some Environmental Management System and ISO 14001 detail throughout The Details where applicable. data have been rounded. Monetary figures are in U.S. requirements. Data that supports public commitments, dollars unless otherwise noted. such as our goals to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) How to Use This Report emissions, are subject to external assurance. You can navigate between chapters using the links in Defining Report Content In addition, our Cisco Foundation, which provides the document header. You can also enable Bookmarks GRI 102-46 grants for our social investments, is audited annually. in your Adobe reader for a detailed navigation function. We focus on the CSR topics that are most important Recommended software: Adobe Acrobat Version 7.0 to our business and our stakeholders in our CSR GRI Index and above. reporting. These topics are identified, prioritized, Cisco’s 2017 CSR report addresses General and and validated through a formal, annual CSR Materiality Assessment in alignment with the Global Reporting Specific Standard disclosures from the GRI Standards. Further Information A full index of alignment with the GRI Standards Initiative (GRI) Standards. We use this report as a key For more information on Cisco’s CSR activities, visit disclosures is available in the GRI Index. communications vehicle to share how we are managing csr.cisco.com. and measuring our progress on those important topics, as well as to respond to a broad set of stakeholder UNSDGs Index expectations and inquiries we receive throughout Many aspects of Cisco’s CSR strategy support the the year. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDGs). The alignment of our CSR commitments and programs with the UNSDGs is provided in the UNSDG Index. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 22 Key CSR Goals and Progress Figure 1. Key CSR Goals And Progress SOCIETY Number of People Positively Impacted 300 2.00 50% 44% Students Enrolled Per Year 250 232 37% Employee Engagement 40% 1.50 200 33% 1.33 30% 150 1.00 1.00 1.09 (millions cummulative) (millions) (percentage) 20% 100 78 0.50 50 N/A 10% (Goal Started in FY16) 0 0.00 0% FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 GOAL: GOAL: GOAL: Positively Impact 1 billion people Reach 2 million Cisco Networking Achieve 80% employee engagement by 2025 Academy students per year by 2021 (volunteering and donations) by 2020 ENVIRONMENT Percentage of Used Electricity Avoided Supply Chain GHG Emissions 0% 82.0% 1,000,000 Percentage GHG Emission 80.0% 80% -10% 800,000 78.0% 77% 711,980 -20% 76.0% 600,000 -19% 500,170 -30% 74.0% Reduction from FY07 Baseline Generated from Renewable Sources (cummulative metric tonne CO2e) -40% -33% 72.0% 71% 400,000 337,975 70.0% -50% -41% 200,000 68.0% -60% 66.0% 0 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 GOAL: GOAL: GOAL: Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 & 2 GHG Use electricity generated from renewable Avoid 1 million metric tonne of GHG emissions worldwide by 60% absolute sources for at least 85% of our global emissions in our supply chain between by FY22 (FY07 baseline) electricity by FY22 FY12 and FY20 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 23 Governance Governance Society Environment To operate successfully, we must have the trust of all of our stakeholders. This includes our employees, GRI Index customers, shareholders, partners, and suppliers, as well as the governmental and non-governmental UNSDG Index organizations we work with, and the communities in which we operate. Our culture of integrity and our Culture of Integrity commitment to excellence in corporate governance provide the foundation for us to earn that trust. parties they engage to provide services to Cisco, will Governance And CSR Priorities Culture of Integrity act in accordance with the Supplier Ethics Policy. We have also adopted the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) (formerly Electronics Industry GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 required to certify compliance with the COBC each Citizenship Coalition) Supplier Code of Conduct Our culture of integrity means we’re continually striving year (subject to applicable laws). In FY17, over 99.9% (the Code). The Code sets baseline expectations that to achieve the highest standards of ethical conduct of our eligible employees completed the certification. promote trust and underpin our “direct” supply chain in all of our business dealings. To live up to this, we relationships, i.e. those suppliers responsible for Employees must also complete relevant compliance are committed to maintaining an environment where sourcing, manufacturing, and distributing our products. and ethics trainings, including annual trainings on antieveryone is expected to act ethically, and where people It is a foundational element of our Supplier Ethics corruption and human rights. We provide additional can voice concerns without fear of retaliation and with Policy and provides additional requirements in the targeted trainings throughout the year and supplement confidence that those concerns will be taken seriously. areas of labor, health and safety, environment, ethics them with functional and regional initiatives. Our Our success is built on this culture of integrity: training materials are available in multiple formats and management systems. Learn more about our customers, shareholders, and partners rely on to promote accessibility, and our campaigns are Supplier Engagement Process. our trustworthiness in the marketplace, and that trustworthiness starts within the company. reinforced with other resources (e.g., discussion forums, videos, and websites). Sharing Concerns GRI 102-17, GRI 102-33, GRI 102-34, GRI 205-3 Code of Business Conduct Ethics and Standards Ethical behavior is at the core of everything we do. and Trainings in the Supply Chain It’s critical that we cultivate an environment where employees and other stakeholders can report GRI 102-16, GRI 205-2 GRI 102-12, GRI 102-16 In FY17, concerns about suspected unethical behavior safely, Our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) reinforces Our commitment to promote and foster a culture of promptly, and confidentially (subject to applicable law). over 99.9% of our our core values and defines our expectations of ethical integrity extends to our supply chain. Our Supplier eligible employees behavior. The COBC is available in 16 languages and Ethics Policy requires Cisco suppliers and their completed certification helps guide employee behavior and decisions in an employees to conduct themselves with the highest to the Code of engaging and interactive manner. It includes an ethics standards of honesty, fairness, and personal integrity. Business Conduct. decision tree, videos, FAQs, and links to additional As part of the supplier qualification process, suppliers policies and resources. All regular employees are must acknowledge that subcontractors and any other 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 24 Governance We provide several ways for employees to share their company, we are also obligated to publicly disclose Conduct requires our suppliers to have mechanisms concerns or ask questions: (to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission) any in place that allow workers to file, track, and resolve Society violations that could be material to our business or formal grievances. We also work through industry •• Speak directly to their manager, their Human financial condition. coalitions to offer people in our extended workforce Environment Resources representative, or a member of the alternative mechanisms to call attention to Code36% We expect these same considerations to apply to our Legal team. related issues. GRI Index suppliers and their employees. The Supplier Code of •• Contact the Ethics Office by email at UNSDG Index 27% ethics@cisco.com, through our web form, by calling our global EthicsLine (available 24 hours a day Figure 2. Ethics Line FY17 Results in more than 150 languages), or by fax or mail. Figure Culture of Integrity Brand Protection 2 shows a breakdown of the inquiries made to the 4% EthicsLine in FY2017. Gift Policy Violations and Related Fraud Governance And 5% CSR Priorities Other (Data Privacy, Human Rights, Export Compliance) •• Contact Cisco’s General Counsel or the Audit 6% Employee Relations Committee of the Board of Directors. 36% Policy Issues We handle all inquiries promptly and investigate to 7% the full extent necessary. Violations of the COBC are subject to disciplinary action up to and including Conflicts of Interest termination of employment. We do not tolerate 15% retaliation against individuals raising good faith reports of misconduct or allegations of policy violation. For full transparency and integrity, the Ethics Office Ethics Concerns 27% reports all cases to the Audit Committee of the Board 0.25 0.30 0.35 0.40 of Directors, to the Executive Compliance Committee, In FY17, the Ethics Office received 951 inquiries, including questions and requests for guidance (44%), allegations of misconduct (33%), and conflict disclosures (23%). We believe this demonstrates confidence in our ethics training programs and policies, as well as an and to our independent auditors. As a publicly traded awareness of Cisco’s commitment to business integrity. The 311 total allegations were categorized as presented in the graph. Risk Management Governance and CSR Priorities GRI 102-11, GRI 102-21, GRI 102-29, GRI 102-30, GRI 102-31, GRI 102-32 Our governance policies and practices are consistent with our commitment The Board of Directors, acting directly and through its committees, is responsible for the oversight of to best-in-class practices. risk management across the business. This includes Corporate Governance Committees, financial accounting policies, tax strategy, and the Code of Business Conduct, are available in our ongoing practices and programs to manage business risks and to align risk-taking with our efforts to increase Find out more in our Key corporate governance policies and practices Annual Report and on our Investor Relations website. shareholder value. COBC. covering the election of Directors, composition and charters of the Board of Directors and Board 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 25 Our enterprise risk management (ERM) program functions set CSR goals, implement plans, and measure Figure 3. Cisco CSR Business Process Governance identifies, assesses, manages, and oversees the performance. In some cases, CSR goals and objectives response to risk, building on the internal audit may be linked to performance factors and compensation Society function’s annual risk assessment. The ERM program for CSR owners. For example, Supplier Code of Conduct BUSINESS FUNCTIONS CORPORATE AFFAIRS Environment includes executive and operating committees: performance may be considered when assessing the performance of key supply chain leaders. Per formance CSR Repor ting Measurement GRI Index ••The ERM Executive Committee consists of members Where a cross-functional approach is needed, we of senior management and oversees the identification, establish teams to implement our commitments. For UNSDG Index prioritization, aggregation, mitigation, and ownership example, our Human Rights Working Group includes Stakeholder of significant risks across the organization. Implementation experts from Supply Chain Operations, Privacy, Engagement and Analysis ••The ERM Operating Committee reports to the ERM Inclusion and Collaboration, Government Affairs, Culture of Integrity Executive Committee semi-annually. The Operating Communications, Marketing, Investor Relations, and Committee is made up of leaders from each Corporate Affairs. The group is sponsored by Mark Prioritization, Stakeholder Governance And Goals, and Feedback to CSR Priorities functional area and manages risk assessment, Chandler, Senior Vice President, General Counsel Initiatives the Business risk ranking, risk mitigation planning, and reporting. and Chief Compliance Officer. The Sustainability Executive Team (SET) is another example of a crossOther board committees oversee specific categories of functional group. SET is sponsored by Rebecca Jacoby, risk. These committees interact with the ERM Operating Senior Vice President, Operations and oversees our Committee as needed and regularly report to the Board work in environmental sustainability. of Directors. The Board of Directors regularly discusses core subjects with senior management, including Figure 4. CSR Governance and Management strategy, operations, finance, and legal and public policy matters, which all affect risk management. CEO Board of Directors and Audit Committee OVERSEES ALL BUSINESS ACTIVITIES OVERSEES CISCO'S GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROLS CSR Governance Corporate Affairs Governance, Risk and Controls GRI 102-18, GRI 102-19, GRI 102-20, CHAMPIONS CISCO’S COMPANY-WIDE COMMITMENT TO CSR CHAMPIONS ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT (“ERM”); WORKS PERFORMANCE AND TRANSPARENCY ACROSS THE BUSINESS TO IDENTIFY, ASSESS, AND MANAGE RISKS. GRI 102-26, GRI 102-32 As part of the Human Resources organization, Business Functions and Cross Functional Groups Corporate Affairs champions our commitment to CONDUCT DUE DILIGENCE AND IMPLEMENT POLICIES AND PROGRAMS FOR SPECIFIC CSR TOPICS corporate social responsibility performance and transparency. This team engages with external ETHICS INCLUSION AND HEALTH AND HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT ETC. COLLABORATION SAFETY stakeholders and leads CSR materiality assessment and reporting activities (Figure 3). They also provide guidance and coordination across business functions, SET is discussed in identify and initiate enterprise opportunities for more detail transformation or innovation, and lead the company’s Employees ANNUAL RE-CERTIFICATION TO CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT in the Policy section social investment programs. KEY: of the Environment Functions responsible As outlined in Figure 4, CSR topics are owned by for CSR activities chapter. respective business functions and integrated into Functions providing governance, ongoing business strategy and planning. Business Supply Chain and Partners risk management, and controls ONGOING ENFORCEMENT OF SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT oversight CSR policies and programs 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 26 Governance CSR Materiality Assessment Table 1. Cisco’s CSR Priorities Society GRI 102-15, GRI 102-29, GRI 102-30, GRI 102-31, GRI 102-32, GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44, GRI 102-47 People Society Planet Environment In keeping with GRI Reporting Principles, we conduct Enabling people to reach their Scaling inclusive social and Advancing environmentally an annual CSR Materiality Assessment to identify full potential in a digital economy economic impact in countries sustainable growth in a GRI Index our CSR priorities and inform CSR planning and 1. A ttracting, keeping, and sharing around the world digital world management activities as well as the scope of the great talent 1. Strategic social investments 1. Energy and greenhouse UNSDG Index annual CSR report. The results are also provided 2. Inclusion and collaboration 2. Socioeconomic research gas emissions to Governance Risk and Controls, and inform ERM 3. Community impact 3. Human rights 2. Circular economy activities. This assessment methodology follows GRI’s Culture of Integrity 4. Building skills 4. Responsible sourcing recommended process and principles, and addresses environmental, social, and governance topics that have and entrepreneurship and manufacturing Governance And an impact on our business and on society. CSR Priorities The CSR Materiality Assessment process engages CULTURE OF INTEGRITY teams across the business to identify and assess our CSR priorities. Ongoing inputs to the process include number of CSR topics linked to how they are managed We maintain regular dialogue with our key stakeholders mapping trends in CSR inquiries from customers and reported within the business. Tier 1 and 2 CSR (Table 2). Their views help us prioritize issues, better and investors, participation in industry groups and topics receive the greatest amount of investment and align our business to society’s needs, and evolve our standards development, and tracking policy and are typically sponsored and led by a senior executive. CSR strategy and programs. We also encourage our regulatory developments. In 2017, we also: Lower-tier CSR topics are those in which Cisco’s shareholders to provide feedback. •• Surveyed more than 14,000 employees, including impact is more limited and where the management of We partner with a wide range of global and local members of our early-in-career network, to the topic is incorporated into a responsible business organizations to shape and extend the reach of our understand what they considered important CSR function and its processes. CSR programs, including governments, nonprofits, topics for Cisco to address. A full list of CSR topics and a more complete multilateral organizations, and peers. We have been discussion of the 2017 CSR Materiality Assessment a strategic partner since 2002 of the World Economic •• Conducted social media listening of key CSR and outcomes are provided at the start of the Society and Forum (WEF), and our engagement with the WEF Cisco thought leaders and influencers to identify Environment chapters. The UNSDG Index shows how influences our CSR strategy and helps us learn from emerging CSR trends and how they relate to Cisco’s our CSR programs, grants and in-kind contributions others and share best practices. Other memberships technology roadmap and business strategy. we make in support of our CSR priorities, and in FY17 include: Business for Social Responsibility memberships/sponsorships map to the UN Sustainable (BSR); the Conference Board’s Sustainability Council •• Interviewed CSR experts representing customers, Development Goals. II on Products, Technologies and Solutions; the CEF partners, and NGOs. (formerly the Corporate Eco Forum); the United •• Benchmarked CSR programs at peer companies. CSR Stakeholder Engagement Nations Global Compact; and the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the EICC or Electronic Industry CSR priorities (Table 1) are evaluated for their impact and Global Forums Citizenship Coalition). on Cisco’s business, and on people, society, and the GRI 102-21, GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42, GRI 102-43, planet. CSR priorities may be broken down into a GRI 102-44 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 27 Governance Table 2. Stakeholder Engagement Public Policy and Political Society Stakeholder Groups Engagmement Forums (external) Engagmement Forums (internal) Support GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 415-1 Environment Communities Annual customer Annual internal satisfaction survey leadership summit Cisco engages with governments to help shape public CSR opinion leaders GRI Index Annual Shareholder Meeting and EthicsLine policy and regulations that support the technology Customers company reporting Functional all-hands sector and help governments meet their goals. Cisco’s Employees UNSDG Index CiscoLive Leadership Quarterly Government Affairs team develops and influences Governments and regulators Cisco CEO Leadership Council pro-technology public policies and regulations. Further Industry leaders Monthly “Cisco Beat” Cisco CIO Exchange company meeting details can be found on our Cisco Public Policy Culture of Integrity Investors Engagements website and our High Tech Policy blog. Cisco Foundation SustainX Nonprofits Cisco Platform blog Team listening: We occasionally make corporate contributions in Governance And Sales channel partners Cisco support forums • Engagement Pulse support of U.S. local and state ballot measures on CSR Priorities Suppliers Committee Encouraging Corporate • Real Deal survey issues that affect our operations. Cisco fully complies Financial Analyst Conference • Voice of the Employee with all reporting requirements regarding such contributions and discloses those contributions on a Global Customer Advisory Board • Team Space quarterly basis here. The Board of Directors reviews High-Tech Policy blog the company’s political contributions on at least an Industry working groups and standards bodies annual basis. One-to-One Investor Meetings Partner community forums Extending Our Values Partner Education Connection to the Supply Chain Philanthropy (CECP) GRI 102-9, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 Public policy engagement By operating responsibly and extending our values Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) through our supply chain, we deliver better business Social media (Facebook, Twitter) outcomes to our extended workforce, partners, customers, and investors. We spend billions of dollars each year with our global “As a global supply chain, we’ve embraced sustainability as part of our supply chain, which serves as a powerful tool for values and operating model to adapt, innovate, and transform the way promoting our culture of integrity. As our business we deliver business outcomes to our customers. Our efforts to digitize model evolves, we invest in people, process, and digital technologies so that our supply chain remains continue to reveal new ways we can enable our supply chain while agile and responsive to changing market needs. enhancing our social and environmental impact.” Through digitization, we are automating processes —John L. Kern for greater efficiency, quality, cost savings, and more Senior Vice President, sustainable business practices. The scope of our Supply Chain Operations, Cisco supply chain is shown in Figure 5. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 28 Governance Figure 5. Supply Chain Global Footprint Society MANUFACTURING PARTNERS: Environment A select group of suppliers that produce finished Cisco products. GRI Index COMPONENT SUPPLIERS: UNSDG Index A much wider group of suppliers, often contracted directly by Cisco to provide parts to Culture of Integrity our manufacturing partners according to our specifications. Governance And LOGISTICS SERVICE PROVIDERS: CSR Priorities A small number of suppliers that distribute our products and assist with product take back to and from our customers. SOFTWARE SUPPLIERS: A group of vendors that provide software and services that are integrated or bundled with Cisco products. Supply Chain Scope 12 25+ countries locations 62,000+ COMPONENTS 29,000+ ORDERABLE ITEMS 2,300+ ORDERS DAILY 380,000+ ITEMS SHIPPED DAILY logistics hubs manufacturing sites 2,700+ 700+ 25,000+ 20,000+ SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLIERS EXTENDED VIRTUAL TEAMS ORGANIZATION EMPLOYEES WORKFORCE 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 29 Governance Creating Shared Value Figure 6. Supplier Responsibility Society Through technology, we can create a better future. We embed supplier responsibility into our business processes because it: Upholding high standards in our supply chain extends Environment our value system and creates shared value for our business partners, their employees, and the entire GRI Index ecosystem. (Figure 6). UNSDG Index IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO Managing Supplier Responsibility Supplier responsibility is a core value of our Supply ENGAGES OUR EMPLOYEES Culture of Integrity Chain Organization. The Value Protection Group works AND THEIR FAMILIES to embed supplier responsibility metrics into operating Governance And practices across supply chain functions. PROMOTES THE CONTINUITY OF OUR CSR Priorities Supplier responsibility is considered during key SUPPLY CHAIN BY STRENGTHENING OUR ENTIRE ECOSYSTEM stages of strategic planning, new supplier onboarding, risk management, and performance evaluation. Areas of focus during FY17 included circular economy, human rights, and carbon reduction. Sustainability CREATES BUSINESS VALUE was also the theme of our annual Partner Strategy Exchange event held in March 2017. Information on our progress and case studies on these topics are provided later in the report. Supply Chain Employee Engagement HELPS MULTIPLY OUR IMPACT Employee engagement is core to supply chain innovation. We are proud to offer programs that align to our priorities, help employees innovate and develop new skills, and cultivate the next generation of talent. Supply Chain Operations offered several programs in embed sustainable practices into their individual roles. Schenker. College co-ops complete rotations in each FY17, including: Attendees participated in an equipment disassembly company, working on initiatives such as setting up •• Offering workshops to help packaging engineers activity to understand how products can be designed a transportation management system for inbound apply customer feedback and employee ideas to to improve efficiency while reducing environmental material, preparing a co-invested innovation lab, move us closer to our goal of avoiding 1 million metric impacts and to identify the value of end-of-life materials. and driving efficiencies for material and inventory tonne CO2 in our supply chain by 2020. management. Students got hands-on collaborative •• Rolling out Cisco’s Multi-Company Rotation Program, experience in a complex supply chain. •• Holding SustainX, our sustainability event, for the a co-operative education initative between Cisco second year. Employees worldwide learned how to and two key supply chain partners: Jabil and DB 2017 CSR Report Sustainability Challenges csr.cisco.com | feedback 30 Figure 7. Using the Agile Process to Address Sustainability Challenges Governance Society What is Agile? The Agile process Environment MVP operationalizes new solutions rapidly and efficiently. Small GRI Index PR cross-functional teams work for E 2—4 weeks to plan, develop, and MVP IZ OO UNSDG Index test a minimum viable product E R AT I O N A L F CONCE P (MVP). The MVP has just enough features to be deployed to an FO PR MVP E OO IZ initial user group, which provides E R AT I O N A L P F CONCEP T RO feedback before new features Culture of Integrity E FO IZ OF are added. The process delivers E R AT I O N A L OP OF CONCEP T high-impact solutions faster. Governance And OP CSR Priorities OP T IDEATE IDEATE IDEATE Spotlight on Employee Competitions Thirty-two ideas were submitted by employees in assessments and sharing audit reports via the RBAthe competition, and the winning ideas are in various ONLINE database, and reporting supplier diversity Innovation challenges and hackathons are part of the stages of implementation within our supply chain. efforts within their own supply chains. culture of Supply Chain Operations. These events help simplify and automate operational processes Advancing Transparency •• E  ngage with stakeholders and analysts with respect to while helping employees demonstrate their problem rankings and research inquiries. solving and collaboration skills. Creating minimum viable Transparency is critical for advancing key CSR products (MVPs) through this process, as outlined in initiatives, including supply chain labor standards, •• Promote ongoing public dialogue via blogs that Figure 7, allows us to iterate quickly and to develop product life cycle impacts, and ethical sourcing of raw discuss progress, challenges, and breakthroughs. solutions that keep pace with market needs. materials. It is also a foundation to building a culture of integrity and trust. To promote transparency, we: •• Actively participate as a full member of the In FY17, we sponsored internal hackathons to better Responsible Business Alliance (formerly the Electronic connect Code of Conduct audit data to factory floor •• Encourage suppliers to publish CSR reports Industry Citizenship Coalition). improvement opportunities. Using Agile methodologies, describing how they manage their most significant in FY18 we plan to pilot solutions using our technology sustainability impacts. •• Use technology to gather real time insights of factory to better collaborate with suppliers on Code related audit data to identify code related training and issues. Also in FY17, the Supply Chain GhG Reduction •• R  eward key suppliers as part of their performance improvement opportunities. Program hosted an ideation competition in support scorecard for reporting GHG emissions and of our 2020 supply chain emissions reductions goal. setting reduction targets via CDP, performing self2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 31 Governance •• T  rack supplier CSR reporting—all of our contract Table 3. Suppliers Publishing a CSR Report manufacturers and logistics providers now publish Society CSR reports. In FY17, we also started tracking FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 software suppliers. (See Table 3.) Contract manufacturers 86% 100% 100% 100% 100% Environment Embedding Sustainability in Supply Logistics providers 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% GRI Index Chain Operations FY18 Supplier Component providers 52% 52% 63% 66% 55%* UNSDG Index Responsibility GRI 102-13, GRI 102-16, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 We believe that in order to promote sustained industry Framework Software suppliers N/A N/A N/A N/A 80% Only key suppliers are included in the survey. improvements, it is imperative to build a community of *The percentage of component providers publishing a CSR report was lower in FY17 than in FY16 due to a change in Culture of Integrity practice and assist all companies in our supply chain survey methodology. through leadership, support, and education. We do Governance And this through our membership CSR Priorities in the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) (formerly the Figure 8. Supplier Engagement Process Electronics Industry Citizenship CORRECTIVE ACTION Coalition). We use its Supplier RISK ASSESSMENT 2.0 COC AUDITS PLANS (CAP) CAPACITY BUILDING Code of Conduct (the Code) as the cornerstone of our supplier responsibility program. We Macro-level sensing based Industry audit data All suppliers Manual CAP on spend, commodity, currently work to Version 5.1 of (RBA* database of Management geography, etc. supplier provided audits) the Code and to Validated Audit Process (VAP) 5.1, which was RBA* Training/ Cisco specific released in January 2016. The evaluation tools: eLearning next update to the Code will be ► Business scorecard Key suppliers Cisco driven audit Automated CAP released in January 2018. ► RBA* Self Assessment Management Questionnaire To meet the requirements ► Audit history of full RBA membership, we implemented the supplier engagement process outlined in Figure 8. ANALYTICS new to FY18 * Responsible Business Alliance, formerly known as Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 32 Governance Risk Assessment and Screening require greater sharing of supplier responsibility and risk GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2, GRI 414-1, GRI 414-2 mitigation efforts. This portion of the scorecard includes: In FY17, we conducted our first Society We require key suppliers to complete an annual self•• Acknowledgement of the Code. supply chain human rights impact assessment questionnaire. We then undertake a second Environment risk-based assessment of all suppliers, which considers •• GHG reporting through the CDP with emissions assessment. Learn more here. GRI Index factors such as: spend, previous incidents and reduction targets. performance, geographical criteria, self-assessment UNSDG Index score, and public reporting practices. These •• Annual self-assessment and audit sharing through the Site Audits assessments help us target our greatest risks RBA-ONLINE database. We regularly engage with our suppliers to help and impacts. them build capacity and improve their performance. Culture of Integrity •• Cooperation with corrective action processes related We use scorecards to assess key suppliers’ Audits are part of this process and are performed in to audit findings. performance at least once per year as part of our accordance with the RBA’s Validated Audit Protocol Governance And (VAP). Every two years, we commit to auditing 25% regular business reviews. Our scorecards monitor •• Acknowledgement of the Cisco Controlled CSR Priorities performance on a range of criteria, including of the suppliers that are deemed high risk, including Substances Specification, including compliance with technology, cost, quality, responsiveness, and manufacturing facilities and component suppliers. (See environmental regulations such as the European collaboration. Suppliers must maintain strong scores to Table 4.) Union (EU) Restriction of Hazardous Substances earn and retain their status as key suppliers. Directive (RoHS). We now require our key suppliers to share their Supplier responsibility represents between 5 and 10 audits via the RBA-ONLINE audit sharing database. •• Conflict Minerals Due Diligence Disclosure. This allows us to focus more of our resources on percent of a supplier’s total score. Scorecard questions are tailored to each type of supplier. To help suppliers see assessing and improving the working conditions of •• Supply Chain Emissions Reduction Program. the bigger picture of what we want to accomplish, we higher risk suppliers or suppliers in lower tiers in the supply chain. Our internal risk assessment framework •• Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions. exceeds industry guidelines, going beyond traditional self-assessments and using a combination of publicly available indices, geographic information, and past Table 4. Distribution of Audits by Supplier Type audit findings to assess unique risks. For example, we FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 believe we have better capabilities to understand if Manufacturing partner facilities 22 12 17 18 4 there is a likelihood of a Code violation in relation to a specific commodity or region. Component supplier facilities 30 22 29 37 49 Total 52 34 46 55 53 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 33 Governance We continue to improve our auditing protocol developed an API with the RBA that gave us visibility Our goal is to help our suppliers improve. We work and embrace innovation. Integrated supply chain into all of the audits our suppliers share on the RBAwith suppliers to build their capacity and increase Society dashboards enable us to monitor progress on Cisco ONLINE database. Having access to more audit data compliance with our standards. However, where driven and non-Cisco driven audits, connecting with significantly increases our capacity for improving standards are consistently not met, we may discontinue Environment workers and tracking challenges in real time. supplier performance. In the future, digitizing more our supplier relationship. of the audit processes may help us increase our GRI Index Capacity Building Partnering for Progress capacity to help suppliers by focusing on supplier GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2 UNSDG Index training activities. Innovation powers our entire CSR process, whether After conducting an audit, we work with the supplier to we’re delivering our products using optimized routes In FY18, we plan to train SCO employees on Code risks close all findings through a Corrective Action Plan. and transportation modes, pioneering connected while on the factory floor using Cisco collaboration Culture of Integrity In FY17, we used digital solutions to help measure, tools. To help suppliers, we plan to better deploy manufacturing, expanding visibility into supplier analyze, and communicate audit-related metrics, with existing training content by correlating it more precisely performance, or responsibly reusing and recycling Governance And the goal to use our technology to better identify root with audit findings in real time, so that learning delivers returned products. To maintain our industry leadership, CSR Priorities cause issues, identify opportunities, and align with greater impact. we partner with leading academic, nonprofit, and the Code. We pursued 53 audits directly, and coprofessional organizations that provide expertise to a specific area of focus for our program (Figure 9). Figure 9. Partnering for Progress U.S. UN Global Environmental Compact Supply Protection Chain Agency Advisory Group De turn sig Corporate Re n Social Carbon Responsibility Disclosure Asia Suppo Supply Plan Project Women’s China rt Environmental Chain Business for Social Business Enterprise Health & Safety National Roundtable De Lifecycle rc Responsibility Council e liver So u National Minority Ellen Make MacArthur Supplier Development ConflictFoundation Council Free Responsible Sourcing Business Initiative Alliance supplier diversity industry cross-industry governmental industry collaborations collaborations collaborations organizations 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 34 Governance “Excellence in Sustainability” Society Supplier Award In 2017, Supply Chain Operations hosted the 26th Environment annual Supplier Appreciation Event. The event allows GRI Index Cisco to recognize exceptional performance by our supply chain partners and acknowledge mutual UNSDG Index achievements. The Excellence in Sustainability Award recognizes one supplier that has gone above and beyond in their leadership for environmental and/or Culture of Integrity supplier responsibility. Governance And The Four Nominees: CSR Priorities 1 Teleplan (2017 Award Winner): Is committed to identifying significant commercial value for Cisco from after-market service solutions and enabling Cisco to transform the culture of product reuse in operations. 2 DHL: Championing a net-zero-emissions goal and sharing Cisco’s commitment to aggressive emission reduction targets. 3 Intel: Leading the industry in protecting vulnerable workers in the global supply chain through practices that address human rights challenges. 4 ST Micro: Promoting transparency in the supply chain to address systemic human rights challenges in factories and preventing risks, such as forced labor and excessive working hours. Teleplan, “Excellence in Sustainability” Supplier Award Winner 2017 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 35 Governance “Excellence in Supplier Society Diversity” Award Supplier Diversity plays a powerful role in opening Environment new channels to access skills, broaden opportunities, GRI Index and promote inclusion in a global supply chain. The Excellence in Supplier Diversity award recognizes UNSDG Index diverse suppliers that have demonstrated exemplary performance through outstanding quality, value, let mand service. Culture of Integrity The Four Nominees: Governance And 1 E2E (2017 winner): Over the past year, E2E has CSR Priorities provided successful custom Cisco TelePresence® solutions, attributing their success as a small business largely to their diverse perspectives and skills. 2 TransExpedite: The diversity of the team at TransExpedite fuels their ability to work dynamically with Cisco and quickly adapt in times of change to reduce cost and maximize outcomes. 3 DW Morgan: A diverse and agile provider with particular expertise in supply chain transformation. DW Morgan has helped play a critical role for Cisco in optimizing transportation models for higher utilization and efficiency, lower transit costs, and reduced carbon emissions. 4 Celestica: As a trusted partner for Cisco, Celestica recognizes the value of a robust supplier diversity program by consistently driving up to 10% of Cisco’s E2E, “Excellence in Supplier Diversity” Award Winner 2017 Tier 2 diversity spend. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 36 Society Governance Society Environment GRI Index Table 5. Full list and ranking of UNSDG Index Strategy and Priorities society topics assessed by the csr materiality assessment process Cisco has a rich history as a technology pioneer. We In FY17, stakeholder feedback confirmed that our People Strategy And Priorities embrace the impact we have on billions of people priorities remain similar with last year. Table 5 shows CSR Priority: Attracting and Retaining Top Talent (Tier 1) each day. And we share a simple cultural agreement: the full list of society topics we assess and manage, Employee Health and Wellness (Tier 2) Attracting, Keeping, And Connect everything. Innovate everywhere. and how they relate to our society and people Sharing Great Talent Benefit everyone. priorities. New technology trends toward automation CSR Priority: Inclusion and Collaboration (Tier 1) and artificial intelligence were identified by thought Supplier Diversity (Tier 2) The starting point for our strategy on Society is the Inclusion And leaders and peers as being of increasing significance, creativity of our people, and the diverse talents, Collaboration citing both potential positive and negative impacts. Our CSR Priority: Building Skills and Entrepreneurship (Tier 1) experiences, and perspectives they bring. Our strategy staff survey highlighted the importance of inclusion CSR Priority: Community Impacts (Tier 3) extends beyond the company through our people Community Impact and collaboration, and the growing value of employee sharing their time to help others in the community, and Society engagement in addressing community impacts. then further through the work of the Cisco Foundation, Building Skills And where we aim to scale broader social and economic We also updated the scope of certain priorities to CSR Priority: Socio-economic Research Entrepreneurship development through digitization. We promote human reflect developments in our strategy. Ethics was CSR Priority: Strategic Social Investments (Tier 1) rights in the key areas of privacy, security, and freedom renamed Culture of Integrity to reflect closer integration Strategic Social of expression, and through our business relationships of programs across our operations, supply chain, and CSR Priority: Human Rights: Investments with suppliers and partners. All of our work is business partners. To reflect a growing opportunity, our Data Security and Privacy (Tier 1) underpinned by our culture of integrity. Building Knowledge and the Digital Foundation priority Digital Rights (Tier 2) Socioeconomic area, has been split into Strategic Social Investments, Research This section provides a detailed look into the Supply Chain Labor Standards (Tier 2) the work the Cisco Foundation does through nonprofits commitments and programs that support our CSR Ethical Sourcing (Tier 2) to leverage the power of digitization for social and Human Rights priorities related to society. economic good; and Socioeconomic Research, the CSR Priority: Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing original research and thought leadership we invest in to Responsible Sourcing CSR Materiality Assessment: drive momentum for the digital revolution. Governance And Manufacturing Society CSR Priority: Culture of Integrity (Tier 1) Society topics are included in the CSR Materiality * Refer to Governance Chapter for definition of CSR materiality tiers. Assessment process as described in the Governance chapter. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 37 Governance Our People at Their Best Society Attracting, Keeping, and Sharing Great Talent The following are some of the key initiatives we’ve implemented to help our employees be at their best Environment every day: GRI Index Our People Deal We Innovate Everywhere My Team: Regular check-ins on Team Space are a Our employees know they are surrounded by vital conduit for communication. This is where listening GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 401-1 UNSDG Index people who can do amazing things. Our open, agile happens at the most fundamental level. It’s where “Our People Deal” describes Cisco at its best. It’s the environment lets employees explore their best ideas, employees share priorities, challenges, and goals, and culture our people told us they want more of, as well challenge the norm, hone their skills, and take bold ask for the support and tools they need. And it’s where Strategy And Priorities as the culture we need for success. We call it a deal measures to help our customers reach their team leaders get to know their direct reports: what because there are two sides to building culture: Cisco full potential. matters to them, what they’re working on, and what Attracting, Keeping, And plays a part in creating culture, but our people do they need to achieve their finest work. We Benefit Everyone Sharing Great Talent too. There’s the side of the deal that Cisco offers and there’s what we ask of our people. Our employees know that our technology enables Inclusion And them to impact our world like no other. We support “My managers knew very well what my It’s simple: Connect everything. Innovate everywhere. Collaboration their development and acknowledge the value of their Benefit everyone. It’s a culture you’ll only find at Cisco. contributions. Great satisfaction comes from our joint customers’ sentiment was, but they We Connect Everything ability to make a meaningful difference in the world. Community Impact didn’t necessarily know the things I Our employees are proud of our technology and what Our employees commit to our values and believe we Building Skills And it enables them to do. We connect employees with the will win together. Employees share knowledge. They loved to do or I loathed doing. Team Entrepreneurship people, information, and opportunities they need offer support, respect, and care for those around them. Space makes that question come up.” to succeed. Every day, we all contribute to our shared success. Strategic Social —Dave Goddard Our employees align their work to business goals and Engineer, Cisco Investments customer needs. They connect with peers to deliver Moments That Matter Socioeconomic the best outcomes and results, and they make no We looked across the key moments that define our Research excuses. They understand that when we connect the people’s journey at Cisco and identified 11 “Moments unconnected, amazing things happen. My Leader: Our leaders are vital to creating better That Matter” (Figure 10). Our people told us that these experiences at work for our people and helping us Human Rights are the areas that most matter to them and that enable deliver on the culture Our People Deal describes. them to bring their best selves to work every day. For Because of this, we’re investing to build leadership Responsible Sourcing each of these, we’ve established a team of internal excellence across the company. And Manufacturing experts to evaluate our processes, policies, and experiences and make improvements where needed. Every moment matters to us, and we want to make sure our employees know that. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 38 Governance We started our leadership evolution with our first Figure 10. Moments That Matter Leader Day on September 28. The 24-hour, followSociety the-sun global event brought together over 8000 MY FIRST IMPRESSION leaders across Cisco, both virtually and physically, to Interview Offer Environment have them commit to a set of baseline expectations First Day MY MAKING A DIFFERENCE MY DEVELOPMENT that will redefine leadership excellence across GRI Index Be The Bridge . . . Individual and Team Learning to your cause Talent Marketplace the company. to your team and community to global impact One Cisco, Many Careers UNSDG Index My Making a Difference: We’ve looked at how we MY LEADER MY TEAM Selecting Motivated Leaders choose to give back—as individuals, as a team, and Best Teams Developing Leaders Team Space Coaching Leaders as one Cisco. This year we launched a new employee Strategy And Priorities giving platform that enables employees globally to give directly to vetted nonprofits and schools. The new MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCES MY LASTING IMPRESSION Attracting, Keeping, And platform provides a best-in-class user experience Alumni Network Life’s Changing Moments Life’s Challenging Moments Sharing Great Talent in the matching gifts industry. In addition to allowing Listen, Appreciate, Respect Life’s Milestone Moments employees to give and request matching gifts, the MY INNOVATION Inclusion And platform offers personal fundraising and social sharing MY WORKPLACE Workplace Environment Innovate Everywhere Challenge Collaboration capabilities, and more. Employees wanted the chance Workplace Amenities Workplace Technology Innovation Hub Tools, Training, and Innovation Spaces to give more all year, so we increased our matching MY TECHNOLOGY MY REWARDS Community Impact gifts limit to $10K per employee per year. PC Refresh Connected Recognition My Cisco Pay and Benefits Internal Tools Perks My Innovation: In response to requests from our Building Skills And Entrepreneurship employees for more space to share ideas, we created the Innovate Everywhere Challenge (IEC), a companywide innovation competition. The goals of Strategic Social them throughout the competition. Angels had the My Personal Experiences: We want to support Investments the IEC are to capture and grow disruptive venture opportunity to back, mentor, judge, or sponsor our people through life’s biggest moments—the ideas from employees, develop entrepreneurial skills those ventures. celebrations, changes, and challenges. Rolling out Socioeconomic and culture at Cisco, and enhance the employee in FY18, we’re offering new, inclusive programs for Research experience. It’s designed to model the four phases My Rewards: Cisco Rewards help our people and becoming a parent and emergency time off. Learn of a startup—ideation, validation, seed funding, their loved ones at work and at home. For instance, we more about these initiatives in the Employee Health Human Rights and implementation. launched the global Rethink program to help parents and Wellness section. of children with developmental disabilities, and we In FY17, we completed our second Innovate launched flexible working with Connected Touch to My Workplace: We’re continually expanding our Responsible Sourcing Everywhere Challenge (IEC2). One of the key And Manufacturing make the transition back to work after a leave a little strategies to explore what’s possible through the takeaways from IEC1 was that it’s not enough to easier. Learn more about additional Cisco Rewards convergence of inclusion, collaboration, and technology. encourage and enable “Cisco Founders” to submit programs in the Employee Health and Wellness Through our Office of Inclusion and Collaboration, we’re and develop their ideas. We also needed a population section. We have also improved the way we recognize developing innovative solutions to some of our most of “Cisco Angels” who were ready to help Founders our colleagues with improvements to Connected business-critical challenges and opportunities: pay and invest in their ideas. So this year, employees Recognition, including a pre-paid Visa card option and parity, accelerating diverse talent, and advocating for participated as Founders or Angels. Founders the mobile application. fairness and inclusion across our industry. teamed up to create innovative ventures and develop 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 39 Governance Team Space and the Power of Teams assessment helps leaders better define the work of the World-class training and next-generation development team and allocate talent more efficiently. programs on strengths and the power of teams are Society If we want our people to be at their best, we need to available to all employees. create the best experience for our people every day. By the end of FY17, Cisco had 74,248 full-time active Environment Since we do most of our work in teams, we started by employees on Team Space, and 80 percent of active employees had completed their StandOut Assessment. focusing on the power of teams. We’ve found that the “Team Space Check-Ins really help GRI Index best teams at Cisco harness the individual excellence Check-Ins of each team member, unlock the collective excellence people prioritize their activities and they UNSDG Index The best teams share some common rituals. Team of the team, and do so in an environment of safety and trust. Space uses weekly Check-Ins: frequent, focused can clearly see how those tie into their conversations between team leaders and their people Strategy And Priorities about what’s happening in real time with the work. larger goals.” — Simhadri Rama Rao While similar to one-on-ones, the cadence and content Attracting, Keeping, And On average, 34% of employees submit a Manager, HR, Cisco of a Check-In is more agile in nature. A Check-In could Sharing Great Talent Check-In to their leader each week, and be a quick conversation or IM exchange; it might even Engagement Pulse be a text message exchange. But the focus is on what Inclusion And team leaders view Check-Ins 53% of the our people need to be at their best while working on At Cisco, each leader owns their team’s engagement. Collaboration We believe that intelligence enables our leaders priorities for the week to come. time. This is a great success considering to continuously evolve their leadership style and Community Impact Team members initiate Check-Ins and share what approach. The data from Engagement Pulse surveys the Team Space platform was only they need from their leader for that week to be helps them gauge and improve the experience Building Skills And successful. Team leaders get to know their people, they create for their teams. As of April 2017, the Entrepreneurship opened up to all employees in April 2017. what they’re working on, what energizes them, and Engagement Pulse survey can be accessed via the where they need help—and, over time, leaders can Team Space platform. Strategic Social help each employee understand how to bring the best of themselves to the work at hand. Armed with this So far, 36 percent of active employees have completed Investments Team Space information, leaders can now prioritize the work that an Engagement Pulse. Authentic dialogue, enabled We rolled out the Team Space platform in April 2017. most energizes each individual. One size fits one. by our new “Engagement Pulse Debrief Process,” is Socioeconomic Research Team leaders and members can access the platform another key factor in making more teams perform at from their laptops, a browser, or their mobile devices. Building Capability at All Levels their best. Human Rights Teams can stay connected, even when members are The org chart is only one lens into how we get work on the go. done. In addition to “hierarchy” teams, we work in Developing Our People Responsible Sourcing dynamic teams. These may be focused on a particular StandOut Assessment GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 401-1, And Manufacturing project; they may last a week or six months, and may GRI 401-2, GRI 401-3 The Team Space experience begins with a StandOut span across organizations and levels. We’ve redefined Assessment: a one-time questionnaire that helps To change the way the world learns, we need to leadership to include dynamic team leaders. Any fullemployees assess their strengths, identify the activities change our approach to learning as well. time employee can form a team and invite employees that energize them, and identify how they can use to join it, They can then see the strengths and priorities We’re moving to a multi-faceted culture of learning, their strengths to drive excellence in their teams. The of their dynamic team members. where our people are provided with information and 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 40 Governance intelligence how they want it, and when they need Moving forward, we’re in the process of exploring •• Cisco New Leader Program it. We’re exploring learning with smart machines, technology and will have a common learning •• Cisco Experienced Leader Program Society artificial intelligence, virtual reality, augmented reality, technology platform across Cisco in place in FY18. simulations, social hubs, think-tanks, community •• Cisco Senior Leader Program Environment laboratories, hackerspaces, and meet-ups. Approaching Leadership •• Introduced new forums and formats for leadership GRI Index What we’ve achieved so far: Development in New Ways development. For example, “The Revealed Series” helps develop our people as both leaders and team •• We’ve integrated all of our offerings into the newly At Cisco, we’re set on scaling leadership and team UNSDG Index members. Guest presenters share their approaches refreshed Career and Learning website. This oneexcellence across the business. Our new one-size-fitsto leadership, creativity, innovation, disruption, stop shop reflects the latest thinking around teams one approach focuses on making the most of individual storytelling, creating safety and trust among teams, and leadership at Cisco. Content is internal and strengths. While we’ll continue to help people make Strategy And Priorities and accountability. The intent is to encourage our external, formal and informal, and encompasses improvements in certain job-related areas, we’re people to find the strategies and perspectives that micro-learning, coaching, videos, events, thought putting primary focus on helping people do more of Attracting, Keeping, And best resonate with them. leadership, and user-generated resources; delivered what they’re good at, and what they love to do. Sharing Great Talent •• M ore than 4000 employees regularly join the through a mix of channels. You choose. And rather than a core competency model that runs live broadcasts, with another 4000 event Inclusion And •• All of our offerings now fit within two curriculums: across the organization, we’re aligning each team to replays on average. Collaboration team development and team leadership development. a core set of quantifiable leader and team outcomes. For example, we’re realigning professional skills Individual teams and their leaders can be clearly •• Average employee rating of meeting value: Community Impact offerings to fit within the “Team” or “Leader” measured against these outcomes, with the help of the 4.5/5 (based on first four events in FY17). curriculums. Engagement Pulse in Team Space. This leaves little •• 86 percent of attendees reported that the Building Skills And room for interpretation and bias, as we hold all of our learnings gained from the session were a great •• We’re focused on outcomes vs. activity. We’ve Entrepreneurship leaders and teams accountable to the same outcomes. use of time. found that the outcomes of our best teams at Cisco mirrored those of high-performing teams outside of And finally, while the outcomes of great teams and •• 83 percent of attendees reported that a session Strategic Social Cisco (based on external research). We now have great team leadership are clear, we can’t and won’t helped them think about work in a different way. Investments our “True North”—every learning offering should help tell our leaders how they should lead. Instead, we In FY18, we’ll continue to introduce new forums, us realize either the outcomes or the technical skills can share examples of excellence around what other Socioeconomic formats, and initiatives. A global Leader Day and a new required for us to do our jobs. The offerings listed leaders are doing to realize outcomes, and encourage Research Aspiring Leader Program are in the pipeline. on the Career and Learning site are clearly mapped our leaders to explore what works best for them. to the outcomes, and the content of our leadership Human Rights What we’ve achieved so far: programs is being aligned to our evolved approach. •• Introduced and embedded our Leader and Team Responsible Sourcing •• We’ve removed the restrictions on who can Outcomes throughout the organization. And Manufacturing participate in which leadership offerings; instead, we’re encouraging leaders to identify the programs •• Reworked our core leadership programs to center on they feel they are ready for. Individual contributors are outcomes. Over 800 leaders went through our new welcome to undertake leader programs, and we’ve offerings in FY17, including: introduced an “Aspiring Leader” offering. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 41 Governance Listening We actually received 19,644 responses—38 percent innovation and the overall theme of safety and trust more responses than we needed for valid results. within the organization. And the outcome? A number of Society We put a lot of emphasis on the power of our teams. Additionally, 12,592 employees, or 64 percent of those senior leaders in the AS organization began to launch But what defines a “team”? At Cisco, there are formal responding to the Real Deal, and 16 percent of all more frequent Engagement Pulse surveys to better Environment and informal teams, traditional and dynamic teams, and employees at Cisco, responded to the question “What understand their local team environments. Continued functional and regional teams. would you tell Chuck and the ELT about life at Cisco?” research in this area will likely influence how they GRI Index We have the opportunity to listen harder and smarter— message and execute change within AS. What we’ve learned so far about our people’s UNSDG Index to understand what’s going on at the company level overall Cisco experience is that they: To keep things transparent, we share the quarterly and what’s happening within our direct teams. We results with all employees via an online infographic. do this through a range of listening activities, and a •• Are generally positive: 68 percent would tell Chuck During a company-wide meeting in October, Chief Strategy And Priorities powerful listening strategy that continues to evolve. and the Executive Leadership Team that working at People Officer Fran Katsoudas delivered a message on Cisco makes them feel satisfied, appreciative, and/ At the Team Level: Team Space behalf of our people in a compelling way: by not saying Attracting, Keeping, And or happy. much at all. Instead, she allowed employee voices to Sharing Great Talent Our teams embrace technology in all that we do— •• Are invigorated by overcoming day-to-day challenges be heard directly by rolling a short video with various including listening. Team Space is our new tool for our global customers with amazing people comments that reflected collective victories and Inclusion And designed to serve the needs of the team and the team and teams. concerns from the Real Deal Survey. Fran closed by Collaboration leader and is focused exclusively on what we learn saying: “We hear you. And we are listening.” •• Can express themselves and feel well-supported in about those needs based on research and listening their team environment. Community Impact activities. Two of Team Space’s components are At the Company Level: prominent in our new listening strategy: the weekly •• Believe in our strategy but want more simplicity and Voice of the Employee Building Skills And Check-In and the Engagement Pulse. focus to bring the best value to our customers. We use cutting-edge text analytics technologies Entrepreneurship to more easily understand and interpret verbatim At the Company Level: Real Deal Survey •• Expect leaders at all levels to consistently act in ways that reflect Our People Deal. comments. This helps us harness data from social Strategic Social We can only address what we know about, so getting channels, collaboration tools, and company events Investments the voice of our people heard, en masse, is critical in •• Feel they can do a better job organizing their teams to gain understanding of employee sentiment. For driving change in Cisco’s culture and environment. and using individual strengths to execute on our example, with much of the Cisco Beat and Leadership Socioeconomic evolving strategy. The Real Deal Survey helps us understand what our Quarterly dedicated to Q&A, even if we are not able Research people really think it’s like to work at Cisco. Made up of •• Think we have some work to do on our sales process to address every question live, we can capture that 16 short questions, the survey looks at the employee and internal case management systems. sentiment, share it with our leaders in the moment, Human Rights experience across strategy, culture, and leadership. These types of insights are applied at the executive and use it in a timely fashion to focus on areas in our Each survey item is mapped to “Connect Everything,” and corporate program level to drive and influence strategy that need more clarity. Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing “Innovate Everywhere,” or “Benefit Everyone.” change where needed. For example, the Advanced Starting in January 2017, we sent survey invitations Services (AS) Leadership Team watched how to 25 percent of employees each quarter. In previous respondents answered the following item: “I can years, we had targeted 3600 employees each quarter always say what’s on my mind.” As scores dipped from in hopes of receiving responses from 1052 employees. quarter to quarter, we dug into the comment data to In FY17, targeting 25 percent of our workforce each understand shared concerns in this space. Intelligence quarter, we intended to get responses from 14,216 summaries were shared with the AS leaders and employees to have valid results. sparked an informed discussion about the culture of 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 42 Governance What we’ve learned so far encompasses both “What’s awesome about Connected Recognition is that there are so many different the rational and emotional elements of our Society employees’ experience: ways to spend your funds. I have coworkers who have redecorated their homes, •• 67% of employees were positive when asked bought furniture, gotten sports equipment, and since we’re all techies here, they’ve Environment about an important moment that happened at work. GRI Index Comments reflect the joy that comes from partnering gotten more tech gear. It’s nice that you can either have ‘stuff’ or experiences. I with talented and devoted colleagues to solve difficult UNSDG Index customer needs. Management was also mentioned as saved up several rewards to help me fund a 7-day stay at the Kamala Beach Resort “supportive” and providing “challenging work.” in Thailand. The rewards meant that I stayed in a more upscale resort than I would •• Employees are pleased to see the Executive Strategy And Priorities have booked if I were paying for it on my own.” Leadership Team standing together in response to Presidential Executive Orders regarding immigration. —David Faik Attracting, Keeping, And Procurement Manager, CISCO Sharing Great Talent •• Employees are happy with the launch of The Network. Intuitive, and are glad to see cross-functional Inclusion And Collaboration collaboration and innovation around our core network and switching groups. In FY17 our total compensation was approximately $14 billion. That includes salaries, benefits, bonuses, Employee Health While they are not the only ways we listen, Team commissions, stock awards, and retirement benefits. and Wellness Community Impact We reward our people in many other ways, from big Space, the Real Deal Survey, and Voice of the GRI 401-2, GRI 401-3 awards to recognition with a simple “bravo.” Employee make up our new high-touch, low-tax model Building Skills And We want our employees to feel their best so they can that significantly multiplies the number of ways we’re Entrepreneurship listening, while drastically reducing the time our people Giving Kudos be their best—at work and at home. That’s why we invest in locally relevant solutions that address their spend filling out surveys. This strategy allows us to We believe that a culture of recognition is central Strategic Social physical, social, and emotional needs. We want to quickly give the right data to the right people so we to the employee experience and to our company’s Investments be there to support our employees and their loved can better use employee opinions to make the best success. Our Connected Recognition program means ones during life’s triumphs and challenges and we business decisions and create the best experience for any employee can nominate an individual or team for Socioeconomic have several global benefits that do just that. We’ve our people at Cisco. a monetary award to recognize outstanding work and Research highlighted a few favorites here. say “thank you” on a regular basis. Human Rights Rewarding Our People In FY17, 200,000 Connected Recognition awards were Benefits given and 86 percent of the employee population GRI 202-1, GRI 401-2 We know our employees are very busy, which is why Responsible Sourcing received an award. Employees can give their peers We want our people to share in our mutual success. our offices in a number of countries offer benefit fairs And Manufacturing awards of up to $100 without approval, and employees We provide compensation, benefits, and long-term to make it easy for employees to understand their can receive rewards with higher value–up to US$2000 savings packages that are market competitive, benefits and connect to the resources that support with a manager’s approval. differentiated (as appropriate), and personal, and that them. In the U.S. in FY17, 7438 employees completed every employee values. a health screening and 4573 employees armed themselves with a flu shot at one of our 19 annual Health + Savings events. Thousands of employees also chatted with our major benefit providers at the 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 43 Governance events and got the information they needed to choose program that offers support to parents of children with To take time off during a major life event like adoption the right Cisco benefits for their families. More than special needs, such as autism, Down syndrome, ADHD, or the birth of a new child, we offer locally relevant Society 7000 employees across our campuses in India enjoyed or other developmental disabilities. We understand that solutions for employees. In FY18 we’ll be enhancing the festivities and health activities at our Employee/ parents may need a little extra help now and then. This our leave offerings by giving parents and grandparents Environment HR event. Also, employees brought their families to online platform offers evidence-based education and time away to bond with a new child, and offering paid Benefits Day in six of our ASEAN countries, with a total support for parents and their children. emergency time off to deal with personal or family GRI Index crowd of around 1000 happy participants. emergencies. We want employees to be there to We also launched CareLinx in the U.S. to help UNSDG Index support the ones they rely on, and who rely on them. employees find and hire the right in-home caregiver for Advice and Support their adult family members. That’s why we’ll also be establishing a new global minimum of 13 weeks for main caregivers for time Our Expert Medical Opinion program offers peace of In EMEAR (Europe, Middle East, Africa and Russia) we Strategy And Priorities to bond and care for a new child. Employees can mind in the face of a major medical decision. A simple introduced the Cisco Pavelka well being initiative. This be either a main caregiver or supporting caregiver, phone call connects employees and their spouses, is a holistic, interactive set of wellness tools designed regardless of gender. This will be launched first in the Attracting, Keeping, And domestic partners, kids, parents, and in-laws to a to help our employees embrace and share a more U.S. and then rolled out in phases globally. Sharing Great Talent leading physician in the specialty they need for a free balanced way of living. expert second opinion. Inclusion And Caring for Our Children Collaboration Flexible Working To help employees put their families first, we offer a “You made my mom feel like a VIP. Not We give our people the choice over how, where, and host of childcare programs, services, and support in a Community Impact when they work, depending on their job function and number of locations. only did the information you provided management approval. Within our offices, employees At our largest campuses in San Jose, Bangalore, and Building Skills And give my mom peace of mind, it also can choose to work from many different spaces: from Entrepreneurship the U.K., we have state-of-the-art childcare centers open collaboration areas and eCafes to workstations conveniently located and run by globally recognized made her feel a lot less confused and and audio privacy rooms. Our technology supports Strategic Social childcare partners. In the U.S., we provide discount flexible working, including high-speed wireless Investments a lot more confident and positive.” access, a wide variety of TelePresence® video devices, programs and priority access to our partner childcare —Cisco Employee centers all across the nation. We have arranged for and social software platforms that drive community Socioeconomic backup care in centers or in even in our employee’s It’s important that our employees and their loved connections. For employees recovering at home from Research homes for those days when a caregiver calls in sick or ones feel supported 24/7/365, which is why we an illness, injury, or other major life event, we connect a childcare center closes unexpectedly. Back-up care offer an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) to help them to Cisco technology through a new program Human Rights is available for elder loved ones, too! employees and their family members better manage called Connected Touch—this allows them to feel as if life transitions, work-related stress, and other personal they’re on campus even when working remotely. Responsible Sourcing challenges. The free, confidential services cover A Safe and Healthy And Manufacturing assessment, referral, and intervention assistance for Taking Time for You and Family Workplace major life events and financial and legal issues, and We all do our best at work when we take time away. GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 to offer support through difficult challenges such as We make it easy by providing time off each year so stress, abuse, or addiction. employees can travel, take care of life matters, volunteer, At Cisco, we give our employees the ultimate freedom recover from illness, or simply relax and recharge. Our to manage their professional and personal lives. That We continue to invest in our employees, and have employees also get their birthday off; it’s Cisco’s treat! trust is part of Our People Deal. It means flexible implemented new benefits in FY17. Rethink is a new 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 44 Governance hours and technology that allows people to work Table 6. Health and Safety Data flexibly. It means job sharing, telecommuting, and even FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Society alternative work schedules. It also means more time to pursue personal ambitions, look after loved ones, Total incident rate, per 100 full-time-equivalent (FTE) employees 0.23 0.38 0.28 0.31 0.28 Environment and focus on things essential for our overall health, Lost work days, per 100 FTE employees 0.7 3.67 2.85 1.96 1.34 like taking time both to exercise and to schedule GRI Index medical appointments we may be putting off. We offer All injuries, globally (new metric in FY15) – – 0.41 0.23 0.27 UNSDG Index a number of medical and wellness resources. And we provide a wide range of benefits. All to keep our Our local teams continue to investigate injuries, work We carry out Incident Management Drills every year to people healthy, safe, productive, and creative. with employees and management, and keep track keep us prepared for a real emergency. In the event Strategy And Priorities of how well programs are working. We address of a disaster, we will keep our employees and others Occupational Health and Safety work related hazards through our programs, risk informed through the Cisco Employee Connection Attracting, Keeping, And assessments, tools, and training. We base our website. In certain countries, people can sign up for GRI 403-2, GRI 403-3 Sharing Great Talent occupational health and safety programs on global our Emergency Notification System, which allows them In FY17 we continued to increase employee awareness regulatory and industry standards that help manage to let us know whether they are safe or need help. Inclusion And of our safety programs and improve injury data and reduce specific hazards. Collaboration collection, and we pursued third-party certification to Our Global Ergonomics Program continues to Injuries and Lost Time the OHSAS 18001 standard in Australia. In support of help employees be comfortable and productive, Community Impact our commitment to promote a safe and healthy work Increased safety awareness has brought down the allowing for quick action to identify, understand, environment and our efforts to prevent injuries, we: injury and lost time rates in the U.S. Global rates will and reduce ergonomic risks. The inclusion of userBuilding Skills And continue to vary as our programs mature (Table 6). •• P rovided training, consultation, and promotions to adjustable furniture in our workplace design allows Entrepreneurship empower employees to take responsibilities for In the near term, we expect global rates to decrease for greater efficiency, comfort, and customization to as employee awareness of our health and safety their safety. individual preferences. Strategic Social programs grow. Investments •• C ontinued to drive a consistent global approach In FY18, we will focus on digitizing our health and to safety management across the organization. safety programs, identifying innovative ways to nurture Socioeconomic •• E valuated operations for compliance with our safety culture, and optimizing delivery of health and Research relevant regulations. safety services to our employees. •• Improved how we identify, assess, and manage Human Rights Emergency Response occupational health and safety risks. More than 3000 of our people are part of 122 Responsible Sourcing Safety is important to Cisco and our customers. To that Emergency Response Teams worldwide, ready to And Manufacturing end, Cisco was awarded OHSAS 18001 certification respond in emergency situations. They are trained in Australia. Achieving certification is an important to give first aid, help evacuate buildings, and provide milestone in our health and safety journey. We’re other support. anticipating continued strong performance and will continue to share our customers’ safety values as part of our global strategy. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 45 Figure 11. Executive Leadership Team Governance Society Inclusion and Collaboration Chris Dedicoat EVP, Worldwide CHUCK ROBBINS Kelly Kramer We believe a focus on inclusion is not simply the right thing to do—it really EVP, Chief Environment Sales & Field CEO Finance Operations Officer Dr. Ruba Borno works. Inclusion is the bridge that connects diverse perspectives, challenges Mark VP Growth Chandler GRI Index Initiatives & SVP & General Chief of Staff Counsel to CEO the status quo, and unlocks the full potential of our people. When we truly UNSDG Index connect people with different backgrounds, abilities, genders, generations, Rowan Kevin Bandy Trollope SVP/GM, IoT & Chief Digital Applications Officer cultures, ethnicities, orientations, work styles, and points of view, we can EXECUTIVE Strategy And Priorities collaborate at exciting new levels. Karen Walker LEADERSHIP Rebecca Jacoby TEAM SVP, SVP, Chief Marketing Operations Officer Attracting, Keeping, And GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 405-1, GRI 405-2 across the full spectrum of diversity and accelerating David Goeckeler Joe Cozzolino Sharing Great Talent EVP/GM, We’re all in—starting at the top. Our executive opportunities through our Partner and Supplier Networking and Security Business Group SVP, Services Hilton Francine leadership team is one of the most diverse in Diversity program. Romanski Chief Strategy Katsoudas Chief People Inclusion And Officer Officer our industry, setting a powerful precedent and Cisco is especially proud of the 26 industry distinctions Collaboration demonstrating that inclusion is fundamental to who we and inclusive leadership awards we received this are—and where we’re going. year, including the National Association of Female Community Impact © 2016 Cisco and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved Executives Top Companies, Military Friendly® Employer, Building Skills And 46% diversity on our Working Mother Best Companies for Multicultural Entrepreneurship Women, Working Mother/AVTAR-Top 100 Companies Expanding Our Executive Leadership Team. for Women in India, Disability Equality Index (DEI) Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion, UKI STEM Commitment to Fair Pay Strategic Social In the past year, we’ve delivered innovative solutions Investments Inspiration Award, and Fortune Magazine’s Great Place GRI 405-2 to some of our most business-critical challenges and to Work. We scored 100 percent for the fourteenth opportunities—like expanding our commitment to fair We’re expanding our longtime commitment to Socioeconomic consecutive year on the Human Rights Campaign’s pay, accelerating diverse talent, and taking a stand for paying our people fairly and equitably. We’ve built an Research Corporate Equality Index, which evaluates policies and social justice throughout our communities. innovative and inclusive framework that uses powerful practices pertinent to LGBTQ employees. Eighteen of analytics to test our compensation system and its The broad improvements we’ve made in overall our executives received individual inclusive leadership Human Rights overall health. This helps build a trusting environment representation have resulted in the most diverse awards from across the industry. that drives the best teams, allows us to retain the best Cisco since 2000. While the year-over-year growth Responsible Sourcing talent, and positions Cisco as a top employer. Our And Manufacturing percentages may seem modest, we believe they are reviews look at all factors that influence an equitable leading indicators of success in breaking through talent environment, from new hire offers to individual challenges that have long plagued our industry and a rewards, so that we can continue to design and deliver sign of major shifts ahead. We attribute these shifts fair, inclusive, and competitive pay for our people. to our holistic strategies for expanding hiring and developing and promoting emerging leaders 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 46 Governance To date, our regular pay parity reviews •• Implementing and expanding unconscious Our 15-minute “Pit Stop” webinars bring hundreds bias education. together to engage on thought-provoking topics in the Society have revealed a healthy global •• Sharing best—as well as unsuccessful—practices. time of an average coffee break. Recent topics have included Supplier Diversity, Inclusive Communication, Environment compensation system and only minor The Power of ONE: How EROs Collaborate to impact Starting Smart the Talent Pipeline, and Doing Business with a Diverse GRI Index disparities within approximately 1% of Accelerating diversity starts with the ways we find Cisco Partner. our global employee population. and attract extraordinary talent. Our Diverse Talent UNSDG Index Accelerators suite of solutions provides us with Taking a Stand for Social Justice powerful analytics we can use to more accurately map We’ve given pay adjustments in an effort to close those Benefitting everyone starts with fairness and equality the talent market and adjust our searches to target Strategy And Priorities minor gaps. The funds required to address these gaps for everyone. Cisco is expanding on our long-term diverse candidates. represent a small fraction—approximately 0.02 commitment to advocate for inclusion and social justice Attracting, Keeping, And percent—of our global base payroll. Pay parity is an Our SmartStart tools help us create smarter job for our people inside and outside the workplace. We Sharing Great Talent ongoing commitment for us. We’ll be testing for parity postings with inclusive language to neutralize bias, take stands on key issues that violate our policy on regularly and where we see gaps, we’ll fix them. appeal to a wide range of candidates, and create discrimination and threaten the equal rights, safety, Inclusion And more balanced, diverse interview experiences. Our and dignity of our people. We were one of the first Collaboration Cisco is also proud to have taken a national leadership SmartSelect interview panels include members who U.S., companies to recognize that marriage inequality role in advancing fair pay for everyone as one of the 28 are diverse in gender globally, and in both gender outside of the workplace significantly hindered our Community Impact founding signers of the White House Equal Pay Pledge. and ethnicity in the U.S. Our research tells us that this ability to provide equal benefits to the families of our We’ve joined forces with 24 companies across multiple approach can improve the likelihood of hiring AfricanLGBTQ employees. Because of that early awareness, industries to form the Employers for Pay Equity Building Skills And American/Black and Latino/Hispanic candidates by we’re now well-versed in taking effective action. We Entrepreneurship Consortium to help make the promise of fair pay a as much as 100 percent and women candidates by do what it takes—from filing “friends of the court” legal reality for all employees. 30 percent. briefs to changing our site and event strategies to favor Strategic Social Investments Accelerating Diversity Recognizing Bias geographies that share our views on equal rights and inclusion. GRI 202-2 We offer our managers and leaders training to help Our stand for fairness for all has expanded this year Socioeconomic Research At Cisco, accelerating diversity is a top priority across them more easily recognize and neutralize bias. Our as social injustices continue to unfold in communities our global enterprise. We ask our leaders to break analysis shows that leaders who take this training have across the U.S. where people are being targeted Human Rights down barriers, drive action and accountability, and a greater likelihood of retaining their direct reports. simply because of their race, orientation, and beliefs. model greatness in inclusive leadership. We give all leaders a “meeting-in-a-box” training they We’ve worked across our communities to take Responsible Sourcing can use to talk to their own teams about bias. This effective action. For example, we chose to oppose In 2017, our CEO Chuck Robbins signed the CEO And Manufacturing model lets individual teams hold their leaders and the controversial “bathroom bills” in North Carolina Action for Diversity and Inclusion™ pledge for Cisco, their co-workers accountable for making bias-free and Texas that threaten equal rights for our LGBTQ along with more than 300 CEOs from across industries decisions. Beyond that, it provides a structure for employees and our communities. In collaboration and around the globe, who are joining forces to create any employee to call out bias when he or she sees with the Human Rights Campaign, Cisco CEO Chuck fully diverse and inclusive organizations. The pledge it, including unconscious bias. Next steps include Robbins and dozens of other leaders of major has three core commitments: expanding and enhancing our training resources to companies, sent a letter calling on North Carolina’s •• Continuing to make our workplaces trusting spaces to Governor and the State General Assembly to repeal include “always on” applications and micro learnings have complex and sometimes difficult conversations the bill. In Texas, we’ve partnered with 13 technology that deliver short, targeted skills training. about diversity and inclusion. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 47 Governance companies including Google, Facebook, Apple, and We also spoke up to oppose the U.S. immigration Our new Multiplier Effect initiative is doing just that. IBM to urge the Governor of Texas to stop pursuing and travel ban from predominantly Muslim countries, The Multiplier Effect Pledge challenges leaders of all Society this discriminatory legislation. Our Chief Inclusion and and we’ve provided employees who were potentially levels to sponsor one diverse person to the next level Collaboration Officer Shari Slate, and representatives impacted with legal resources. Based on employee in their career. Together, we’re going to change the Environment from Cisco Government Affairs, traveled to Texas to sentiment, we chose to address the White House’s equation for diverse talent in the tech industry. participate in an organized tech lobby day to voice executive order on immigration in a monthly meeting GRI Index Sponsorship is a well-known critical success factor opposition to the bill. and a special Cisco Beat all-employee broadcast in the development of extraordinary talent. Yet recent UNSDG Index Our people view our company as a critical voice in the dedicated solely to the topic. Our Executive Leadership data indicates a clear disparity in who typically benefits. Team was on hand to answer questions. Both times, fight for fairness and equality around the globe. We’re One in five men have a sponsor, yet only one in eight the purpose was to educate, listen, and respond, and committed to keeping the dialogue going, collaborating women, and one in twelve minorities do. The power Strategy And Priorities make sure employees felt heard and supported. with communities, and advocating for long-term of the Multiplier Effect Pledge—and the movement it’s solutions that build fairness into policies, practices, Attendance for the Cisco Beat dedicated to the created—is in the exponential expansion of sponsorship. Attracting, Keeping, And and laws that break down barriers. When sensitive or executive order indicated employees were eager to Changing the equation will take bold, effective action Sharing Great Talent controversial topics arise in the workplace—like the learn where we stood on the issue. The broadcast by a rising movement of influential leaders who want bathroom bills, the aftermath of a contentious election, had 7800 live attendees and 7000 replays. Ninety-four to open doors, overcome obstacles, and create new Inclusion And the growing divide in fair law enforcement, and race percent of employees appreciated using the session to opportunities for diverse talent. Collaboration relations—we discuss them respectfully and openly. address a tough issue, and 96 percent said questions The Multiplier Effect has already been featured in some were answered openly and clearly. Community Impact We’ve created multiple solutions to support open of the biggest events in the technology industry, like dialogue, including our new Courageous Conversation Nearly 100 percent said they appreciated having an Mobile World Congress, Cisco Live, the Global Sales Building Skills And guides for work and for family, as well as meetingopen forum with the Executive Leadership Team to Experience, and South by Southwest. Now, we’re Entrepreneurship in-a-box and FAQ resources. These guides have discuss the issue. While employees didn’t always reaching influential leaders across industries through been used by employees and team leaders alike. agree on our public stance, their feedback told us they forums like the Simmons Leadership Conference Strategic Social Ninety percent of participants find value in their felt the communications were open, transparent, and the YWCA. Our founding signers include Cisco Investments content and are better able to conduct beneficial and supportive. CEO Chuck Robbins, among dozens of other top tech conversations within their teams. Additionally, Office executives. In every way, our advocacy starts with listening to our Socioeconomic of Inclusion and Collaboration (OIC) representatives people and their diverse perspectives, and gaining Research have facilitated an increasing number of Courageous a deep understanding of what’s at stake within our Amplifying the Power of Partnership Conversation workshops globally at Cisco. These company and across our communities. GRI 405-1, GRI 405-2 Human Rights virtual and in-person workshops are in high demand in response to current events occurring around the Creating an environment in which everyone can thrive globe. Within these conversations, the sharing is Leading a Movement Responsible Sourcing isn’t just the job of the OIC or Human Resources— And Manufacturing both emotional and transformational. What we now At Cisco, our bold new strategies for diversity, everyone plays a leadership role. This year we understand is this: For many of our employees, this inclusion, and collaboration are designed to create continued to amplify the way we work together to grief, pain, and fear is a frequent or daily experience, a movement. A movement to connect; to disrupt create solutions, build new practices, and and their dignity, respect, and security are threatened. the status quo; to multiply the impact of inclusive, accelerate progress. Through open, respectful dialogue, we will continue to collaborative leadership; and to create environments Our Inclusion Leadership Teams (ILTs) give us new support each other—and our communities. where everyone can thrive. insights into how we can make our systems, policies, 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 48 Governance and practices relevant in every part of our business. branding. The conference inspired many Our data shows that both programs doubled the We’ve expanded our ILTs within every region and attendees to join groups to continue with further odds of promotion for this cohort. Participation also Society function. For example, this year we formed an Inclusion professional development. significantly improves talent retention. JUMP improves and Collaboration Council in our Asia Pacific Japan retention by about 100 percent and DARE by about 70 Environment (APJ) region. The Council is initially focusing on People Investing in Our Diverse percent, making it more likely that our emerging female with Disabilities/Special Abilities, Work Life Flexibility leaders will stay and develop their careers at Cisco. GRI Index Emerging Leaders and Harmony, Cultural Intelligence and Adaptability, Group settings can be great for sharing information UNSDG Index LGBT, and Generations and Gender. GRI 405-1, GI 405-2 and learning about different perspectives, but there’s Our ILTs have been instrumental in co-creating We’re creating unique opportunities for our diverse nothing like one-on-one mentorship to really boost solutions to address new challenges and opportunities talent to gain the access, mentoring, and skills they someone’s growth. Our Glassbreakers initiative pairs Strategy And Priorities to accelerate diversity in our global company, including need to thrive. We’re seeing phenomenal growth in talented, passionate, and motivated peers to mentor forming Mentor Rings, and creating the highly year-over-year participation, growing talent retention and support each other’s growth and development. Attracting, Keeping, And successful Courageous Conversations forums. rates, and increasing the odds of promotion for those Stretch assignments and events like Women of Impact Sharing Great Talent who participate. work in concert with key development opportunities, We’re also partnering with over 20 world-class such as our Managing Bias Training to deliver organizations that excel in areas that align to our Our programs investing in developing and promoting Inclusion And optimum impact. Collaboration bold strategies. Many of our greatest opportunities women are achieving new levels of success. In FY17, to attract, develop, retain, and promote our diverse more than half of the women who were promoted to Community Impact talent come through global strategic engagements management had attended at least one of our targeted Cisco is one of the four core members with organizations that include the Anita Borg Institute, programs, contributing to a highly significant 6 percent Hispanic IT Executive Council, IT Senior Management increase in women in director and manager roles. of the Women in Business networking Building Skills And Entrepreneurship Forum, Conferences for Women, Out and Equal, We’re continuing to develop the next generation of group in collaboration with Dell, Diversity Best Practices, Simmons, and the Executive female leaders for the company. Our DARE program Strategic Social Leadership Council (ELC). encourages and inspires women who are just starting Oracle, and Shell. The group features a Investments In FY17, over 2400 of our high-potential employees out in their careers, by focusing on key issues like participated in our strategic partner conferences, visibility, internal politics, and positive branding. JUMP Mentoring Circle to promote powerful Socioeconomic events, and development programs. The OIC and the brings high-potential, mid-level female participants Research leadership skills and accelerate growth Cisco Services organization sent close to 300 women together to focus on authentic leadership, strategic and men to the Simmons Leadership Conference for thinking, and increasing impact. We make sure they’re and development. Human Rights professional development as a way to recognize our aware of the range of tools and resources at their rising stars. The theme for the two-day event gathering disposal as they define and navigate a path at Cisco Responsible Sourcing Today’s leadership requires a deep understanding of was “Leading with Purpose,” focusing on helping to reward their personal strengths and long-term And Manufacturing diversity issues. Next Generation Leaders (NGL) is an attendees to better find and build their purpose and career ambitions. important program for midto senior-level employees how that can be integrated into their personal and who want to develop their leadership skills through the professional lives. The conference offered inspiring lens of diversity. keynotes, diverse panel discussions, and networking opportunities, ranging from business strategy and NGL transforms leadership development—managers innovation to career management and personal and their diverse employees embark on a six-month 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 49 Governance journey to embrace differences, unlock talent, and Figure 12: Cisco’s Inclusion and Collaboration Community foster disruptive thinking. The group dynamic fosters Society honest and courageous conversations around sensitive Employee Resource Organizations topics, such as culture and ethnicity, socioeconomic Environment issues, and more. These discussions forge a stronger culture of inclusion, and participants emerge as GRI Index confident, clear leaders who know the exponential UNSDG Index value their diverse teams bring to Cisco. Early success with the training among our Pacific Rim employees based in the U.S. yielded a 90-percent Strategy And Priorities employee retention rate. In addition to our original program for Asian employees, this year we further Attracting, Keeping, And expanded to include a second African-American/ Sharing Great Talent Black cohort and added a program for Hispanic/Latino employees. Our research shows that our participants’ Inclusion And odds of receiving a promotion doubles in comparison Collaboration to non-participants. Community Impact We’ve also created numerous forums to keep leaders Networks and employees informed about our progress, and Business-Initiated Networks Ally Networks Building Skills And about new resources to help us connect and Entrepreneurship collaborate. Our Globesmart tool gives us detailed information on five dimensions of culture for over Women in Women in WOM E N In Cybersecurity FINANCE Women’s Network MFI Strategic Social Cisco Digitization Office Innovation & Delivery Team Men For Inclusion 80 countries, helping us bridge work style gaps and Inclu nity Inclu nity Inclu nity Investments optimize team effectiveness. sio n & m C mu o sio n & m C mu o sio n & m C mu o Co Co Co lla b oration lla b oration lla b oration Socioeconomic Fueling Our Culture of Inclusion Research Health Networks Through Employee Communities IT Women Leaders in IT iW IS E Supply Chain inspiring Women through Information Sharing and Experience C SO Women in Chief Strategy Office CEWN Cisco Empowered Women’s Network Human Rights nity nity nity nity Inclu Inclu Inclu Inclu Cisco’s Inclusion and Collaboration Community, a sio n & m mu o sio n & m mu o sio n & m mu o sio n & m mu o ASN Co C Co C Co C Co C platform for diverse groups to connect, explore their lla b oration lla b oration lla b oration lla b oration Responsible Sourcing Alzheimer Support Network unique passions and talents, innovate, and excel, Inclu nity And Manufacturing mu is one of our best channels to celebrate diverse sio m & o Aspiring Employee Resource Organizations n Co C lla b oration backgrounds (Figure 12). In 196 chapters across 44 countries, our I&C Community has over 25,000 active members participating in EROs, Networks, FPN MEN A Native American Network Connected Italian Network R ENA L C A NC ER Support Network Virtual Groups, Inclusion Leadership Teams, and our Filipino Professional Network nity Network Network nity nity Inclu nity Inclu Inclu Inclu nity nity Inclu Inclu annual flagship event known as Women of Impact mu mu mu mu mu mu sio m sio m sio sio sio m sio m n & o & o & m o & m o n & o n & o C n C C C n n Co Co C C Co Co lla b oration lla b oration Co lla b oration Co lla b oration lla b oration lla b oration (WOI). Some of our employee communities include 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 50 Governance PRIDE, Conexion, Women in Science and Engineering, Co-sponsored by our Connected Women ERO, our Connected Black Professionals, Connected Women, wildly successful Women of Impact (WOI) global Society Cancer Support Network, Women in Finance, and Men event created a unique opportunity to get connected, for Inclusion. Globally, being a community member be empowered, and find inspiration for over 14,500 Environment significantly improves the likelihood an employee will women and men attending at 100 live sites across 48 be promoted. Within the United States, the likelihood countries, and tuning in to live broadcasts. With a 33 GRI Index for promotion is doubled. percent increase in participation from last year’s event, UNSDG Index WOI’s growing success is creating tremendous impact Our people are doing amazing things within the in fulfilling some of the OIC’s key objectives: inspiring I&C Community. Our VETS Employee Resource and accelerating inclusive leadership capabilities, Organization paid tribute to veterans with a Career Strategy And Priorities advancing and developing our diverse emerging Transition Day, Holiday Card Drive, and Care Package leaders, and helping us change the equation to attract Drive. Our PRIDE group for LGBTQ employees and Attracting, Keeping, And and keep the best diverse talent. Connected Women their allies raised the rainbow flag in San Jose to Sharing Great Talent members are over 30 percent more likely to stay honor the victims of the Orlando, Florida, shooting and with Cisco. This past year’s theme, “It’s Time. celebrate PRIDE month. On the same day, hundreds of Inclusion And Collaborate. Lead. Inspire,” focused on career and LGBTQ employees and allies from all over the world, Collaboration personal development. including customers and partners, gathered in Cisco TelePresence rooms and on Cisco TV to engage in a Community Impact conversation about the importance of role models for inclusion and collaboration. Building Skills And Entrepreneurship The newly created Interfaith Network provides an inclusive community to support, educate, and Strategic Social celebrate employees of all faiths. This network strives Investments to bring communities together to support learning, collaboration, and inclusiveness. The Interfaith Socioeconomic Network provides a safe space to create bridges of Research understanding and participate in community activities that demonstrate our common humanity. It is Human Rights open to all Cisco employees, with membership growing steadily. Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 51 Governance Cisco continues its commitment to diversity and has published workforce diversity statistics in our CSR Report since 2005. Two years ago, we expanded the data to include additional gender, race, and ethnicity information. Society Our diversity summary data is listed below and is based on FY17 data. Additional data can be found on the Inclusion and Collaboration page on Cisco.com. Environment Figure 13. FY17 Diversity Snapshot (Total Employees in FY17: 72,978) GRI Index UNSDG Index OverallWorkforce Overall Workforce Strategy And Priorities Global by Gender U.S. by Gender U.S. by Ethnicity Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent African American/ 3.5% Black Men Women Men Women 76% 24% 73% 27% American Indian 0.2% or Alaska Native Inclusion And Asian 37% Collaboration Hispanic/Latino 5.3% Native Hawaiian/ Community Impact Other Paciﬁc Islander 0.1% Two or More Races 1% (Not Hispanic or Latino) Building Skills And White/Caucasian 53% Entrepreneurship Strategic Social Investments Socioeconomic Technical Workforce2 Non-Technical Workforce2 Research Workforce DiversityDiversity – Technical Workforce – Technical Workforce Workforce DiversityDiversity – Non-Technical – Non-Technical Human Rights Global by Gender Global by Gender U.S. by Ethnicity U.S. by Ethnicity Global by Gender Global by Gender U.S. by Ethnicity U.S. by Ethnicity Responsible Sourcing African American/African3% Black American/ Black 3% African American/African Black American/ 4.8% Black 4.8% Men Men Women Women Men Men Women Women And Manufacturing 85% 85% 15% 15% American Indian 0.2%Indian or American or 0.2% 61% 61% 39% 39% American Indian or American 0.2%Indian or 0.2% Alaska Native Alaska Native Alaska Native Alaska Native Asian Asian 50% 50% Asian 23% Asian 23% 4.1% Hispanic/Latino Hispanic/Latino 4.1% 7.1% Hispanic/Latino Hispanic/Latino 7.1% Native Hawaiian/Native Hawaiian/ Native Hawaiian/Native 0.2%Hawaiian/ 0.2% Other Paciﬁc Islander 0.1% Islander Other Paciﬁc 0.1% Other Paciﬁc Islander Other Paciﬁc Islander Two or More Races Two or0.8% More Races Two or More Races Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.8% (Not Hispanic or Latino) (Not Hispanic 1.6% or Latino) 1.6% White/CaucasianWhite/Caucasian 42% 42% White/CaucasianWhite/Caucasian 64% 64% 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 52 VPs Figure 13. FY17 Diversity Snapshot (continued) Global VPs by Gender U.S. VPs by Gender U.S. VPs by Ethnicity Governance Society VPs VPs Men Women Men Women African American/ Black 2% Executive Executive Executive Leadership Leadership Leadership Team Team Team(ELT)(ELT)(ELT)  (includes CEO and his direct reports) (includes CEO and his direct reports) 79% 21% 79% 21% American Indian or Alaska Native 0.7% (includes CEO and his direct reports) Environment Global VPs by Gender U.S. VPs by Gender U.S. VPs Asian by Ethnicity20% Global Global Membership ELTELT Membership ELTELT Membership Membership Hispanic/Latino 3.1% by by Gender Gender by by Ethnicity Ethnicity GRI Index African Two American/ or More Races 2% 0.7% Black (Not Hispanic or Latino) Men Women Men Women MenMen Women Women Hispanic/Latino 7.7%7.7% Hispanic/Latino 79% 21% 79% 21% American Indian 62%62% 38%38% UNSDG Index White/Caucasian or Alaska Native 0.7% 73% Two Two or More (Not Hispanic Races or More Races 7.7%7.7% or Latino) (Not Hispanic or Latino) Asian 20% White/Caucasian White/Caucasian 85%85% Hispanic/Latino 3.1% Two or More Races Strategy And Priorities (Not Hispanic or Latino) 0.7% White/Caucasian 73% Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent Leadership Leadership and and People People ManagersManagers3 Cisco Board Cisco Cisco Board Board Inclusion And Global Leadership and U.S. Leadership and U.S. Leadership and Board Membership by Board Membership by Collaboration People Managers by Gender People Managers by Gender People Managers by Ethnicity Board Membership Gender by Board Membership Ethnicity by Gender Ethnicity Community Impact Leadership and Men People Managers Women Men Women African American/ Black 2.3% Men 67% Men Women 33% Women Asian Asian 17% 17% 81% 19% 78% 22% American Indian 67% 33% White/Caucasian 83% 0.2% or Alaska Native White/Caucasian 83% Global Leadership and U.S. Leadership and U.S. Leadership and Building Skills And Asian 31% People Managers by Gender People Managers by Gender People Managers by Ethnicity Entrepreneurship Hispanic/Latino 4.7% 0% Hispanic/Latino, African American/Black, American Indian/Alaska 0% Native,African Hispanic/Latino, Hawaiian/Other Pacific Native American/Black, American Native American/ African Hawaiian/ 0.1% 2.3% Islander, Two or Indian/Alaska MoreNative Native, RacesHawaiian/Other (Not Hispanic orPacific Latino) Other Paciﬁc Islander Black Men Women Men Women Strategic Social 81% 19% 78% 22% Two American Indian or More Races 0.6% 0.2% Islander, Two or More Races (Not Hispanic or Latino) (NotorHispanic AlaskaorNative Latino) Investments White/CaucasianAsian 31% 61% Hiring Hispanic/Latino 4.7% Socioeconomic Research Native Hawaiian/ Other Paciﬁc Islander 0.1% Hiring Hiring Two or More Races 0.6% (Not Hispanic or Latino) Global by Gender U.S. by Ethnicity Human Rights Due to changes in reporting requirements, our next EEO-1 report White/Caucasian 61% Global by Gender U.S. by Ethnicity African American/ 4.3% will be filed in March 2018. Our 2016 EEO-1 Report submission Black African American/ 4.3% can still be found online. American Indian Black0.3% Men Women or Alaska Native American Indian 0.3% Responsible Sourcing  ome figures may not total 100% due to rounding of 1. S 73% Men 27%Women or Alaska Native Asian 37% 73% 27% And Manufacturing underlying data. Asian 37% Hispanic/Latino 5.5% 2. Based on alignment to EEO-1 job categories. Hispanic/Latino 5.5% Native Hawaiian/ 0.3% 3. People managers, directors, and senior directors. Other Paciﬁc Islander Native Hawaiian/ 0.3% Other Two or Paciﬁc More RacesIslander 2.1% (Not Hispanic or Latino) Two or More Races 2.1% White/Caucasian (Not Hispanic or Latino) 50% White/Caucasian 50% 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 53 Supplier Diversity Governance Supplier Diversity Figure 14. Supplier Diversity Trends on the Horizon Society To solve the complex problems of tomorrow we need FY17 activities FY18 priorities Long-term vision a breadth of knowledge and experience. Diversity Develop internal supplier Drive employee awareness ● Expand best-in-class supplier Environment facilitates access to a range of skill sets, provides diversity training and capacity building diversity program Establish scalable platforms Focus on supplier mentorship ● Benefit communities through resiliency, broadens partnering opportunities, and for supplier ecosystem inclusive sourcing and multiply GRI Index provides fresh viewpoints. Our Sales Partner and Scale Partner/Sales Connect procurement to digital supply chain strategy Cisco’s impact Mentorship Expand vision/activities to Supplier Diversity Programs strive to provide equal ● UNSDG Index be closer to the communities opportunity within the communities we serve, and are where we operate across driven through our Sales, Supply Chain, and Global the world Procurement organizations. These groups work Strategy And Priorities together to connect Cisco and its customers, partners and suppliers with opportunities to work with diverseFY17 FY18 Long-term vision Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent owned businesses, and provide thought leadership to support our global operations. Reinforce with centralized Embed into cultural mindset Cultivate organic growth and Inclusion And We generate billions of dollars of opportunities for strategy across Cisco expanded capabilities Collaboration our suppliers and partners every year, and actively solicit diverse businesses to supply us with goods, Done In Progress New Focus Community Impact services, and components for our products, as well as to sell the finished products, as well as to sell the Building Skills And finished products. To help us identify and engage with FY17 awards and impact FY17 Awards and Impact Entrepreneurship diverse-owned suppliers and channel partners in the ● AT&T Supplier Diversity Crystal Award ••●AT&T Supplier Diversity Top Organizations Crystal Award For Multicultural Business Opportunities; DiversityBusiness.com U.S., we actively participate in several professional Corporate ••●Top 101: America's Organizations Most Admired For Multicultural Corporations Business for SupplierDiversityBusiness.com Opportunities; Diversity; Strategic Social organizations, including both the National Minority Minority Business News USA Investments Supplier Development Council and the Women’s ••●C orporate 101: America’s Most Admired Corporations for Supplier Diversity; Partner Operations Diversity Forum represented ~$2.5B in diverse partner Minority revenue andBusiness ~$152MNews USA revenue (FY16 Revenue data) in customer Business Enterprise National Council. We use the Socioeconomic federal government’s criteria for diverse-owned ••●Partner Madison Operations Gunter fromDiversity Forum Partner Team represented receives ~$2.5BAdvocate 2016 Exemplar in diverse partner revenue Award Research from and WesterninRegional ~$152M customer Minority Supplier revenue Development (FY16 Revenue data)Council (WRMSDC) businesses as being at least 51 percent owned by a member of one of eight historically disadvantaged •• Madison Gunter from Partner Team receives 2016 Exemplar Advocate Award Human Rights from Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council (WRMSDC) groups identified by the U.S. government (see list below) and headquartered in the U.S. Responsible Sourcing In countries where supplier diversity is a requirement, Supplier diversity is not just a requirement from And Manufacturing Federal Diverse Business Classifications including Australia, Canada, South Africa, and the governments and customers, but it is also a means •• Small Business U.S., we look to meet all federal guidelines. Supplier by which we live our values. In FY17, our CEO •• Women-Owned Small Business diversity is also a mandate from many of our customers, demonstrated our enterprise-wide commitment to •• Veteran-Owned Small Business who utilize their requirements as a means to better supplier diversity by issuing a Supplier Diversity •• Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business reflect the communities in which we jointly operate. Policy Statement. In it, Chuck Robbins states the •• Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business In FY17, we responded to information and reporting competitive advantages, insights, and opportunities •• Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) Zone requests from over 100 customers. supplier diversity brings to the business—and how it •• Small Disadvantaged Business helps us live our values. •• Minority-Owned Business 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 54 Governance Diversity in Worldwide Sales •• Continued to develop thoughtful approaches that are sensitive to market factors to grow diverse Society Strategy and Operations suppliers in different procurement categories. We Our Partner Diversity initiative works to increase the recognize that opportunities to promote diversity vary Environment percentage of diverse-owned channel businesses across different categories and commodities and spend in our sales channel ecosystem. These of procurement. GRI Index initiatives enhance partner loyalty, promote innovation •• Simplified our reporting by automating manual data UNSDG Index and efficiencies in partner solutions, and demonstrate collection and processes that give us deeper insight our industry leadership. We have around 1150 diverse into where there are procurement opportunities for partners in our ecosystem, which represented nearly diverse suppliers, helping us drive our programs to Strategy And Priorities 10 percent of FY17 revenue for services and products. the next level. Attracting, Keeping, And Operational Excellence •• Launched an executive sponsorship program for our top U.S. diverse suppliers. The pilot paired Sharing Great Talent We also prioritize supplier diversity in our indirect and Cisco executives with 28 diverse suppliers. direct supply chains. While it’s no simple task for a Cultivating Cisco’s diverse suppliers will increase Inclusion And large global organization to prioritize supplier diversity Collaboration innovation, economic vitality, and our pipeline of among competing procurement priorities, we know extraordinary talent. that doing so will lead to our longer-term vitality. As Community Impact the global marketplace and our supply chain continue In FY17, the suppliers reporting Tier 2 to evolve, embracing diverse perspectives across Building Skills And Entrepreneurship our ecosystem becomes even more of a business diversity increased by 60%. imperative. In FY17, we increased awareness of our Supplier In FY18, we will focus on empowering our stakeholders Strategic Social Diversity program within our procurement functions to make more data-driven and thoughtful decisions Investments while continuing to develop scalable processes and while continuing to expand our programs to better platforms for embedding diversity considerations into reflect the communities in which we operate. Socioeconomic Research our operations. This included: Further digitizing our program better connects our procurement decision makers with diverse suppliers •• Provided online training to employees in Global which helps to scale our impact. Digitization also helps Human Rights Procurement Services and Supply Chain Operations, us improve how we measure our progress. and recognized internal champions each month who Responsible Sourcing supported diverse suppliers or helped us grow the And Manufacturing Supplier Diversity program. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 55 Governance In 2015, Cisco launched Girls Power Tech, a Cisco Society Community Impact Global Mentoring Initiative dedicated to mentoring young women on or around Girls in ICT Day. In 2017, Cisco provided nearly 5500 young women at 104 Environment Employee Engagement over 50 chapters across 30 countries around the world. Chapters plan volunteer projects and Cisco offices in 61 countries with a special learning opportunity to connect with Cisco mentors onsite and GRI Index GRI 413-1 develop relationships with local nonprofits and nonto learn about Cisco technology (Figure 15). Thrilled governmental organizations—each initiative tailored to Volunteering inspires employees, helping them gain to empower and encourage the next generation of UNSDG Index new perspectives, develop leadership and other skills, the specific needs of the local community. tech talent, over 1500 of our employees signed up to and work better as a team. We support our employees Each Cisco Citizen Network puts our global programs volunteer—providing over 14,000 volunteer hours in in volunteering for the causes, issues, and nonprofits in action locally. For example, during the Global STEM mentoring. Strategy And Priorities that reflect their passions and interests. We empower Service Week in September 2016, our team in Italy our employees to “be the bridge” in their communities. spent nine days cycling across the countryside to Girls Power Tech 2017 Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent In FY17, Cisco employees volunteered more than benefit children in need. While in Singapore, teams US2020 A Cisco Global Mentoring Initiative 358,000 hours, a 64-percent increase over FY16. have worked on sustainability initiatives to improve the Igniting Moments of Discovery Employee donations and matching for donations and lives of endangered bird species. Inclusion And volunteer hours in FY17, amounted to over $15.2 million Collaboration Engaging volunteers globally provides our employees for nonprofit organizations and U.S. schools. with the opportunity to learn more about the Community Impact challenges their communities face. This shapes their Time2Give perspectives, the perspectives of Cisco leadership, Figure 15. Girls Power Tech and STEM Mentoring Building Skills And Time2Give offers full-time Cisco employees five days and ultimately how Cisco technologies can be Entrepreneurship off per year to volunteer for a community cause they developed and deployed to benefit their communities. care about. Where and how the employee volunteers is Cisco is committed to inspiring more people to pursue Strategic Social up to them—they can take a few hours by volunteering science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) Investments an afternoon at their child’s school or can take all five education and careers. We feel it is imperative to days at once and travel to help build houses in another develop initiatives to increase the number of girls and Socioeconomic country. women who pursue STEM careers. Women comprise Research In FY17, over 12,000 employees created meaningful a mere 27 percent of STEM positions in some of the volunteer experiences by using their Time2Give world’s developed and emerging economies. Human Rights benefit in a variety of ways, including building homes Every April, we support Girls in ICT Day, a global in Romania, judging local science fair projects, scuba event organized by the United Nations International Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing diving to clean debris, helping out at local animal Telecommunication Union. Cisco has been participating shelters, and working with migrant families in China. in this initiative from the beginning, inspiring thousands of young women from around the world to learn about We also have made a commitment to Million Women Cisco Citizen Networks the opportunities that the technology sector holds Mentors to have our employees mentor 5000 female Cisco Citizen Networks drive employee engagement for their future. students in the U.S. by 2020. In FY17, 35,329 hours and volunteerism in cities and regions around the world were devoted to mentoring in STEM. where we have an employee presence. We have 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 56 Figure 16. Be the Bridge: Annual Giving Campaign Figure 17. Global Service Week Governance Society Environment GRI Index UNSDG Index Strategy And Priorities Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent Inclusion And Collaboration Community Impact Case Study: Global Service Week 2016 Building Skills And Entrepreneurship For the first time in 2016, employees came together for Cisco’s Global Service Week to make a difference in Strategic Social their communities around the globe. Activities hosted Investments Be the Bridge: “At Cisco, we’re collectively during the month of September enabled employees, Annual Giving Campaign helping to change the world through team members, and various business units to Socioeconomic demonstrate Cisco’s unique culture of giving back and Cisco’s Be the Bridge Annual Giving Campaign Research active participation in our communities, leading meaningful change. Cisco employees came opened up our giving pool to more than 1200 together to work on hundreds of projects targeted organizations around the globe between November Human Rights and employees are empowered to at addressing social, economic, environmental, and and December 2016. Employees supported the social critical human needs in more than 16 countries. Responsible Sourcing issues that are important to them or their communities, choose where including hunger relief, clean water, education, animal Regardless of availability or location, in-person or And Manufacturing rights, and healthcare. More than 10,000 employees they want to contribute.” virtual, all employees were encouraged to participate participated, generating over $7.1 million in direct —Carlos Pignataro and pursue their passion with a cause of their choice. employee donations and matching contributions from Distinguished Engineer, Services Business, Cisco Virtual volunteering opportunities like the Missing Maps the Cisco Foundation (Figure 16). project, enabled volunteers to assist in the mapping of roads, buildings, and other infrastructure in the most vulnerable places in the world. The maps serve first responders responding to natural disasters. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 57 A few additional highlights: Governance •• S an Jose, California: 1000 employees from the Society Worldwide IT Manager’s Offsite team participated in The Crayon Initiative. Volunteers sorted used Environment crayons to be remanufactured into new ones GRI Index and then given to children in Northern California hospitals—giving them the «tools» they need to UNSDG Index express their creativity, a critical component of childhood development. •• R  esearch Triangle Park, North Carolina: 75 Strategy And Priorities employees worked with Habitat for Humanity of Wake County to help build affordable housing for Attracting, Keeping, And families as a special build project in a Southeastern Sharing Great Talent Raleigh neighborhood. Inclusion And •• L  ima, Peru: 20 employees helped prepare food kits #WeAreCisco Cisco goal: 80% employee engagement Collaboration for children who had recently undergone cleft palate or lip surgery as patients of Operation Smile. The @WeAreCisco social media handles—on Facebook, (volunteering and donations) by 2020. Instagram, Twitter, and Snapchat—are where our Community Impact •• Bangalore, India: Employees helped create STEM people go to show the world they love where they work. When an employee’s WeAreCisco post creates a educational kits for children supported by the It brings us together as a company, no matter where Building Skills And reaction, they can become blog posts on the Life at Children’s Lovecastles Trust (CLT). we are in the world or what department we work for. Entrepreneurship Cisco blog. Through all these channels, the WeAreCisco Our employees love working here, as message reaches millions of people each month. Strategic Social #LoveWhereYouWork shows. We love the people we It’s not just good fun. WeAreCisco demonstrates our Investments work with. We love the culture of giving back. We love goal to accelerate social and environmental change the technology we create and use. And we love to share with great teams, with volunteer hearts, and with Socioeconomic our experiences with our colleagues and the world. technological know-how. Research Our employee-generated content helps to make personal connections with existing and future talent. Human Rights WeAreCisco is valued by employees and earns above average engagement rates. Our employees’ posts have Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing an authenticity that reaches beyond our employees, and of our 300,000 followers we estimate that just 10 to 15 percent are employees. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 58 Governance Much of our curricula is developed in-house; however, Society Building Skills and Entrepreneurship we also work with third-party organizations like C++ Institute and Network Development Group to create industry-relevant content that prepares learners for the Environment We empower people to grow and thrive in the digital economy by needs of today’s workforce. We also partner with GRI Index focusing on: employers and other organizations to deliver mentorships, internships, and other hands-on UNSDG Index • Skills development: Building foundational digitization skills. experiences that help students prepare for and get new jobs. • C  o-creation: Partnering with universities and social change agents to Cisco Networking Academy courses focus on Strategy And Priorities co-develop curriculum, experiences, and engagement models. networking and entrepreneurship. In FY17, we added Networking Essentials and Mobility Fundamentals; Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent Cisco Networking Academy® multiple languages and online through netacad.com, a cloud-based learning and collaboration environment. expanded the IoT, Linux, Cybersecurity, and Programming offerings; and updated four core CCNA GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2, We also provide our students with career resources R&S courses. We believe in a blended learning Inclusion And GRI 413-1 and connections to employers seeking ICT talent. Our experience and continue to enhance our learning tools by Collaboration goal is to achieve a milestone of two million students providing updates to the Packet Tracer device simulator. Through our Networking Academy® program, we nurture the talents of problem solvers around the enrolled annually by 2021. The Networking Academy program also emphasizes Community Impact world by providing the foundational digital and We partner with governments and educational learning through hackathons and competitions, one entrepreneurship skills that prepare students to reach institutions around the world to establish local of which is our NetRiders Competition. In FY17, over Building Skills And their full potential. Entrepreneurship academies and initiatives that promote workforce 16,900 students from across the world competed Since 1997, the Networking Academy course readiness and socioeconomic development. in the virtual competition, an increase of 10 percent curriculum has helped more than 7.8 million students Courses are delivered in collaboration with 10,400 over FY16. The competition focuses on technical Strategic Social Investments worldwide to build skills that will enable them to schools, community colleges, universities, and other proficiencies in building and troubleshooting networks, prepare for ICT and networking careers in a range of organizations. In FY16, Networking Academy was a as well as soft skills such as the ability to present a Socioeconomic industries. In FY17, more than 1.3 million people in 180 key component of Cisco’s digitization efforts in France, comprehensive solution to a panel of industry judges Research countries were enrolled—24 percent of them female. Italy, and the U.K. In FY17, this effort expanded to over video conference. Some countries have significantly higher female include Mexico, China, and India. In FY18, we will Over the past 9 years, the NetRiders Competition has Human Rights participation, as noted in Table 7. expand to include the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, UAE, impacted over 100,000 students around the globe Kazakhstan, Portugal, and Qatar. during their “skills to job” journey. Networking Academy provides a comprehensive Responsible Sourcing learning experience with an interactive curriculum, And Manufacturing Educational institution administrators and instructors access to lab equipment and network simulation We have set a goal to reach two million provide ongoing feedback on courses and the tools, and programming environments for hands-on direction of the Networking Academy program through technical experience. From the start, students are Cisco Networking Academy students annual conferences and ongoing surveys. In FY17, we encouraged to solve problems and work together, per year by 2021. created an Academy Advisory Board to formally gather just as they will in the workplace. Courses are taught requirements and assess future needs. Board members in classrooms around the world, and are delivered in include students, instructors, partners, and alumni. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 59 Governance Over the past 9 years, the NetRiders Table 7. Female Enrollment in Networking Academy Courses in FY17 Figure 18. Cisco Networking Academy in FY17 Competition has positively impacted 180 Society Country % Female Countries Environment over 100,000 students around the globe Oman 71% GRI Index during their skills to job journey. Peru UAE 46% 42% 10,400 Academies UNSDG Index Since 2005, Cisco has conducted exit surveys of Networking Academy students who have completed Nigeria Tunisia 42% 40% 22,000 Instructors all four Cisco CCNA® Routing and Switching courses. 1.33M Strategy And Priorities Jordan 37% According to the results, the program has helped 1.6 Malaysia 36% Learners million students get a new job between FY05 and Attracting, Keeping, And 24% FY17. 94.9 percent of students indicated that they use Palestine 35% Sharing Great Talent their skills in their daily lives. For more impact stories, Morocco 31% Female Participation Inclusion And see Networking Academy. Philippines 31% Collaboration Networking Academy’s employment program, Talent Bridge, seeks to connect our partners to qualified Our students are seen as drivers of innovation, helping Community Impact technology talent around the world. Working in Cisco Networking Academy companies meet the challenges of digital transformation. They are transforming the world, creating the businesses collaboration with over 100 partner employers, 20th Anniversary and jobs that will shape the future through digitization. Building Skills And channel partners, and distributors, Talent Bridge has Entrepreneurship Twenty years ago, Cisco donated networking There’s no predicting where the future will take us, only successfully connected over 1200 students to jobs equipment to a local school. No one had been trained that the ones changing the world will start here. since 2016. Looking ahead to FY18, we will be piloting Strategic Social on how to use the equipment, so at first it sat unused. a Networking Academy Talent Bridge Matching Engine Investments As we trained the school staff to build their network, to automate and systematize the linkage between Corporate Total19. Figure and Total Cisco and CisoIn-kind Contributions Foundation Corporate and Cisco Networking Academy was born. And after In-kind Contributions students and employers to accelerate entry-level hiring Socioeconomic seeing the impact it had on the school, its students, across the globe. 400 355 Research Total Giving (USD, Millions) and its teachers, we were inspired by a new mission. Networking Academy is our largest and longest350 309 A mission that became a movement with a shared 300 275 286 Human Rights running CSR program. In FY17, Cisco and the Cisco interest in the potential of technology to change 250 Foundation made $274 million in in-kind contributions the world. 200 Responsible Sourcing for the Cisco Networking Academy. 150 The education we provide has the power to change 100 And Manufacturing the trajectory of our students’ lives, from helping them Our Networking Academy Program has to find work and elevate their careers to transforming 50 0 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 helped 1.6 million students get jobs from their communities. In 20 years, Cisco Networking Academy has grown from a single school into an everThis $355 million in FY17 includes $274 million for Cisco Networking Academy. FY05 to FY17. expanding community of more than 7.8 million students Positively Impacting 1 Billion People past and present, 20,000 educators, and thousands of employers, NGOs, Cisco employees, and customers. 1.00 ople 2025 Goal 0.80 ummulative) 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 60 Governance Supporting Our Active Military “I feel the training I received as part of the VVCT program increased my Society Personnel and Our Veterans understanding of network principles and gave me an enormous amount of In 1998, Cisco began collaborating with the U.S. Environment military to bring the Networking Academy curriculum knowledge in the cybersecurity field. Overall, the program was as rigorous to bases. Today, there are Networking Academy GRI Index and thorough as I could have hoped for, and I believe it helped me obtain my locations on 24 U.S. military installations. Over 73,000 UNSDG Index U.S. military personnel have been able to develop and present position.” advance their ICT skills, better equipping them for their – Michael Mcclain, Veteran, roles within the military as well as career opportunities Network Administrator, Portsmouth Naval Station Strategy And Priorities once they have completed their military service. Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent “At Cisco, we are firmly committed to our In addition, in 2017 Cisco formed the Virginia Veteran Employee Engagement Cyber Training (VVCT) program, a coalition of five veterans initiatives and ensuring that we Our Veterans Program is also aligned to our Veterans Inclusion And industry partners providing free training and Enablement and Troop Support Employee Resource Collaboration do our duty for those who have served.” certification to veterans interested in a career in Organization (VETS ERO) activities. The VETS ERO is — Chuck Robbins, cybersecurity in Virginia. Approximately 100 veterans a military service employee affinity group focused on Community Impact CEO, Cisco have been enrolled in the VVCT program since outreach and enablement, professional networking, its inception. and veteran advocacy. Cisco volunteers are engaged Building Skills And Seeding Innovative Solutions Through Public/ at eight Cisco sites throughout the U.S. In FY17, the Entrepreneurship In 2011, Cisco established a corporate veterans Private Partnerships group led Veterans Career Transition Days at five Cisco program to support transitioning U.S. military sites to introduce veterans to career and mentoring Strategic Social personnel, veterans, and military spouses into new Since FY12 we have provided $2.5 million in seed opportunities. As part of the annual Care Package Investments areas of employment and ICT education. Through the funding to Futures, Inc. to support the development Drive, VETS ERO members in four locations—San Jose, GI Bill, veterans can enroll in a Networking Academy of a cloud-based job portal that matches military job RTP, Herndon and Englewood—sent 246 care packages Socioeconomic program, providing a gateway to entry-level jobs and codes with civilian jobs and career paths. Activeto deployed U.S. service members, giving them a taste Research certifications in the ICT field. In 2017, Cisco established duty military personnel, military spouses, reservists, of home and highlighting our gratitude for their service. the Veterans Talent Incubation Program (VTIP) that National Guardsmen, and veterans can access this job In FY17, VETS ERO members installed Cisco donated Human Rights creates a pipeline to help service members and portal. Free to job seekers and employers, the portal WiFi equipment at five Fisher House locations, comfort veterans transition to entry-level engineering roles is the engine for the U.S. Military Pipeline as well as houses where military families can stay at no cost Responsible Sourcing at Cisco. To date, approximately 50 veterans have a state-level initiative in Arizona. Since its inception, while an injured loved one is receiving treatment. Since And Manufacturing completed the program and obtained their CCNA more than 250,000 veterans and military personnel 2011, Cisco volunteers have installed WiFi equipment certification and are employed at Cisco as Customer have found work through this portal. at 17 Fisher Houses. Support Engineers or Network Consulting Engineers. Cisco values veteran employees and was recognized as a Gold Star Military Friendly® employer in FY17. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 61 Governance “Our world and workplace are evolving rapidly because of technology. Bolstered Worldwide Challenges to Inspire Society by research about where people and communities need the most help to Innovation: Digitize. Do More Good. More than ever, tomorrow’s leaders will need to Environment transition to an increasingly digital reality, we’re proactively developing new be global problem solvers. Skills like team building, complex problem solving, and learning how to see and GRI Index programs and funding new partners to meet these needs.” seize opportunities are critical to success. We believe – Mary De Wysocki Senior Director, UNSDG Index Corporate Affairs, CSR Strategy, Cisco that investing in the development of an entrepreneurial and innovative mindset, coupled with digital skills and the desire to do good, will not only help create Strategy And Priorities jobs but also result in a workforce qualified to meet Entrepreneurship •• Foster entrepreneurship: Encourage an entrepreneurial approach to problem solving in future challenges. Attracting, Keeping, And Because you never know where the next great all demographics and across all types of jobs Sharing Great Talent New Digital Economy Initiative and industries, whether it is the creation of new idea is going to come from, we sponsor prizes and competitions for technology solutions that solve social Inclusion And University Grants To Transform Regional businesses or seeing the potential for fresh and environmental problems and have the potential to Collaboration U.S. Economies approaches within existing organizations. contribute to economic development. We believe that educational institutions and We developed the public university grant-making Community Impact organizations focused on emerging entrepreneurs can aspect of this initiative based on experience with Inaugural $300,000 Cisco Global Problem Arizona State University (ASU). Supported by CiscoSolver (GPS) Challenge be powerful catalysts for local economic development. Building Skills And They have the capacity to play a leading role in shaping managed funds at the Silicon Valley Community Our first Global Problem Solver Challenge recognized Entrepreneurship entirely new ideas and industries to create the jobs of Foundation, we developed multiple 3-year grants 10 teams of post-secondary students and recent the future. ranging from providing entrepreneurial skills to graduates whose ideas use the Internet of Things (IoT) Strategic Social Latino youth and high-school students to providing and digitization to create breakthrough technologies, Investments In FY17, we launched a new grant program rooted award funding to help participants further their products, and services that drive economic in the belief that these organizations can accelerate entrepreneurial IoT ideas. development, solve social and environmental problems, Socioeconomic an inclusive digital economy in their region by and promote inclusion. By providing visibility, funding, Research collaborating with local industries, government Founding Sponsorship of Harambe and encouragement, we help these entrepreneurs agencies, NGOs, and community colleges. This to Multiply Socioeconomic Impact in Africa move their solutions to the next level as they focus Human Rights community-based collaboration has the potential to: on solving pressing problems in our community and •• Build skills for the future: Open up job opportunities In FY17, Cisco became a founding sponsor of the around the world. The first annual GPS Challenge Responsible Sourcing for all by understanding the digital skills required in Harambe Entrepreneurial Alliance. This nonprofit began with more than 1100 registrants from more And Manufacturing today’s local job market and in the future, as well as organization is spearheading high-impact social and than 450 schools from all corners of the globe. The the best way to address the skill gaps. business ventures across Africa via a network of highly $100,000 U.S. Grand Prize went to Project Vive educated young African entrepreneurs. Collaborating from Pennsylvania State University. •• Incubate innovation: Through research, curriculum, with private and public sector groups, the Alliance hands-on labs, and community partnerships, develop Project Vive is dedicated to making affordable supports the aspirations of young African leaders with new ways to apply digital and IoT solutions to technology available to those with disabilities. Voz mentors, feasibility study grants, scholarships, pro bono problems and processes. Box—a patented speech-generating device that brings legal services, and access to angel and venture capital. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 62 Governance the benefits of IoT to assistive smart technology—is their ventures and are still in business today. Past the brainchild of Mary McCulloch and the Project Vive competitors have raised in excess of $1.8 billion in Society team. Voz Box is built around wearable sensors that funding and created more than 2000 new jobs. can detect small movements. These sensors can be Environment Held as a separate award category of the 2017 RBPC, placed where a user chooses: finger, elbow, knee, foot, the Cisco Innovation Challenge aims to recognize and eye (blink and/or movement). They can be recalibrated GRI Index accelerate the adoption of technologies, products, and over time, extending the use of Voz Box over the years services with social impact. This year, we awarded the UNSDG Index as the movement capabilities of the user change. Innovation Challenge Prize to Luso Labs LLC, a team One of the most compelling aspects of Voz Box is its we believe exemplifies a mission-driven mentality. ability to be customized to match the capabilities of Founded by Columbia University biomedical engineers, Strategy And Priorities its users. Individuals with neuromuscular conditions Luso Labs’ mission is to leverage digital technologies possess a wide variety of abilities, and what might be a to make cervical cancer screening more accurate and Attracting, Keeping, And simple motion for one person may be impossible accessible to women worldwide, especially those in Sharing Great Talent for another. low-resource settings. Using Bluetooth wireless technology, these wearable The solution utilizes a custom camera system to detect Inclusion And Collaboration sensors form a network around an individual. This precancerous lesions in a manner that integrates network connects to a portable and comfortable easily into existing clinical practices to minimize Community Impact speech-generating device, only 3.2” x 4.3” x 2” in size. obstacles to adoption. Images are captured and The device is multilingual and supports both visualsent to a secure server for analysis. The team’s Building Skills And and auditory-based communication. Microprocesser lesion detection algorithm creates a colormap that is Entrepreneurship technology has reached the level where the unit can layered onto the initial image for easy interpretation by be self-contained and affordable, and not require an healthcare professionals. Strategic Social Internet connection to operate. Investments Rice Business Plan Competition: Cisco Innovation Challenge Award Socioeconomic Research For the second year, we collaborated with Rice University to award one of the largest non-dilutive Human Rights prizes (funding that does not require the sale of shares of stock) in the Rice Business Plan Competition Responsible Sourcing (RBPC), the world’s largest intercollegiate startup And Manufacturing competition. Forty-two university teams, chosen from more than 750 applications, are invited to compete for more than $1.5 million in prizes in front of 300 judges. The RBPC is open to all universities, regardless of location. Since inception, more than 180 former competitors have gone on to successfully launch 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 63 Governance A Proven Social Society Strategic Social Investments Investment Model Our ability to have this type of global impact is a result Environment To help communities thrive, we must harness the power of digitization to of over a decade of experience in understanding GRI Index create economic opportunity for all. As we continue to understand how the power of social investments to create a thriving quickly technology is changing work and our daily lives, we are creating and digital economy that benefits everyone. We connect UNSDG Index to global problem solvers around the world, investing expanding initiatives to maximize inclusion. in innovative solutions that can harness the power of GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 203-1, GRI 203-2, technology to have a lasting impact on the lives of Strategy And Priorities GRI 413-1 millions of people. Attracting, Keeping, And “Start-Up-Like” Investment SOCIETY Figure 20. Social Investment Impacts We invest in early stage solutions that use technology to address social and environmental challenges. We Sharing Great Talent for Nonprofits focus on early stage solutions because that is where Number of People Positively Impacted 300 funding support 2.00 is most needed, and where we can Inclusion And As a technology company, we believe in harnessing Students Enrolled Per Year 250 232 provide the most value with a catalytic impact. We Employee Engagement Collaboration the power of digitization to reach as many people 1.50 200 provide seed funding to help new initiatives progress as possible, as well as reaching people who are not 1.33 from blueprint ideas and experimentation 1.09 to proof of Community Impact yet part of the digital economy. Cisco Public Benefit 150 1.00 1.00 (millions cummulative) (millions) concept pilots. Once validated, we support replication Investment (PBI) and the Cisco Foundation support 100 78 and scale of 0.50 the solution. The end goal is a scalable, Building Skills And nonprofit organizations that leverage technology to 50 N/A (Goal Started financially sustainable solution with demonstrated Entrepreneurship support underserved communities around the world. 0 in FY16) 0.00 FY15 FY16 FY17 social impact (FigureFY15 21). FY16 FY17 Like we do for any business customer, we help our Strategic Social Constant throughout our engagement with nonprofits Investments nonprofit partners leverage technology to streamline GOAL: are the consulting, advisory support, and technical GOAL: G and automate processes for better efficiency and Watch a video that shows how Cisco helps Positively Impact 1 billion people expertise we 2 Reach provide. millionAsCisco nonprofits transition Networking A reach to more people; gather and evaluate data for nonprofits accelerate global problem solving. Socioeconomic by 2025 from start-up Academy to being a more students per“professionalized” year by 2021 (v Research better business intelligence and decision making; and organization, we provide guidance on a variety of connect people to information, resources, and other issues, including governance and operational structure, Human Rights people. We discover the best ideas to solve social business planning and strategy development, financial problems with digital solutions and we help make sustainability planning, etc. Responsible Sourcing these concepts a reality and further their impact by ENVIRONMENT providing cash grants, expertise, and Cisco technology Watch a video that shows how Cisco helps And Manufacturing donations. Our focus areas are: nonprofits develop and scale tech solutions. Avoided Supply Chain GHG Emissions Percentage of Used Electricity 0% 82.0% Percentage GHG Emission •• Critical Human Needs and Disaster Relief 80.0% 80% -10% •• Educational Opportunity 78.0% 77% -20% 76.0% -19% •• Economic Empowerment -30% 74.0% Reduction from FY07 Baseline Generated from Renewable Sources -40% -33% 72.0% 71% 70.0% -50% -41% 68.0% -60% 66.0% FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 64 Governance Measurement and Evaluation Figure 21. Our Four Stages of Social Investment Society Framework Environment We work closely with our nonprofit partners both to verify that the programs we are funding are on track VALIDATE Pilot-test solutions in order to 2 3 SCALE Replicate to multiple geographies globally, and to measure the programs’ effectiveness and measure initial results and scale to more people, continue ideation and GRI Index impact. This helps us understand the value and return prove the solution. iteration of the original solution, and measure social impact. Because the biggest need for TEST SCALE of our investments, and helps our nonprofit partners funding is at Stages 1 and 2, our nonprofit UNSDG Index MEASURE REPLICATE partners often report an increase in other improve their offerings to their beneficiaries and sources of funding once their solutions demonstrate their impact to their stakeholders and the advance to Stage 3—the point when the public. Our nonprofit partners are required to provide CREATE OPERATE solution has been proven and traditional Strategy And Priorities DEVELOP SUSTAIN funders are willing to invest. quarterly reports that detail their progress against the agreed-upon grant deliverables and impact metrics. Attracting, Keeping, And 1 4 Sharing Great Talent With our ambitious goal to positively impact 1 billion people by 2025, we want the programs we are funding Inclusion And not only to reach many people but also result in deep BLUEPRINT TRANSITION Collaboration social impact. We want to measure both breadth of Design a new, technology-based At the point that a solution has advanced solution that does not currently exist, to Stage 4, it has successfully replicated reach and depth of impact – in other words, impact or digitize an existing solution. and scaled, demonstrated social impact, Community Impact at scale. To measure breadth of impact, all grantees and is financially sustainable. report on the number of people reached by the See our website for more social investment impact stories. Building Skills And program we are funding over a 12-month period, as Entrepreneurship well as the cumulative total from program inception to date. This type of reporting provides valuable skills training program funded via our Economic In addition to reporting on the number of people Strategic Social information on progress during the grant period, as Empowerment portfolio would report on the number reached and social impact metrics by portfolio, we Investments well as over time. of people reached via the training program as well as require grantees to validate that their program the number of people employed, change in income, continues to meet our requirement that at least Socioeconomic etc. The case of MIND Research Institute provides a 65 percent of program participants are from Research We have set a goal to positively impact good example of our reporting framework: It began underserved populations (e.g., low income, vulnerable, Human Rights one billion people by 2025. as a Stage 2 investment and has grown to a Stage 3 or under-represented population groups). Grantees investment. They reach over 1 million students each also report on organizationand grant-level metrics year (breadth of impact), and have reached over 4 (e.g., client satisfaction, retention, partnerships, and Responsible Sourcing To measure depth of impact, grantees report on social million students to date, with between double and customers), as well other stage-relevant metrics. And Manufacturing impact metrics against a standard set of metrics for triple increase in the rate of math proficiency (depth For example, a Stage 1 investment will report on each of our three investment portfolios: Critical Human of impact). deliverable-type metrics related to design of the initial Needs and Disaster Relief, Educational Opportunity, solution, whereas a Stage 3 investment will report on and Economic Empowerment. An education program Watch the Video. metrics such as volume and diversity of funding, earned would report not only on the number of people revenue, progress toward sustainability, and replication reached by the program but also on portfolio-specific to other sectors and/or geographies. Finally, grantees metrics such as STEM proficiency, persistence, often retain outside organizations to conduct third-party and related outcomes. Likewise, an employability evaluations as an independent source of validation. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 65 Governance Critical Human Needs Society Our Critical Human Needs portfolio Environment focuses on reducing food insecurity Ushahidi World Food Programme GRI Index and increasing access to affordable Ushahidi is open-source crisis-mapping software that The World Food Programme (WFP) is the world’s UNSDG Index housing, clean drinking water, can capture, organize, and share critical information largest humanitarian agency fighting global hunger. In and sanitation. We also invest in coming from people on the ground. The Ushahidi 2014, Cisco supported the WFP’s mobile Vulnerability technology-based interventions to platform easily crowdsources information from multiple Analysis and Mapping (mVAM) project, which uses Strategy And Priorities channels, including SMS, email, Twitter, and web mobile technology to track food security trends in real improve the speed, efficiency, and reports to give citizens a voice in response to disaster, time, providing high-frequency data that supports Attracting, Keeping, And effectiveness of humanitarian relief, human rights abuses, or political crisis. The platform humanitarian decision making. Cisco helped WFP Sharing Great Talent creates a database of geotagged and timestamped pilot the use of SMS and interactive voice response and provide support for disasters. reports showing a picture of what happened, when, (IVR) technology to enable two-way information flows, Inclusion And Examples of our nonprofit partners are listed below. and where. helping WFP exchange information with some of the Collaboration See our website to learn more about our social world’s most vulnerable communities remotely, rapidly, Ushahidi, which translates to “testimony” in Swahili, investments for Critical Human Needs. and affordably. The mVAM program has scaled from was developed in 2008 to map reports of violence Community Impact its initial pilot in 2 countries to 30 countries, and is in Kenya following the disputed election in late 2007. Cisco first supported Ushahidi in 2009 to help expand conducting about 25,000 surveys per month, with Building Skills And plans to reach 35 countries by the end of 2017. the utility and accessibility of the platform. Cisco also Entrepreneurship supported an upgrade to the platform, to create the mVAM offers significant improvements in terms of the cloud-hosted version of the new Ushahidi V3, titled cost of data collection and the speed at which data Strategic Social Investments “Ushahidi in the Cloud” so that anyone, even noncan be collected, analyzed, and given to decision developers, can easily access this tool. Cisco also makers. Traditional face-to-face surveys cost $20-40 supported development of CrisisNet and Roll Call. per questionnaire to implement, and around six weeks Socioeconomic Research Most recently, Cisco has supported the development to turn around. By contrast, SMS costs $3-6 and live of Ushahidi Responder, which provides more support calls and IVR cost $7-9 per questionnaire, with a oneHuman Rights to first responder organizations using the platform. week turnaround time for SMS and two weeks for live Rather than just accessing information and then acting calls and IVR. More than 100,000 questionnaires were Responsible Sourcing on it separately, Ushahidi Responder provides, within collected using mVAM, which resulted in more than And Manufacturing the platform, the tools to help organizations gather $1.9 million in cost savings. In 2017, Cisco provided information, triage, and respond to needs on the ground a follow-on grant to WFP to pilot the use of Chatbots in the most effective and efficient way. In FY17, Ushahidi in its mVAM program. In FY17, the program reached reached more than 1 million people. Since Cisco’s early more than 1.4 million people. support, the Ushahidi platform has been used in over Watch the Video. 140 countries, through more than 100,000 deployments, and has reached more than 20 million people. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 66 Governance On the Front Lines of Disaster Relief “In today’s technology-centric society, communications is aid as much as food, Society We have strategic engagements with water and shelter. It makes me proud to work for a company like Cisco that Environment a number of nonprofit organizations puts such a strong focus on corporate social responsibility, and has the people, GRI Index and NGOs—such as the American technology and other resources to make a such a tangible impact on humanitarian Red Cross, NetHope, CARE, Mercy UNSDG Index relief efforts.” Corps, and the UN World Food —Sue-Lynn Hinson, Programme—that help increase TacOps manager, Cisco. Strategy And Priorities preparedness and provide immediate Cisco TacOps: Winner of the UPS International kits when normal communications infrastructure Attracting, Keeping, And assistance in the wake of Disaster Relief and Resilience Award isn’t functioning. Sharing Great Talent natural disasters. Our TacOps Program encapsulates what we do best— Since 2005, the team has responded to 45 disasters on 6 When major disasters strike, we establish special providing connectivity when people need it the most. continents. This outstanding work was recognised in FY17, Inclusion And Collaboration giving campaigns that allow our employees to donate In a crisis, communication is everything. Our on-thewith our TacOps program winning the UPS International to relief efforts and increase their impact through ground TacOps team uses technology to help connect Disaster Relief and Resilience Award. Community Impact matching gifts from the Cisco Foundation. The Cisco and protect people in crisis environments—from refugees Coming Soon: Cisco and Mercy Corps Foundation will match up to $10,000 per employee to victims of natural disaster. Communication can give Building Skills And for every disaster campaign, which is in addition the outside world valuable information about the help We’ve initiated a five-year, US$10M agreement Entrepreneurship to the $10,000 in donations that can be matched that is needed, while also helping refugees and victims with this leading disaster relief NGO active in over per employee every year. When campaigns are stay connected with loved ones. Communication is also 40 countries around the world. Our deepened Strategic Social not launched, employees are often directed to the critical to the relief agencies providing emergency aid; our collaboration will integrate technology into Investments American Red Cross’ Disaster Relief Funds. We also TacOps team often focuses on establishing connectivity humanitarian and development assistance programs to participate in the American Red Cross Annual Disaster to enable their work and facilitate coordination and reach 11 million people to help deliver aid and support Socioeconomic Giving Program (ADGP). Between FY10 and FY17, management of relief activities. faster and more efficiently. Research Cisco Foundation launched 39 disaster campaigns, We have a full-time, dedicated disaster response team, raising over $4.2 million in employee donations and supported by 350 trained employee-volunteers known Human Rights Cisco Foundation matches. as the Disaster Incident Response Team (DIRT), who can Cisco’s Tactical Operations (TacOps) team is critical take two weeks away from their jobs to join TacOps. This Responsible Sourcing to our disaster response capabilities, providing expertise along with world-leading technology puts us in And Manufacturing emergency communications when traditional a unique position to provide support in emergencies. communications are degraded or destroyed. By The highly skilled and dedicated team can deploy responding to emergencies and natural disasters within anywhere in the world in three days, equipped with the first few days, TacOps often enables agencies mobile vehicles such as the Network Emergency to get communications up and running faster than Response Vehicle (NERV) and portable communications government or local providers can. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 67 Governance Educational Opportunity Society Generation Yes War Child We are committed to building Environment a digital foundation to improve Generation Yes (“GenYES”) is a technology support A staggering 1 in 10 of the world’s children—more than 230 program that prepares teams of students to support million—currently live in conflict-affected areas. Classrooms GRI Index education in our society. Programs K-12 teachers and IT staff as they integrate technology are inaccessible, destroyed, or occupied by armed groups, UNSDG Index in our education investment portfolio to improve student learning. GenYES has developed or children are on the move and have dropped out of school. In fact, 32 million children living in conflict zones are designed to expand reach, the necessary support strategies, online tools, curriculum, and data, which have provided more are not attending school. Lack of education fuels poverty improve outcomes, increase student than 2100 K-12 schools with the foundation to realize and unemployment. War Child is an international nonprofit Strategy And Priorities engagement in STEM, and improve their technology integration goals. Cisco recently that provides programs in education, psychosocial support, partnered with GenYES on a project in Yuma, Arizona, and protection for children living in the most conflictAttracting, Keeping, And the professional development of where over 1000 students were trained as Student affected areas. In 2016, War Child touched over 380,000 Sharing Great Talent teachers worldwide. Technology Leaders who provided 1500 hours of children and youths in highly vulnerable and underserved tech support translating to $75,000 in IT expenses. communities in Afghanistan, Burundi, Colombia, Inclusion And In addition to our Networking Academy® program, our In FY17, the program reached more than 70,000 Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Collaboration education investment portfolio supports the creation people. Learn more. the Congo, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, the Netherlands, and deployment of innovative technology-enabled Occupied Palestinian Territory, South Sudan, Sri Community Impact education delivery models. The focus is to improve Watch the Video. Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Uganda, and Yemen. both teaching and learning through the use of Internet Building Skills And technology and digitization to expand efficiency and Cisco began supporting War Child in 2006 with product Entrepreneurship reach. Successful grantees focus on STEM. Their grants to improve reachability and communications. In unique solutions address the development of programs 2013, Cisco awarded a series of cash grants to support Strategic Social or tools that demonstrate applied knowledge or skills the Connect.Teaching program in South Sudan, an Investments to applicable career paths within these fields. initiative that improves children’s learning through a tablet-based professional development program for Some examples of our community partners Socioeconomic teachers. The project currently involves 150 teachers with in education are listed here. See our website to Research the aim to improve learning for 7500 children. In FY17, the learn more about our social investments in CSR program is positively impacting over 4500 students. Cisco Community Partners. Human Rights is also supporting the Can’t Wait to Learn program, a Schools are increasing their technology investments, unique technology model delivering quality education to Responsible Sourcing but research shows it isn’t always having the desired children that strengthens in-country education systems, And Manufacturing impact. As the amount of technology continues to building off of a successful proof of concept in Sudan grow, there is insufficient support for teachers to and replicating it in Jordan and Lebanon. The program integrate these tools. Teachers, administrators, and was selected by DFID, UNICEF, and UNHCR to join the staff are challenged with integrating technology into Humanitarian Education Accelerator. In the next two years, an already overburdened workload. the Humanitarian Education Accelerator will help War Child improve how they measure, evaluate, and scale their impact. They are aiming to reach 65,000 children in four to five states by end of 2020. Learn more. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 68 Governance Economic Empowerment Society Our economic empowerment Anudip Living Goods Environment programs connect underserved Hundreds of thousands of jobs are being created as a Every year, millions of children die due to lack of access result of India’s growth in the technology sector. At the to affordable health products. Living Goods empowers a GRI Index people to relevant skills, meaningful same time, underand unemployment among youth and network of women to improve the health of their families UNSDG Index employment, financial products and women is high. Anudip is an innovative social enterprise and communities by distributing essential goods to services, and opportunities they need that is leveraging the power of digitization to help people those who need them, all by using the latest mobile and become ready for the digital economy so they can become enterprise technology to thrive in the digital economy. Our financially independent and self-sufficient. Anudip provides Strategy And Priorities These health entrepreneurs—known as Community Health investments have helped equip young technical, professional, and business skills training to lowPromoters (CHPs)—go door to door teaching families how Attracting, Keeping, And people with skills, connect them to income women and youth, and transitions its graduates into to improve their health and sell life-changing products. To Sharing Great Talent technology-enabled jobs and/or self-employment. optimize impact and efficiency, Living Goods CHPs focus meaningful employment, and develop Cisco has supported Anudip to develop a blended on four areas that precipitate the majority of child deaths Inclusion And viable career paths; enabled people learning management system that is technology driven but can be addressed at a low cost: treating childhood Collaboration to open savings accounts and secure and robust, one that supports Anudip’s capacity, ability diseases, offering free pregnancy and newborn check-ups, to scale, and financial sustainability. We have also improving nutrition, and promptly referring acute cases to Community Impact loans to start small businesses. supported a 3D printing program that takes the concept qualified facilities. Listed here are some examples of how our social of 3D printing to rural populations to help them open 3D A landmark randomized control trial found that Living Building Skills And investments are positively impacting disadvantaged printing shops, as well as helping schools set up design Goods reduces child mortality by 27%. The Living Entrepreneurship and under-represented individuals, their families, labs to produce prosthetics for amputees. Anudip has Goods model thus delivers a double win: dramatically and their communities. See our website to learn also become a Cisco Networking Academy site, training reducing child deaths for less than $2 per person per Strategic Social more about our social investments in Economic students to become networking professionals. Investments year, while expanding livelihood opportunities for Empowerment. Anudip has equipped more than 70,000 people with thousands of entrepreneurial women. Socioeconomic professional skills and training, with an 80 percent job CHPs stay connected to their clients and to Living Goods Research placement rate and a threefold increase in family income. through a SmartHealth mobile platform developed This increase in income enables Anudip graduates to and launched with seed funding from Cisco. Powerful Human Rights support themselves and their families move out of poverty, apps support diagnosis and treatment, and enables ensure their financial self-sufficiency, and contribute to Living Goods to track every customer and monitor CHP Responsible Sourcing local economic growth. On an annual basis, Anudip trains performance in real time. It is also used to broadcast health And Manufacturing some 10,000 people. Their goals are to reach 100,000 messages and money-saving promotions via SMS, which per year and become financially sustainable via earned drives better health behaviors and increases demand and revenue within 5 years. Anudip’s model shows that the sustainability. SmartHealth has transformed the Living digital revolution can be extended to reach vulnerable Goods business model, enabling them to scale from populations, so they can have the same opportunities reaching more than 3 million people in Uganda and to gain skills, get jobs, and develop a meaningful and Kenya in FY16, to more than 5.8 million in FY17. successful career. Learn more. Learn more. Watch the Video. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 69 Governance economic growth and social inclusion, the environment Society Socioeconomic Research and natural resource security, and the future governance of the Internet. Environment Data-Driven Decisions for an Inclusive Digital Economy During the IT governors meeting in Davos, under the chairmanship of Cisco CEO, Chuck Robbins, IT Industry GRI Index Through original research and thought leadership, we strive to drive member companies came together to collectively respond to the shifting needs in the labor force and UNSDG Index momentum for the digital revolution. Our unique research can provide a basis committed to an IT Skilling initiative. The initiative will for informed decisions for heads of state, universities, and nonprofit leaders include an online skills portal that centralizes some of the member companies’ educational/training offerings Strategy And Priorities to set the direction for social investments and program development. and career resources. The intent of the initiative will be to help individuals understand the changing Attracting, Keeping, And Pioneering New Solution Forums employment landscape, discover what skills will be Sharing Great Talent Measurement Methods We must work together to develop regional expertise needed for new opportunities in the digital economy and capacity that enables all people—regardless of and help them to easily locate IT education/training Inclusion And We have developed rigorous new frameworks to socioeconomic background—to master, succeed resources to obtain new skills. Collaboration evaluate the effectiveness of social investment in, and lead in the digital economy. To this end, we Cisco’s ongoing commitment highlights how programs for NGOs, governments, and the United engage in forums that bring together leaders from businesses, governments, organizations and Community Impact Nations. We apply this same level of discipline to businesses, governments, nonprofit organizations, and individuals are coming together to create solutions to evaluating our own CSR programs and the investments social enterprises that shape and accelerate solutions address society’s greatest challenges. Building Skills And from the Cisco Public Benefit Investment and the to societal and environmental challenges. Entrepreneurship Cisco Foundation. Stay Tuned: New Research with Gartner/Oxford Our research can help states and nations: 2017 World Economic Forum Being Released Soon Strategic Social •• Set the talent agenda for future growth by predicting We have been a member of the World Economic We are getting ready to release the findings of two Investments the digital skills needed and the most effective Forum since 2002. In January 2017 we attended their comprehensive proprietary studies on measuring and interventions to address skills gaps and job annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, as part of our accelerating digital readiness of 180 countries and 50 Socioeconomic Research displacement. commitment to helping individuals, organizations, and U.S. states. They will include an in-depth look at how governments better their societies through digitization. technology will affect the U.S. labor market over the •• Pinpoint the supply of skilled labor in specific regions. The forum provided an opportunity to engage with next ten years, how jobs will evolve, and which skills will Human Rights •• Assess a region’s digital readiness and help evaluate more than 3000 global leaders, including 1800 of be most in demand for workers. when a foundation for meeting critical human needs the world’s largest companies and more than 300 Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing takes priority. public figures. •• Rethink education systems to deliver graduates with The theme was Responsive and Responsible the digital skills necessary for the jobs of the future. leadership; where in a divided world, leaders have a •• Realize the benefits of digitization for all responsibility to deliver on a sustainable and equitable socioeconomic groups. future for all. Cisco participated in and led discussions focused on employment, skills and human capital, 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 70 Governance management strategy and established a new charter to Society Human Rights guide our activities. The HRWG will: •• Be a place where external stakeholder perspectives Environment Our products and solutions connect to virtually everything, enabling us to are fed back into the company for review and consideration. GRI Index create unprecedented opportunities for our customers and communities. •• Inform our Human Rights Strategy and track progress Through our technology, our values, and our business practices, we create on a quarterly basis. UNSDG Index jobs, make cities smarter, and enhance health and education. At the same •• Act as champions for Human Rights in their respective time, we recognize that technology can be used to different ends; for functions and with external stakeholders. Strategy And Priorities example, to enable or impede communications, to protect or impair privacy. •• Review and inform our Human Rights Policy. Attracting, Keeping, And Human rights concerns such as labor rights, data security, privacy, and •• Communicate our progress via the annual CSR Sharing Great Talent Report, stakeholder engagement, and the Cisco Audit freedom of expression cannot be ignored. Committee (as needed). Inclusion And Collaboration Our Approach practices. In FY16, the policy was updated to include messaging from CEO Chuck Robbins which signaled Human Rights Conducting business in an ethical manner is part of our commitment to this policy from the highest level in the Stakeholder Engagement Community Impact DNA. We believe it is our responsibility to continually organization. improve how we integrate human rights principles and We regularly collaborate with stakeholders on human rights issues to measure the ongoing effectiveness Building Skills And practices across our operations, business relationships, Human Rights Governance of our work and gauge expectations. Collaborations Entrepreneurship products, and services. Our five areas of focus are policy, governance, stakeholder engagement, training, We use a formal, company-wide governance structure include the following: Strategic Social and advocacy. to implement our commitment to human rights. Mark •• We are an active participant in the Business for Social Investments Chandler, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Responsibility (BSR) Working Group on Human Rights, Chief Compliance Officer, is the executive sponsor Human Rights Policy a forum for companies from all industries to share Socioeconomic of human rights at Cisco. Our Human Rights Working ideas and exchange best practices. We work closely Research Our Human Rights Policy, which we have maintained Group includes experts from across the global with BSR to continually improve our human rights since 2012, is informed by international human rights business, including Supply Chain, Security and Privacy, program; in FY17, BSR facilitated our external human Human Rights frameworks, including the Universal Declaration Inclusion and Collaboration, Government Affairs, rights stakeholder engagement meeting and our first of Human Rights (UDHR), the International Labour Community Relations, Marketing and Communications, Supply Chain human rights impact assessment. Organization (ILO) core labor standards, and the UN Investor Relations, and Corporate Affairs. Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing Global Compact. The policy reflects our commitment •• We play a leading role in driving ethical sourcing The Human Rights Working Group (HRWG) proactively to apply the UN Guiding Principles on Business and practices as a member of the Responsible Business identifies and responds to the company’s most Human Rights, which clarify the relationship between Alliance (formerly known as the Electronic Industry significant Human Rights risks, opportunities, and the state’s duty to protect human rights and the Citizenship Coalition). For more information about our impacts across our business operations, products, corporate responsibility to respect human rights. involvement with the RBA, see RBA Membership in sales and services, and supply chain. In FY17 the Governance chapter. We review our policy annually to ensure it reflects best we reviewed our overall HRWG governance and 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 71 “We are focused on driving respect for human rights throughout our value Governance •• We support the principles of the Global Network chain—from global Internet governance to the rights of our employees and Initiative (GNI), which apply to operators of public Society Internet access networks, and include them in our those of our suppliers. contracts and processes where applicable. ­— Mark Chandler, Senior Vice President, Environment General Counsel, and Chief Compliance Officer; •• We meet with analysts, investors, and customers Executive Sponsor of Cisco’s Human Rights Working Group GRI Index throughout the year to inform them of our approach to human rights and address their questions. UNSDG Index Human Rights Advocacy incorporate relevant laws and ethical principles that In FY17 we convened an external stakeholder employees can relate to their daily activities, including engagement meeting in Washington, DC, to address We recognize the role we can play in increasing the privacy, avoiding conflicts of interest, respecting the relationship between human rights and the future community of organizations that are able to promote, Strategy And Priorities others, using company resources responsibly, nonof the Internet. Topics included multi-stakeholder defend, and discuss a free and open Internet. We discrimination, immigration, fair pay, freedom of Internet governance, Internet security and privacy, are becoming increasingly vocal in policy, diplomatic, Attracting, Keeping, And expression, and responsibility to report ethical concerns. trust and transparency, and open and global product and standards-setting channels about our support Sharing Great Talent standards. for open and global product standards, and we take Figure 22. Human Rights Priorities Inclusion And a multi-stakeholder approach to Internet governance. Collaboration Human Rights Training Recognizing the importance of listening to diverse To help our employees deepen their understanding of points of view, Cisco was a sponsor of RightsCon Community Impact the relationship between technology and human rights, 2017 in Brussels, where we led panel discussions DATA ETHICAL SECURITY we’ve updated our training to include more impactful and engaged with a variety of stakeholders. While CONDUCT & PRIVACY Building Skills And messaging, real-life scenarios, and a mandatory quiz. significant progress has been made in recent years, Entrepreneurship This training introduces the basic concepts of human it is essential to continue bridging gaps between the HUMAN rights, and reviews core elements of our policy and human rights and technology communities. RIGHTS Strategic Social how those elements apply to our employees and their Investments work. Our Priorities DIGITAL This training is required of all employees who work We organize our human rights priority issues around RIGHTS Socioeconomic in business functions most likely to have direct ethical conduct, data security and privacy, and digital Research engagement with human-rights-related business rights. Figure 22 illustrates our specific focus within decisions, such as our sales, services, and supply each priority area. Human Rights chain teams. In FY17, there was a 96-percent Responsible Sourcing completion rate among employees required to take the Ethical Conduct ETHICAL CONDUCT DIGITAL RIGHTS DATA SECURITY AND PRIVACY training, an increase of 22 percent from FY16. We offer Non-Discrimination, Non-Discrimination, Diversity, Freedom of Expression And Manufacturing Ethical conduct in our business operations and supply and Inclusion Diversity, and Inclusion Freedom of Expression and and Privacy Privacy Security and Privacy by Security and Privacy this training bi-annually to full-time employees, and to Code of Business Conduct Global Product Standards Design chain is the cornerstone of our human rights priorities. Code of Business Global Anti-Corruption Policies Global Product Standards Multi-Stakeholder Internet by Design new employees on an ongoing basis. Conduct Securing the Cloud Ethical Sourcing Multi-Stakeholder Internet Securing the Cloud Governance The rights of Cisco employees are enshrined inSupplier our Code of Conduct Global Anti-Corruption Policy Advocacy for a Free Governance Compliance Compliance Providing Transparency 96% of required Cisco employees and Global Internet Code of Business Conduct and in policies and Employee Wellness, Policies Health and Policy Advocacy for a Promoting Security Awareness Safety Providing Transparency guidelines that direct our day-to-day activities and Ethical Sourcing Free and Global Internet completed human rights training business decisions. These policies and guidelines Supplier Code of Conduct Promoting Security Awareness Employee Wellness, in FY17. Health, and Safety 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 72 Governance Ethical sourcing is an important facet of our ethical Security is everyone’s responsibility. Privacy and Our greatest challenge is staying ahead of attackers. conduct strategy. Suppliers must acknowledge their security are included in our Code of Business Conduct To do so, we attack our own enterprise. Eighty of our Society commitment to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which and privacy and security trainings, and resources are penetration testers are dedicated to attacking our is based on the Supplier Code of Conduct put forth available to all our employees and contractors. The products and systems. They uncover vulnerabilities so we Environment by the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), formerly Cisco Data Protection Program helps our people can resolve them before anyone else can exploit them. the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition. The understand the risks of customer data and their role in GRI Index We also test our people. As security software RBA Supplier Code of Conduct promotes worker protecting all data. becomes more sophisticated, attackers find new ways UNSDG Index safety and responsible labor practices, environmental to gain access. Many security threats originate from sustainability, and ethical business practices. Through Pervasive Security phishing emails. Last year, we sent 500,000 internal our Conflict Minerals Policy, we aim to ensure our Increased connectivity means increased complexity. test phishing emails to our own employees, testing and Strategy And Priorities sourcing of materials does not support human We build security into every level of our solutions raising awareness of phishing techniques and potential rights violators. and services. We want to create a chain of trust for incoming threats. Attracting, Keeping, And systems and their individual components. Additional details on human rights in the supply chain Sharing Great Talent Our security response team manages the response to can be found later in this chapter. Details on the Our Secure Development Lifecycle (SDL) process threats. Talos, our industry-leading threat intelligence governance of our supplier audit process are available has been in place for more than 10 years. Compliant team that collects information about existing and Inclusion And in our Governance chapter. with ISO 27034, the SDL provides a solid foundation Collaboration developing threats, reviews 1.5 million malware to address constantly evolving security threats. By Other salient human rights issues are addressed samples per day. All Cisco security products use engineering privacy into our technology, policies, and Community Impact in relevant sections in The Details, including our Talos threat intelligence, providing fast and effective processes we provide more authorized control over commitments to ethics and anti-corruption and how security solutions. personally identifiable information—including who uses Building Skills And our human rights commitments apply to our people. it and why. Compliance and Assurance Entrepreneurship Security, though, is not just about design. It is essential We have achieved ISO 27001 certification across In 2017, our technology blocked more Strategic Social throughout the value chain, from design, production, our entire services business. This is the global, Investments than 20 billion threats per day. operations, and use to end of life. Through our Value industry-wide specification for an Information Chain Security Program, we manage security risk Security Management System (ISMS). Achieving Socioeconomic from development to end of life—whether the impact this certification means our security policies and Research Data Security and Privacy is technical, operational, or human. Our Trust Anchor procedures have been independently verified, giving and Secure Boot technologies validate our software our customers peace of mind that we are protecting GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 418-1 Human Rights and check that code is authentic and unmodified. their data. Security and Our Employees Responsible Sourcing Figure 23. Value Chain Stages Data security starts with our people’s awareness. And Manufacturing Nearly one-third of our employees are certified in Value Chain Stages the Security Ninja training program. Their thorough understanding of information security, data protection and privacy policies, secure development, and value chain security creates a security-aware culture. Design Plan Source Make Quality Deliver Sustain End of Life power to identify and pivot on issues faster and with greater POLICY PROCESS 2017 CSR Report confidence than ever before. Our commitment to invest csr.cisco.com | feedback 73 across people, processes, technology and policies is helping TECHNOLOGY us build the new secure enterprise. PEOPLE Pervasive security requires an army of advocates. Every Cisco employee, vendor, partner, and customer must understand their The European Global Data Protection Regulation role in the cybersecurity equation. Governance Figure 24. Our People in the Security Equation (GDPR) is already active under the EU rule and Cisco Society has programs in place to ensure business continuity for Cisco and our customers when enforcement 100 Environment begins in May 2018. This is built on our previous work 674 DEDICATED INCIDENT 500,000 80 RESPONDERS with Privacy Shield. Cisco has a corporate team that GRI Index SECURITY manages compliance with data protection and privacy 35,000 ADVOCATES UNSDG Index regulations. They are supported by a global program EMPLOYEES PEN TESTERS for reporting and tracking incidents. around the globe across multiple internal test phishing In FY17 we did not have any data breaches that caused functions emails sent last year certified in the dedicated to attacking Strategy And Priorities cognizable harm or resulted in legal/regulatory action. Security Ninja program Cisco’s products and Our time to detect (TTD) a breach is 6.05 hours, solutions Attracting, Keeping, And compared to an industry average of 100 to 200 days. Sharing Great Talent Our commitment to compliance goes beyond legal Security for the Future, Now Today, individuals and organizations must deal with requirements. We voluntarily support industry-led multiple clouds. Providing a coherent, uniform security Inclusion And Data security evolves constantly. And so must we. initiatives, including Common Criteria, Online Privacy policy can be a challenge. We’re responding to new Collaboration We’re leading the way with our Network Intuitive, Alliance, TRUSTe, the EU/Swiss-US Privacy Shield, and networking realities with products such as Cisco intent-based networking that uses machine learning the APEC Cross Border Privacy Rules system. Umbrella that secure users, data, and applications in Community Impact to recognize intent and mitigate security threats. the cloud. Promoting Security Awareness Intelligent, highly secure, powered by “intent,” and Building Skills And informed by “context,” the Network Intuitive constantly The IoT only increases this complexity. By 2030, 500 Entrepreneurship Our Trust Center provides transparency and billion devices and objects will be connected to the learns, adapts, automates, and protects to optimize the information to help our customers and others manage Internet. Artificial intelligence and automation add network and defend against threats. Customers can Strategic Social security. This includes a biannual cybersecurity report yet another layer. We are exploring ways we can use detect threats in encrypted traffic, creating security Investments that details requests or demands for customer data blockchain technology to secure our networks. We while maintaining privacy. With the Network Intuitive, from law enforcement and national security agencies have joined some of the industry’s most innovative we continue our focus in the areas of cloud and IoT via Socioeconomic worldwide. We share information and research about blockchain startups and enterprises to launch the research, acquisition, and innovation (Figure 25). Research cybersecurity and threats through the Cisco Security Blockchain IoT Protocol Initiative. This group will agree blog, and our security advisories and alerts report on common blockchain protocols and standards. Human Rights threat outbreaks and vulnerability activities. Figure 25. The Network Intuitive Security is one of the fastest growing areas of our These challenges are industry wide. We share business. We acquired seven companies in 2017, Responsible Sourcing experiences and collaborate with security and privacy And Manufacturing including cloud security specialist Cloudlock. From organizations, including: next-generation firewalls to cloud security, we are •• Cloud Security Alliance driving security forward. •• Health Information Trust Alliance •• National Cyber Security Alliance •• Payment Card Industry Board of Advisors •• International Association of Privacy Professionals 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 74 Governance Digital Rights networks and network security in terms of protecting appropriate response to the modern innovation era, the network or users from attacks. Because of this, which generates great technological advances that Society GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 416-1, GRI 416-2 network operators have a great deal of latitude: They need to be used and regulated responsibly. can block access to particular websites or copy and Digital Rights: Freedom of Expression Despite these efforts, it has been alleged that Environment download user communications. Operators must also and Privacy some customers in some countries have misused be able to identify the protocols used for different GRI Index The rights to freedom of expression and privacy are types of traffic, and only they are able to shut down our technology. In some cases, awareness of the fact that a government does not respect the open fundamental to business and society. The Internet has such networks. UNSDG Index transformed these rights, allowing billions of people to Internet is confused with complicity in efforts to limit We believe that the threat to freedom of expression communications or repress freedom, even where the access information previously unavailable to them—and and Internet freedom today resides not in standardized equipment being supplied is standards-based, nonwe are proud of our role in this. However, access is not Strategy And Priorities equipment, but in efforts to adopt special protocols customized access equipment that is necessary to yet universal. that deviate from global norms and efforts to enable facilitate communications. Attracting, Keeping, And Our goal is to expand access to information and special censorship or filtering systems. We have Our technology and systems can also play an Sharing Great Talent promote innovation. We build our products on the open, worked in opposition to such efforts and will continue important role in helping to promote public safety— global standards we believe are critical to overcoming to do so. To protect individuals’ information, we through crime prevention assistance, for example—but Inclusion And censorship, protecting privacy, and keeping the world advocate that users should have access to workable we recognize that there is a growing concern about the Collaboration connected. We are strongly committed to a standardsencryption, and we have opposed the efforts of some use of networking equipment for improper surveillance based global Internet that maximizes the opportunities governments to block users from adequate encryption. that would violate individuals’ privacy rights. Community Impact for freedom of expression. We are guided by the following principles: Digital Rights: Product Use Digital Rights: Internet Security Building Skills And •• We do not participate in business activities that would We believe our role in providing greater access to the Entrepreneurship Today there is undoubtedly a tension between security aid repression. Internet is critically important and that operating in and freedom. We want governments to detect and most countries brings more benefits than if we were •• We do not support attempts by governments to disrupt terrorist networks while protecting their citizens’ Strategic Social not present. In all countries where we do business, our Investments fragment the Internet or create a “closed” Internet; basic human rights. technology and systems, whether they are sold directly or such attempts undermine fundamental human rights, Cisco does not work with any government, including through local partners and service providers, include the Socioeconomic including the right to freedom of expression. the U.S. government, to weaken our products. As a same standard Internet-access equipment and network Research •• We do not customize or develop specialized filtering part of our normal course of product development, management capabilities that are used by public libraries capabilities to enable regimes to block access to in the United States, which include such capabilities as we spend a great deal of energy designing products Human Rights information. in ways that avoid vulnerabilities, and then attacking blocking inappropriate content for children. those same products through testing to proactively •• We do not supply or support mediation equipment that We also believe in an open Internet where people Responsible Sourcing identify security issues before attackers might. When And Manufacturing allows the interception of telephone calls made over can access the same information no matter where we learn of a security vulnerability in a product or the Internet using Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). they are in the world. We design our products and service, we respond by validating it, fixing it, and •• We do not deliberately build backdoors into our services to enable this access while safeguarding informing our customers. If a customer’s security has products, and we do not knowingly enable backdoors human rights. Our commitment to an approach that been impacted by external forces, we react the same in our products. balances protecting user data privacy and the rule way, regardless of the origin of the security breach. of law is further demonstrated by our support for the Individuals, companies, and countries make their We offer customers robust tools to defend their LEADS Act introduced to the U.S. Congress earlier this own decisions with respect to how they operate environments against attack—and to detect attacks year. We will continue to support legislation that is an when they are happening. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 75 Governance issues within 30 days and all other findings within 180 Society Responsible Sourcing days unless the issue requires long-term improvement plans, such as the monitoring of working hours. We and Manufacturing work closely with suppliers until performance improves Environment and conduct a follow-up audit if needed. During FY17, more than 82 percent of corrective action plans were GRI Index Human Rights in Our Supply Chain addressed and closed within the RBA-prescribed UNSDG Index GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 408-1, GRI 409-1, timeframe, up from 80 percent in FY16. reinvest to stay ahead of human rights challenges. GRI 412-1, GRI 412-2, GRI 412-3, GRI 414-1, GRI 414-2, Starting in FY18, all key suppliers will be required to See more detail on our Human Rights Impact GRI 416-1, GRI 416-2 Assessment. complete an annual self-assessment questionnaire, Strategy And Priorities At Cisco, labor standards matter. Not only is respecting pay for their own third-party audit every two years, and human rights in our supply chain an expectation of our submit the audit through RBA-ONLINE. We will pursue Attracting, Keeping, And Audits customers, employees, and other stakeholders, it is additional audits with high-risk, non-key suppliers Sharing Great Talent also a means by which we reflect our corporate values. During FY17, we audited 53 supplier facilities through based on our risk assessment methodologies. We are using digitization to more deeply understand a third-party auditor. We prioritize high-risk supplier Inclusion And how enforcing our Supplier Code of Conduct impacts facilities for site audits using the RBA self-assessment Collaboration process. We aim to audit all high-risk manufacturing our manufacturing footprint and wider supply chain ecosystem. Our objective is to embed our insights into facilities and component suppliers every two years, Community Impact the business so we can better identify areas where we and once again met our RBA commitment to audit at can make the biggest difference. least 25 percent of our high-risk suppliers in FY17. Building Skills And While all audits in FY17 were announced, we do Entrepreneurship The RBA (formerly EICC) Supplier Code of Conduct is conduct unannounced audits as necessary. The results the foundation of our supplier engagement processes. of these audits are shown in Table 10. Strategic Social While we remain committed to auditing per the Investments RBA protocol, we recognize its limitations. We are Auditors use the RBA’s standard protocols and audit working to improve root cause issues, and promote tools to review documentation, conduct site tours, continuous improvement through a greater focus on and assess how suppliers monitor their own suppliers. Socioeconomic Research remediation and capacity building, and by evaluating We share our audit findings with other RBA member our longer-term strategy. In FY17, Cisco conducted our companies through the RBA-ONLINE platform. Human Rights first Human Rights Impact Assessment of our Supply If findings are identified, the supplier must produce a Chain to identify gaps and opportunities in our current corrective action plan and then provide evidence that Responsible Sourcing program and to highlight where we need to it has been implemented. They must address priority And Manufacturing 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 76 Governance Figure 26. Supply Chain Global Operating System Percent Spend and Key Audit Findings by Region Society Environment Environment GRI Index 12% 7% Labor 24 % 31% UNSDG Index SPEND MGMT Europe & 38% SPEND Middle East Canada & United States MGMT Labor 55% Strategy And Priorities H&S 13% 38% 24% Attracting, Keeping, And SPEND Sharing Great Talent Asia Pacific Environment H&S 11% Inclusion And 32% Collaboration Ethics 6% Community Impact Building Skills And Labor 9% SPEND Central & H&S 50% Entrepreneurship 50% S. America Strategic Social Investments Socioeconomic Number of Number of Research Audits Closure Audits Human Rights Asia Pacific 46 Asia Pacific 30 Canada & United States 5 Canada & United States 0 Responsible Sourcing Central & South America 2 Central & South America 0 And Manufacturing Europe & Middle East 0 Europe & Middle East 0 53 30 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 77 Governance Supplier Audit Findings Figure 27. Human Rights Impact Assessment Process Results RBA audits are valid for two years. Since most Tier 1 Society facility audits were within the 2-year period of validity, Human Rights Impact Assessment Process Results Environment 49 of the 53 audits we conducted in FY17 were of Tier 2 suppliers’ sites. The percentage of audit elements GRI Index resulting in a finding rose slightly to 11.7 percent (from around 10 percent in FY16). This aligns with the UNSDG Index increased number of audits of commodity suppliers because commodity suppliers are usually smaller and Engage Stakeholder subject to audit less often—49 this year compared to Digitize Expand Audits Strategy And Priorities Workers and Engagement 37 in FY16. The most frequent priority audit findings Processes to Site Level Reskill and Reporting in FY17 were working hours, health and safety, freely Attracting, Keeping, And chosen employment, and wages and benefits. See Sharing Great Talent Table 10 for all audit findings. Inclusion And For information on environmental audit findings see Digitize to more effectively Reallocate resources toward Help suppliers establish Work across industry and the Environment section. track efforts high-risk suppliers grievance mechanisms government on policy Collaboration Study impact of automation Expand responsible raw Study impact of digital on SC human rights risk materials sourcing business model evolution Community Impact Beyond Auditing profile Audit logistics suppliers While audits are a valuable tool, we recognize that Building Skills And we cannot effectively manage our supply chain risks Entrepreneurship through the auditing process alone. Our focus areas in FY17 (detailed below) are helping us go beyond the Strategic Social audit—expanding our digitization efforts to understand Investments and monitor our supply chain and supporting industrywide initiatives on raw materials sourcing. We have how they can be managed, and understand how As well as evaluating our current program, the HRIA Socioeconomic we perform against the UN Guiding Principles on highlighted opportunities too. As a result of the also turned the spotlight on our operations, assessing Research our processes to improve our approach to managing Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). assessment, we plan to: human rights risks in our supply chain and refocus our The study concluded that our current supply chain •• More thoroughly integrate Cisco-specific risk Human Rights priorities. These all promote our focus area from FY17 assessment and audit process identifies actual and factors, which will help us react more quickly to respect the rights of vulnerable workers. potential human rights impacts with a high degree and appropriately. Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing of thoroughness and conforms to a majority of the Human Rights Impact Assessment in Our •• Utilize emerging technologies to focus our efforts to Supply Chain expectations of the UNGPs. We had identified the most improve outcomes. severe risks as relating to working hours, emergency To understand our impact, we commissioned BSR to preparedness, freely chosen employment, young •• More intensively monitor the longer-term human conduct our first Human Rights Impact Assessment workers/child labor, and wages and benefits. BSR’s rights impacts of automation in our supply chain, (HRIA) of our supply chain. We wanted to identify our assessment added privacy and raw materials sourcing including artificial intelligence, machine learning, big human rights impacts risks and opportunities, identify to this list. data, and the Internet of Things (IoT). 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 78 Governance Using Digital Solutions to Advance Factory Our ongoing digitization efforts will continue with site engineering teams who may identify a Code Capacity Building to enhance supplier and employee access to violation in a factory that was not subject to an audit. Society Using automated, data-driven efforts to measure learning tools. We are using technology and regular If we are alerted to any urgent issues, our team visits performance is a key priority. To support our expanded engagement between supplier management, factory the sites and provides coaching to the appropriate Environment workers, and Cisco employees to optimize resources staff to help remedy the compliance issue as quickly as audit requirements for suppliers in FY18, we worked and quickly gather insight, build capacity, and measure possible. GRI Index with the RBA to build an interface that delivers realimprovement. time audit data from suppliers sharing audits with us on We’re working on automating these processes so that UNSDG Index RBA-ONLINE. Protecting the Most Vulnerable Workers issues don’t fall through the cracks. By digitizing this Previously, we were limited to data from audits that in the Supply Chain process, we can make sure that incidents are managed Cisco commissioned with suppliers. The new interface by the right people, and we can track the incident to Audits remain the first step in identifying and Strategy And Priorities see how long it takes to resolve the issue. allows us to see data from key suppliers in real time— respecting the rights of the most vulnerable workers going beyond a single audit to understand and manage in our supply chain. We require key suppliers to submit Our goal to benefit 100 percent of our supply chain Attracting, Keeping, And risk at a deeper level. Dashboard analytics allow us audits, so that we can focus our efforts on suppliers workers using digital solutions by 2020 is underway. Sharing Great Talent to see concentrations of audit findings by categories that are deemed higher risk based on topics specific We estimate our audit program touched more than such as geography or commodity. These dashboards to our supply chain, such as product type, geographic 300,000 manufacturing employees worldwide in FY17. Inclusion And are available to the supplier responsibility team and the region, and publicly available social development Table 8 shows the number of workers that have been Collaboration central sourcing teams—getting the right data in front indices through organizations such as the World Bank directly impacted by our audit program. However, we of the right stakeholders to improve programs and and the United Nations. The extended workforce can realize that auditing is not the only means to touch our Community Impact outcomes. be affected by multiple challenges including ineffective extended workforce, which is why we’re developing Making better sense of the data is giving us deeper representation, unequal earnings, inadequate social complimentary solutions using what we’re best at—our Building Skills And Entrepreneurship insight into our supply chain and the nuanced security, and difficult conditions of work that might technology—to scale our impact. differences across regions and facilities within it, undermine fundamental rights. We want to target our Supporting an Industry-Wide Approach to Strategic Social allowing us to identify and manage risks and solutions programs to help these vulnerable workers wherever Address Issues Related to Raw Materials Investments more effectively. By focusing on the highest-risk they may be in the supply chain. Sourcing in the Supply Chain Sub-Tiers areas of our supply chain and responding to regional Occasionally, something happens outside of our We are committed to the ethical sourcing of Socioeconomic variations, we are making real improvements across traditional Supplier Engagement Process that needs Research components and materials (see our Conflict Minerals code-related challenges. our attention. For example, we are working closely Policy). This fits our values and helps us to meet More audit data leads to more opportunity for the expectations and requirements of our customers, Human Rights Table 8. Number of Workers corrective action and capacity building. To help government regulators, and other stakeholders. With Covered in Audit Program* support suppliers in making improvements and this in mind, we have expanded our Conflict Minerals Responsible Sourcing Number of workers addressing specific audit findings, we direct them to Program to become a Raw Materials Sourcing Program, And Manufacturing use the RBA Learning Academy. Internally, we provide FY17 366,657 which now includes additional minerals such as cobalt. supplier-facing employees around the globe with FY16 308,315 Responsible sourcing of raw materials is a global issue training on Code fundamentals and guidance on how FY15 172,656 and, despite our influence, one we cannot solve alone. to embed sustainability into their roles. FY14 126,638 To maximize our impact, we are working closely with * Accumulated figure. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 79 Governance Table 9. Smelters and Refiners Active in Responsible Materials Assurance Process (RMAP) Previous percentage Previous percentage validated Number validated or Current percentage Total smelters or refiners, by Society Validated or active or active (CY15) Active (CY16) Validated or active conflict minerals (CY16) (CY14) (2016) Environment Gold 32% 73% 100 75% 134 GRI Index Tantalum 70% 100% 44 100% 44 UNSDG Index Tin 22% 86% 73 91% 80 Tungsten 52% 88% 41 93% 44 Strategy And Priorities * Includes smelters or refiners that are potential sources of tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold (3TG). Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI; formerly the well as supplier behavior changes as suppliers have Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative) to drive cross-industry removed smelters from their supply chain or changed Inclusion And engagement and solutions on the ethical sourcing of sourcing habits. The results achieved this year have Collaboration raw materials. greatly improved based on efforts made in the industry and by our supply chain. We are closely engaged with our suppliers and have Community Impact received due diligence reporting from suppliers We included Conflict Mineral Status in dashboards representing more than 99.4 percent of our direct created for our central sourcing teams to help drive Building Skills And spend. In 2016, 85 percent of the identified smelters more educated decision making and drive performance Entrepreneurship and refiners in our supply chain for current product increase. As leading industry players continue to on the market had been audited or were active in the understand and evolve within the complex arena of Strategic Social Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFSP) audit process, conflict minerals, it’s clear there is still a long way to Investments We publish guidance to our suppliers and rely on our go in the realm of ethical sourcing when considering direct suppliers to evaluate their own supply chains to extended producer responsibility and developing Socioeconomic understand which smelters or refineries provide the industry-wide strategies to address solutions. Research 3TG metals in our products. To do this, we use the Conflict Minerals reporting template (CMRT) developed Human Rights by the RMI, after conducting in-depth analysis and assessment of the smelter and refineries, these are Responsible Sourcing in turn communicated in Cisco’s Conflict Minerals And Manufacturing Reporting Template (CMRT) back to its customers. In addition, the total number of identified smelters or refiners in our supply chain has declined by 4.2 percent from the previous year. This change is associated with efforts within the RMI around smelter identification, as 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 80 Governance Table 10. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY17 Total % of Audit Society Total Findings Findings Findings Number Elements Component Total Contract Identified as Identified as Identified of Audit Resulting in Environment SupplierS ManufacturerS Priority1 Major2 as Minor3 Elements4 Findings GRI Index Labor 21 96 101 1,537 14.18% Freely chosen employment 19 2 5 11 5 UNSDG Index Young workers/child labor 4 0 1 2 1 Working hours 114 25 9 51 79 Strategy And Priorities Wages and benefits 21 4 4 16 5 Humane treatment 1 0 0 0 1 Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent Non-discrimination 17 2 2 9 8 Freedom of association 9 0 0 7 2 Inclusion And Ethics 0 8 22 530 5.66% Collaboration Business integrity 4 1 0 2 3 Community Impact No improper advantage 10 0 0 2 8 Disclosure of information 0 0 0 0 0 Building Skills And Intellectual property 1 0 0 0 1 Entrepreneurship Fair business, advertising, and competition 5 0 0 2 3 Strategic Social Protection of identity 8 0 0 2 6 Investments non-retaliation 0 0 0 0 0 Privacy 0 1 0 0 1 Socioeconomic Research Health and Safety 4 116 65 1,060 17.45% Occupational safety 30 4 0 21 13 Human Rights Emergency preparedness 52 5 2 43 12 Occupational injury and illness 25 4 0 14 15 Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing Industrial hygiene 15 3 1 9 8 Physically demanding work 0 1 0 1 0 Machine safeguarding 3 1 0 1 3 Food, sanitation, and housing 30 7 1 25 11 Health and safety communication 4 1 0 2 3 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 81 Governance Table 10. Categorization of Audit Findings in FY17 (Continued) Total % of Audit Society Total Findings Findings Findings Number Elements Component Total Contract Identified as Identified as Identified of Audit Resulting in Environment SupplierS ManufacturerS Priority1 Major2 as Minor3 Elements4 Findings Environment 0 44 20 742 8.63% GRI Index Environmental permits and reporting 8 1 0 6 3 UNSDG Index Pollution prevention and resource reduction 2 0 0 1 1 Hazardous substances 24 3 0 19 8 Strategy And Priorities Wastewater and solid waste 7 0 0 4 3 Air emissions 3 1 0 2 2 Attracting, Keeping, And Materials restrictions 0 0 0 0 0 Sharing Great Talent Stormwater management 11 2 0 10 3 Inclusion And Energy consumption and Collaboration greenhouse gas emissions 1 1 0 2 0 Management System 0 27 57 848 9.91% Community Impact Company commitment 2 0 0 1 1 Management accountability and Building Skills And Entrepreneurship Responsibility 7 0 0 2 5 Legal and customer requirements 4 0 0 2 2 Strategic Social Risk assessment and risk management 11 1 0 2 10 Investments Improvement objectives 8 0 0 2 6 Socioeconomic Training 5 1 0 2 4 Research Communication 5 0 0 0 5 Worker feedback and participation 3 0 0 1 2 Human Rights Audits and assessments 5 0 0 2 3 Responsible Sourcing Corrective action process 5 0 0 2 3 And Manufacturing Documentation and records 1 0 0 1 0 Supplier responsibility 25 1 0 10 16 1. Priority finding: A major non-conformance with significant and immediate impact. 2. Major finding: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or procedures ineffective. 3. Minor finding: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with management systems. 4. Total audit elements: The total number of audit elements with the potential for a finding for the 53 FY17 audits. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 82 Governance Table 11. Audit Findings by Country Society Location/ Management Number of Number of Category Labor Environment Ethics H&S System Total Initial Audits Closure Audits Environment China 134 48 8 129 39 358 32 20 GRI Index Malaysia 33 9 13 18 19 92 5 4 Mexico 1 0 0 1 0 2 2 UNSDG Index Philippines 7 0 0 0 1 8 2 South Korea 6 2 2 3 2 15 1 2 Strategy And Priorities Taiwan 9 1 2 5 3 20 4 1 Thailand 15 1 5 19 4 44 2 3 Attracting, Keeping, And Sharing Great Talent USA 13 3 0 10 16 42 5 Total 218 64 30 185 84 581 53 30 Inclusion And Collaboration Community Impact Building Skills And Entrepreneurship Strategic Social Investments Socioeconomic Research Human Rights Responsible Sourcing And Manufacturing 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 83 Environment Governance Society Environment GRI Index In FY16, we set a goal to avoid 1 million metric tonne UNSDG Index Environment Roadmap cumulative of supply chain GHG emissions by 2020 (FY12 baseline). At the end of FY17, we had avoided 711,980 metric tonne, or about 71.2 percent of our goal. Because Cisco has a significant role in the enablement Operations The Partner Energy Management program allows us to Environment of the Internet of Things we are uniquely suited to collaborate on, measure, and verify energy reduction Roadmap help address environmental issues stemming from the In FY17, we met our second 5-year GHG reduction initiatives with our contract manufacturing partners. disruption of the earth’s cycles: goal by reducing our worldwide Scope 1 and 2 GHG Environmental emissions more than 40% in absolute terms (FY07 Sustainability •• Carbon cycle: Reduce energy consumption and baseline). In addition, we established two new 5-year Products increase energy efficiency to help mitigate longgoals for reducing GHG emissions in our operations. We continue to improve product power consumption Materials term climate change caused by fossil fuel use and •• Reduce total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions from plug to port, with a goal to achieve a system increasing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. worldwide by 60% absolute by FY22 (FY07 baseline). energy efficiency of 92 percent by 2020. We do this by Energy And [Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions] optimizing facility input voltage and improving power GHG Emissions •• Resource cycle: Use the earth’s resources more •• Use electricity generated from renewable sources for conversion from bus to board to point of load, as well efficiently to reduce the impact of resource extraction at least 85% of our global electricity by FY22. as through the energy efficiency of our ASICs, which Product End Of Life and disposal. [Circular Economy] These goals are based on the work of scientists are major consumers of power in our products. In And Waste From product performance testing of four generations of •• Biological cycle: Promote species conservation by contributing to Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Operations Change (IPCC) reporting and The 3% Solution report1 high-end routing and data center switching products, reducing poaching in the world’s game reserves and in order to limit global warming to the 2°C threshold. we saw a 38-fold increase in bits-per-watt throughput Water Use national parks. [Connected Conservation] between the four generations of products, with only a Through engagement with our employees, business Biodiversity And Extended Operations (Supply Chain) 2.5-fold increase in power usage. partners and the power of the network we can make Land Use To have a direct stake in supplier GHG reduction, we the greatest impact in these three areas. are driving supplier tracking and reporting of GHG Solutions Non-GHG Emissions Energy and Greenhouse emissions. At present, our manufacturing partners and logistics providers, as well as 74 percent, by spend, of Cisco offers solutions that help us—and our customers— be more sustainable: Effluents (Liquid) Gas Emissions our component suppliers, have set reduction goals. We •• Remote collaboration: With Cisco TelePresence® Our GHG reduction goals are concentrated in four encourage our suppliers to report to CDP, which builds video conferencing, Cisco WebEx® desktop Appendix areas: operations, supply chain (extended operations), more transparency into our supply chain. conferencing, Cisco Spark™, Cisco Unified products, and solutions. Communications, Cisco Jabber®, and Cisco Jabber 1 The 3% Solution report is named for the annual emissions reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and by 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preindustrial temperature. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 84 Governance Guest, employees can meet with each other and with Product Return models such as leasing or “as a service” will permit customers and partners around the world without the optimization of product use cycles and valuation after Cisco currently receives between 12,000 and Society productivity loss, work-life impact, or GHG emissions each customer use phase, upon component harvesting of physical travel. 14,000 metric tonne of used product each year and recycling into commodity fractions. Environment from our customers and partners. We then use that ••Teleworking and mobility: Cisco Virtual Office and equipment for life extension through our service GRI Index Cisco OfficeExtend provide highly secure wired and contracts, for development in our labs, or to support IoT and Cloud Solutions wireless voice, data, and video service for teleworker our demonstration loan program; when possible, we The adoption of IoT and cloud-based data management UNSDG Index homes (or small commercial offices). Employees can refurbish the equipment to a like-new condition for solutions will facilitate a broader use of asset tracking, save time and avoid the GHG emissions generated reuse or resale. We recycle the rest. monitoring, and utilization practices. Our products from commuting. More than a third of our employees Our circular economy efforts span our relationships with and networks have been used to measure and Environment use our teleworking solutions. Roadmap suppliers, customers, employees, and communities. We improve facility energy efficiency in factories, improve •• Cloud and data center: Cisco data center server, are studying ways to make it easier for customers to manufacturing process efficiency using real-time switch, and router products enable energy-efficient return used Cisco products, which includes simplifying network intelligence, and reduce machine downtime Environmental Sustainability compute and connectivity provisioning in the cloud, the request and pickup process as well as updating through remote diagnostics. In FY16 and FY17, Cisco where consumer, government, and business IT use is the associated commercial terms. Today, less than 15 made several significant acquisitions in IoT, cloud, increasingly being centered. percent of our used products are returned to Cisco and security solutions. We also supported IoT-related Materials for reuse, resale, or recycling. We believe there is an standards development. Energy And Circular Economy opportunity to increase this product return rate to as much Cisco is a founder and board member of the LoRa GHG Emissions as 50 percent of new product sales in the coming years. Alliance, which creates specifications for the security Product return is a priority issue, as found in our CSR and interoperability of wireless technology. LoRa Materiality Assessment. We have discovered that Product End Of Life Go-to-Market Models validation is being adopted by many IoT infrastructure And Waste From the larger opportunity is the circular economy—a Currently, about 25% of Cisco’s revenue is from projects for smart cities, utilities, and other industry Operations regenerative system in which resource input and waste, services, a portion of which is for service contracts sectors. Cisco acquired Jasper, a cloud-based emissions, and energy leakage are minimized by slowing, on our products. Extending product life is a circular platform that enables companies to rapidly launch and Water Use narrowing, and closing material and energy loops. economy principle. Cisco offers hardware replacement manage IoT services, and ParStream, which enables We believe the network is the platform for the customers to analyze large amounts of data and store it across the globe, delivering over one million shipments Biodiversity And connectivity, technologies, and applications that enable in near-real time anywhere on the network. Land Use a year through a worldwide network of more than monitoring, data collection, analytics, and decision 1400 depots in 135 countries. Most of the service The circular economy is highly reliant on the cloud and making—key components of a circular economy. Non-GHG Emissions replacement units that we supply through these depots on network security. Cisco continues to invest in security Cisco was a founding member of the Ellen MacArthur are sourced from our repair operations instead of using solutions to help customers adopt secure, cloudFoundation Circular Economy Initiative and became a Effluents (Liquid) newly manufactured products. The repair operations based business models faster and more confidently. CE100 member in early 2017. Cisco’s circular economy obtain donor product from customer returns. This includes Cloudlock, which provides monitoring, strategy has four elements that involve a range of Appendix compliance, and threat protection services, and business functions: A second component of circular economy Sourcefire, a leader in intelligent cybersecurity solutions. •• Product return implementation is reimagining how Cisco goes to •• Go-to-market models market with our hardware. Currently, most revenue •• IoT and cloud solutions comes from selling hardware, which introduces the •• Product design challenge of product return. Other go-to-market 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 85 Governance Product Design natural environment. Our strategic relationships have and in their communities. Here are some of the established a secure, reliable network that operates 24 opportunities we provided in FY17: Circularity begins with the design of products that Society hours daily across the entire game reserve, supporting •• Hosted the second annual SustainX thought use fewer materials and can be maintained and then the existing preservation goals and operations. leadership day. Environment upgraded to extend their life. This creates greater opportunities for products to be repaired or refurbished Cisco’s Connected Conservation program provides •• Offered product teardown events that demonstrate GRI Index and resold and for more value to be harvested from a foundation for our ambitious goal: to accelerate the the complexity of product end of life and encourage materials during demanufacture. We are also focusing deployment of innovative digital technology solutions our employees to come up with innovative ideas to UNSDG Index on increasing product functionality, improving for conservation efforts, supporting the co-existence solve these complex issues. energy efficiency, and reducing the use of materials of wildlife and communities across the planet. More information is available here. •• Utilized Cisco GreenHouse, a collaborative employee through miniaturization, as well as enabling more Environment site for problem solving and sharing sustainability tips intensive use of products through our software and Roadmap subscription services. Employee Engagement and insights. We encourage employees to be global problem solvers Environmental Environmental sustainability has become increasingly Sustainability Conservation important to our employees. We are committed to and come up with innovative ways to improve reusability or recyclability. One success story is the India Green Conservation recently became an area of focus for providing employees with tools that allow them to Team, an employee-led effort that transformed Cisco’s Materials Cisco, with a simple yet ambitious goal to help protect collaborate and solve problems, both in the office India sites into a disposable-cup-free zone. large game animals around the world. The Cisco Energy And Connected Conservation program was originated by an GHG Emissions employee team that saw an opportunity to use Cisco Product End Of Life And Waste From technology and know-how to address the increased levels of animal poaching rates around the world, Environmental Sustainability especially for elephants, lions, and rhinos. The program Operations We are applying a long-term approach to setting and prioritization of environmental topics include results of started with one of Cisco’s largest and most successful achieving our goals to address the core environmental life-cycle assessments (LCAs), input from stakeholders, partners, Dimension Data, and has expanded to include Water Use impacts related to our business and climate change, and assessments by independent consultancies. the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and other eco-system using IPCC findings. The actions, commitments, partners. In FY17, stakeholder feedback confirmed that our Biodiversity And and performance updates described in this chapter priorities continue to be: Land Use Cisco and Dimension Data are pioneering a range of build on the core values outlined in our Corporate solutions at a popular game reserve in South Africa; Environmental Policy. 1. Energy and greenhouse gas emissions, with Non-GHG Emissions this has proven the effectiveness of digital technology a focus on product energy efficiency, energy models for creating safe havens for protected wildlife. CSR Materiality Assessment: consumption in operations, and transport emissions from product logistics Effluents (Liquid) Cisco is helping to design and build networked security systems that are able to track the movement of visitors, Environment 2. Circular economy, with a focus on increasing Appendix staff, and anyone else who walks onto the reserve GRI 102-15, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47 product returns grounds. 24/7 surveillance of human movement Environmental topics are included in the CSR helps to identify suspicious activity, while protecting Materiality Assessment process as described in the endangered species populations without disturbing the Governance chapter. Additional inputs that inform the 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 86 Governance Table 12 shows the full list of environmental topics We increased the priority of biodiversity following •• Use the disclosures from the Global Reporting we assess and manage, and how they relate to our successful Connected Conservation pilot projects Initiative (GRI) Standards to guide our environmental Society environmental priorities. Per the materiality assessment proving that Cisco solutions can make a significant impact assessment, reporting, and initiatives. discussed in the Governance chapter, no environmentenvironmental and business impact protecting •• Provide complete, accurate, and public environmental Environment related topics fall under Tier 1. The top environmentthreatened species. Connected Conservation also reporting for our stakeholders. related topics, Tier 2 and 3, are governed by dedicated acts as a catalyst for innovation and learning for future GRI Index •• Require all Cisco employees to complete an annual programs and investment. Tier 4 and 5 topics receive security solutions. Code of Business Conduct (CoBC) certification and UNSDG Index due diligence as part of normal company operations. In FY17 we continued to see increasing customer act in a manner consistent with our CSR principles. interest in environmental sustainability as reflected in Table 12. List and ranking of requests for proposals, surveys, and other customer •• Share our policies and practices in our annual Environment environment topics assessed by the CSR report. inquiries. We are currently planning to refresh our Roadmap CSR materiality assessment process customer environmental sustainability survey in FY18. We maintain the following governance processes: Environment This will include inviting more than 5000 customers Environmental •• Seek stakeholder engagement and analysis on our CSR Priority: Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions across all regions and market segments to complete an Sustainability CSR materiality assessment, our reporting, and the Product energy efficiency (Tier 2*) online survey on environmental sustainability. results of our initiatives. Materials Energy consumption (operations) (Tier 2) Details about our performance and actions in all these •• Maintain ISO 14001 certification for sites with Transport emissions (from product logistics) (Tier 2) areas are provided in the relevant sections that follow. significant potential for environmental impact. Energy And IT enabling effect (Tier 3) GHG Emissions Supplier energy management (Tier 4) Policy •• Use our CSR business process to govern reporting, stakeholder engagement, feedback, prioritization, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 goal setting, initiative implementation, and Product End Of Life CSR Priority: Circular Economy And Waste From We believe that the most effective leadership is performance measurement. Operations Product returns (Tier 2) done by example. We will continue to improve our Cisco’s Sustainability Executive Team (SET) sponsors Materials use (Tier 3) environmental impact assessment, reporting, and our environmental initiatives and twice a year reviews Water Use Waste (product packaging EOL) (Tier 3) initiatives, and we encourage our supply chain and our environmental strategy and performance. SET is business partners to further develop sustainability best organized around specific tracks; each is sponsored Other Environment Topics Biodiversity And practices for their own operations. by an executive from the lead business function and Land Use Biodiversity (Tier 2) We use a set of governing principles as we develop our co-sponsored by the executive that chairs SET. Current Water use (Tier 4) tracks include: environmental policies: Non-GHG Emissions Waste (operational “trash”) (Tier 4) •• Integrate environmental responsibility throughout our •• Energy and GHG: Tracking GHG emissions; reducing Water pollution (liquid effluents) (Tier 4) business while meeting customer expectations with overall energy usage, through product and facility Effluents (Liquid) Non-GHG airborne emissions (Tier 5) respect to product function, delivery, quality, service, innovation; sourcing renewable energy; and and EOL management. integrating our carbon reduction strategies into Appendix supply chain operations. •• Work with our suppliers to integrate environmental responsibility into their operations, through our Supplier Code of Conduct, and all life cycle phases of our products. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 87 Governance •• Circular economy: Increasing customers’ return management (ERM) program identifies, assesses, These criteria focus on sites that can make the greatest of used equipment for reuse, repair and hardware governs, and manages risks—and Cisco’s response contribution to reducing negative environmental Society replacement for life extension from our worldwide to those risks—across the company. When top risks impacts and enhancing positive impacts. Once a site network of more than 1400 service depots, are identified, owners are assigned and specific has been selected for certification, we evaluate its Environment remanufacturing for resale, or recycling; new mitigation work plans and scorecards are developed. associated impacts, including corporate functional go-to-market leasing or hardware-as-a-service areas; associated products, activities, or services at that GRI Index In FY17, we updated our Corporate Environmental business models; using IoT technology to improve location; and the environmental impacts associated with Policy to further align our EMS and CSR programs and UNSDG Index energy management in factories producing Cisco deepen our leadership’s commitment to employees, the generation or use of materials, impacts on air and products; designing products that last longer through water, and depletion of natural resources. Using this customers, and the community. More information about maintenance and upgrades; and use less materials. information, we calculate an environmental score that the policy is summarized below. Environment further helps us prioritize facilities and issues. •• Employee engagement: Providing volunteer Roadmap opportunities, awareness events, and educational Environmental In CY17, Cisco plans to upgrade our certification to the tools for employees to use both at home and in new ISO 14001:2015 standard and provide ISO 14001 Environmental their communities. Management System certification for new sites in Kanata, Canada; Toronto, Sustainability Canada; and Pune, India (Figure 28). GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 Materials Organization Cisco’s ISO 14001 EMS is a global framework that Key executives, along with business functions covered relies on individual accountability, management Scope and Implementation Energy And by our Environmental Management System (EMS), responsibility, measurement of key performance Cisco’s ISO 14001 certified sites are audited by an GHG Emissions create and implement operational change. Teams focus indicators, and a continuous improvement philosophy independent third party, TUV SUD America Inc. Sites on corporate-level initiatives that directly enhance to meet business and environment goals. The EMS is that were part of an acquisition are included in the Product End Of Life Cisco’s environmental performance. certified by TUV SUD America Inc. to the international scope of our corporate environmental policy and And Waste From EMS standard ISO 14001:2004. A copy of our EMS associated environmental initiatives and thus may get •• SET provides oversight for our Tier 2and 3-related Operations certification is available for download. 14001 certified and audited. Table 13 shows our ISO environmental initiatives. Rebecca Jacoby, Senior 14001 certification key performance indicators (KPIs). Vice President, Operations, is the executive sponsor Cisco sites for ISO 14001 certification are selected Water Use of SET and is the official conduit to the Executive based on a set of criteria that includes: Leadership Team (ELT), our CEO, and the Board Biodiversity And •• Facility size and lab area of Directors. Land Use •• Building headcount capacity or persons housed ••The CSR Integration and Sustainability team within •• Primary facility function Non-GHG Emissions Corporate Affairs and the larger Human Resources organization is responsible for Cisco’s overall Table 13. Cisco Environment Management System ISO 14001 Certification Effluents (Liquid) sustainability strategy and coordinates funding, resources, KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 COMMENTS organization, scheduling, and execution of each SET track Number of Cisco sites with ISO 30 28 28 26 30 Appendix with engagement from business units across Cisco. 14001 certification ••The Board of Directors, acting directly and through Percent of real estate portfolio with 93% 93% 94% >90%* >90%* its committees, is responsible for oversight of risk ISO 14001 certification management at Cisco, including risks associated with CSR and sustainability. Our enterprise risk *We have met our goal of certifying a high percentage of our real estate portfolio. We will maintain >90% coverage of sites that meet the certification criteria. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 88 Governance Figure 28. Cisco ISO 14001 Certified Site Locations Society Environment Bedfont Lakes/Reading, United Kingdom GRI Index Amsterdam, Netherlands UNSDG Index Boulder/Englewood, Galway, Ireland Dusseldorf, Germany Colorado Environment Chicago, Illinois Paris, France Krakow, Poland Roadmap San Jose, California Brussels, Belgium Vimercate, Italy Environmental Richardson, Texas Boxborough, Massachusetts Beijing, China Tokyo, Japan Sustainability New York, New York Jerusalem, Israel Netanya, Israel Austin, Texas Shanghai, China Materials Atlanta, Georgia Hong Kong, China Herndon, Virginia Energy And GHG Emissions Research Triangle Bangalore, India Park, North Carolina Product End Of Life And Waste From Singapore Operations Water Use Biodiversity And Land Use Non-GHG Emissions St. Leonards/N. Sydney, Australia Effluents (Liquid) Appendix 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 89 Governance •• Singapore, Singapore: To mitigate leaks and water Table 14. Environment Aspect Teams per Region damage, water leakage detection technology is Europe, Middle Asia Pacific, Society used under plumbed water dispensers, dishwashers, GLOBAL EAST, AFRICA, AND JAPAN, CHINA, AND refrigerators, and sump tanks. When a leak is ASPECT TEAMS TEAMS AMERICAS RUSSIA (EMEAR) INDIA (APJCI) TOTAL Environment detected, alerts are sent to facilities staff and water Waste reduction and recycling 6 8 9 23 supply is automatically cut off in the impacted area. GRI Index E-scrap management*  10 10 3 23 All numeric claims made in this chapter are subject to a UNSDG Index Energy management**  0 2 9 11 multi-day, detailed, bottom-up audit that is conducted by our internal ISO 14001 audit team and is part of the Environmental awareness** 8 4 0 12 annual ISO 14001 internal audit plan. Verification is key Environment Wastewater management 1 0 0 1 to reporting valid data and helps us actively identify Roadmap needed corrective actions. Environment-related claims Total per region 25 24 21 70 in the 2017 CSR report will be audited in FY18. Environmental * These teams have site-specific activities and goals but also support a corporate-level/global goal. Sustainability Employee Training ** Used at smaller sites, these teams typically include activities around employee engagement, energy management, e-scrap management, waste reduction and recycling, and local “green” activities. Materials Internal EMS audits provide insight into how our We offer numerous ways to help employees Our EMS helps us identify the most significant environmental processes and commitments have been incorporate environmental design principles into Energy And environmental impacts, evaluate their risks at each implemented and how well we are improving our EMS our products and solutions. For example, videos on GHG Emissions Cisco site, and set relevant corporate and local at our certified sites. The frequency of these audits demand show how we can contribute to our goal of objectives. All ISO 14001 certified sites have depends on criteria such as site size, operational reducing carbon emissions by creating new products, Product End Of Life environment aspect teams. Each site’s team reports on activities at the site, and the results of previous audits. improving upon existing product designs, and working And Waste From goals, initiatives, and metrics to measure our In a typical 3-year period, every site will receive with our supply chain to make upstream operations Operations environmental performance. Local initiatives are one onsite audit and one virtual audit. In FY17, we more environmentally conscious. aligned to corporate-level programs where possible. conducted 16 internal audits, including 5 virtual audits We engage employees who have a significant role Water Use Table 14 lists the number of aspect teams per region. using Cisco TelePresence® or Cisco WebEx®. in defining product requirements or developing our Cisco’s primary corporate sustainability activities are As part of our ISO 14001 certification, we participate products and packaging. Live learning sessions with Biodiversity And included in our certified EMS and are part of the internal in annual audits conducted by a third-party registrar. internal and external experts cover topics that inspire Land Use and external audits we perform annually. This enables These audits identify areas of improvement and and promote expansion of new and existing best us to internally track key corporate environmental performance while providing external validation and practices and Design for Environment (DfE) principles. Non-GHG Emissions performance goals, initiatives, and metrics. verification of our EMS processes and programs. To further embed environmental practices into our Effluents (Liquid) Our EMS aligns closely with our GHG and energy During our audits in FY17, Cisco received 2 Best business operations, we offer employee training on management program and supports the management Practices and 36 Positive Comments on our ISO 14001 our business management system, which includes our Appendix of our sustainability information. This alignment has certified EMS. The Best Practices were found during EMS and environmental policies. We also offer training helped us automate our sustainability data collection internal audits at the following locations: to our IT and engineering employees on how they can and focus limited resources on other important reduce energy use within Cisco’s labs and data centers. •• Paris, France: A strong vendor management process tasks, such as evaluating and implementing ensures that all vendors are regularly assessed for mitigation projects. risk and informed of our environmental policy and ISO 14001 requirements. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 90 Governance Cisco works in collaboration with the Responsible •• Understand the relative carbon efficiency of different •• Require suppliers to report GHG emissions and Business Alliance (RBA), formerly the Electronic modes of transport for product distribution. targets through CDP Supply Chain via Cisco’s supplier Society Industry Citizenship Coalition, to develop common To support our LCA work, we utilize external tools scorecarding process. industry training, tools, and standards to support and data sources, including thinkstep GaBi 7.3 and •• Conduct site audits of high-risk supplier facilities. Environment suppliers in improving their sustainability capabilities other publicly available data sources, such as the and performance. For more information on Cisco’s •• Use worker interviews and support other RBAGRI Index International Energy Agency (IEA), the United sponsored research and training initiatives to gather engagement as a member of the RBA, see the Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and actionable, direct feedback from factory workers to UNSDG Index Governance chapter. Rural Affairs (DEFRA), and the Greenhouse Gas complement audit findings. Protocol (GHGP). Life-Cycle Assessments Environment Roadmap GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 Promoting Transparency Cisco uses life-cycle assessments (LCAs) to estimate in the Supply Chain Environmental the GHG emissions associated with our products. This GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2 Sustainability holistic approach to assessing the environmental impact of a system, process, or product helps CSR practices are embedded in our supply chain Materials us understand the environmental impacts of our business processes. We continue to improve these materials, packaging, transportation modes, product processes to make environmental sustainability a key Energy And power consumption, and recycling. We can then criterion in our relationships with and assessment of GHG Emissions use what we learn as we make business decisions. our suppliers. In this chapter we will focus only on For example, LCAs inform accessory kit reduction supply chain issues that relate to the environment. Product End Of Life projects, specifically the trade-offs in using alternative Discussion of our Supplier Responsibility practices not And Waste From or reduced materials. They also help us develop more related to the environment can be found in the Operations energy-efficicient manufacturing through comparing Society chapter. assembly and test scenarios. Improving transparency in the supply chain is critical Water Use LCAs help us: to helping us address some of our most significant sustainability issues. To target our work with suppliers Biodiversity And •• Assess the materiality of various contributors to and peers and improve performance, we need to Land Use environmental impact. identify key concerns and impacts. Supply chain •• Select alternative environmentally preferable materials. transparency is also something our stakeholders want Non-GHG Emissions to see–customers and governments are demanding it. •• Understand the impact of product power consumption. Effluents (Liquid) To help us understand key impacts in our supply chain •• Develop more energy-efficient manufacturing and how they are managed, we: processes by comparing assembly and test scenarios. Appendix •• Encourage suppliers to publish CSR reports •• Undertake packaging and accessory kit reduction describing how they manage their most significant projects; in particular, by identifying the trade-offs in sustainability impacts. using alternative and reduced materials. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 91 Governance To gain an accurate picture of the life cycle Figure 29. Supplier Environmental Sustainability Scorecard impacts of our products, we need to understand Society the impacts associated with our supplier GHG 1 Report to CDP 2 Response Public 3 3rd Party Assurance 4 Set Goal 5 Engage Suppliers emissions. As a member of the CDP Supply Environment Chain Program, we request that all suppliers with whom we have a significant business Manufacturing Suppliers Component Suppliers GRI Index relationship report their impacts to CDP. We then 100% 1 100% 4 UNSDG Index use specific metrics from their responses in our 1 80% 3 80% sustainability scorecard, shown in Figure 29. For 4 more information about our supplier engagement 60% 60% 3 Environment process, refer to the FY17 letter requesting our 5 2 40% 40% Roadmap suppliers to report to CDP. (Appendix I) 2 5 20% 20% Environmental Sustainability 0% 0% FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 Materials Transportation Suppliers Recycling Providers Energy And 100% 100% GHG Emissions 1 4 1 5 80% 80% Product End Of Life 2 2 60% 3 60% And Waste From Operations 5 40% 40% 4 Water Use 20% 20% 0% 0% 3 Biodiversity And FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Appendix 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 92 Governance We encourage suppliers to share information, even Table 15. Environment—Categorization of Supplier Audit Findings* in FY17 in areas where they are not performing well. For Total % of Audit Society example, we ask suppliers to report any environmental Findings Findings Findings Number Elements infractions or remedial actions through an annual selfIdentified Identified Identified of Audit Resulting in Environment assessment audit process. Using standardized RBA as Priority1 as Major 2 as Minor3 Elements4 Findings self-assessment tools makes this process efficient for GRI Index suppliers serving multiple customers. E nv ir on ment 0 44 20 742 8.6 Environmental permits and reporting 0 6 3 UNSDG Index Active participation in the self-assessment process Pollution prevention 0 1 1 is positively reflected in each supplier’s scorecard. and resource reduction We make it clear that they will not be penalized for Environment disclosing this information. Our aim is to promote Hazardous substances 0 19 8 Roadmap open dialogue and to work with suppliers to reach Wastewater and solid waste 0 4 3 an acceptable outcome. In FY17, 61 percent of our Environmental suppliers had published CSR reports. A complete Air emissions 0 2 2 Sustainability overview of our supplier engagement process is Materials restrictions 0 0 0 available in the Governance chapter. Materials Stormwater management (new in VAP 5.1) 0 10 3 Supplier Audit Findings Energy consumption and 0 2 0 Energy And greenhouse gas emissions GHG Emissions GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2 * An audit finding is defined as a nonconformance with our Supplier Code of Conduct found during an audit. Criteria for categorization of findings Environmental findings in our suppliers’ factories are a are in accordance with the RBA Validated Audit Process Audit Operations Manual. Product End Of Life key dimension of the Supplier Code of Conduct. Cisco 1 Priority finding: A major nonconformance with significant and immediate impact. And Waste From 2 Major finding: A significant failure in the management system that renders established processes or procedures ineffective. performs audits on our high-risk suppliers through the Operations 3 Minor finding: Typically an isolated or random incident that does not necessarily indicate a systemic problem with management systems. RBA Validated Audit Protocol (VAP). 4 Total audit elements: The total number of audit elements with the potential for a finding for the 57 FY17 audits. Water Use There were no priority environment findings in FY17. Labor practices and health and safety make up the Biodiversity And largest portion of our audit findings. To learn more Land Use about our audit processes, see the Society chapter. We use a database platform from the Institute of Non-GHG Emissions Public and Environmental Affairs to identify the existing and historical environmental issues for our suppliers Effluents (Liquid) in mainland China. We are working closely with these suppliers to remediate the existing issues and make Appendix sure they comply with the local environmental law; we also encourage our manufacturing partners to work with their downstream suppliers. Table 15 details environment-related supplier audit findings. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 93 Governance Employee Engagement there has been an increase in formally planned sustainability-related volunteerism events and For more information about employee Society In FY17, Cisco encouraged and supported our activities across Cisco. For more information, see the engagement at Cisco see: employees who are interested in sustainability through Cisco blog about the events. Environment the following activities:  overnance chapter G •• SustainX: Earth Aware culminates in the Cisco Supply Chain Employee Engagement GRI Index •• Environmental Management Newsletter: We create SustainX event, a thought leadership forum hosted on internal, monthly newsletters to share information Cisco’s campuses. Employees from around the world S  ociety chapter UNSDG Index with employees on Cisco’s recent environmental come together to learn about Cisco’s sustainability Employee Engagement activities across the globe. practices and how they can help make a difference. •• Year-end shutdown: Cisco requires employees in C  ase study •• Product teardown events: Teardown events Environment Engaging Employees in GHG Reductions North America and encourages other employees increase awareness of the complexity and variety of Roadmap worldwide to take time off at the end of December. materials that go into making Cisco products, and The shutdown gives us an opportunity to power down spark innovative solutions for increasing equipment Environmental green teams work to reduce energy usage, waste, facilities and unused equipment during a time when reusability. At these events, employees physically Sustainability and travel. We currently have active green teams much of our workforce is already taking time off. Over break apart used Cisco equipment and collaborate on the 10-day shutdown that began in December 2016, in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Kortrijk, Belgium; Materials how to increase its reusability or recyclability. Cisco avoided approximately $600,000 in energy Bangalore, India; San Jose, California; and Reaseach •• Cisco Green: This new hub on our internal social Triangle Park, North Carolina. (See Case Study: costs and 3100 metric tonne CO2e of GHG emissions. Energy And media site enables employees to learn about Cisco’s Green Teams) Employees who work in buildings in India, Germany, GHG Emissions environmental sustainability activities and provides and the United States that reduced their electricity Product End Of Life consumption by 50 percent or more during the links to programs, information, and other tools. Regulatory Fines shutdown were rewarded with an ice cream social or •• Cisco GreenHouse: In 2016 we launched an And Waste From GRI 307-1 Operations catered lunch. interactive sustainability web platform to enable positive environmental, social, and economic impacts. Cisco has incurred no significant fines—defined as •• Recycle IT Day: Every year around Earth Day in Water Use Cisco GreenHouse connects passionate employees more than $10,000—in any of the last five years, and April, we encourage employees to bring their used with like-minded peers all over the world who want was not subject to non-monetary sanctions for nonelectronics to Cisco sites around the world to have to find ways to lead more sustainable lives. In FY17, compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Biodiversity And them responsibly recycled using the same vendors Land Use more than 1800 employees had joined the site and Cisco is not aware of any formal grievance filed about we use to recycle Cisco products. This year, 133 almost 10,500 actions had been taken. environmental impacts. sites collected 180 metric tonne of e-scrap. See the Non-GHG Emissions Internal Programs for Cisco in the Waste section. •• Employee Solar Discount Program: Since 2014 Cisco has given employees and contractors (and their •• Earth Aware: Every April we host a month-long Effluents (Liquid) friends and families) in the United States and Canada employee volunteerism and awareness campaign. We the ability to install solar panels on their homes at plan activities, events, and volunteer opportunities Appendix around a 10-percent discount. to encourage employees to take action in environmentally responsible behaviors at work and •• Green teams: Grassroots “green teams” are at home. Hundreds of employees around the world organically developing at Cisco sites worldwide. take part. As a result of the Earth Aware campaign, Made up of volunteers from multiple departments, 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 94 Governance Recycled Content Society Materials Products Environment GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 301-1 We use recycled industrial content in our products A key requirement for our product and packaging product dimensions to minimize product packaging and and our packaging through standard manufacturing. GRI Index designs is minimizing materials while achieving increase packing efficiency during transport. Electronic products consist primarily of electronic performance and reliability targets; see the Design for circuit boards, steel, and plastics. Cisco generally does UNSDG Index Products that are damaged in transit can result in Environment (DfE) section for more information. not require a minimum percentage of post-consumer negative business and environmental impacts. Our recycled content in new product and/or packaging Make It Green (formerly Pack It Green) is Cisco’s affected customers are dissatisfied and additional manufacturing. However, we continue to research the Environment sustainable materials, packaging, and fulfillment resources, energy, and materials are needed to repair Roadmap percentage of recycled materials already being used solutions program. Make It Green has helped to or replace the damaged product. Each packaging in our products, and the potential for us to specify a reduce the unwanted or redundant items that are often design goes through rigorous drop and vibration Environmental broader requirement. included in a typical shipment, reducing packaging testing to confirm it provides the required level of Sustainability and material waste. These solutions also help reduce product protection. In FY17, the Cisco IP Phone 7800 Series was released GHG emissions through lower transportation weights. using a minimum of 35 percent post-consumer plastic Once basic packaging and material requirements have Materials The expanded program now includes optional in seven of its unique plastic components, expanding been met, Cisco evaluates four additional aspects of dematerialization (e.g., cables and wire management the project from FY16 to the whole product family. environmental package design: Energy And clips) and the use of recycled materials in our products Given the FY17 shipment volumes, this avoided 2390 GHG Emissions and packaging. •• Packaging material optimization: Designing a metric tonne of CO2e in our supply chain and saved package that adequately protects the product from $255,000 in material cost. Product End Of Life And Waste From Product transport damage or waste while optimizing the volume of material and complying with all relevant Most product documentation is distributed Operations Upon request, we provide our customers with basic environmental regulations. electronically to consumers. However, some physical information about product weight and percent of documentation is still necessary, such as regional •• Space efficiency optimization: Designing a package regulatory requirements, safety materials, and Water Use recycled material. As these requests increase, we that optimizes space/cube efficiency during transport. operating instructions. In these cases, the supplier continue to improve our ability to support these Biodiversity And requests and product information requirements for •• Optimizing distribution: Designing the product for qualification process requires suppliers to print their Land Use component-level materials and related weight data. distribution in order to further reduce the amount documentation on paper that is chlorine-free and Examples of ongoing work are listed in Table 16. of packaging material used and/or GHG emitted contains at least 10 percent post-consumer waste. Non-GHG Emissions in transportation. We continue to work on ways to reduce the amount of Packaging •• Environmentally friendly materials: Including recycled physical documents shipped, including the evaluation Effluents (Liquid) of new fulfillment technologies that may provide The amount of packaging waste being added to content and recyclability in product designs. landfills is an environmental concern. To address region-specific documentation solutions. For more Appendix In our 100-percent-outsourced supply chain, material our impacts in this area, we design our packaging information see Table 16 and the Scope 3 Purchased and waste reduction activities and associated GHG to minimize material usage while protecting our Goods and Services section. avoidance fall under Scope 3 Purchased Goods and products during shipping, warehousing, and delivery. Services and Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution. Packaging engineers work with the product design Please refer to these sections for more information about teams to reduce protrusions, product fragility, and our achievements in packaging optimization in FY17. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 95 Governance Table 16. Sustainable Product, Packaging, and Fulfillment Solutions: Focus Areas Category Benefits Cisco Product Examples Society Primary product Reduce packaging and shipping costs by integrating products, • Cisco routers and switches Environment configurable subcomponents, and accessories into one carton. • Cisco UCS® blade servers options GRI Index Reduce materials, packaging, and shipping costs by providing Customers can choose not to receive: Secondary product UNSDG Index configurable customers with a way to opt out of receiving cables, brackets, and • Cisco UCS storage product power cables options similar items. • Cisco Aironet® wireless access point mounting brackets and clips We intend to expand the availability of options to address growing customer demands. Environment However, widespread customer awareness and adoption of such options remains Roadmap a challenge. Electronic Increase dematerialization and operational efficiencies. The eDelivery program1 updates software-related products available for electronic Environmental delivery of Reduce CDs, paper, and packaging. Reduce packaging and delivery though unique product IDs and/or Cisco Commerce-based electronic Sustainability software, licenses, fulfillment costs. fulfillment preferences. and product documentation “Pointer cards” continue to be used across Cisco product lines to consolidate web links Materials for product and compliance documentation. Energy And Bulk packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs, and increase operations Bulk-pack models are now available for high-volume spare products, including cables, GHG Emissions efficiencies, by shipping like products in a carton selected during optics pluggables, memory, and rack gear kits. packing based on the order quantity. Product End Of Life Multipack products Reduce packaging and shipping costs, and increase operations Cisco Aironet products are offered in eco-packs of 5 and 10 units. In FY17, we worked And Waste From (or eco-pack efficiencies, by selling “bundles” of like products in specific internally to address process-related roadblocks that can inhibit the adoption of this Operations products) volumes. Increase customer satisfaction; customers identified this solution by our distributors and partners. In FY18, we have identified high-volume pilot as a significant issue in our 2013 Sustainability Customer Survey. products to expand eco-pack availability. Water Use Dense packaging Reduce packaging and shipping costs by optimizing supply chain In FY17, we continued to focus on optimizing our inbound shipments. In just six months, packaging between our factories. the inbound optimization of the Cisco Catalyst(R) 3K chassis avoided 156 metric tonne Biodiversity And of packaging (corrugated, metal, and wood) and saved over $775,000 in material and Land Use freight costs. Non-GHG Emissions Use of recycled Reduce the amount of new materials required to produce our The Cisco 7800 Series IP Phones now contain 50 percent post-consumer recycled materials products and packaging while diverting waste from landfill. plastic in seven of their major plastic components. Effluents (Liquid) Packaging reuse Reduce packaging and related costs. Cisco products use recyclable polyethylene bags for moisture protection or and recycling consolidation of accessory kit subassemblies. Over the years, we have reduced the Appendix within our supply thickness and size of many bags, and we have regularly encouraged suppliers to reuse chain and to our these and any electrostatic discharge (i.e., static shielding) bags. In addition, Cisco customers continues to substitute metallized antistatic bags with a fully recyclable antistatic bag when possible, particularly for high-volume products (e.g., optical modules). 1 User login is required to access this site. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 96 Governance Packaging Design for Environment Hazardous Materials Generally, our packaging uses corrugated Society We have incorporated environmental design principles As a global supplier of network equipment, we cardboard that includes a minimum of 30 percent into our products and manufacturing processes so conform to applicable material regulations for product, Environment recycled content. that fewer raw materials are used and less packaging packaging, and battery materials. We have developed Almost all of our packaging for new products is made is needed, and product refurbishment and recycling our Controlled Substances Specification to fulfill global GRI Index are more effective. To this end, environmental environmental regulations, and we are committed either of a single material or of multiple materials design features are incorporated into our product to reducing the impact of the materials used in our UNSDG Index that are separable for recycling. In our global market, customer, municipal, and regional recycling practices requirements document. products and in our supply chain. The purpose of this vary greatly. The ability of customers to recycle our specification is to communicate Cisco’s substance use We have incorporated a Design for Environment (DfE) packaging depends on the recycling facilities in place and reporting requirements to component suppliers Environment approach into our standard design processes that Roadmap in their location. and manufacturing partners. The specification outlines focuses on the following areas: the controlled substances and any conditions of use, The plastic used in Cisco packaging falls into •• Energy efficiency (minimum 80 percent efficient regulatory restrictions, substances to be reported and Environmental categories identified by Resin Identification Codes 1 power supply and efficient component selection) phased out, and substances under study for potential Sustainability to 7. Polyethylene (codes 2 and 4) is the predominant •• Reduction of hazardous materials inclusion. For additional information on materials-related material. Some plastic components carry labels Materials regulations, visit Cisco’s Materials webpage. In addition, indicating their plastic recycling code number to aid •• Design for recyclability and upgradability for up-to-date product-level information, visit our selfend-of-life recycling. We use thermoformed medium•• Recycling marking on plastic components (ISO 11469, Energy And service Product Approvals Status (PAS) tool.2 density polyethylene (MDPE) cushions made from formerly SPI codes) for ease of sorting GHG Emissions The following sections cover a number of materials that, virgin material or from recycled substitutes that are during recycling recyclable in most regions after use. When regionally while currently not prohibited for use in our industry, Product End Of Life available and technically feasible, we use cushions •• Packaging and fulfillment (reduction of materials and we are working to reduce or substitute in our products And Waste From package volume as well as logistics impacts) where possible. made from 100 percent recycled polyethylene, which Operations are also recyclable. •• Design for longevity Halogenated Flame Retardants Water Use Cisco legacy products, including those produced •• Compatibility with product recycling by our acquired companies, may not incorporate all Nonregulated halogenated flame retardants (HFRs) can Cisco’s DfE principles are derived from a combination Biodiversity And current best packaging practices. A similar challenge be found in printed circuit boards and plastic parts. We of sources, including formal requirements (for example, Land Use also exists for packaging provided with OEM products have worked with manufacturing partners, industry ECMA-TR/370) and other best practices developed that the Cisco supplier delivers directly to the standards technical committees, and academia within our business. In FY17, we continued to update Non-GHG Emissions end customer. to validate proposed alternatives for HFRs. Cisco our DfE principles to align with Cisco’s commitment continues to identify, confirm, and, where technically While we promote recyclable packaging, sometimes to the circular economy, as well as evolving customer Effluents (Liquid) practical, phase out nonregulated HFRs. this is not possible. Although metallized antistatic bags requirements and industry and regulatory trends. are not easily recycled, they are essential to the safe Some of the actions we have taken: Appendix transport of products susceptible to damage from electrostatic discharge (ESD). Bags are sized to fit the •• Qualified additional halogen-free PCB laminate product being shipped and minimize the amount of materials and increased their use in new products. material used. 2 Cisco.com registration is required. Register here. Note: This tool is only accessible using Internet Explorer 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 97 Governance •• Eliminated, from thousands of Cisco designed plastic parts, the HFRs found in the resin compounds. Cisco will continue to research alternate materials and apply them to new products where quality and Goals Society •• Over the past four years, performed material performance requirements can be attained. Energy and GHG reductions are two of the most material environmental issues for Cisco. The way Cisco manages assessments and identified the areas within our Environment its GHG emissions and electricity from renewables is business with the greatest opportunity to move to Batteries critical to many stakeholders, including employees, GRI Index HFR-free materials. Batteries in Cisco products are generally used to investors, and external reporting organizations, such as maintain information in system memory when a device Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Corporate Knights, UNSDG Index Polyvinyl Chloride is powered off. These products are designed so the and CDP. Additionally, research has shown that a batteries can be easily located and recycled. Product company’s sustainability practices are a key factor for Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) is a nonregulated substance labels are provided to indicate that the product employee recruitment and retention. Environment that can be found in the insulation of cables. Cisco’s Roadmap contains a battery. This information alerts our previous work on the iNEMI PVC Alternatives Project Cisco has been committed to reducing our GHG recyclers that a battery should be removed before to reduce the PVC content in cable insulation focused emissions for a decade. FY17 was the final year of further processing. Environmental on understanding the environmental trade-offs of the 5-year goals we set in 2013 to reduce all Scope Sustainability standard, halogen-free, and bio-based cable jacketing. 1, Scope 2, and business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG In FY17, we conducted a sample study to quantify the emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute by 2017, Materials minimal usage of PVC in cable insulation in our supply compared to our 2007 baseline. A brief discussion chain. We estimate that PVC in cable insulation accounts regarding progress toward these FY17 goals is below Energy And for less than 1 percent of the total product weight and in the Scope 3 Business Air Travel section. GHG Emissions shipped annually by Cisco. We will continue to monitor Over the past year we established our new PVC in cable insulation and make changes if they are sustainability goals, drawing on experiences from the Product End Of Life necessary in the future. And Waste From FY13 goals and discussions with internal and external Operations stakeholders. In July 2017 we established our new 5-year goals to reduce Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Water Use and increase our use of renewable electricity by FY22 Biodiversity And Energy and GHG Emissions (Table 17). To achieve our new goals, we will: Land Use GRI 102-11, GRI 103-1, GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 •• Invest more than $45 million between FY18 and Consistent with the precautionary principle, we the GHG emissions from our operations are directly FY22 in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable Non-GHG Emissions advocate a risk-based approach to our operations associated with energy use (typically electricity). energy. through our ERM and EMS processes. We are reducing Therefore, we report our GHG emissions with our Effluents (Liquid) our global GHG emissions by improving the efficiency energy use. •• Implement more than 300 energy efficiency and onof our products and operations and by encouraging site renewable energy projects across our real estate Appendix our suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions as well. portfolio. We use our own collaboration products to reduce GHG •• Increase renewable energy procurement through emissions in our operations, and help our customers utility green power programs, power purchase leverage our solutions to do the same. Almost all of agreements, and renewable energy certificates. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 98 Governance Our new 5-year goals put us in line with our peers Table 17. Cisco GHG Emissions Goals in the IT sector who have been at the forefront of Society the sustainability movement and have aggressively Date Goal GHG emission reduction Established goal description supported the development of technologies like Environment renewable energy that will help the world reverse the September 2006 Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) commitment to reduce GHG emissions from all Cisco business air impacts of climate change. These goals also improve travel worldwide by 10 percent absolute by FY09 (FY06 baseline). GRI Index the energy efficiency of our operations and reduce This goal was met in 2009 and the commitment has been closed. UNSDG Index costs, which makes good business sense while being June 2008 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Climate Leaders commitment to reduce all Scope 1, the right thing to do for the planet. Scope 2, and business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 25 percent absolute by In June 2016, Cisco announced our Scope 3 supply end of CY12 (CY07 baseline). Environment chain GHG emission reduction goal: to avoid one Roadmap This goal was met in 2012 and the commitment has been closed. million [cumulative] metric tonne of GHG emissions in our supply chain between FY12 and FY20. This is February 2013 Cisco announced five new goals related to our operational energy use and GHG emissions: Environmental the first quantitative goal to include Scope 3 supply 1. R  educe total Cisco Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 percent absolute Sustainability chain activities that Cisco directs or influences. (For by FY17 (FY07 baseline). more information, see Scope 3 Supply Chain). Going 2. Reduce total Cisco business-air-travel Scope 3 GHG emissions worldwide by 40 Materials forward, we intend to include supplier GHG emissions percent absolute by FY17 (FY07 baseline). as a component of our supply chain procurement and Energy And 3. Reduce Cisco’s FY17 net consumption-weighted electricity emission factor to half of refinement processes. Table 17 provides a summary of GHG Emissions the latest International Energy Agency (IEA) world average emission factor publicly our GHG emissions goals. available before the end of FY17. Product End Of Life We met three of our 2013 goals: our Scope 1 and 2 4. R  educe total Cisco operational energy use per unit of revenue worldwide by 15 percent And Waste From GHG emissions reduction goal, our renewable energy by FY17 (FY07 baseline). Operations goal, and our goal to reduce our electricity emission factor to half of the latest International Energy Agency 5. U  se electricity generated from renewable sources for at least 25 percent of our (IEA) world average. We were able to meet these goals electricity every year through FY17. Water Use directly through the EnergyOps program managed Goals 1, 3, and 5 were met in 2017 and the commitment has been closed. See discussion on Biodiversity And by the Global Energy Management and Sustainability goals 2 and 4. Land Use team. This team secured a 5-year spending plan Cisco announced our first Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions goal: June 2016 of $57.5 million to implement hundreds of energyAvoid one million metric tonne of GHG emissions within our supply chain between FY12 and FY20. Non-GHG Emissions related projects throughout our operations to make our portfolio more efficient and to purchase renewable This goal is in progress. Effluents (Liquid) energy. By the end of FY17, we had implemented July 2017 Cisco announced two new goals related to our operational energy use and GHG emissions: over 450 energy efficiency and renewable energy 1. Use renewable electricity for 85% of Cisco’s global operations by FY22. Appendix projects–103 in FY17 alone–with a net present value of 2. R educe Cisco’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions on an absolute basis by 60% by FY22 $86 million over 10 years. The projects implemented (FY07 baseline). during this program collectively avoid 141.5 GWh of energy each year. For more information see the This goal is in progress. Building Efficiency: Strategy and Management section of this chapter. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 99 Governance We were unable to meet two of our FY13 goals: the increase 16.5 percent over the same period. These year reporting to CDP and our seventh time on their business-air-travel goal and the operational energy two projections indicate a business-as-usual increase Performance Leadership Index / Climate A List. The Society use per unit of revenue goal. Although we were able to in absolute emissions, so any goal to reduce absolute CDP Climate A List includes companies from around keep business air travel emissions at or below our FY07 emissions is considered aggressive. Our new goal is to the world that have been identified as leaders in their Environment baseline, we were unable to realize more significant reduce absolute emissions by an additional 20 percent efforts and actions to combat climate change. Table 23 reductions due to the sales-driven nature of these by FY22, which, combined with our FY17 achievement, shows Cisco’s participation and performance in CDP GRI Index emissions. For more information on our business air will give a 60 percent absolute reduction from our over the last 13 years. Our consistently high rankings UNSDG Index travel performance, see the Scope 3 GHG Emissions original FY07 baseline. are strong evidence of our long-term commitment to Reduction Strategy section of this chapter. Similarly, improving GHG emissions disclosure and performance. Our goals are set as 5-year commitments because we were not able to meet our operational energy use multi-year goals allow for large investments, which In January 2017, Cisco moved to third on Corporate Environment per unit of revenue goal. While we made significant have a potential for big payoffs. We believe we Knights 100 Most Sustainable Corporations list, up Roadmap strides in making our operations more energy efficient, demonstrate a best-practice approach to goal from 57th place in 2016. Corporate Knights specifically our revenue did not increase at the rate we expected in setting by: highlighted Cisco’s increased focus on providing Environmental order to achieve this goal. smart city and energy management IT solutions Sustainability •• Committing to realistic multi-year goals, befitting the We form our GHG emission reduction goals based on to governments and companies. Our score of 71.5 scale of the problem. internal best practices and expert opinion, including percent placed us only behind Siemens and Storebrand Materials recommendations from the IPCC, the U.S. EPA, the •• Using consistent and precise wording of goals, with on the exclusive list, which is announced each year at IEA, and The 3% Solution report3 from the WWF and clear measurement methodology. the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Energy And CDP. We consider our current goals and past goals •• Participating in consistent and transparent reporting In October 2016, Cisco was recognized as a “Green GHG Emissions to be science-based targets because they exceed from year to year. Power Partner of the Year” by the EPA. The Green the rate of decarbonization required to keep global Product End Of Life •• Implementing third-party assurance for all goalPower Leadership Awards recognize Green Power average temperature increase below 2°C compared And Waste From related reporting. Partners for their leadership, overall renewables to preindustrial temperatures, as described in the Operations strategy, and impact on the green power market. Cisco Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC. Our FY22 GHG •• Setting goals based on IPCC findings and sciencewas one of only three organizations nationwide to be reduction goal of 60 percent (FY07 baseline) equates based reduction recommendations. Water Use chosen as a Green Power Partner of the Year in 2016. to a 4 percent reduction per year. For reference, this Biodiversity And reduction is nearly three times greater than the yearly Performance In March 2017, Frost and Sullivan’s Manufacturing emissions reduction of 1.35 percent recommended Leadership (ML) Council selected Cisco for a Land Use We have been recognized in the past year for our for our industry by the Sectoral Decarbonization Sustainability Leadership Award. We were honored sustainability efforts by CDP, Corporate Knights Global for our efforts to avoid one million metric tonne of Approach to science-based target setting.4 Non-GHG Emissions 100, and the EPA. In October 2017, Cisco achieved greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from being created in According to EPA predictions, ICT industry revenues an A rating by CDP, and was listed on their 2017 our supply chain operations by 2020. Effluents (Liquid) will grow significantly through FY17, and industry Climate A List based on information submitted to emissions normalized to millions of dollars will CDP in June 2017.5 This represents our thirteenth Appendix 3 The 3% Solution report is named for the annual emissions reduction thought to be needed through 2020 to meet IPCC guidance. According to the IPCC Annex 1, developed countries need to reduce GHG emissions by 25 to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2020, and by 80 to 95 percent below 1990 levels by 2050. Such a stabilization pathway was said to provide a “reasonable chance” of averting warming beyond 2°C above preindustrial temperature. 4 According to the Sectoral Decarbonization Approach (SDA) sector definitions (version 1, released May 2015), Cisco is classified in the “Services/Commercial Buildings” sector. Calculation is based on the most recent SDA target calculation tool (version 8, released 27 February 2017). 5 In each annual CSR report, we report on activities within the previous, completed fiscal year (through end of July). CDP’s latest scoring was released in October 2017 and was based on a June 2017 submission using FY16 data. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 100 Table 18. CDP Performance History Governance Cisco was also named to the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World Index in September CDP Year / CDP Score Disclosure / Carbon Disclosure Carbon Performance The Cisco Fiscal Year Performance Leadership Index Leadership Index A List Society 2017. The DJSI series, a globally recognized benchmark, rates companies based on their economic, 2005 / FY04 (CDP1) Responded / † – – – Environment environmental, and social dimensions. We’ve been on 2006 / FY05 (CDP2) 70 / † – – – the World Index for 10 of the last 13 years. To learn GRI Index 2007 / FY06 (CDP3) 70 / † – – – more, read our blog. UNSDG Index Cisco also ranks consistently high on the EPA’s Top 2008 / FY07 (CDP4) 96 / †  – – Partner Rankings, which highlight the annual green 2009 / FY08 (CDP5) 88 / †  – – power use of leading Green Power Partners within the Environment United States and across individual industry sectors. 2010 / FY09 (CDP6) 92 / A   – Roadmap As of July 24, 2017, we were ranked fifth among the 2011 / FY10 98 / A   – top 30 tech and telecommunications companies, Environmental seventh on the national top 100 list, and seventh on 2012 / FY11 96 / B  – – Sustainability the Fortune 500 partners list. 2013 / FY12 100 / A   – Materials For more information on the CSR awards Cisco 2014 / FY13 100 / A   – received in 2016 and 2017, please visit our CSR 2015 / FY14 100 / A    Awards page. Energy And GHG Emissions 2016 / FY15 A‡ ‡ ‡  Energy and Scope 1 2017 / FY16 A‡ ‡ ‡  Product End Of Life And Waste From and 2 GHG Emissions † Performance scoring began with CDP 2010. ‡ Starting with CDP 2016, a single letter grade represents disclosure and performance. Operations GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 302-1, GRI 302-2, GRI 302-3, GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4 Water Use Our Scope 2 emissions result almost exclusively from Corporate Climate Leadership provides additional marketand location-based Scope 2 emissions in electricity use and represent 95 percent of our Scope program guidance. All GHG emissions reported in this accordance with the GHG Protocol’s recently updated Biodiversity And 1 and 2 emissions. As a result, implementing projects section include the seven greenhouse gases covered Scope 2 guidance. Land Use that reduce our electricity use is a major part of our by the GHG Protocol: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, Each year, an independent third party provides energy and GHG reduction strategy. In FY17, our Scope SF6, and NF3. PFCs, SF6, and NF3 are not applicable Non-GHG Emissions a limited assurance review of our GHG inventory, 1 and 2 GHG emissions were 41 percent lower than our to our operations and we do not have biogenic including the emissions relevant to our current GHG FY07 baseline on an absolute basis, meeting our target carbon emissions. Effluents (Liquid) reduction goals, namely Scope 1 and 2 emission of 40 percent absolute reduction by FY17. See Table 19 Historical Scope 1 and 2 emissions data often vary sources. This limited assurance review is provided for details. from previous publicly reported values, either in the in accordance with the ISO 14064-3 International Appendix To support standardization and benchmarking across most recent CDP survey or our previous CSR report, Standard and is published as part of our companies, Cisco uses the GHG Protocol Corporate because of updated reporting guidance, emissions CDP submittal. We are currently performing our FY17 Accounting and Reporting Standard as the basis for factors, adjustments for acquisitions or divestitures, or assurance review. See our FY16 Inventory Assurance our Scope 1 and 2 calculations. The EPA Center for correction of any errors found during review. We report Statement. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 101 Governance Indirect energy or electricity represents 95 percent Table 19. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions of our energy consumption (Table 20). Through the FY07 Society projects described in this section we have effectively Baseline plateaued our level of energy consumption for the last KPI Year1 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Environment several years. We do expect that our energy use will rise over time; as a result, we are working to reduce Total GHG emissions: GRI Index Scope 1, metric tonne 48,311 55,811 49,721 45,562 53,123 41,926 the carbon intensity of the electricity we use. Including CO2e UNSDG Index renewable energy purchases, our global average “Location-based” is used contractual emissions factor is 74 percent below the Total GHG emissions: Scope 2 (location-based), consistent with GHG world average. We have achieved this by locating metric tonne CO2e 448,950 666,373 704,756 731,103 731,662 744,929 Protocol and does not Environment facilities where low-carbon grid electricity is available include renewable energy Roadmap and buying renewable energy from utilities and green purchases. power providers. Our challenge will be to prevent our global average emissions factor from increasing as we Total GHG emissions: “Market-based” is used Environmental grow in emerging markets such as India, where lowScope 2 (market-based), consistent with GHG Sustainability metric tonne CO2e 402,422 471,819 497,581 318,890 247,933 223,558 Protocol and includes and no-carbon electricity is less readily available. renewable energy Materials purchases. Scope 1 and 2 GHG Location-based intensity is Scope 1 and 2 emissions Energy And GHG Emissions Emissions Reduction (location-based) intensity, 14.2 14.9 16.0 15.8 15.9 16.0 a measure of operational Strategy metric tonne CO2e per million dollars of revenue efficiency commonly used by many Cisco stakeholders. Product End Of Life GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 302-4, GRI 305-5 And Waste From Scope 2 emissions from 96.4% 96.3% 97.1% 98.2% 98.1% 98.0% Operations primary data, percent Reducing our energy consumption and GHG emissions while enabling a diverse energy supply for our Total GHG emissions: Water Use Scope 1 and 2 (market450,733 527,630 547,302 364,452 301,057 265,484 operations helps us stay competitive and benefits the based), metric tonne CO2e environment. Our overall strategy to accomplish these Biodiversity And Results are based on 2015 objectives is to: Percent progress against Land Use FY17 reduction goal2 revisions to Scope 2 GHG •• U  se our real estate space more efficiently through Goal: Reduce total Cisco Protocol methodology. Non-GHG Emissions Cisco Connected Workplace. Base Scope 1 and 2 GHG +16.6% +20.9% -19.1% -33.2% -41.1% Cisco’s corporate GHG year •• Increase the energy efficiency of our real estate emissions worldwide by reduction goal was Effluents (Liquid) operations. 40% absolute by FY17 announced in (FY07 baseline) February 2013. •• Generate low-carbon electricity from onsite systems. Appendix •• Purchase renewable energy 1 Our reporting policy for environmental metrics is to show the baseline year, data for the past five completed years, the goal, and progress against the goal. 2 Scope 2 emissions for all years have been adjusted to reflect the GHG Protocol’s new Scope 2 guidance. This new guidance was released in 2015 and has had material impacts on Cisco’s current and prior-year Scope 2 figures. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 102 Governance Table 20. Summary of Scope 1 and 2 Energy Usage Space Policy and Cisco Society FY07 Connected Workplace Baseline The most efficient workplace is the one you do not KPI Year1 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Environment have to build. Cisco Connected Workplace is one of Energy usage, GWh 1239 1763 1791 1826 1850 1831 our most effective solutions for optimizing our real GRI Index Electricity is the only indirect estate portfolio, allowing us to reduce energy use and Indirect energy usage, 1025 1521 1573 1636 1641 1656 energy source used by Cisco. UNSDG Index GWh GHG emissions. The solution integrates workspace Direct energy consumption is design, policy, and technology to transform the the sum of Cisco’s natural gas, workplace experience. Environment propane, and diesel usage for Direct energy usage, Workspace Design Roadmap 213 241 218 189 209 176 heating and backup power GWh generation and regular gasoline Our program and designs support an activity-based and diesel fuel used in Environmental work style. Our workspace can accommodate Cisco’s fleet. Sustainability approximately 30 percent more employees than a Electricity usage, GWh 1025 1521 1573 1636 1641 1656 traditional office layout, substantially reducing space Materials Natural gas usage, GWh 135 111 103 82 94 90 and land requirements and therefore the associated environmental impacts. Our new buildings and Diesel fuel is the sum of diesel Energy And renovation projects must meet Connected Workplace used for heating and backup GHG Emissions power generation and diesel design specifications, which include energy efficiency fuel used in Cisco’s fleet. requirements such as standards for LED lighting and Diesel fuel usage, GWh 77 130 116 107 115 83 Product End Of Life Natural gas usage and diesel efficient air conditioning. And Waste From fuel usage subtracted from Operations direct energy use provides Policy propane usage. We’ve changed our workplace occupancy model from Water Use Energy use per unit of Energy use per unit of revenue individual to group assignment; this gives our teams revenue, GWh of energy is one of our FY17 goals; we 35.5 36.3 38.0 37.1 37.6 37.2 flexibility and choice while increasing the utilization of consumed per billion have reported historical values Biodiversity And our assets. In addition, with our flexible work policy and dollars in revenue where available. Land Use mobile technology solutions, employees can work from Percent progress against any Cisco office, as well as from home, a customer site, Non-GHG Emissions reduction goal or even a coffee shop. Goal: Reduce total Cisco Effluents (Liquid) operational energy N/A +1.0% +5.8% +4.1% +5.9% +4.8% Technology use per unit of revenue Cisco Connected Workplace successfully integrates Appendix worldwide by 15 percent by FY17 (FY07 baseline) our technology into our flexible workplace. As we move forward, we will use Cisco wireless technology with Rifiniti Optimo, a building utilization application, to support data-driven decisions on how employees are 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 103 Governance using our existing real estate portfolio. The application Table 21. Energy and GHG Emissions Reduction Projects* software uses non-personally identifiable badge and KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Society wireless data to generate trending information to predict how long employees tend to remain in the workplace Number of projects implemented 104 96 165 103 103 Environment and which parts of the building are used the most. Annual energy avoided, GWh/yr 76.5 22.7 47.1 31.2 40.1 GRI Index At the end of FY17, 63.6 percent of our total office Total estimated annual CO2 e savings, metric space is compliant to our Connected Workplace 33,500 12,000 22,400 12,400 23,600 tonne CO2 e/yr UNSDG Index design. We have been consolidating our real estate *These do not include renewable energy purchases. portfolio since FY10. We expect by the end of FY18 to have reduced our footprint by approximately 6.5 million Environment •• Explore and evaluate options for higher efficiency •• Installing variable frequency drives, electric square feet, while increasing the persons housed in our Roadmap in all of Cisco’s real estate projects. commutative (EC) fans, and premium-efficiency motors real estate footprint by 8 percent. We estimate this will and pumps to improve efficiency of HVAC systems. allow us to avoid approximately 137 million kWh •• Engage employees to participate in Environmental of energy use and 61,500 metric tonne of GHG resource conservation. •• Installing waterside economization technologies to Sustainability emissions annually. improve free cooling utilization. In FY17, the GEMS team enabled Cisco to avoid Materials approximately 40 GWh of energy consumption and •• Installing solar window film to reduce heat gain and Building Efficiency: 23,600 metric tonne CO2e by investing $12.5 million improve occupant comfort. Energy And Strategy and Management to implement 103 energy efficiency projects. (This •• Applying coil optimization technologies that improve GHG Emissions does not include our renewable energy purchasing Our Global Energy Management and Sustainability cooling system efficiency and improving insulation of or onsite renewable energy generation.) We estimate (GEMS) team leads all energy and sustainability heating and cooling piping, valves, and pumps. Product End Of Life that the energy efficiency and onsite renewable energy initiatives across our 22 million square feet of global projects that we have implemented since FY13 have •• Improving air-flow management and containment And Waste From real estate. The team manages a multimillion-dollar, Operations avoided approximately 215 GWh of energy and avoided within our labs. multi-year EnergyOps program to implement energy 104,000 metric tonne CO2e. This program has also •• Implementing building analytics services to better efficiency and renewable energy projects and achieve Water Use allowed us to make our operations more efficient and monitor, analyze, and fix HVAC-related issues that Cisco’s energy and GHG reduction goals. This team increase the amount of renewable electricity we buy, reduce efficiency. includes Cisco employees and contracted Biodiversity And directly contributing to the achievement of the FY17 energy managers that have the following •• Continuing an employee engagement campaign to Land Use sustainability goals we set in FY13 and the funding of primary responsibilities: educate our employees about energy conservation our new FY22 goals. See our Goals section above •• Manage Cisco’s global annual utility budget and motivate them to conserve. Non-GHG Emissions for details. and contracts. •• Optimizing chillers and computer room air handlers Table 21 shows the energy savings associated with Effluents (Liquid) •• Identify and implement demandand supply-side (CRAHs) to make our cooling systems more efficient. the GHG reduction projects we implemented between energy solutions, such as energy efficiency upgrades FY13 and FY17. Here are a few examples of projects •• Installing rooftop solar PV systems on two of our Appendix and onsite renewable energy projects. the GEMS team implemented globally in FY17: buildings in India. •• Embed sustainability and efficiency criteria into our •• Updating lighting controls and installing LED •• Optimizing our building ventilation systems to improve building, lab, and data center design standards. technologies. indoor air quality. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 104 Governance Building Efficiency: Labs world (which make up the majority of our labs) use a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design a check-in, check-out system of automation pods to (LEED)-NC Gold Certification (v2.2) from the U.S. Over 60 percent of our operational electricity is used Society allow lab employees to set up configurations virtually Green Building Council by incorporating numerous to power and cool equipment in our engineering and and then release equipment when they are finished sustainable design features. Case studies are Environment services labs. Increasing the energy efficiency of our with it. This system maximizes the amount of people available on the design and construction of the data labs is our largest opportunity to reduce Cisco’s GHG who can use the equipment, minimizes the amount of center in Allen, Texas. GRI Index emissions and energy costs. We aim to build highequipment physically needed in each lab, and reduces density powered labs with built-in airflow management, We also retrofit our data center spaces with more UNSDG Index the amount of energy used collectively by our TS labs. and use virtualization where possible. To reduce lab energy efficient technologies. Examples of efficiency When a lab team moves to a different lab, the users energy consumption, we are focusing our efforts on retrofits we completed in FY17 include: perform a “green clean” exercise, which eliminates design, utilization, and power management. unused or old equipment, thereby saving space, power, •• Installing LED lights. Environment Roadmap Design and cooling in the move. (See Case Study: Cisco •• Replacing electric-resistance heaters with more Techical Services Labs.) efficient heat pumps in our backup generators. Our Global Lab Specification includes efficiency Environmental •• Applying coil optimization technologies that improve standards for new, high-density labs and retrofits. Power Management Sustainability For instance, we require airflow management in all cooling system efficiency. Powering down equipment saves money and energy. our new labs, and highly recommend it for renovation Smart power distribution units (PDUs) and Cisco •• Retrofitting existing CRAH units with EC fans to allow Materials projects. Airflow management is mandatory in the Energy Manager software monitor our lab equipment, more efficient variable fan speed. state of California according to Title 24, and we hold so that it can be powered down whenever possible. Energy And •• Installing mixed-mode waterside economizers to allow GHG Emissions all our new projects to that standard globally. We We now use Cisco Energy Manager in the majority greater utilization of free cooling throughout the year. have implemented measures to improve airflow of our engineering labs in San Jose, California, and management and reduce the time and cost to deliver Research Triangle Park, North Carolina with a rollout The Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) Product End Of Life And Waste From labs. We are making improvements to existing airflow in Bangalore in progress. The automation pods tools we’re using allow us to “digitize” the data center. Operations management, ventilation, cooling, and other building mentioned previously also use PDUs and Cisco This enables maximum resource allocation efficiency, infrastructure systems through our EnergyOps projects Energy Manager. helping us to bridge the gap between IT workloads Water Use or through projects initiated by the lab managers. Some and facilities, automatically collect IT and facility data, of our completed projects include installing virtual and better manage power, cooling, and physical space Building Efficiency: Data Centers Biodiversity And containment (see Case Study: EnergyOps Projects), supply and demand. DCIM also provides predictive Land Use rebalancing airflow in HVAC systems, installing LED We are working to make our data centers even smarter, analytics to identify capacity trends and operational lights in labs, and installing variable frequency drives denser, and faster by consolidating our footprint and conditions that require attention or preventative action. Non-GHG Emissions on major facilities equipment, including pumps, chillers, increasing their efficiency. Again, our strategy focuses These tools help our teams make better decisions on and computer-room air handler units. on design, utilization, and power management. whether we need to build new data centers. Effluents (Liquid) Design Utilization Lab employees are encouraged to routinely evaluate We build our data centers to operate efficiently. Our Appendix their lab operations and power off or remove unused newest data centers in Research Triangle Park, North equipment, especially before our annual shutdown. We Carolina, and Allen, Texas, were designed to achieve also use virtual machines to increase server utilization. a Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) of 1.41 and 1.35 Our Cisco Technical Services (TS) labs across the at full load, respectively. Both centers have achieved 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 105 Governance Utilization •• Rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) We are also able to donate furniture in several locations, including sites in San Jose and China. In In our data centers, we work to balance loads in order •• Heat recovery from data hall for office space use (in Society to reduce demand on our power and cooling systems. North Carolina) these locations, we first check if the office furniture we are replacing can be used in another Cisco office. If not, Environment We are also consolidating capacity by migrating loads •• LED lighting we donate it to a local charity or recycle it. into key locations. By consolidating our footprint, we GRI Index will have fewer locations to support while reducing our •• Low-e glass windows square footage costs and our overall carbon footprint. •• Reclaimed water use in cooling towers (in Onsite Power: Solar and UNSDG Index Since April 2012, we have reduced our data center North Carolina) Combined Heat and Power (CHP) square footage by 20 percent. •• Non-chemical water treatment system Our renewables strategy is to identify and evaluate Power Management potential projects in the following order: onsite power Environment •• Water-efficient plumbing opportunities, green power contracts with utilities, Roadmap Similar to our labs, we install smart PDUs and Cisco •• Occupancy sensors integrated with lighting and offsite power opportunities, and Renewable Energy Energy Manager in our data centers to monitor power temperature controls Certificates (RECs). We prefer onsite power projects Environmental and control the use of equipment. Approximately half Sustainability where possible, but offsite power is often the better of our data centers have smart PDUs linked to Cisco •• Landfill diversion during construction option due to factors such as location, budget, and Energy Manager. Real-time monitoring, alerting, and We also incorporate principles of green building space constraints. While we do utilize unbundled Materials reporting helps our capacity teams efficiently manage standards into the Cisco Connected Workplace, RECs today to help meet our renewable energy compute storage and network equipment. even if LEED certification is not planned. These goal, we continue to engage utilities and renewable Energy And standards make our spaces more comfortable for our energy providers to expand both our onsite and offsite GHG Emissions Building Efficiency: Green Building occupants while reducing our buildings’ impact on the renewable energy activities. environment. Some of the principles we include are: Product End Of Life We have made significant progress toward integrating And Waste From green building standards into our real estate since our ••Thoughtful building layouts that place enclosed Operations first LEED-certified building was built in 2009. spaces toward the core, allowing for natural light penetration and placement of people near By the end of FY17, 27 Cisco facilities had achieved Water Use the perimeter LEED certification, with 20 rated Gold or Platinum. These 27 certifications represent over 3.3 million •• LED lighting, including task lighting for adjustable Biodiversity And square feet of LEED-certified space, which is more occupant lighting control Land Use than 15 percent of Cisco’s global real estate portfolio. •• Biophilic designs such as living walls and the use of Non-GHG Emissions The following sustainable design features have been authentic, natural materials incorporated into our LEED-NC Gold Certified data •• Educational outreach through change management Effluents (Liquid) centers in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, and with design and sustainable practices Allen, Texas: •• Increased building occupancy and efficiency with the Appendix •• Waterside and airside economization use of data and space policies •• Variable frequency drives on major equipment, •• Wellness focus with the provision of spaces for including pumps, chillers, and CRAH units relaxing, socializing, and exercising •• Higher-voltage electrical service distribution of •• Specification of low-emitting materials in construction 480/277V; rack distribution of 415/230V 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 106 Governance From FY12 through FY17, Cisco increased our total of international RECs (I-RECs) in India. The percent of •• Purchased 100 percent of the electricity used at onsite solar PV capacity from 200 kW to over 2.8 MW. electricity purchased from renewable energy sources our facilities from renewable energy sources in Society Collectively these systems produce on average 2.6 for various regions is shown in Table 22. the United States and many European countries, million kWh of electricity, avoiding more than 1400 including Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Utility providers are enabling better access to Environment metric tonne CO2e each year over the projected 25Luxembourg, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. renewable energy. At Cisco, we take full advantage year life of the systems. Our newest rooftop solar PV GRI Index of these types of opportunities and also commit to •• Continued participation in Duke Energy’s Green systems in Bangalore and Pune, India, increase our taking simple measures that provide easy access Rider program to purchase about 10 percent of the UNSDG Index onsite solar PV capacity in India to over one MW. We to new renewable energy. Here are some of our electricity used at our RTP campus from 10 MW of also recently completed a 966-kW solar PV carport at accomplishments in FY17: solar projects located in North Carolina. our Boxborough, Massachusetts, campus. We installed 5 arrays, containing 3168 solar panels. The output for •• Opened a 20-MW solar energy facility in Blythe, •• Continued participation in Austin Energy’s Green Environment this system is more than 359,000 kWh per year. Our California. Over its 20-year life, the system will Choice program to purchase 100 percent of the Roadmap other onsite solar systems are located at our data produce approximately 60,000 MWh of clean, electricity used at our facilities in Austin, Texas, from centers in Allen, Texas; RTP, North Carolina; and other renewable solar power each year. The power local wind power systems. Environmental Sustainability campus buildings in Bangalore, India. produced at this facility will be used to provide over 10 percent of the San Jose campus’s electricity. We continue to maintain our 425-kW cogeneration Materials system at our Bedfont Lakes campus in the U.K. Operating at peak efficiency, this system avoids Table 22. Renewable Energy Energy And approximately 850 metric tonne CO2e per year and FY07 GHG Emissions saves over $47,000 in electricity costs annually. Baseline KPI Year FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Product End Of Life We have also installed nine solar hot water systems And Waste From at our campus in Bangalore, India. These systems Electricity from renewable sources, GWh 110 523 579 1167 1264 1324 Operations collectively produce on average 8500 liters of hot Percent progress against reduction goal water every day, which satisfies approximately 67 Water Use percent of our hot water demands at the campus. Goal: Use electricity generated from 10.7% 34.4% 36.8% 71.3% 77.0% 80.0% renewable sources for at least 25 percent of Biodiversity And Purchasing Renewable Electricity our electricity every year through FY17 Land Use Purchasing electricity generated from renewable or other low-carbon sources is a big part of our GHG Table 23. Electricity Usage From Renewable Sources Non-GHG Emissions reduction strategy. Our global renewable electricity FY07 purchases are summarized in Table 23. We have Baseline Effluents (Liquid) REGION Year FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 purchased renewable electricity primarily in the United States and Europe since FY06 by buying RECs and EMEAR (Europe, Middle East, Africa, Appendix 31.4% 70.9% 60.8% 48.1% 43.6% 59.1% entering into green power contracts with various and Russia) electricity suppliers. In FY17, we purchased 1178 GWh United States 9.5% 39.1% 43.8% 96.7% 100% 100.0% of Green-e Certified RECs and green power in the U.S., 93 GWh of green power in Europe, and 121 GWh Global 10.7% 34.4% 36.8% 71.3% 77.0% 80.0% 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 107 Governance To further our engagement with green power management practices, information systems, and Individual initiatives within the program focus on providers, Cisco works with both the WWF’s Corporate standardized assessment methodologies. specific areas of supply chain GHG emissions Society Renewable Buyers’ Principles and Rocky Mountain prioritized by our CDP-based Scope 3 carbon footprint. Institute’s Business Renewables Center. Cisco also Scope 3 Supply Chain The carbon footprint study supplemented product Environment participates in the EPA’s Green Power Partnership. In LCAs and CDP-based supplier emissions data to In FY15, in an effort to build upon the knowledge the July 2017 EPA green power rankings, Cisco was identify hot spots as targets for reduction. Using this GRI Index listed seventh among the National Top 100, seventh gained from our Scope 3 supply chain GHG emission study, our three primary areas of focus have been inventory that was developed using the data reported UNSDG Index among Fortune 500 companies, and fifth in the Top 30 materials, energy, and logistics. through CDP, Cisco launched the Supply Chain GHG Tech and Telecommunications companies. This EPA Reduction Program to formalize and execute on a In FY17, the Supply Chain GHG Reduction Program ranking is updated quarterly. “top-down” approach to reducing GHG emissions. The gained momentum with the employees and executives Environment mission of the program is to reduce Cisco’s Scope 3 needed to drive change in the supply chain. The Roadmap Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions to reduce environmental program now consists of six sub-programs, each impact while delivering additional supply chain benefits focused on a specific mission for reducing or avoiding GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 305-3 Environmental and customer satisfaction. supply chain emissions. Specific areas of reduction Sustainability Scope 3 emissions cover a broad range of activities, and details of achievements are reported individually in including our supply chain, logistics, product use, The Supply Chain GHG Reduction Program provides their respective Scope 3 cradle-to-gate categories. Materials and product end of life. Table 17 shows the public the framework to: Our FY20 Scope 3 supply chain GHG emissions goal commitments we have made to reduce our Scope 3 •• Prioritize opportunities based on supplier data emissions. Additional Scope 3 emissions information is is our first quantitative emissions goal to encompass Energy And collected via CDP. GHG Emissions available in our response to Question 14 of the Scope 3 supply chain activities that Cisco directs •• Embed emissions accounting and responsibilities in or influences, such as sourcing strategies, excess 2017 CDP Investor Survey. our processes and tools. component management, product fulfillment model Product End Of Life designs, manufacturing-related energy use, and And Waste From Scope 3 GHG Emissions •• Execute projects that deliver Scope 3 supply chain Operations GHG emissions reductions. transport mode optimization executed by third parties. Reduction Strategy Table 24 shows our progress toward our reduction goal •• Report on GHG emissions avoidance and other Water Use GRI 305-5 as of the end of FY17. benefits. Our Scope 3 emissions reduction efforts are focused Biodiversity And Land Use on reducing emissions related to business air travel Table 24. Progress Toward 2020 Scope 3 Supply Chain GHG Reduction Goal and supply chain operations. Our overall strategy to FY12 accomplish these objectives is to: Non-GHG Emissions Baseline •• C  ollaborate with supply chain partners to optimize KPI Year* FY13* FY14* FY15* FY16* FY17* Effluents (Liquid) transport and materials in the manufacturing of our GHG emissions avoided from Scope 3 supply products, and increase energy efficiency in our Tier 2 8958 95,082 213,331 337,975 500,170 711,980 chain GHG emissions, metric tonne CO2 e Appendix virtual factories. Percent progress against reduction goal •• U  se Cisco network technologies to reduce our 0.9% 9.5% 21.3% 33.8% 50.0% 71.2% Goal: Avoid one million metric tonne CO2 e air travel, supported by business processes, by FY20 *Completed external verification for limited assurance against the ISO 14064-3. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 108 Governance For more information on the Supply Chain GHG Table 25. Scope 3 Air-Travel Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Program and a breakdown of emissions Society savings by GHG Protocol category and initiative, go FY07 Baseline to the Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions, Scope Environment 3 Transportation and Distribution, and Scope 3 KPI year fy13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Purchased Goods and Services sections in this chapter. GHG emissions GRI Index Total Scope 3 air-travel recalculated, starting with There are complex challenges involved in reducing GHG emissions, metric FY13 and using June 2016 199,104 133,130 149,617 191,123 184,199 177,210 UNSDG Index GHG emissions on the scale of our outsourced supply tonne CO2 e DEFRA DECC emissions chain. Obtaining Cisco-specific emissions data to factors; radiative forcing not included. prioritize new initiatives and manage existing ones Environment continues to be one of our biggest challenges despite Percent Scope 3 air-travel Data adjusted to represent Roadmap continued investment in this area. Additionally, the emissions from primary 98% 98% 98% 98% 98% 98% 100% of Cisco business air extent to which emissions data influences supply data travel. Environmental chain business decision making continues to evolve. Percent progress against Sustainability Remarkable parallels to risk and quality management reduction goal have been confirmed, and are expected to align to our Goal: Reduce total Cisco FY12 was the goal year for Materials future progress. Base business-air-travel Scope –33% –25% –9% –7.5%* –11%* our first 5-year goal of a year 25% reduction. 3 emissions worldwide Energy And Scope 3 Business Air Travel by 40% absolute by FY17 GHG Emissions GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3 (FY07 baseline) Product End Of Life Travel reduction to meet our first 5-year goal was *If air travel from the ~5000 employees that joined Cisco as part of the NDS acquisition is excluded, the FY17 percent progress against our goal is -13%. And Waste From The NDS acquisition closed at the end of our FY12. aided by budget reductions due to the economic Operations downturn that began in 2008 (Table 25). As the economy recovered and our travel increased, we still Reducing GHG Emissions from Cisco will continue to use collaboration technologies to Water Use Scope 3 Business Air Travel address our business air travel impacts. met our FY12 reduction goal. Since then, Cisco has been entering new markets that require developing GRI 305-5 We’re using these remote collaboration technology Biodiversity And new and expanded business relationships, which has solutions: Land Use To achieve business-air-travel reductions, we rely caused an increase in business travel. We did not meet on our remote collaboration technologies. These •• Immersive videoconferencing: We have more than our FY17 business air travel reduction goal, but our Non-GHG Emissions include Cisco Spark®, Cisco TelePresence®, Cisco 1500 Cisco TelePresence rooms deployed in our efforts have maintained our emissions below our FY07 WebEx®, Cisco Unified Communications, and Cisco offices worldwide. baseline level while our employee count and business Effluents (Liquid) Jabber® collaboration solutions. Our adoption of revenues have increased. •• Personal videoconferencing: Hardware-based (DX80 these technologies has yielded a reduction in travel, and Cisco TelePresence) personal video totals more Appendix carbon emissions, and travel costs, plus an increase in than 8000 units. Software-based (Cisco Jabber) employee productivity and work-life balance, all while videoconferencing is available to all Cisco employees maintaining and growing the customer relationships using Cisco assigned laptops. we need for continued revenue growth. Going forward 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 109 Governance •• Small office videoconferencing: Cisco Connected Scope 3 Business Air Travel: highly secure communications to a wireless local-area Workplace is Cisco’s shared office space solution. Avoided GHG Emissions network (WLAN) controller at the connected Cisco Society Many small, flexible-use rooms for one to two people The Transport Substitution chapter6 of the GHG campus. have smaller videoconferencing units installed, Protocol ICT Sector Guidance distinguishes between Over 25,000 Cisco employees use Cisco Virtual Office Environment totaling more than 400 units worldwide. emissions reductions and avoided emissions. to effectively work remotely. Many employees also GRI Index •• Desktop conferencing: WebEx is available to all Cisco Emissions reductions are actual, measured, absolute use Cisco’s AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client to employees using Cisco assigned laptops, and Cisco changes to emissions. Avoided emissions project connect to our enterprise network, enabling them UNSDG Index TelePresence and Cisco WebEx now interoperate. For what might have happened if an action hadn’t been to work from any device, at any time, in any location. example, WebEx users can see and hear–and can done. Cisco focuses on emissions reductions, but we Although telecommuting or working remotely does be seen and heard in–Cisco TelePresence rooms, receive inquiries about avoided emissions, so a brief not directly reduce air travel, it helps our employees Environment expanding the types of remote collaboration enabled discussion is provided. become more proficient in using collaborative Roadmap by Cisco technology. technologies, especially important for a 24/7 global It is difficult to project with certainty what might have happened to Cisco air-travel emissions without the company. Our employees can then use these skills to Replacing business air travel with remote collaboration Environmental reduce air travel when possible. requires more than just technology. Our business widespread adoption of our collaborative technologies. Sustainability processes, management practices, and culture had to To estimate avoided emissions, we compared changes Transportation Services adapt. As experience with collaborative technologies in our actual air-travel emissions to changes in Materials We provide a variety of transportation services to our increases, within Cisco and among our customers and revenue and headcount. (Revenue and headcount are partners, remote interactions have progressed from two factors thought to correlate with changes to the employees to help them commute to and from work, Energy And move around our campus locations and adjoining GHG Emissions being the exception to now being a standard practice. amount of air travel.) Our data indicate that, from FY04 to FY06 and before the acquisition of WebEx and the communities, and receive vehicle services while Hosting and attending WebEx meetings with other parked. These services yield benefits to the employees introduction of Cisco TelePresence, changes to GHG Product End Of Life employees or with customers, partners, and other emissions were roughly proportional to changes in in terms of time and cost of commute, to Cisco in And Waste From stakeholders has become as common as using the revenue or headcount. terms of employee productivity and satisfaction, and to Operations telephone. We use Cisco TelePresence, Jabber, and the environment with more carbon-efficient modes of WebEx for virtual company meetings, executive Water Use operational reviews, and department “all hands” Scope 3 Employee Commuting transportation and fewer vehicle miles on the road. meetings. About one-third of our annual global ISO Cisco encourages our employees’ use of mass transit Flexible Work Practices Biodiversity And 14001 site audits are performed using Cisco remote by providing campus shuttle services (at seven of Land Use In addition to the collaboration tools we make widely our locations globally), incentive programs that lower collaboration solutions. This real-world experience available to our employees, several Cisco network the cost of mass transit, and information about public guides product development and helps with the rollout Non-GHG Emissions of supporting management practices. technologies also permit flexible working environments transportation options in their area. We also offer (e.g., working from home or remotely). These include transit shuttle services at nine of our locations, making Effluents (Liquid) Because the rate of adoption of remote collaboration Cisco Virtual Office and Cisco OfficeExtend. Cisco it easier for mass transit commuters to get from technologies has matured, we are no longer trending Virtual Office provides wired and wireless voice, public transport stations to our sites. In FY17, over Appendix adoption metrics included in our previous CSR reports. data, and video service for an employee’s home or for 2200 employees took advantage of our mass transit small commercial offices, using Cisco ISR integrated incentive program each month, and our commuter and services routers and IP phones. Cisco OfficeExtend transit shuttle services provided over 1 million rides is an even simpler solution–a remote wireless access either to or from work. point in the employee’s home that provides the same 6 To be published at a later date as an appendix. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 110 Governance We launched a carpooling program for our San Scope 3 Life Cycle Emissions off, and whose use is compatible with idle or standby Francisco Bay Area locations in FY16. Through FY17, modes–the percentage of emissions from the use Society over 4800 users have signed up to participate either as GRI 302-5 phase is lower, but is still the largest contributor. riders or drivers. Through the life of the program, our LCA techniques (specifically, carbon footprinting) help In FY12, we improved our capability to perform Environment employees have avoided driving over 1.3 million miles us understand the largest impacts of our products LCAs, developing tools to automate the analysis reducing carbon emissions from commuting by over so we can focus on the areas where we can make GRI Index 540 metric tonne CO2. of product materials and standardizing life cycle the most difference. We use the five product life models. Since then, we have focused on ways to UNSDG Index We offer electric vehicle charging at 20 locations cycle stages defined by the GHG Protocol in its 2011 further improve data availability and accuracy in the across the U.S., Europe, and India, saving over 800 Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting materials and manufacturing phases. Figure 30 shows metric tonne CO2 in FY17.7 By the end of FY17, we had Standard, which itself is based on the ISO 14040 the manufacturing phase carbon footprint of a Cisco Environment over 230 stations with more than 430 charging ports series standards: IP phone. Collecting accurate data to support LCA Roadmap available for use by Cisco employees and guests in the modeling is most difficult for the largest impact areas •• Material acquisition and pre-processing following locations: •• Production identified in the manufacturing phase: integrated Environmental circuits, bare printed circuit boards, displays, and •• San Jose, California •• Diegem, Belgium •• Distribution and storage Sustainability assembly and test processes. To address this •• Pleasanton, California •• Kortrijk, Belgium •• Use •• End of life challenge, we are working with industry peers and •• Research Triangle Park, •• Lysaker, Norway Materials suppliers to collect more data and improve calculations. North Carolina •• Amsterdam, Netherlands We are committed to shaping our industry in this area •• Lawrenceville, Georgia •• Vimercate, Italy through two avenues: Energy And GHG Emissions •• Richardson, Texas •• Rome, Italy •• Internal research to develop our capabilities •• Boxborough, •• Madrid, Spain Figure 30. IP Phone Manufacturing •• Industry engagement Phase Impacts Product End Of Life Massachusetts •• Stockholm, Sweden And Waste From •• Malvern, Pennsylvania •• Eschborn, Germany Our LCA work has focused on our most common Operations •• Bedfont Lakes, United •• Ecublens, Switzerland product categories, including IP phones, standalone Electronic Packaging Kingdom •• Bangalore, India switches, and routers, which cover a substantial Components 1% Enclosure Metals (excl ICs) Water Use •• Green Park, portion of our product lines. We have also assessed 1% 3% United Kingdom Cisco TelePresence videoconferencing to determine Cables Electromechanicals 3% <1% Biodiversity And the net benefit from using ICT as a substitute for We also provide a number of onsite services for Land Use travel. For many of our product families, we have employees on our campuses, including refueling, car Plastic Integrated determined that the use phase accounts for between 10% Circuits washing, oil changes, and bicycle storage. These and Non-GHG Emissions 80 and 90 percent8 of the carbon life cycle impact 35% other concierge services reduce employee commuting as shown in Figure 31. Memory time, employee stress, and vehicle miles. In FY17 Effluents (Liquid) 13% our Booster refueling service was utilized by 5300 Because power is higher relative to weight, the use employees, reducing their driving mileage by 67,500 phase can account for more than 90 percent of life Appendix miles and reducing the associated CO2 emissions by cycle emissions for larger core routers and switches. LCD Screens 13% Printed Wiring 30 metric tonne. For lower-power devices–like endpoint devices that Boards might have a shorter lifetime, that can be turned 22% 7 Cisco includes the electricity used to charge employee EVs in our Scope 2 emissions. 8 Global emissions factors can vary by a factor of three, which impacts use-phase emissions. This analysis used the global average electricity emissions factor. Larger-grid emissions factors increase the percentage of overall emissions in the use phase. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 111 Governance We participate in several ICT industry efforts Figure 31. Breakdown of GHG Emissions By Life Cycle Phase For Select Product Categories working toward a common approach to assessing Society environmental impacts of products, including: Chassis-Based Chassis-Based Chassis-Based SmallSmall Access Small Access Access LargeLarCh Environment •• GHG Protocol Scope 3, Product Accounting and IP Phone IP Phone IP Phone Switch Switch Switch Router Router Router Route Reporting, and ICT Sector Supplement standards. GRI Index Over the last three years, Cisco has contributed to End of LifeEnd of LifeTransport End of Life Transport Transport End of Life Transport End of LifeEnd of Transport Life Transport End of LifeTransport End of Life Transport Tr End of Life the development of these standards, which form the Transport -0.2% -0.2% Transport Transport 1.0% 1.0% -0.2% -0.4% 1.0% -0.4% 1.45% 1.45% -0.4% -0.2% -0.2% 1.45% 3.2% 3.2% -0.2% UNSDG Index 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufac basis for accurate accounting. 6.0% 6.0% 5.95% 5.95% 4.0% 4.0% 6.0% 5.95% Manufacturing Manufacturing Use Manufacturing Use Use Use Use Use Use Use Use •• European Telecommunications Standards Institute 19.5% 19.5% 19.5% 80.5% 80.5% 80.5% 93.4% 93.4% 93.4% 92.8% 92.8% 92.8% (ETSI) LCA of telecommunication equipment and Environment service, DTS/EE-00014. Roadmap •• International Electronics Manufacturers Initiative Environmental (iNEMI) Eco-Impact Evaluator Project (completed Sustainability in FY13) to develop a simplified LCA tool for ICT Chassis-Based products. (Cisco was co-editor.) Chassis-Based Small Access Small Access Large ChassisLarge Chassis Mid-Level Mid-Level Materials IP Phone •IP Phone Packaging Users • High-Density Switch Switch Group (HDPUG) PWB Router Router Router Router Ethernet Switch Switch Ethernet Environmental Life Cycle Analysis project focusing Energy And Enddeveloping on model forTransport Transport of LifeEnd ofa Life the manufacturing End of LifeEnd ofTransport of bare Life Transport End of LifeEnd of Life Transport Transport End of LifeEnd of Life Transport Transport End of LifeEnd of Life GHG Emissions Transport Transport -0.2% boards. -0.2% 1.0% 1.0% -0.4% -0.4% 1.45% 1.45% -0.2% -0.2% 3.2% 3.2% -0.2% -0.2% 3% 3% -0.5% -0.5% circuit 0.2% 0.2% Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing ManufacturingManufacturing 6.0% 6.0% 5.95% 5.95% 4.0% 4.0% Product End Of LifeManufacturing Manufacturing Use •• Sponsorship Use of Stanford University civilUse engineering Use Use Use Use Use 8.5% 8.5% Use Use And Waste From 19.5% 19.5% 80.5% 80.5% annual class projects. 93.4% 93.4% 92.8% 92.8% 93% 93% 89% 89% Operations These efforts build and share knowledge, apply life cycle concepts to our product design and operations, Water Use build engagement with academia, and support the ICT sector in working toward practical and useful Biodiversity And methodologies to assess the GHG emissions impact of Land Use Note: Negative EOL values indicate material credits associated with recycling and reuse of materials. our products. Non-GHG Emissions Scope 3 Cradle-to-Gate Emissions Detailed accounts of our Scope 3 carbon inventory Program. Their categorization against the GHG Protocol As part of our commitment to reducing GHG emissions, results can be found in response to Question 14 of our and links to their FY17 performance are as follows: Effluents (Liquid) we are focusing on our own facilities, employee 2017 CDP Climate Change response. •• Make It Green: Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution business travel, and supply chain. CDP continues Appendix As described earlier, Cisco’s Supply Chain GHG and Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services to serve as a foundation for supplier engagement, Reduction Program seeks to address our Scope 3 •• Mode Shift: Scope 3 Transportation and Distribution emissions reporting, prioritization, and goal setting. carbon inventory by reducing Cisco’s supply chain GHG For more information about our supplier engagement emissions. In FY17, six “sub-programs” contributed process, please refer to the Promoting Transparency in to the results of the Supply Chain GHG Reduction the Supply Chain section of this chapter. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 112 Governance •• Responsible Supply Chain Design: Scope 3 movement of a product during its life cycle–starting addition, these FY17 changes also saved an annualized Transportation and Distribution with the component shipments from suppliers and $14 million in material and freight cost reductions. Society •• Services Green: Scope 3 Transportation and continuing through the finished product shipments Launched in FY17, the Responsible Scrap Management to end customers. Carbon emissions reporting is Distribution Program is a Lean Six Sigma “Green Belt” pilot Environment embedded in the “Network Design” modeling tools. program on a subset of our products. The objective •• Responsible Scrap Management: Scope 3 Purchased Each time a new contract manufacturing network GRI Index Goods and Services of the program is to increase the reuse of excess design sourcing decision is considered, the modeling and obsolete component inventories by empowering UNSDG Index •• Partner Energy Management: Scope 3 Purchased tools provide executive-level decision makers with individual business units to resell the non-proprietary Goods and Services the logistics carbon emissions impact, which is Last Time Buy components on global commodity then considered alongside traditional supply chain The combined results from these programs can be markets. Currently, resale of excess and obsolete Environment variables like cost, resiliency, and lead time. In FY17, found in Table 24. component inventory is managed by a central team in Roadmap 49,758 metric tonne CO2e were avoided through the Logistics. This limits resale opportunities to those with Scope 3 Transportation And Distribution Responsible Supply Chain Design initiative. high returns, and it excludes “last time buy” component Environmental inventories, which are a subset of excess and obsolete Cisco’s Services Green, Mode Shift, and Responsible Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services Sustainability components bought in bulk to support forecasted Supply Chain Design initiatives have helped reduce In a fully outsourced model, the emissions reductions demand for our products. Through this program, transportation emissions. Materials from material, waste, and energy reduction activities business units are incentivized by keeping the resale Cisco Services uses two primary strategies to reduce fall under Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services. The value of the components in their own budget. In FY17, Energy And transportation-related emissions: dynamic receipt and Make It Green, Responsible Scrap Management, and the Responsible Scrap Management program avoided GHG Emissions disposition, and repair site localization. Dynamic receipt Partner Energy Management programs have led to less 3190 metric tonne CO2e through the resale of 2801 KG and disposition eliminates the need for a central depot waste and material use in our supply chain. of components into global commodity markets for reuse. Product End Of Life for the evaluation of a product’s viability for reuse Aligned to the SET Circular Economy track, the Make And Waste From over recycling. Instead, products can be screened Also launched in FY17, the Partner Energy Management It Green program is an initiative to limit the waste and Operations locally, and either forwarded for repair or sent to an program challenges our contract manufacturing sites costs associated with products and packaging while approved local recycler. Repair site localization takes to pursue verifiable energy saving targets through reducing carbon emissions and improving the customer Water Use this one step further, using in-theatre repair sites and the digitization of factory activities. Successes to experience. Formerly known as Pack It Green, the ground transportation whenever possible. In FY17, the date have focused on Internet of Things (IoT) energy program has expanded beyond packaging optimization Biodiversity And Services Green program achieved an avoidance of management systems, which utilize thousands of Land Use to include product fulfillment and the use of recycled 12,091 metric tonne CO2e. sensors to precisely measure and manage energy materials in our products. Table 16 in the Materials consumption across systems and equipment. Cisco The Mode Shift initiative optimizes our global, virtual section details the Make It Green program focus areas. Non-GHG Emissions realizes that our outsourced operations require flexible factory-to-factory freight movement of goods, shifting Through Make It Green, approximately 2064 cumulative goals, but are confident that the focus on energy transportation modes from air to ocean whenever Effluents (Liquid) metric tonne of material (corrugated board, plastic, management provides clear benefits—including more practical, while still meeting customer expectations wood, CDs/DVDs, cables, and other materials) and affordable energy, increased utilization of equipment, on lead time. In FY17 Mode Shift avoided 113,540 Appendix 21,738 cumulative metric tonne of CO2e were avoided and increased awareness and capacity among cumulative metric tonne9 of CO2e emissions. in FY17. GHG emissions included those avoided from factory workers. (Case study: Energy Reduction Pilot) The Responsible Supply Chain Design initiative created reduced material and freight weight reduction. In Together with our partners, we have worked to obtain a supply chain network that optimizes the net limited assurance verification for the energy savings 9 As calculated using U.K. DEFRA factor for air freight, including a multiplier of 1.9 to account for radiative forcing. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 113 Governance across the first two partner sites in accordance with these activities, done properly, bring clarity and Table 26 highlights several illustrative examples of the International Performance Measurement and consistency to the global marketplace and create energy efficiency initiatives and organizations that Society Verification Protocol Efficiency Valuation Organization predictable requirements that enable companies to Cisco participates in. 10000–1:2012 guidelines. This year, the Partner Energy focus on the environmental issues that are most relevant Environment Management initiative saved 15,492 Million kWh of to their business. Specifically, we believe that product Improving Product Energy Efficiency energy in the factories, the equivalent of 9,795 metric energy-efficiency standards can promote innovation To achieve the projected–and required–product GRI Index tonne CO2e. by being performance based, by taking into account performance specifications for the next 5 to 10 UNSDG Index product functionality, and by relying on objective criteria, years, Cisco products will require an architecture Scope 3 Product Use Phase real-world data, and system-level efficiency. that has “energy scalability”–meaning it can provide (Product Energy Efficiency) energy-efficient service for variable traffic types, traffic Since 2008, we have been working with the EPA to GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 302-5 demands, customer usage, and installs. Environment define ENERGY STAR standards for relevant products. Roadmap Improving product energy efficiency represents more In 2013 the EPA released the Version 1.0 ENERGY In order to achieve this, Cisco has five primary product than just a regulatory requirement for Cisco–it is an STAR specification to differentiate more efficient energy efficiency engineering initiatives underway: Environmental opportunity for us to help customers save on energy products across six types of networking equipment. •• Power initiative: We are improving product efficiency, Sustainability We are qualifying in-scope products with this and other costs, reduce global energy demand, and lower GHG from plug to port, with a goal to achieve a 6to emissions, in addition to making our products more existing ENERGY STAR specification programs. To 7-percent increase in total system power efficiency by Materials competitive. While the ICT industry accounts for date, this includes set-top boxes,11 enterprise servers, 2020. As an example, in 2015 a switch using 25 to 30 about two percent of the world’s GHG emissions from IP phones, and small network equipment (SNE). We kW has a total system power efficiency of 82 percent; Energy And energy, we expect ICT energy consumption to continue are engaged in the development of an ENERGY STAR GHG Emissions by 2020 we want system power efficiency to be in to grow.10 Throughout their life cycle, our products specification for large network equipment (LNE), which the 88to 90-percent range for a switch using 100 consume the largest proportion of energy, and release will cover a significant portion of our routing and kW. Based on current designs, we expect to reach Product End Of Life switching products. A list of Cisco ENERGY STARthe most GHG emissions, during the use phase. this goal for products shipped in CY19. We have since And Waste From qualified products is available on the ENERGY STAR increased our engineering goal to a total system Operations Customers and regulators have rising expectations program website. power efficiency of 92 percent by CY20. of products to minimize energy costs and GHG Water Use emissions. Every year the number of inquiries related to Although ENERGY STAR is a useful means to ••Thermal initiative: We are exploring alternative environmental sustainability we receive from analysts, promote product energy efficiency improvements, methods of cooling (air flow, liquid, and refrigerant Biodiversity And customers, shareholders, and non-governmental we believe that an approach that addresses product cooling) to reduce operating temperatures and facility Land Use organizations (NGOs) rises. We track applicable energyenergy efficiency across an entire product system cooling requirements. use regulations and certification programs to review is a better way to measure and promote energy Non-GHG Emissions efficiency. ENERGY STAR standards generally apply •• High-speed interconnects initiative: High-speed compliance needs as requested by our customers. to a single point of power supply conversion at the silicon-to-silicon or optics-to-silicon interconnects Advocacy and Standards Development front end of the total system. In contrast, the Alliance are an integral part of high-speed data and the Effluents (Liquid) Cisco engages with governments, regulatory agencies, for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) control plane. These interconnects consume a and standards development organizations to monitor Telecommunications Energy Efficiency Ratio (TEER) significant portion of the total system power. We are Appendix and influence the development of emerging product measurement method covers all power conversion and exploring ways to increase the interconnect speed, energy-efficiency requirements and standards, power distribution from the front end of the system driving the gigabits per second per watt (Gbps/W) particularly around climate change. We believe that to the data wire plug, including application-specific consumed metric as high as possible to increase integrated circuits (ASICs). performance and reduce energy use. 10 Arman Shehabi, Jonathan Koomey, Eric Massanet, Nathaniel Horner, Ines Azevedo, William Lintner, United States Data Center Energy Usage Report, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, June 2016, https://eta.lbl.gov/sites/all/files/publications/lbnl-1005775_v2.pdf; and Gartner 2007, http://www.gartner.com/newsroom/ id/503867. 11 As of the end of FY15 Cisco no longer sells set-top boxes. This division and associated products were part of a divestiture. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 114 Governance •• C  ustomer facilities initiative: We are working with Table 26. Energy-Efficiency-Related Initiatives and Organizations customers to reduce the amount of energy required Society to operate their IT facilities by using power solutions Organization Area/issue of Eengagement that increase the efficiency of overhead power, avoid European Commission Joint Cisco is a signatory and active member of the EU Code of Conduct on Energy Environment step-down transformers, and provide integrated Research Center, ICT Codes Consumption of Broadband Communication Equipment. The goal of this effort is to cooling strategies. of Conduct reduce energy consumption of broadband communication equipment without hampering GRI Index the fast technological developments and the service provided. •• S  olution power efficiency: We are developing end-toCisco is an active member of ATIS and engages with other member organizations to UNSDG Index end solutions for our customers that reduce hardware Alliance for Telecommunications Industry develop standards relevant to the telecommunications industry. In 2010, Cisco took a lead requirements and energy consumption while Solutions (ATIS) role in the development of the ATIS Telecommunications Energy Efficiency Ratio (TEER) providing a more integrated method for managing standard for the measurement of product energy efficiency. Environment IT infrastructures. Minimum Energy Performance Cisco supports efforts that focus on the development of energy performance Roadmap When we evaluate product energy efficiency, we Standards (MEPS) (Australia requirements and limit the maximum power consumption of product standby modes. consider the power performance of the entire system. and Korea) Environmental Sustainability We measure the efficiency loss as electricity passes European Telecommunications Cisco is engaged with ETSI in the development of standards for energy efficiency. through each component (or function). This can Standards Institute (ETSI) Materials include, for example, the external power supply, Cisco is a founding member of the RBA, sits on the RBA board, and has contributed to the Responsible Business Alliance front-end line card, point of load, and ASICs. Over (RBA), formerly EICC development and revision of the RBA Code of Conduct. the past 10 years we have aggressively reduced Energy And The Green Grid (TGG) The Green Grid is a global consortium of companies dedicated to resource efficiency in GHG Emissions our product energy consumption while increasing business computing ecosystems. Cisco participates on a broad range of issue topics, performance. For example, in our products with including data center management, liquid cooling technology, power usage effectiveness Product End Of Life release dates from CY05 to CY17, we have increased (PUE), water usage effectiveness (WUE), and energy usage effectiveness (EUE). And Waste From circuit card power from 500W to 1350W and gone International Cisco is a major contributor to the ITU-T SG5 Lead Study Group on ICT and climate Operations from 8 kW to 28 kW chassis using conventional fan Telecommunication Union change. Cisco presented to ITU the ATIS TEER methodology, which was then tray cooling methods. These improvements have (ITU) (worldwide) incorporated into Measure L’s energy-efficiency metrics and measurement for Water Use resulted in a total available power increase of 2.5 times telecommunications equipment, creating the opportunity for a single worldwide metric. while increasing our total system power efficiency by Ministry of Economy, Trade Cisco supports efforts that focus on the development of a minimum energy efficiency Biodiversity And 47 percent over the same period (Figure 32). and Industry (METI) (Japan) requirement for networking router and switch product groups. Land Use We are projecting a 4.25-percent increase in total U.S. Department of Energy Cisco has been working with the EPA to define ENERGY STAR standards for networking system power efficiency from our 2017 products to (DOE), Environmental equipment: SNE, LNE, telephony equipment, and servers. Cisco also has worked with Non-GHG Emissions Protection Agency (EPA) Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, the EPA/DOE technical arm, Navigant, the products available in 2019. Our vision is to develop common power designs and specifications across National Resources Defense Council (NRDC), and Ecova on measurement methodologies Effluents (Liquid) and metrics. Cisco routinely provides feedback to these organizations on best practices, Cisco technologies to continue the improvement of draft standards, and actual power measurement procedures for relevant products. system power efficiency with each product generation. Appendix Telecom Regulatory Authority TRAI is an Indian government regulatory organization for the telecommunications industry. As part of this system power efficiency approach, we of India (TRAI) In 2011 it released recommendations and guidance on energy-efficiency metrics and are working to reduce energy demand for ASIC chips measurement. Cisco provided extensive document reviews and recommendations on found in most Cisco products. ASICs are designed how to align with existing and widely adopted ATIS/ANCI and ITU-R relevant documents. for a particular application in a particular product 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 115 Governance and account for a significant percentage of board•• Servers and server blades (ATIS-0600015.01.2009) Figure 32: Total System Power Efficiency* level energy consumption (Figure 33). For lower-cost, (Percent Improvement) ••Transport and network systems (ATISSociety higher-volume products, we use off-the-shelf OEM0600015.02.2009) 1.00 designed ASIC chips. For our enterprise and data 0.90 0.85 0.88 Environment center switches, Cisco Nexus® and Cisco Catalyst® •• Router and Ethernet switch products (ATIS0.80 0.82 Total System Power Efficiency 0.80 switches, we design our own ASIC chips. 0600015.03.2009) 0.72 GRI Index 0.70 These ATIS TEER standards created a framework We are developing energy savings approaches for our 0.60 0.57 UNSDG Index ASIC chips that include: for measuring product energy usage that takes into 0.50 account product functionality and uses real-world •• Feature-based energy management: ASIC chips are 0.40 loads to determine energy efficiency across the often developed to be rich in features and capability Environment entire product. This is important because it allows 0.30 so they can be used in many products. We are Roadmap companies like Cisco to compare energy-usage design 0.20 developing new ASIC chips that are configurable improvements from product generation to generation, 0.10 to the specific features within the product. As an Environmental and it helps consumers make more informed 0.00 Sustainability example, such a chip would not draw the power purchasing decisions. CY05 CY10 CY13 CY15 CY17 CY19 needed to manage 48 ports when it is placed in a Year of Product Release 24-port switch. Materials *Defined as useful power output divided by the total electrical power consumed. •• Voltage scaling: To compensate for the performance Energy And variation inherent in manufactured products, we are GHG Emissions scaling, or adjusting, the energy consumed by ASICs Figure 33: Example of Board-Level Energy to achieve performance standards and minimize Consumption by Function Product End Of Life energy consumption. We are adjusting the ASIC chip And Waste From Miscellaneous energy requirements (up and down) to compensate Operations 9.9% for any manufacturing variation in performance. CPU Water Use •• Adaptive power management: This enables an ASIC 3.1% to actively manage the energy it requires based on Memory the load of work it is processing. 9.5% Biodiversity And Land Use Our ASIC power reduction techniques have increased ASIC the cumulative Gbps/W performance of our products 45.8% Non-GHG Emissions by 71 percent from 2005 to 2015 (Figure 34). We are projecting an additional 63-percent cumulative Effluents (Liquid) Gbps/W performance increase from 2015 to 2018. In 2009, Cisco was co-editor for several standards, Field-Programmable Appendix including ATIS TEER standards and Energy Efficiency Gate Array (FPGA) of Telecommunications Equipment: Methodology 31.7% for Measurement and Reporting standards, and specifically those regarding: 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 116 Governance Figure 34: Asic Performance, Gbps/W (Core Routing Asics) These ATIS TEER standards have been incorporated Scope 3 Product End of Life into the Network Equipment Building System (NEBS) The last product life cycle phase defined in the GHG Society 7 design guidelines applied to telecommunications 6.25 Protocol Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting 6 equipment in the United States. NEBS is the most Environment common set of safety, spatial, and environmental Standard is end-of-life (EOL) management. There are 5 design guidelines applied to telecommunications minimal emissions associated with this life cycle phase GRI Index for Cisco products, and most of them are connected to 3.64 equipment, and compliance with these guidelines is Gbps/W 4 the transport of the returned product and the recycling UNSDG Index 3 2.67 an industry (but not a legal) requirement. All Cisco 2.17 products that have entered the market since 2011 have process. The largest impact of recycling on GHG 2 1.48 gone through ATIS TEER testing. emissions is reducing upstream emissions. For more 1 details, see the Product End of Life section. Environment We have used the ATIS TEER standard to develop Roadmap 0 energy profiles for representative models and products As Cisco introduces initiatives to increase the return CY05 CY10 CY13 CY15 CY18 within the following product families: of used or EOL products, we have planned a study Year of Product Release Environmental on the relative environmental impact of earlier or later Sustainability •• Cisco ASR 9000 Series Aggregation Services Routers product retirement. Energy efficiency usually improves •• Cisco ASR 5000 Series Aggregation Services Routers with each new product generation, so earlier product Materials Figure 35: System Performance for Mobile Packet Solutions retirement may be able to decrease overall emissions Improvements, Gbps/W since the use-phase emissions dominate the product •• Cisco Catalyst 1900 Series, 2800 Series, 2900 Series, Energy And 4.5 life cycle. However, creating new products introduces 3800 Series, 4500 Series, 6000 Series, and 6500 GHG Emissions 3.99 other environmental impacts. A similar dynamic exists Total System Power Efficiency 4.0 Series Switches 3.5 in the automotive industry. For example, is it better Product End Of Life •• Cisco CRS-1 and CRS-3 Carrier Routing Systems to retire a functional 30-mpg car for a new 40-mpg 3.0 And Waste From car? We will consider the results of LCAs to inform our 2.5 •• Cisco Network Convergence System (NCS) 6008 Operations approach in this area. 2.0 Routers 1.5 Water Use •• Cisco ONS 15454 Series, NCS 2000 Series, and NCS 1.0 0.91 4016 Multiservice Provisioning Platforms 0.5 Biodiversity And 0.11 0.23 •• Cisco Nexus 7000 Series Switches 0.0 Land Use CRS-1 CRS-3 NCS 6008 Nexus 7K CY05 CY10 CY14 CY17 The products tested make up more than 90 percent Year of Product Release of Cisco products that are in ATIS TEER scope. Figure Non-GHG Emissions 35 presents system performance improvements, in Effluents (Liquid) Gbps/W consumed, for a sample of our core router and switching products (CRS-1, CRS-3, NCS, Nexus 7000) for which first-, second-, third-, and fourth-generation Appendix energy performance was measured using the ATIS TEER standard. The results show that in these products, there was a 38-fold increase in normalized bits-perwatt performance between the four generations of products, with only a 2.5-fold increase in power usage. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 117 Governance Enabling Effect In FY09, Cisco sponsored and contributed to the SMART 2020 report, which still guides industry Considering that the ICT sector was projected to be responsible for only 3 percent of global emissions in Society GRI 302-5, GRI 305-5 strategy. The report identified opportunities for the 2020, this represents a substantial positive impact. ICT sector to develop and apply network technologies Potential reductions are concentrated in the areas of We are making progress in managing the GHG Environment to reduce total GHG emissions by 15 percent. transportation, buildings, power/energy, and industry. emissions in our own operations, in our supply chain, GRI Index and at other phases of the product life cycle. Our products and services also offer opportunities through UNSDG Index the “enabling effect.”12 Additionally, Cisco products can support LEED Product End of Life Environment Roadmap accreditation. Currently, network products can only get LEED credit under the Innovation category of and Waste from Operations the LEED: BD+C: Data Center program. Under the GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 301-3 LEED: BD+C: Data Center program, only ENERGY Environmental Sustainability STAR certified products can get LEED credit, up to 6 Product End of Life We use circular economy principles to increase product returns for resale or recycling; to study leasing points. Information on ENERGY STAR qualification of Our trade-in and recycling programs are designed to and as-a-service models to facilitate return and reuse; Materials Cisco products is discussed in the Scope 3 Product bring back the products that Cisco or our acquired to implement IoT technologies for improved asset Use Phase (Product Energy efficiency) section of this companies have sold to channel partners and end-user tracking, maintenance, and operations; and to improve chapter; certified Cisco products are listed on the customers. Of products sent to our e-scrap recyclers, Energy And product and packaging design. For more information GHG Emissions ENERGY STAR WEBSITE. nearly 100 percent are recycled, and all commodity on our approach to the circular economy, see the The enabling effect happens when ICT sector products fractions go to downstream recyclers to be made Environment Roadmap section at the start of Product End Of Life and services can be used to achieve reductions in GHG into new products. During FY17, we also refurbished, this chapter. And Waste From emissions in other industry sectors. For example, highresold, reused, or recycled over 11,398 metric tonne of Operations definition videoconferencing (ICT sector) can be used products returned to us (Table 27). Customer Programs in place of face-to-face interaction to avoid air travel Information on our compliance with product recycling Water Use The Cisco Technology Migration Program (TMP) and (transportation sector), and energy monitoring and regulations, such as the Waste Electrical and Electronic Exceptional Pick-Up Program (EPUP) enable customers control of IP-enabled devices (ICT sector) can be used Equipment (WEEE) Directive, can be found online. Biodiversity And to return used equipment. These programs are the to reduce energy consumption in buildings (real estate Products are labeled with a crossed-out “wheelie bin” Land Use single largest source of product returned to Cisco, and and industrial sectors). symbol to encourage end users to reuse or recycle provide the newest and best-quality used equipment electronics instead of disposing of them in the trash. for refurbishment and reuse. Non-GHG Emissions We have nine different programs in operation to Trade-in materials are routed to our returns warehouse Effluents (Liquid) support our product trade-in and recycling efforts for refurbishment, resale, or reuse by Cisco Capital® aimed at customers, suppliers, partners, and internal Refresh, Cisco Service Supply, or our internal labs. Appendix users (Table 28). A flow diagram of the programs is Reuse is always our first priority. In FY17, we reused shown in Figure 36. over $249 million of Cisco equipment, calculated at 12 See the Smart 2020 report published by GeSI for a more detailed explanation: http://gesi.org/files/Reports/Smart%202020%20report%20in%20English.pdf 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 118 Governance standard cost (COGS). Any item that is not reusable Table 27. Product Trade-in and Returns goes to one of our authorized recyclers. KPI fy13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Society The Cisco Takeback and Recycle Program (TB&R) focuses on Cisco branded items that do not qualify Product return, Environment 12,539 12,180 11,718 12,609 11,398 metric tonne for either the TMP or EPUP. The TB&R also accepts GRI Index equipment from other manufacturers that has been Refurbish, resell, and 25% 23% 25% 19% 16% replaced by newly purchased Cisco items. The reuse rate, percent UNSDG Index equipment is typically old and has no reuse value, Landfill material consists only of nonor it is damaged. These materials go to the closest electronic waste materials, such as broken Returned material sent Cisco approved recycling site. Currently, there are 42 0.33% 0.30% 0.27% 0.28% 0.36% pallets, wet cardboard, and shrink wrap, Environment to landfill, percent approved recycling locations (Figure 37). The number accompanying Cisco product returned by Roadmap and location of Cisco authorized recyclers continue to customers for recycling. expand based on the growth in our business and the Environmental requirements of local regulations. Sustainability Table 28. Cisco Trade-In, Reuse, And Recycling Programs Engaging with our TB&R is easy and straightforward: Program Type Material Stream Materials Customers go to the web portal13 to submit a pick-up request form. Cisco’s contracted third-party recycler ••Cisco Technical Migration Program (TMP) •Exceptional • Pick-Up Program Customer programs then contacts the customer to arrange the pick-up •Cisco • Takeback and Recycle Program (TB&R) (EPUP) Energy And GHG Emissions and work out the logistics to return the materials to the Programs for companies appropriate location. producing or repairing ••Manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program •Global • Scrap Program Product End Of Life Cisco products And Waste From Programs for Companies Producing Operations or Repairing Cisco Products Internal programs ••eBin/Lab Scrap Program •Non-Genuine • Brand Program for Cisco ••Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program •E-scrap • events Water Use The Cisco Manufacturing Scrap/Reuse Program takes excess, obsolete, or damaged materials from Biodiversity And our contract manufacturers, manufacturing partners, Land Use original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), and proprietary Non-GHG Emissions component suppliers. Our contracted repair manufacturers and distribution depots use the Global Effluents (Liquid) Scrap Program for their excess, obsolete, or damaged materials. Both of these programs are a valuable Appendix source of reusable product. 13 Cisco.com registration required. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 119 Governance Figure 36. Reverse Logistics Material Sources and Flow of Materials for Reuse and Recycling Society Environment GRI Index UNSDG Index Environment Roadmap Environmental Sustainability Materials Energy And GHG Emissions Product End Of Life And Waste From Operations Water Use Biodiversity And Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Appendix 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 120 Governance Figure 37. Cisco Reverse Logistics Locations Society Environment Sweden Finland GRI Index Netherlands Russia UNSDG Index Gustavsberg, GER Ireland R&R Ops NL Poland Toronto CA UK Nurnburg, GER Czechia Environment Belgium Roadmap France Hungary Ukraine R&R Ops Roseville, CA Spain Serbia Environmental Roseville, CA Portugal Turkey Tucson, AZ Switzerland Japan Sustainability Israel UAE Mexico Austria Greece Tampa, FL Shanghai, China Materials Italy Saudia Arabia R&R Ops HK Hong Kong Croatia Energy And GHG Emissions Thailand India Costa Rica Product End Of Life Malaysia And Waste From Colombia Singapore Operations Water Use Peru Biodiversity And Brazil Land Use Chile Non-GHG Emissions REVERSE LOGISTICS—RECEIVING & REUSE OPS Kwazulu ZA Argentina CISCO CONTRACTED RECYCLER LOCATION Effluents (Liquid) RECYCLER’S SUB-CONTRACTED PARTNERS LOCATIONS Appendix CURRENT WAREHOUSE/DISASSEMBLY LOCATION 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 121 Governance Internal Programs for Cisco and contractors have helped recycle over 2845 metric a specialized smelter where as many as 19 metals are tonne of used electronics. harvested from the boards. These harvested metals The largest of Cisco’s internal programs is the eBin/Lab Society are sold on the global metals markets. All materials, Scrap Program. The eBin program began at our San E-Scrap Recyclers including any batteries or packaging materials, are sent Environment Jose campus, where 185 labs produce a large amount to downstream recyclers to eventually be sold on the of e-scrap, and now includes all Cisco labs and offices We currently have four contracted e-scrap recyclers. global materials markets and used as raw materials to GRI Index worldwide. The eBins are green plastic rolling bins Each recycler has several company-owned facilities make new products. where materials are collected in the labs for recycling. and several subcontracted recyclers to provide global UNSDG Index Smaller labs may have only one eBin; large labs may recycling coverage. Cisco’s contracted recyclers are Additional information regarding our trade-in and have more than a dozen. Each eBin has an owner, and certified to one or more e-scrap-specific recycling recycling programs is available on our product when the eBin is full, the owner visits our recycling standards, such as R2, R2 Rios, and eStewards. recycling web portal. Environment Our contracts require recyclers to enforce our strict web portal and fills out a pick-up request, which is Roadmap fulfilled by a Cisco authorized recycler. recycling processes with any of their subcontractors Product Packaging EOL doing Cisco work. We approve every prospective Environmental The Cisco Data Center Server Recycling Program We have not adopted a packaging recycling program, recycling company and every recycling location Sustainability serves data centers in 11 countries. When a data as the environmental impact, including transportation before sending any Cisco equipment for processing. center no longer needs a server, it is offered to other and emissions, from shipping packaging back to Cisco Additionally, our recycling process described earlier is Materials Cisco data centers for possible reuse. When one of outweighs the potential benefits when compared with formally documented and is part of the contract with these servers reaches the end of its useful life, it is using local recycling. Instead, we design our packaging each of our recyclers. Energy And recycled, and all parts are shredded. Some products to be separable and recyclable so it can be directed to GHG Emissions are not reused because they have, or have had, Each contracted recycler provides Cisco with monthly local packaging material recycling programs. (See the sensitive data residing in their memory. reports showing all cases opened and processed on Packaging section.) Information on Cisco’s compliance Product End Of Life a lot-by-lot basis. When each lot is processed, the with environmental packaging regulations can be found The Non-Genuine Materials Program handles items And Waste From report includes a mass balance showing the weight as at our WEEE compliance information page. that we occasionally receive in equipment returns Operations received and the weights of each fractional commodity that are non-genuine Cisco products. Non-genuine items also come to Cisco through law enforcement adding up to the gross weight received. Solid Waste from Operations Water Use actions that seize counterfeit Cisco equipment. When We hold quarterly business reviews with each e-scrap (Trash) non-genuine equipment is found, we use a special recycler to review the past quarter’s results and to Biodiversity And GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 306-2, GRI 306-4 witnessed protocol whereby the collected materials go over all action items that were to be worked on Land Use Cisco’s Waste Reduction and Recycling Program uses are properly destroyed. during the quarter and the focus areas for the next quarter. We also conduct random site audits of the the principles of reduce, reuse, and recycle for our Non-GHG Emissions We also hold an annual Recycle IT Day for our operations. The program is a key component of our ISO recycling facilities. employees. Cisco employees and contractors can 14001 certification and global environmental policy. Effluents (Liquid) bring their e-scrap from home and Cisco pays to have the materials recycled properly. Any Cisco office E-Scrap Recycling Process Municipal and regional recycling practices vary. After being weighed, each load of e-scrap is What is easily recycled in one region may not be as Appendix location can host a recycling day event. In April 2017, dismantled and sorted into “commodity fractions.” This easily recycled in another. The ability of our facilities we held our 22nd Recycle IT Day event, with 133 Cisco separates the steel, aluminum, cardboard, plastic, wire/ to recycle operational waste often depends on the sites around the world participating and more than cable, and printed circuit boards. Printed circuit boards recycling facilities in place in that region. All our 180 metric tonne of used electronics collected. Since are then shredded and sorted further before going to facilities take steps to reduce their operational waste Cisco started holding these events, our employees and recycle materials locally. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 122 Governance In FY17, we recycled approximately 70 percent of the recycling services. Our Boxborough campus diverted Figure 38. Solid Waste Reduction Initiatives waste that we generated at our facilities. Through 86 percent of all waste streams in FY17. Society our waste and recycling operations, we have avoided One waste stream we have been able to reduce over the 23,000 metric tonne CO2e that would have been the past year has been paper cups. The paper cups Environment produced had that material been sent to a landfill that are used to contain hot beverages have a thin REDUCE instead of a recycling or composting facility. WASTE GRI Index plastic lining, which makes them difficult to recycle in Table 29 shows our solid waste metrics. Note that many locations. To reduce waste and costs, we are UNSDG Index operational waste recycling performance depends investigating ways to reduce paper cup consumption. on both Cisco performance and the availability of Many sites have decided to remove paper cups entirely REUSE RECYCLE supporting services by local waste hauling and and instead offer reusable cups for employee use. MATERIALS ITEMS Environment disposal vendors. Figure 38 shows examples of Other initiatives have been driven by employees who Roadmap how we reduce waste, increase reuse, and increase have collectively decided to bring in and use reusable recycling rates on our campuses. items instead of paper or plastic. For example, all Environmental Cisco locations in India have stopped using paper Sustainability Figure 39 shows our trash recycling rates for solid cups—every employee was given a ceramic mug and a wastes for our major North America campus locations. water bottle to use. Guest mugs and reusable cups are Materials Our headquarters in San Jose diverted 84 percent Reduce Waste available for customers or visitors from other buildings. of all waste streams in FY17, including a food waste •U  sing online learning and communications technologies to reduce We will continue to evaluate other campus sites to see paper use separation program that diverted approximately 770 Energy And how we can further reduce our waste, especially from • Making product information available online to reduce paper use GHG Emissions metric tonne of food waste from local landfills to be single-use items like paper cups. • Using compost made of landscape waste at our San Jose campus turned into compost. A breakdown of our waste stream Product End Of Life for the San Jose site in Figure 40 illustrates our key Reuse Materials And Waste From sources of operational waste, the complexity of proper •M  anaging an internal Repo Depot program, which allows us to reuse lab Operations waste stream segregation, and the need for local and testing equipment • Reusing incoming pallets with outgoing shipments wherever possible Water Use • Collecting PC equipment for reuse by our vendor • Donating surplus used office supplies to local schools Table 29. Solid Waste From Operations (Trash) Biodiversity And KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Recycle Items Land Use • Batteries • Mixed paper • Landscape waste Total operational waste • CDs • Packaging materials • Mobile phones 4953 6932 5958 6448 8221 Non-GHG Emissions generated, metric tonne • Beverage containers • Toner cartridges • Food waste • Wood and pallets • Compost • Construction waste Includes major campus • Cardboard • Polyurethane foam Effluents (Liquid) Percent real estate portfolio 55% 56% 57% 65% 73% locations in the United States, covered by waste reporting India, and China. Appendix Total operational waste recycled, 3673 5454 4523 4798 5753 metric tonne Operational waste recycled, 74% 79% 76% 74% 70% percent 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 123 Governance Figure 39. Recycling Rates for Solid Waste from Major North America Operations Figure 40. Breakdown of Solid Waste Streams (Trash) at San Jose, California, 100% Headquarters Campus Society 90% Recycled Environment San Jose Construction 80% Surplus Waste GRI Index Boxborough Donation 4.56% 70% 21.38% Kitchen Oil UNSDG Index 60% RTP 0.12% Lawrenceville Total Trash 50% 14.70% Environment 40% Roadmap Compost 30% Landscape 16.59% Environmental Waste Sustainability 20% 22.52% 10% Wood Materials 3.26% Special Projects 0% 0.75% Cardboard 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Confidential Paper 6.55% Energy And 6.88% Mixed GHG Emissions Media 0.01% Paper Mixed Recycling Foam 1.00% 0.76% Product End Of Life And Waste From Operations Water Use 0.73% Cans & Bottles 0.20% GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2, GRI 303-3 Water-Energy Nexus Water Use Water scarcity affects more than one billion people Our environmental sustainability materiality savings we are achieving through our energy and GHG around the world. Even though technology companies assessment determined that operational water use reduction efforts are having a big impact on reducing Biodiversity And like Cisco do not directly use significant amounts of (office building potable water, sanitation, landscaping, water usage. We estimate that our FY17 energy Land Use water, we understand the importance of reducing water and cooling towers) is not a significant impact area reduction projects (Table 21), which avoided 40.1 GWh consumption as much as we can in our operations and for our business. However, because the production of energy usage, also avoided 2.9 million cubic meters Non-GHG Emissions in our supply chain to help protect this limited resource of electrical power is one of the largest users of fresh (m3) of water usage in FY17. Since FY13, we estimate for future generations. Key objectives of Cisco’s water water, the greatest opportunity for Cisco to reduce our that our energy reduction projects have avoided the Effluents (Liquid) management program for all sites are to: impact on water resources globally is by continuing use of over 15.7 million m3 of water. To put this into •• Identify and implement site-level water conservation to make our products and operations more energy perspective, the avoided water usage we achieved Appendix opportunities for our operations, focusing on waterfrom our energy projects in FY17 alone exceeded efficient. scarce and water-stressed locations. Cisco’s total FY17 water usage at its operations. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates in their latest •• Work with local governments, water utilities, owners 2010 water report that 19 gallons of water are used of our leased buildings, and other partners to on average to produce one kilowatt hour of electricity incorporate best practices into our operations in the United States. Considering this, the energy 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 124 Governance Table 30. Water Use sink aerators, low-flow showerheads, and pre-rinse spray valves for kitchen sinks. KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Society •• Replacing water fountains and turf with native planter Includes potable water Total water use, m3, thousands 1969 2020 2138 2115 2284 beds that require little water, and installing drip Environment and recycled irrigation.* irrigation lines to improve irrigation efficiency. GRI Index Real estate portfolio covered by 68% 72% 73% 74% 77% •• Using a water harvesting system at our Bangalore, water reporting India, campus to capture rainwater for filtering and use. UNSDG Index *See Cisco’s current and previous CDP water responses. We will continue to monitor our water-stressed and water-scarce locations, including our San Jose Environment Roadmap Water Usage facilities are located in regions where water rights and usage are a concern, including our headquarters in San campus, to determine if there are additional water conservation opportunities and strategies that could be We have been collecting and tracking water usage Jose, California. implemented in FY18. Environmental data for our major campus locations since FY07 We use the World Business Council for Sustainable Sustainability (Table 30). In FY17, we were able to collect water data Development (WBCSD) water tool to identify areas for 77 percent of our real estate portfolio. We have with water scarcity or water stress issues. Through Materials made great improvements in our ability to track water the tool we identified that one of our sites is located consumption, but this continues to be a challenge in a water-scarce country and two sites are in waterEnergy And given the size and geographic dispersion of our stressed countries. We will continue to monitor these GHG Emissions operations and the fact that many of our locations sites for changes in water availability and will develop are shared buildings without water sub-meters. We specialized water management strategies accordingly. Product End Of Life continue to investigate all possible causes of our yearAnd Waste From on-year increase in water use. Operations Cisco primarily uses water to operate our lab and Water Conservation data center cooling systems, for landscaping and We have implemented numerous water conservation Water Use projects over the past few years that are still irrigation, and in our restrooms, breakrooms, cafeterias, and kitchens. We reduce our water consumption in conserving water today and will continue to do so for Biodiversity And many years to come: these areas as much as possible and use reclaimed Land Use water instead of potable water in applications such as •• Using irrigation controllers throughout the San Jose landscaping and in cooling towers. main campus. Non-GHG Emissions In FY17, Cisco used 41 m3 of water per employee, •• Using recycled water for irrigation. Effluents (Liquid) which is less water consumption per employee than •• Installing variable-frequency drives in our cooling the average person uses each year in the United towers. Appendix States.14 However, water consumption is still an important area of focus for Cisco because some of our •• Installing two-way valves for toilets, waterless urinals, 14 The average person in the U.S. uses 80–100 gal/day, or 0.302833–0.378541 m3/day. Source: http://water.usgs.gov/edu/qa-home-percapital.html. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 125 Governance These efforts include: Society Biodiversity and Land Use •• Establishing two conservation areas of 49 and 60 acres. Environment GRI 103-2, 103-3, GRI 304-1, GRI 304-2, GRI 304-3, GRI 304-4 •• Constructing three turtle tunnels under the highway to Biodiversity is the variability among living organisms for all land and property we own. Table 31 shows provide a safe passage for migration. GRI Index and the ecological complexes they are a part of. All the percentage of our portfolio with biodiversity •• Installing turtle curbing around the site to prevent organizations impact biodiversity directly through their assessments in place. For example, some of the UNSDG Index migrating turtles from entering the roadway and own activities or indirectly through their supply chain. buildings we own in San Jose, California, are located parking areas. Cisco’s primary impact on biodiversity is the land near a protected area for the American Cliff Swallow, we use for our facilities. We mitigate this impact by which is a bird species on the Least Concern category •• Enhancing 16 acres of turtle nesting habitat within the Environment conservation area. Roadmap reducing the demand for physical office space through of the International Union for Conservation of Nature employee telework programs and other support (IUCN) Red List. To protect their habitat during nesting •• Funding a 2-year construction phase turtle monitoring Environmental solutions such as Cisco Connected Workplace, season, we close our balconies on those buildings; plan and a 2-year Blanding’s Turtle conservation Sustainability Cisco Virtual Office, Cisco OfficeExtend, and Cisco we then remove the mud nesting locations on our research project. AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client. buildings after nesting season is over. •• Restricting future development on approximately 50 Materials For more information see Space Policy and Cisco We have also undertaken efforts to protect the habitat acres of our land. Connected Workplace, and Flexible Work Practices. of Blanding’s Turtle (IUCN Endangered Species) and Energy And the Eastern Box Turtle (IUCN Vulnerable Species) GHG Emissions We use environmental impact assessments to evaluate on 60 acres of the land we own in Boxborough, the biodiversity and land-use impacts of our sites Massachusetts. and generate annual biodiversity summary reports Product End Of Life And Waste From Operations Table 31. Biodiversity and Land Use Water Use KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Comments Biodiversity And Percent of real estate portfolio Includes IUCN Red List and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 61% 60% 61% 59% 58% Land Use with biodiversity assessment by operations. See Cisco’s current and previous CDP Water and Climate responses. Total real estate footprint square Reducing our square footage minimizes our physical impact. Non-GHG Emissions 23.3 23.0 22.1 22.2 20.8 footage, millions Percentage Cisco Connected Converting our workspaces to Cisco Connected Workplaces allows us to use our space more Effluents (Liquid) 29.6% 31.0% 36.9% 45.8% 63.6% Workplace effectively and further reduce our real estate footprint. Appendix 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 126 Governance Society Non-GHG Emissions GRI 103-2, GRI 103-3, GRI 305-6, GRI 305-7 Environment Because most of our production is outsourced to We comply with California Air Resources Board GRI Index supply chain partners, our global operations primarily requests and do not use mechanical equipment, such consist of standard office activities and research labs. as gasoline-powered lawn mowers, after 11 a.m. on UNSDG Index This limits our non-GHG emissions to volatile organic designated Spare the Air days, when air quality is poor compounds (VOCs) from cleaning products, nitrous in the San Francisco Bay Area. oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) from onsite In accordance with the 1987 Montreal Protocol on Environment fuel combustion (from vehicle engines, boilers, or Roadmap Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, we also emergency generators), and the subsequent formation have worked with our supply chain partners to phase of ozone from the photochemical reaction of NOx. Environmental out the use of ozone-depleting substances (ODSs). Table 32 summarizes our relevant non-GHG-related Sustainability airborne emissions: VOCs, NOx, SOx, and particulate matter. Materials Energy And GHG Emissions Table 32. Non-GHG Emissions KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Product End Of Life Volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions* Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible And Waste From Operations NOx, metric tonne 341 270 212 207 138 SOx, metric tonne 1.00 0.88 0.72 0.72 0.65 Water Use Particulate matter Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Negligible Biodiversity And *Quantities of VOC-based chemicals deployed are minimal and are not required to be monitored. Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Appendix 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 127 Governance Society Effluents (Liquid) GRI 306-1, GRI 306-3 Environment We seek to locate our operations in areas where we and other environmental health and safety issues GRI Index can successfully serve our customers while limiting our very seriously. Cisco has had no significant releases negative environmental impacts. Effluent spills, such to an environmental receptor over the reporting year. UNSDG Index as chemical, oil, and fuel spills, can have significant Table 33 tracks liquid spills and discharges from Cisco negative impacts on the surrounding environment, facilities. potentially affecting soil, water, air, biodiversity, and Environment human health as well as our business. We take this Roadmap Environmental Table 33. Effluent Spills and Discharges Sustainability KPI FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Materials Spills and discharges None None None None None Energy And GHG Emissions Product End Of Life And Waste From Operations Water Use Biodiversity And Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Appendix 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 128 Governance Society Appendix I Environment GRI Index References UNSDG Index 1. CDP 2017 Investor Survey (with Supplier Module questions). The questions requiring a response to meet Cisco¹s scorecard requirements are highlighted in yellow. https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment.do? code=06mN9A8MAR04wHvrGIoj8n2EY3nvco61OlISRi631h4z2IxQQjMM2UGUzLhi9ogA 2. Using CDP's Online Response System (ORS) Environment https://b8f65cb373b1b7b15feb-c70d8ead6ced550b4d987d7c03fcdd1d.ssl.cf3.rackcdn.com/cms/ Roadmap guidance_docs/pdfs/000/000/329/original/Using-the-ORS-guidance.pdf?1479379865 3. CDP climate change reporting guidance https://www.cdp.net/en/guidance/guidance-for-companies Environmental 4. CDP Verification Guidance Sustainability https://www.cdp.net/verification Materials Best Regards, John Kern SVP, Supply Chain Operations Energy And ---------GHG Emissions [ORIGINAL SOURCE: https://www-1.compliance2product.com/c2p/getAttachment.do? code=Ia1bDGGNN8rgnwJyviL0Ut1iw8zYvzkiaVsM3qndUVVt8YnUOtxVyK6hCfTihIcV ] Product End Of Life And Waste From Operations Water Use Biodiversity And Land Use Non-GHG Emissions Effluents (Liquid) Appendix 2017 CSR Report WITH DIGITAL AND CAREER SKILLS SINCE csr.cisco.com | 154 feedback 129 1997 Governance Society Appendix II Environment GRI Index Cisco environment roadmap UNSDG Index C ARBON C YCLE RESOURCE C YCLE BIO C YCLE Environment Roadmap ENERGY / CIRCULAR CONNECTED GHG ECONOMY CONSERVATION Environmental Sustainability E X TENDED GO TO OPE R ATIONS OPE R ATIONS PRODUCT MA RKE T SOCIA L TECH/ Materials (SUPPLY CHAIN) RE TU RN MODE LS PROTECT PRODUCT Energy And DESIG N GHG Emissions LEG AL W WF E N FO RCE M E NT PRODUCTS SOLUTIONS (TR ADE) Product End Of Life IOT INTE RNE T And Waste From OF THINGS Operations LAND ECON US E DE V E LOPM E NT Water Use Biodiversity And Land Use Non-GHG Emissions EMPLOYEE CSR BUSINESS Effluents (Liquid) ENGAGEMENT PROCESS Appendix ACTION + CS R CS R STAKE HOLDE R REC RU ITING AWA RENESS INITIATIVES MATE RIALIT Y RE PO RTING E NGAG E M E NT 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 130 GRI Content Index Governance Society Environment This table covers the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Standards and Disclosures found in GRI Index Cisco’s 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, 2017 Annual Report, and company websites. UNSDG Index GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Cisco Systems, Inc. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Cisco Products and Services Code of Business Conduct Marketing communications are regulated by national and international law and are also subject to voluntary codes. Cisco’s marketing communications are also governed by our Code of Business Conduct and by additional guidelines and best practices. 102-3 Location of headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Corporate Headquarters 170 West Tasman Drive San Jose, CA 95134 USA 102-4 Location of operations Cisco Corporate Overview 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2017 Annual Report 102-6 Markets served Cisco Corporate Overview, 2017 Annual Report 102-7 Scale of the organization Cisco Corporate Overview, 2017 Annual Report 102-8 Information on employees and Society/Inclusion and Collaboration other workers 102-9 Supply chain Governance/Extending our Values to the Supply Chain 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2017 Annual Report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Cisco’s CDP 2017 Submission, Governance/ Risk Management, Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy, Environment/Energy and GHG Emissions 102-12 External initiatives Our Story/ Message from Chuck Robbins Governance/CSR Stakeholder Engagement and Global Forums Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 131 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 102-13 Membership of associations Governance/CSR Stakeholder Engagement and Global Forums Governance/Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Environment Environment/ Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy Efficiency) Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing GRI Index Strategy UNSDG Index 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our Story/Message from Chuck Robbins 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Governance/CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ Strategy and Priorities Environment/ Environment Roadmap Environment/ Environmental Sustainability Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our Story/ Message from Chuck Robbins Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance/ Sharing Concerns Governance 102-18 Governance structure Governance/ Corporate Governance Governance/ CSR Governance Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-19 Delegating authority Governance/ CSR Governance Governance/ Risk Management, Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social Governance/ CSR Governance, topics Governance/ Risk Management, Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social Governance/CSR Stakeholder Engagment and Global Forums, Governance/ Risk topics Management, Governance/ CSR Governance, Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 132 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, Governance/ CSR Governance and strategy Environment 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Investor relations: Corporate Governance GRI Index 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance Investor relations: Corporate Governance UNSDG Index 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Governance/ CSR Governance, Governance/ Risk Management Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ CSR Stakeholder Engagement and Global Forums 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Governance/Risk Management 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Governance/ Risk Management Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Governance/ Risk Management Governance/CSR Governance Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Governance/ Sharing Concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns Governance/ Sharing Concerns 102-35 Remuneration policies Cisco’s 2017 Proxy Statement Investor Relations: Corporate Governance 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Cisco’s 2017 Proxy Statement Investor Relations: Compensation and Management Development Committee 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Investor Relations: Compensation and Management Development Committee 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio This information is not publicly disclosed 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio This information is not publicly disclosed Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Governance/CSR Stakeholder Engagement and Global Forums; Also as noted throughout the report linked to specific issues 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Cisco employees are global and each country carries with it local employment laws and norms. Due to data privacy legislation in many countries, we do not have an exact percentage of employees who are represented by trade unions. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 133 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Governance/ CSR Governance Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment, Environment Governance/ CSR Stakeholder Engagement and Global Forums GRI Index 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Governance/CSR Governance Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment, UNSDG Index Governance/CSR Stakeholder Engagement and Global Forums 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Cisco Corporate Overview 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Introduction/ Defining Report Content Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment, Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society, Environment/CSR Materiality Assessment: Environment 102-47 List of material topics Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society, Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment 102-48 Restatements of information No major changes: any adjustments are explained within the report 102-49 Changes in reporting No major changes: any adjustments are explained within the report 102-50 Reporting period The Details: Introduction 102-51 Date of most recent report Cisco Fiscal Year 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report csr_report@cisco.com 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. We do however report on a number of additional disclosures related to CSR strategy and analysis, governance practices, and our priority material topics. 102-55 GRI content index This GRI Index table 102-56 External assurance The Details: Introduction/Assurance 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 134 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society Economic Topic: Economic Performance Environment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Message from Chuck Robbins GRI Index 2017 Annual Report/Letter to Shareholders 103-2 The management approach and its components 2017 Annual Report UNSDG Index 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2017 Annual Report 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 2017 Annual Report 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate Cisco’s CDP 2017 Submission change Cisco’s Corporate Environmental Policy 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 2017 Annual Report 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Cisco does not receive financial government support Topic: Market Presence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2017 Annual Report 103-2 The management approach and its components 2017 Annual Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2017 Annual Report 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Society/ Rewarding our People minimum wage We provide levels of compensation that are generally above local minimum wage requirements 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Society/ Accelerating Diversity Cisco recruits staff from markets local to our operations and has structured leadership development programs around the world to build strong local leadership teams Topic: Indirect Economic Impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Society/ Strategic Social Investments 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Society/Strategic Social Investments Society/ Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Topic: Procurement Practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/Extending our Values to the Supply Chain 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 135 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Culture of Integrity Environment 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Governance/ Culture of Integrity GRI Index Global Anti-Corruption Overview 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings UNSDG Index procedures Global Anti-Corruption Overview 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Governance/Sharing Concerns Global Anti-Corruption Overview Topic: Anti-Competitive Behavior 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 2017 Annual Report 103-2 The management approach and its components 2017 Annual Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 2017 Annual Report 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 2017 Annual Report practices Environmental Topic: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/ Materials 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment/ Materials 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment/ Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment/ Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used Environment/Recycled Content 301-3 Reclaimed products and their Environment/ Product End of Life and packaging materials Waste from Operations Topic: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/ Energy and GHG Emissions 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment/ Energy and GHG Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment/ Energy and GHG Emissions 302-1 Energy consumption within Environment/ Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions the organization 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 136 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Environment/ Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 302-3 Energy intensity Environment/ Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Environment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment/ Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy GRI Index 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment/ Scope 3 Product Use Phase (Product Energy Efficiency) Environment/ Enabling Effect UNSDG Index Topic: Water 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/Water Use 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment/ Water Use 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment/ Water Use 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environment/Water use 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment/Water use 303-3 Water recycled and reused Environment/Water use Topic: Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/ Biodiversity and Land Use 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment/ Biodiversity and Land Use 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment/ Biodiversity and Land Use 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats Environment/Biodiversity and Land Use in areas affected by operations Topic: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/ Energy and GHG Emissions 103-2 The management approach and Environment/ Energy and GHG Emissions its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment/ Energy and GHG Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment/ Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 137 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment/ Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment/Scope 3 Environment 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment/Energy and Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions GRI Index 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment/ Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy Environment/ Scope 3 GHG Emissions Reduction Strategy UNSDG Index Environment/ Enabling Effect 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environment/Non-GHG Emissions 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air Environment/Non-GHG Emissions emissions Topic: Effluents and Waste 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/ Product End of Life and Waste from Operations 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment/ Product End of Life and Waste from Operations Environment/Water Use 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment / Product End of Life and Waste from Operations Environment/Water Use 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Environment/ Effluents (Liquid) 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environment/ Product End of Life and Waste from Operations 306-3 Significant spills Environment/ Effluents (Liquid) 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Environment/ Product End of Life and Waste from Operations 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Environment/ Biodiversity and Land Use Topic: Environmental Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environmental Sustainability 103-2 The management approach and its components Environment/ Environmental Sustainability Environment/ Environmental Management System 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environment/ Environmental Sustainability Environment/ Environmental Management System 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environment/ Regulatory Fines Topic: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 138 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Environment Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Environment/ Promoting Transparency in the Supply Chain GRI Index 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment UNSDG Index Environment/ Environment Materiality Assessment Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Environment/ Promoting Transparency in the Supply Chain 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Environment/ Promoting Transparency in the Supply Chain 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Environment/ Promoting Transparency in the Supply Chain 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Environment/ Supplier Audit Findings Social Topic: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ Code of Business Conduct, Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Our People Deal Society/ Rewarding our People 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Governance/ Code of Business Conduct, Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain Society/ Our People Deal Society/ Rewarding our People Society/ Employee Health and Wellness 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 139 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Governance/ Code of Business Conduct, Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Environment Supply Chain Society/ Our People Deal GRI Index Society/ Rewarding our People Society/ Employee Health and Wellness UNSDG Index 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover This aspect is tracked and managed locally. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 2017 Annual Report temporary or part-time employees Society/ Rewarding Our People Society/ Employee Health and Wellness 401-3 Parental leave Society/ Employee Health and Wellness We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Topic: Labor/Management Relations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ Code of Business Conduct, Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain Cisco’s global Code of Business Conduct describes how to raise concerns. Employee concerns are tracked at both regional and corporate levels. 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ Code of Business Conduct Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain Society/ Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Code of Business Conduct Governance/ Ethics and Standards in the Supply Chain Society/ Human Rights 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Cisco complies with applicable local laws and regulations, as well as agreements with employee groups or representatives, regarding operational changes. Topic: Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/A Safe and Healthy Workplace 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/A Safe and Healthy Workplace 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 140 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Environment Society/A Safe and Healthy Workplace 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker health and This aspect is tracked and managed locally GRI Index safety committees We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments UNSDG Index 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Society/ Occupational Health and Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their Society/ Occupational Health and Safety occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions This aspect is tracked and managed locally We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Topic: Training and Education 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance /CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Developing Our People 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Developing Our People 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Developing Our People 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Society/ Developing Our People 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance Society/ Developing Our People programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Society/ Developing Our People development reviews Topic: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society /Inclusion and Collaboration 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 141 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Environment Society/ Inclusion and Collaboration 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment GRI Index Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society UNSDG Index Society/ Inclusion and Collaboration 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Society/ Inclusion and Collaboration 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men This information is not publicly disclosed Topic: Non-Discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Society/ Inclusion and Collaboration 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Society/ Inclusion and Collaboration 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Code of Business Conduct Society/ Inclusion and Collaboration 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken This is confidential information that Cisco does not disclose. Cisco encourages and expects its employees to share concerns and provides numerous methods to do so. Cisco’s global Code of Business Conduct describes how to raise concerns. Employee concerns are tracked at both regional and corporate levels Topic: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 142 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and We meet applicable laws, regulations, and standards where we do business. These issues collective bargaining may be at risk are also covered in our Supplier Code of Conduct and Supply Chain Auditing Environment Topic: Child Labor GRI Index 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings UNSDG Index Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Governance/ Capacity Building Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Governance/ Capacity Building Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor These issues are covered in our Supplier Code of Conduct and supply chain auditing Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing/ Audits Topic: Forced or Compulsory Labor 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Governance/Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operation Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Human Rights 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 143 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings Environment Governance/Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society GRI Index Society/ Human Rights UNSDG Index 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing/ Audits compulsory labor Topic: Security Practices 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ Extending our Values to the Supply Chain Society/ Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ Extending our Values to the Supply Chain Society/ Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Extending our Values to the Supply Chain Society/ Human Rights 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures Cisco site security is provided by third party providers, which are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Product manufacturing is entirely outsourced. Topic: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Society/Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Society/Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Society/Human Rights 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Not material–Cisco’s operations do not uniquely impact indigenous people We will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessments Topic: Human Rights Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/Human Rights Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing/ Human Rights in our Supply Chain 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/Culture of Integrity Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/Human Rights Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing/ Human Rights in our Supply Chain 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 144 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Environment Society/Human Rights Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing/ Human Rights in our Supply Chain GRI Index 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or Society/Human Rights UNSDG Index impact assessments Human Rights training has been rolled out to employees in business functions most likely to have direct engagement with human-rights-related business decisions. All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the RBA (formerly EICC) Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Society/Human Rights 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human All Cisco key suppliers must all acknowledge their commitment to the RBA (formerly EICC) rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Supplier Code of Conduct and must comply with all applicable national, European and international rules relating to ethical and responsible standards of behavior, including those dealing with human rights. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard Topic: Local Communities 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Employee Engagement Society/ Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Society/Strategic Social Investment 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Employee Engagement Society/ Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Society/ Strategic Social Investment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ CSR Priorities Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Employee Engagement Society/ Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Society/Strategic Social Investment 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Society/ Employee Engagement development programs Society/ Building Skills and Entrepreneurship Society/Strategic Social Investment 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 145 Governance GRI General Disclosures Location and Notes Society 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on Due to the nature of Cisco’s operations, this aspect was not assessed as material. We local communities will review the need to report on a company-wide level in future CSR materiality assessEnvironment ments. Topic: Supplier Social Assessment GRI Index 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment UNSDG Index Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/Human Rights 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/Human Rights 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Governance/ Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Society/Human Rights Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing All Cisco key suppliers must acknowledge their commitment to the RBA (formerly EICC) Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are undertaken to assess performance, in addition to related criteria being part of a supplier scorecard. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Governance/Embedding Sustainability in Supply Chain Operations Governance/ Advancing Transparency Governance/ Capacity Building Society/ Supplier Audit Findings Topic: Public Policy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Governance/Public Policy and Political Support 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance/Public Policy and Political Support 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/Public Policy and Political Support 415-1 Political contributions Governance/Public Policy and Political Support 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 146 Governance GRI GENER AL DISCLOSURES LOCATION AND NOTES Society Topic: Customer Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Governance/ Extending our Values to the Supply Chain Environment its Boundary Society/ Digital Rights: Product Use Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing GRI Index 103-2 The management approach and UNSDG Index its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Governance/ Extending our Values to the Supply Chain impacts of product and service categories Environment/ Life-Cycle Assessments Environment/ Hazardous Materials 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Society/ Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing the health and safety impacts of products Society/ Digital Rights: Product Use and services Topic: Marketing and Labeling 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Environment/ Environmental Sustainability its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 417-1 Requirements for product and service We meet all applicable laws, regulations, and standards related to product labelling information and labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Cisco has received no fines, penalties, or grievances greater than US$10,000 reporting threshold in product and service information the past five years. and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 2017 Annual Report Legal Proceeding Disclosures marketing communications Topic: Customer Privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment its Boundary Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Data Security and Privacy Society/ Digital Rights 103-2 The management approach and Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment its components Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Data Security and Privacy Society/ Digital Rights 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 147 Governance GRI GENER AL DISCLOSURES LOCATION AND NOTES Topic: Customer Health and Safety Society 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance/ CSR Materiality Assessment Environment Society/ CSR Materiality Assessment: Society Society/ Data Security and Privacy GRI Index Society/ Digital Rights UNSDG Index 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Society/ Data Security and Privacy breaches of customer privacy and losses of 2017 Annual Report Legal Proceeding Disclosures customer data Topic: Socioeconomic Compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Governance/ Code of Business Conduct and Trainings its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and 2017 Annual Report its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 2017 Annual Report Legal Proceeding Disclosures in the social and economic area 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 148 UNSDG Index Governance Society Environment Cisco supports many of the UN Sustainable Development Goals through our CSR programs, GRI Index and through Grantees and Partners*. UNSDG Index Cisco Alignment Cisco Grantees & Partners Cisco Programs No Poverty 1.1, 1.2 Anudip (also SDG 5, 8), CARE (also SDG 5, 8, 9, DDD (also SDG 5, 8), TacOps Laboratoria (also SDG 5, 8), Living Goods (also SDG 3, 5, 8), Kiva (also SDG 5, 8, 9), Opportunity International (also SDG 5, 8, 9), Innovations for Poverty Action, InSTEDD (also SDG 9), Kobo Toolbox, Mercy Corps (also SDG 2, 9), NetHope (also SDGs 9, 17), American Red Cross (also SDG 13), Ushahidi Zero Hunger 2.1, 2.2, 2. 4 Feeding America, World Food Programme, Mercy Corps (also SDG 1) Good Health and 3.1, 3.2, 3.4, 3.7 Living Goods (also SDG 5, 8) Well-Being Quality Education 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, Citizen Schools, FIRST, KQED, MIND Research Institute, Gooru Learning, Networking Academy (also SDG 8) 4.5, 4.6, 4.7c GenerationYES, Museum of Science, New Teacher Center, Reynolds Center, Science Buddies, Teaching Channel, Teach for All, War Child Gender Equality 5.6, 5a, 5b Anudip, (also SDG 1, 8), CARE (also SDG 1, 8, 9) Digital Divide Data (also SDG 1, 8), Networking Academy (also SDG 4 Good World Solutions (also SDG 8), Laboratoria (also SDG 1, 8) Living Goods and 8), Girls Power Tech, DARE, JUMP (also SDG 1, 3, 8), Kiva (also SDG 1, 8, 9), Opportunity International (also SDG 1, 8, 9), Million Women Mentors Clean Water and 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, AKVO Foundation, CAWST, Safe Water Network, Water for People Waste water treatment requirements Sanitation 6.4, 6b for extended operations/supply chain. Internet of Things (IoT)/LoRa technologies for water monitoring. Affordable and 7.2, 7.3 Goal for renewable energy powering Clean Energy operations. Product energy efficiency/productivity. 2017 CSR Report csr.cisco.com | feedback 149 Governance Cisco Alignment Cisco Grantees & Partners Cisco Programs Society Good Jobs and 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, Anudip (also SDG 1, 5), CARE (also SDG 1, 5, 9), Digital Divide Data (DDD, also SDG Networking Academy, Veterans Economic Growth 8.6, 8.7, 8.8, 1, 5), Good World Solutions (also SDG 5), TaroWorks, Laboratoria (also SDG 1, 5), program, Supplier Code of Conduct Environment 8.10 Living Goods (also SDG 1, 3, 5), Kiva (also SDG 1, 5, 9), Grameen Foundation (also SDG 1, 9), MIX (also SDG 9), NESsT, Opportunity International (also SDG 1, 5, 9) GRI Index l, Women’s World Banking (Also SDG 1, 5, 9), Harambe Entrepreneurial Alliance, Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) UNSDG Index Industry, 9.4 IoT and analytics, networking Innovation, and infrastructure platforms, Infrastructure The Network Intuitive Sustainable Cities 11.1 Community Solutions, Community Technology Alliance, Habitat for Humanity, Smart + Connected Communities and Communities Housing Trust of Silicon Valley, Lu’ma Native Housing Society Responsible 12.2, 12.4, 12.5, Circular Economy: product return, goConsumption and 12.6.1, 12.7 to-market models, IoT, product design, Production corporate social responsibility reporting Climate Action 13.1 Cisco disaster response Life Below Water 14.1 Used product recycling/100% product return; operations and supply chain waste management Life on Land 15.5, 15.7 Connected Conservation Partnerships for 17.7, 17.17 World Economic Forum (WEF), Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), Committee the Goals Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP), Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), The Conference Board’s Sustainability Council II * Note: “Cisco Programs” refers to Cisco-run programs. “Cisco Grantees” refers to nonprofit/non-government organizations that have received cash and/or product grants from Cisco and/or the Cisco Foundation (cash only), as well as advisory/consulting support. “Cisco Partners” refers to other organizations that we engage with through membership/sponsorship to address SDG related issues. Americas Headquarters Asia Pacific Headquarters Europe Headquarters Cisco Systems, Inc. Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd. Cisco Systems International BV Amsterdam, San Jose, CA Singapore The Netherlands Cisco has more than 200 offices worldwide. Addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers are listed on the Cisco website at www.cisco.com/go/offices. Cisco and the Cisco logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Cisco and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and other countries. To view a list of Cisco trademarks, go to this URL: www.cisco.com/go/trademarks. Third party trademarks mentioned are the property of their respective owners. The use of the word partner does not imply a partnership relationship between Cisco and any other company. (111OR) © 2017 Cisco and/or its affliates. All rights reserved. This document is a Cisco Public Information. Version 1.0, December 2017
