Annual & sustainability report 600 400 500 3 200 År 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 År 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Mkr 1202 1671 1975 2301 2933 Contents Mkr 1 671 1 975 2 301 2 933 3 578 The year 900 Rörelseresultat / EBIT 3 The year in brief 800 4 Axis at a glance 700 400 Operating profit/EBIT 600 350 6 President’s comment 1,000 500 300 8 Axis’ operations and financial goals in brief 400 250 800 10 Successful strategy 300 200 200 12 A changing market 600 100 150 14 Business model for global success 100 16 Axis worldwide År 11 12 13 14 15 400 Mkr 633 575 640 715 881 50 18 Innovation and development 200 20 New business meets more customer needs År 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Q1 > Sales amounted Mkrto SEK 2231,567 341 368 M, 308 415 to growth of 16 percent. corresponding 22 A strong, flexible and sustainable chain > Operating profit totaled SEK 153 M, corresponding to an operating margin of 9.8 percent Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 24 The share > Profit after tax amounted to SEK 114 M. Mkr 575 640 715 881 885 > Acquisition of the French company Citilog, which is specialized in intelligent transport 26 Sustainability report 2016 solutions. 28 Sustainability strategy and governance > Launch of the Axis SITE Designer Tool application, offering an effective method for Key ratios design of total surveillance solutions for small and medium-sized installations. 30 Stakeholder dialogue > Release of AXIS Camera Station 5 – a professional video management system with a Group, SEK 2016 2015 (unless otherwise stated) free mobile viewing app for iOS and Android. 32 Materiality analysis Net sales 7,386 6,635 34 Responsibility along the entire value chain Operating profit 885 881 36 Case Q2 > > Sales amounted to SEK 1,763 M, corresponding to growth of 9 percent. Operating profit totaled SEK 167 M, corresponding to an operating margin of 9.5 percent Profit before tax Profit after tax 884 639 881 652 38 Long-term environmental responsibility > Profit after tax amounted to SEK 123 M. > Acquisition of 2N, which is ranked as a leading company in IP intercom, and Earnings per share, SEK 9.20 9.39 46 Long-term responsibility in the supply chain Cognimatics, whose products are successful in the retail segment. Cash and cash equivalents at 858 1,016 > Release of advancement of the proprietary Zipstream technology and Axis Companion the end of the period 50 Conflict minerals Line, which targets smaller businesses. Dividend paid, SEK 0.64 0.31 52 Social responsibility > Agreement signed with the Norwegian building company HENT for construction of Axis’ 56 Axis in figures new headquarters in Lund, which is planned to be ready by spring 2019. Sales per region, SEK M 57 Case 58 Business ethics in the entire value chain Q3 > > Sales amounted to SEK 1,997 M, corresponding to growth of 5 percent. Operating profit totaled SEK 312 M, corresponding to an operating margin of 15.6 percent. Region Americas 2016 3,856 2015 3,490 60 Zero tolerance against corruption > Profit after tax amounted to SEK 233 M. EMEA 2,646 2,366 > Agreement that Axis will take over sales, marketing and service in North America and 62 Protection of customer privacy and Asia 884 779 EMEA for Canon’s combined portfolio of network video products. personal integrity 507 > Release of two models of network speakers – AXIS C1004-E Network Cabinet Speaker 63 Customer satisfaction and AXIS C2005 Network Ceiling Speaker, primarily targeted towards retail. > Unveiling of laser focus technology for PTZ cameras (Pan-Tilt-Zoom), improving image 64 Axis in society charity and sponsorships quality regardless of lighting conditions through laser technology. 66 About the sustainability report Q4 66 GRI index and Global Compact index > Sales amounted to SEK 2,059 M, corresponding to growth of 17 percent. > Operating profit totaled SEK 253 M, corresponding to an operating margin of 12.3 percent. new employees 69 Administration report > Profit after tax amounted to SEK 169 M. 2,646 73 Financial reporting > Release of updates to two of Axis’ most important network camera series AXIS Q35 80 Notes and AXIS P32. > New employee survey showed continued high ratings for Axis as a workplace. 104 Corporate governance report 111 Board of directors and auditors 112 Management team new employees in total 4 Annual report 5 #1 Invoiced sales per region 2016 Market leader 12 % Asia in network video and Americas 52% video encoders in Americas and EMEA EMEA 36% over 50 2,646 Axis employees countries in the Axis group with Axis employees at a Sales 2016 179 glance 8000 7000 6000 countries 5000 in Axis partner 4000 network 3000 2000 +11 % 1000 Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter 0 and safer world. As the market leader in network video, Axis 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 is driving the development in the industry by continually 7,386 introducing innovative network products based on open platforms, which deliver value to customers and are distributed through a global partner network. Sales growth 2016 SEK Million More than 90,000 partners Follow Axis on: www.axis.com 6 Annual report 7 A year dominated by “We are working hard to combine more products counting customers and queue measurement and and software to create good development and growth analysis, which add value to our network video overall solutions.” cameras solutions. We are continuing to look for acquisitions to broaden our overall offering and that make us relevant for customers in a rapidly changing The network video market has become tougher in recent years. world. It has matured, price competition has increased and customer Our principal owner Canon also provides us with expectations have changed. Against this backdrop, I can happily opportunities to broaden our offering, through and proudly state that in 2006, we delivered in a way that meets Axis taking over sales of Canon’s network video the changing market and further strengthens Axis’ position. products in EMEA and North America, and also through innovative collaboration. One example is our network camera featuring Canon optics and 20MP resolution. It may be used for surveillance of, for instance, stadiums, where the camera can We have continued to pursue our strategy that name Axis Companion Line. The reception was zoom in on objects from a very long distance. was formulated in connection with broadening very positive and the project is an example of our vision. Our current strategy is about what we can achieve when different departments Continued sustainability focus meeting customers’ security needs through and competencies at Axis work creatively Sustainability is an important and integrated part overall solutions in a world where devices are together. For medium-sized customers, we of Axis’ operations and has great importance for increasingly connected. We should have a broad released Site Designer software, which helps our successful development. We want to act as a range of relevant products and together with our partners and customers to design a security model in sustainability questions, and as market partners supply product packages and services solution based on each customer’s individual leader, we have good opportunities to influence relating to security solutions that contain requirements. As regards large customers, we are our external environment. We take long-term more than just network video. After almost 20 continuing our close collaboration with partners economic, social and environmental responsibility years’ working with the Internet of Things, Axis in order to meet customer needs. We are working for how our operations impact our stakeholders is not just prepared to take a leading role in hard to combine more products and software to and we act in an ethical, responsible and Customers and partners are increasingly for smaller installations. In growth countries, the Ray Mauritsson developments, we can also look forward to a create good overall solutions. transparent way in our business relationships. requesting more environmentally friendly market is still primarily concentrated on large President and CEO market that is many times bigger than the one we products, and they are imposing demands that installations. Acquisitions are contributing positively to Our sustainability work and our sustainability have been active on to date. we act sustainably in all respects. Axis is welldevelopments strategy are based on the UN Global Compact’s We can look back on a 2016, that once again positioned to meet these demands. Our path towards a solution-oriented business Axis’ growth strategy is primarily to grow ten principles in the areas of environment, labor, delivered record earnings. The Swedish krona model means that Axis has to take greater and organically, but during the year we made our human rights and anti-corruption. We signed the Our challenges include maintaining our strong weakened slightly during the year but in local broader service responsibility in relation to first major strategic acquisitions and welcomed UN Global Compact in 2007 and since then its corporate culture while we expand, and currencies we can confirm a higher growth rate partners and end customers. Meanwhile, it is three new companies to the Axis family. The principles have provided guidance for how we continuing to advance the business ethics work in than the previous year. critical for us to remain at the cutting edge with acquisitions show that we are serious in our conduct our sustainability work. the entire value chain. In 2017, we are well-equipped to meet increasing high-tech, innovative and competitive products. ambition of broadening our overall offering. Some of the measures carried out during the year We are continuing to further integrate customer demands, to develop existing and This combination is crucial for our strategy. Early in the year, we made the acquisition of the to reduce environment impacts include phasing sustainability considerations into our business new products into even more sophisticated and Several new releases during the year French company Citilog, which has specialist out PVC from new camera models, drawing and in our day-to-day work, in order to reach smart parts of our overall solution. With the On the product side, during the year we expertise in intelligent video monitoring of traffic up a new environmental policy and stricter our goal of reducing the products’ environmental competencies, innovation and dedication that delivered e.g. improved “Zipstream” technology, and transport. The acquisition does not just requirements on suppliers to even more clearly impact, to have an attractive and safe workplace exists at Axis and among our partners, I have enabling greater data transfer without increased strengthen our offering in the transportation show traceability of minerals, to ensure they only defined by equality and diversity and to have an high expectations of our strategy. bandwidth and storage requirements. We also segment, it also gives us opportunities to provide use conflict-free minerals. ethical approach in our business relationships. In I am delighted to see how the Axis family is introduced a laser focus function that enhances overall solutions in the growing traffic analytics this way, we are creating sustainable solutions for In the social area, our qualified employees and growing. At year-end, we had 500 more people our cameras in poor lighting conditions and market. a smarter and safer world. our strong corporate culture have been very than at the start of the year and the number of developed network-connected speakers that During the second quarter, we acquired the important for Axis’ successful growth. We Stable foundation for continued growth employees on December 31, 2016 was 2,646. extend our offering, particularly in the key retail Czech company 2N and the Swedish company aim to advance our positions when it comes Our markets, EMEA, Americas and Asia, showed segment. In conclusion, I would like to thank all Axis’ Cognimatics. 2N is a leader in IP intercom, in to promoting equality and diversity and we a stable performance during the year but with customers and partners for the past year, and Sales to our three customer groups − small, other word, IP door stations and the company also participate in initiatives to boost interest in some variations. Asia is extra challenging due express an extra warm thank you to all the medium-sized and large systems, all developed works with IP audio and communication solutions technology among girls, and in Commitment to intense local competition and strong price employees who pass on our culture in a growing positively. For smaller installations, we released for elevators. Cognimatics develops software Skåne to help integrate new arrivals into the pressure. In the mature markets in Europe and the organization. an end-to-end solution during the year under the for the retail segment, with applications e.g. for labor market. US, we are placing a special focus on products 8 Annual report Axis’ operations and financial goals Vision Innovating for a smarter, safer world. Mission Axis’s financial goals aim to create a good basis Together, we pioneer for safeguarding shareholders’ interests for a long-term increase in value. The financial goals for growth and profitability enable continual intelligent network investments in line with the company’s strategies. Axis enables a smarter and safer world by Axis’ market-leading position creates a good basis developing intelligent network solutions. Axis’ for achieving growth, profitability and financial technology creating business concept is to drive developments in the stability. industry by acting as a pioneer and market leader in network video. Through continual innovation, unique possibilities for Axis can offer customers all the benefits of complete intelligent network video solutions via a Profit margin of at least 10 percent. global partner network. Over a business cycle, Axis shall display a partners, end users and profit margin of at least 10 percent. The goal is formulated on the basis of the market trend in the longer term. The profit margin was 12.0 percent employees. in 2016. Total average annual growth of at least 20 percent. Axis operates in a growing market and the goal is to grow faster, or in line with the market in the long term. Growth is generated by underlying demand for network security solutions and Axis is driving the shift from analog to digital video surveillance. Growth was 11 percent in 2016. 10 Annual report Successful strategy Axis is driving the global development of network security solutions. The company’s offering is based on a global market presence, long-term collaboration and continual development of innovative products and solutions. Together with a broad network of partners, leading products are combined with in-depth market knowledge. This makes it possible for end users all over the world to take more well-informed decisions and create the most effective solution. Smart, innovative Achieved Global market presence Stronger partner network products and solutions Axis is driving the global development of network Long-term and loyal partnerships enable mutual Axis’ ambition is to drive the rapid global security solutions. The company’s offering is exchange of competencies, a strong market development of network security solutions. in 2016 based on a global market presence, long-term presence and common development of the The offering is continually broadened with new collaboration and continual development of market. As Axis’ offering expands, collaboration products and accessories. As the market grows innovative products and solutions. Together with is strengthened with existing players while new and matures, investments are continually being a broad network of partners, leading products are strategic partners are added. Through open and made to strengthen the overall offering and More than 2,000 new combined with in-depth market knowledge. This close dialogue, new customer segments, trends and assume greater responsibility in installations. makes it possible for end users all over the world to business opportunities are identified rapidly. partners all over the world take more well-informed decisions and create the most effective solution. Achieved in 2016: More than 60 new products Achieved in 2016: > More than 60 new products were released in the market Achieved in 2016: > More than 2,000 new partners > Broadened overall offering > More than 8,000 participants in training > Focused investments in small and medium-sized > Several new expansions and upgrades of Axis’ offices More than 1,500 new > Continued expansion of the overall offering installations > The global organization outside Sweden increased with Axis Certified Professionals about 340 people > Continuing leading position in several network video markets, while the offering has been broadened with further products and solutions > Three acquisitions 12 Annual report Case Axis’ market segments A changing market Nobina provides contracted bus services for more than 20 of Sweden’s transportation companies. Older analog cameras were installed on the buses. Large Nobina required a high-quality turnkey security video solution, which was reliable and secure and that increased safety and security for both Global mega trends such as the Internet of Things, cloud services installations passengers and staff, and they chose a network camera system from Axis Communications. More and big data entered the market in earnest during 2016. Customers This is Axis’ largest market segment and than 7,000 cameras were installed on 2,000 consists for example of hospitals, airports, are increasingly requesting integrated solutions for their security buses in total in Denmark, Finland, Norway cities and universities. The segment is systems where network video is one component. Axis is wellcharacterized by complex solutions that aim and Sweden. Apart from increased safety and equipped to meet this demand, both with proprietary solutions and to create reliable installations and flexible security for both passengers and drivers, the new through collaboration with partners. Mature markets such as the surveillance system also makes it easy for police integration with other security systems. to immediately and remotely access high-quality US and Europe continued to drive sales growth while countries that image material to help solve crimes. faced macroeconomic turbulence or were affected by the oil price displayed a weaker performance. MediumWhen Rixin Elementary School in Taipei, sized The expanded and solution-oriented product Continued expansion of the sales organization Taiwan, decided to install a new network video range has delivered continued strong sales During the year, the global organization outside surveillance system, they wished to leverage their growth among large customers with major Sweden increased with about 340 people. Sales existing, well-developed IT infrastructure. The installations. Axis is well-positioned to meet growth has been mainly driven by countries installations aim was to improve campus security and allow future needs in global companies that are with stable economies such as the US, France, security guards and staff to monitor real-time Medium-sized installations are a fragmented requesting company-wide, integrated and costGermany, UK and Australia, but also the videos. Axis outdoor-ready cameras with IR LED segment with many different types of end efficient solutions. Meanwhile, medium-sized and Southeast Asia region. Countries that have were installed along with AXIS Camera Station customers. Schools, stores and offices with smaller end users are increasingly important for faced macroeconomic turbulence and that were video management software. Compared to the about 10-100 cameras are typical here. Axis’ products and solutions in network video. affected by the falling oil price early in 2016 traditional analog system, the Axis solution Axis has a broad range of solutions to meet performed weaker. This includes countries such provides superior image quality, even at night or Local presence all the various needs in the segment – all as Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Canada. However, in bad weather. Meanwhile, the system became The local market presence is still very important from advanced surveillance solutions to relatively small fluctuations in exchange rates in more efficient and flexible for the school to through all of Axis’ partners. A number of new standardized smaller solutions. relation to the Swedish krona, had a stabilizing administer. Experience Centers were established during the effect. year, where Axis’ products are displayed in a solution-oriented environment. These centers aim to serve as a meeting place for both partners During the year, Axis took over responsibility for marketing and sales of Canon’s network video Small When the Department of Theology and Religious and end customers, where we can discuss needs and solutions. Six Experience Centers were portfolio, which further broadens Axis’ market offering. installations Studies at John Carroll University in Ohio, USA was going to host a traveling museum exhibition, established in the US, where the last one was In this segment, for example stores and In five years, the video surveillance market is they requested network video cameras to completed in early 2017. In total, there are now offices with up to about 10 cameras, the expected to grow by 6 percent annually, while help staff monitor the venue during and after 15 centers worldwide. penetration rate for network video is still low. the network video market is expected to grow visiting hours. The University installed four Therefore in the coming years, the growth Some other important market trends are by 12 percent per year over the same period. By HDTV-resolution network cameras from Axis. rate in this segment is expected to increase sustainability and internet security. Customers are 2020, network video is expected to account for The cameras were connected to the university’s faster than the overall market, and Axis is increasingly requesting sustainable solutions from about 95 percent of surveillance camera sales, existing network and live video was streamed continuing to deliver cost-efficient solutions. an environmental, ethical and social perspective. compared to 80 percent in 2015.* 24/7 to authorized university staff so they could One example is Axis’ products, which are totally remotely monitor exhibit activity. In the six weeks free from PVC plastic. Axis also attaches great that the university hosted the exhibition, not a importance to ensuring that customer solutions single incident was reported. are protected against hacking i.e cyber security. * IHS Video Surveillance Intelligence Service 2016 14 Annual report 15 Business model for global success The IP landscape is converging. This means that more and more components are becoming network-based and interconnected. This implies an increased need for integration of customer components in a connected information system. This changes Axis’ market role in a crucial way. Growing sales areas, besides network cameras, are therefore IP lock systems, speakers and software. In this way, Axis is offering integrated overall solutions in one ecosystem. The need for overall solutions is increasing in all customer segments. This may concern a store that wants video surveillance, counting the number of visitors, a speaker system for background music and customer announcements integrated in the same solution. It may involve critical infrastructure, e.g. a power station, which needs a large-scale surveillance and access control system. Axis can harmonize customers’ existing security systems, replacing analog devices with IP-based ones and integrating them in an overall IP-based solution. One example is the Site Designer software, which helps the integrator to customize a system for the customer. In this solution-oriented business model, Axis is mainly focusing on four industrial segments: It is Axis’ distributors that store products and Critical infrastructure create logistics chains. Distributors can be local Distributors Retail Axis’ Perimeter Defender system is an example, and global. They ensure market reach and access Stores have a need for security, customer where a power station, an airport or other critical for Axis’ products and have expertise in the information and to create a pleasant store area is protected through broad suite of Axis’ Resellers System integrators contact with resellers. With their local presence, environment. Axis offers an overall IP-based products in an overall solution. distributors also have a good insight into market solution for this. Customers may be global retail Axis’ scalable sales model with distributors, trends and demand in the specific market. End customers chains or small individual traders. Today stores’ resellers and integrators remains crucial for Forecasts of inventory levels, provides Axis with speaker systems are largely analog and will be creating a local presence in all markets. A global good market intelligence of demand for individual replaced gradually. partner network with a good knowledge of local projects. Axis evaluates its distributor network on Traffic systems trends is still a cornerstone in Axis’ strategy. an ongoing basis to ensure that it is optimized for a The smart city is a growing concept, meaning growing market. Sales of Axis’ products and solutions reach end solutions for control and management of traffic. customers via distributors that in turn sell on to Partner model increasingly important The importance of collaboration with our partners Efficient traffic monitoring can contribute to the resellers and security system integrators. LongAxis’ global network consists of more than 90,000 is further emphasized in the new solution-oriented environment, e.g. by preventing queues of cars. term collaboration and continual exchange of partners. It is mainly these players that meet market. The business model of selling “security Transport knowledge create the foundation for this loyal end users and have an important role in creating as a service”, in other words as a service rather Public transport and freight traffic have a partnership. The overall knowledge in all stages is the most relevant security solutions for each than through a number of products, means new growing need for smart systems for monitoring what creates Axis’ powerful offering. Collaboration individual customer through installation, system challenges in our collaboration with partners. This and traffic planning. In this area, Axis is an with partners has been crucial in the shift from integration and service. IP convergence in new new trend also means that Axis’ own experts will established supplier in a market that is expected analog to network security solutions in large areas is also creating more business opportunities gain a much bigger role in direct contacts with end to grow further. installations. for Axis’ partners. customers. 16 Annual report Axis 4000 3500 3000 Growth 2016: +12% 2500 worldwide 2000 1500 EMEA 1000 500 0 4000 Growth 2016: +14% 3500 3000 2500 2500 Asia 2000 2000 Growth 2016: Americas +10% 1500 1500 12% 1000 500 36% 1000 52% 0 500 0 2,500 2500 2,646 SEK M 2,000 2000 1,000 1000 4000 4,000 1,500 3,856 SEK M 3500 1500 3,500 800 884 SEK M 800 3000 3,000 1,000 1000 2500 2,500 600 600 2000 2,000 500 500 400 400 1500 1,500 00 1000 1,000 200 12 13 14 15 16 200 500 500 Axis still has a market-leading 00 00 position in EMEA. Europe is a 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 fragmented market, and demand 1000 In North and Central America, differs among the countries. In the China is now the world’s largest Axis has a market-leading Middle 800 East, demand in 2016 was market for network video and has position and the countries in 2500 reduced somewhat by financial great potential along with the these regions also represent turbulence 600 and investment rest of Asia. It was the region that Axis’ largest market. The 2000 restraints. showed the largest percentage countries in South America are 400 growth for Axis in 2016. There still considered to have huge is increased interest for city 1500 potential, since urbanization surveillance in many parts of the 200 and IT development are crucial region. Axis is continuing to invest 1000 factors for increased demand for in the region, to a large extent by 0 network security solutions. increasing its local presence. 500 0 18 Annual report Innovation and development Axis’ product development is based on in-depth knowledge of customer needs. Axis creates innovative product leadership where simplicity is the guiding principle for both installation engineers and end customers. This occurs not just by meeting customer requirements for security solutions today, but also seeing what needs will arise tomorrow. Axis’ product development is based on in-depth should be the most innovative supplier of network and solutions are gradually representing a larger knowledge of customer needs. Axis creates security solutions, this imposes strict demands on part of the product portfolio. In this way, the innovative product leadership where simplicity the company’s R&D operations. A critical success intelligent content in Axis’ cameras and products is the guiding principle for both installation factor is that Axis maintains and improves is increasing and contributing to an overall engineers and end customers. This occurs not just simplicity and user friendliness during installation solution for the customer’s security needs. by meeting customer requirements for security and handling, while the products are becoming affecting information content, as well as laser focus solutions today, but also seeing what needs will increasingly sophisticated and technologically A prioritized product category during the year that provides Axis’ cameras with further enhanced arise tomorrow. advanced. was M-line, which offers good value solutions for image quality in poor lighting conditions. Existing smaller customers. The Companion Line product product series have received substantial upgrades in Rapid technological development in the entire The product release rate accelerated during the package has introduced simplicity and practicality the Mark II and Mark III programs. IT industry is helping to boost the release rate year. Some 60 new products were released in as a guiding principle in smaller installations. in terms of new functionality and enhanced the market where innovations included entirely Almost 1,000 people, including consultants, worked performance. The Internet of Things is no longer new applications and even better performance Other examples are the next generation of at the company-wide research and development a trendy issue, but is part of every company’s in existing solutions. Network cameras remain Zipstream, which significantly reduces the department in Lund at year-end. In addition, about day-to-day working environment. Since Axis the dominant product category, but software quantity of data generated by cameras without 20 people work in this area in Shanghai. Technology Network cameras Software and New Business Axis’ innovation is based on continually and Encoders solutions Here Axis is focusing on broadening our improving performance and finding new Axis identifies trends and customer needs in The need for overall solutions is growing in product range beyond network video. applications through technological advances. close collaboration with partners and local sales all customer segments. Companion Line is the Examples of this are network connectedThe prioritized technology areas are appropriate organizations. A large number of new products product that offers the small customer, e.g. a speakers, IP door stations and analytics image quality, data storage, analytics reached the market during the year where retail store, a good value and scalable solution software. New Business is part of Axis’ applications and cyber security. increasingly sophisticated image sensors and with one to eight cameras, network switch and strategy of taking a more holistic approach chips are providing added value to customers in video recorder. In medium-sized installations, to the customer’s security needs. all price segments. A focus on sustainability also we released the S20 video recorder, which means more PVC-free network cameras. in practice is a computer and along with our different cameras creates a simple overall “out of the box” solution for network video. The Site Designer software is a valuable tool for optimizing and planning larger installations. 20 Annual report New Business meets more customer needs Axis New Business is the business area that During the year, Axis made three acquisitions, underwent the greatest change in 2016. This is Czech company 2N with about 220 employees completely in line with our strategy of broadening in Prague, French company Citilog with about our customer offering. The strongly expanding 30 employees in Paris, and Sweden-based organization includes both newly acquired units Cognimatics. 2N and Citilog are continuing and our innovative product development of new to operate as independent companies but are security solutions. wholly-owned by Axis and classified under New Business. Cognimatics has been absorbed into the Axis New Business in Lund is the center for video organization in Lund. product development of new solutions and messages for the retail segment. These are employs some 150 people. Here is research & New Business has thus grown from about 100 all IP-connected. The number of speakers in development, product managment, the product people early in the year to 400 at year-end. a system thus offers unlimited scalability and team for Axis’ cloud solutions known as AVHS, can be controlled remotely. They also have Acquisitions are a new strategic pillar for Axis, a project office and a group specialized in identifying, managing and integrating strategic even though organic growth is still the main built-in amplifier, which enables both remote system testing and setting of sound quality. The Customer segments for New Business: focus. However, acquisitions will continue to acquisitions. installation is easy and requires a much smaller supplement Axis’ overall offering by adding new number of components that today’s analog products, knowledge and customers in more fields speaker systems. of application. Axis’ core business, network video, is now AVHS contains Axis’ technology for cloud-based > Retail connection of the company’s products, from surrounded by other IP-based applications. video and thermal cameras to access control A common feature of these is that they are compatible with mega trends such as cloud systems, door stations and speakers. This provides > Transport the opportunity to offer the customer an efficient technology, the Internet of Things and big data. Physical access control systems, PACS, are overall solution. This also means that Axis can sell solutions as a service rather than as a number of > Urban security, traffic assuming a greater role where easy installation, individual products. scalability and network connectivity are creating The acquisitions of Citilog and Cognimatics > Banks & finance connected systems for control of entry and exit. have also provided valuable analytics tools that Axis’ software ensures that people with the right authority gain access to the right place. supplement Axis’ network cameras. Citilog is > Critical infrastructure specialized in traffic analytics, where applications NDS, Network Door Stations, involve networkcan include automatic detection of accidents or connected entry phones. In this field, Axis’ queue formation connected to programming of > Property management acquisition of 2N has generated a rapid entry into traffic lights, while Cognimatics has software this market, together with Axis’ existing offering. for analysis of store flows and people counting. > Public sector, schools, healthcare Applications can include factory areas, warehouse Both retail and traffic are prioritized customer or retail properties where the solutions are segments. “many-to-one”, which means a number of access While Axis’ products are becoming more > Industries points are connected to a monitoring point. 2N technologically advanced, it is crucial that they also offers “one-to-many”, which is applied in residential properties, for example. are designed in a way that makes them easy > Casinos to install and handle for both partners and end IP Audio has a great many applications, both in surveillance and in relation to comfort. Axis’ customers, and that they are designed with open IP protocols enabling third party development. > Hotel & restaurants horn speakers are designed for announcements This imposes strict requirements on Axis’ product and warning messages, while the market for the development in order for the company to > Arenas & theaters company’s growing range of indoor speakers continue to be the leading and most innovative includes background music and customer supplier of security solutions. 22 Annual report A strong, flexible and sustainable chain Axis’ supply chain (Operations) includes the The partner-oriented strategy is based on a longAnother example is that the supply chain for flow from order, sourcing, production, assembly, term approach and clarity. Suppliers should be small customers was overhauled and more of the quality control, logistics and final distribution of exposed to competition. At the same time Axis configuration occurs in factories. This lowers the the product to the customer. wants to get to know their processes, integrate total costs, but reduces flexibility in the chain. As a growth company, Axis has a supply chain that is so strong, flexible and sustainable that it can deliver products in an effective way while with them in order to develop an efficient flow and create transparency and proximity in both directions. The promised delivery time is then four weeks instead of two, which improves Axis’ freedom of action. Axis won! demand is rapidly increasing. Axis shall guarantee Axis’ development work of new products is In 2016, Axis carried out benchmarking with Supply Chain quality in deliveries and reliability in the based on market inputs and insights about the its principal owner Canon on some component information customers receive about them. strengths of proprietary products. The innovation sourcing. Canon has much higher purchasing Professional The supply chain always has customer needs in process is driven by a continual interplay between volumes than Axis, which can allow Axis to of the Year 2016 internal stakeholders in order to maintain reduce its costs for certain sourcing activities. focus. It should be cost-efficient – it may not cost high transparency, quality and speed in the Axis’ Vice President, Operations Per Ädelroth too much to produce products for customers. Environmental efficiency = cost efficiency development work. The entire process is pervaded was named Supply Chain Professional of the It should also be capital-efficient, there should Environmental efficieny and cost efficiency often by making the right products in the right way. Year 2016 for Swedish companies with more not be too many products in the inventory, and go hand in hand. For example transportation than SEK 5 billion in sales. The competition environmentally efficient, the chain should have Customer segmentation in the value chain of goods. Distributing products by sea has was arranged by the training company Silf as small a carbon footprint as possible. The customer segmentation, which Axis has advantages from an environmental standpoint and the consulting firm Accenture. Great worked with in recent years, is also used by and is at the same time cost efficient. Axis’ supply Manufacturing takes place at partners importance was attached to how companies are Operations. The segmentation in relation to chain for products targeted towards smaller Axis’ manufacturing takes place at several working to improve their processes. Axis has enterprise customers, large customers, for customers almost exclusively uses sea and road specialized partners. Axis works according to a several parallel cross-functional improvement example means enhanced service for this group. If freight, which improves environmental efficiency. well thought-out strategy for its partners. Some projects and there is an internal culture to work the quality of the product does not correspond to are called “10-35”, which means that Axis will collectively, proactively and with employees expectations, Axis’ support organization steps in account for between 10 and 35 percent of the that have training and the capabilities to drive and solves the problem. It is important to correct partner’s capacity at a given facility. Axis shall be improvements across various departments. the error as quickly as possible and capture the one important customer of the partner, but not a opportunity for a dialogue with the customer. Axis won with the motivation: dominant one. “The supply Chain Professional of the Year 2016, Suppliers has with a clear focus on the overall picture, differentiation and sustainability, implemented changes that clearly demonstrated how the modern value chain can contribute to both increased efficiency and growth. More than The changes have been advanced in a convincing way through a combination of power of initiative, new thinking and perseverance. The work is contributing to the company’s longterm competitiveness through reduced costs, partners improved delivery capacity, customer satisfaction and sales.” 24 Annual report 25 The share The share’s performance in 2016 Dividend Axis was listed in 2000 and since January 1, 2013 Axis’ majority owner Canon Inc has informed the ten largest owners represented 99.2 percent Shareholders December 30, 2016 Trend in share capital is part of the Large Cap segment on the Nasdaq the company’s board of directors that Canon (98.8) of the number of outstanding shares Year Number of shares Nominal amount (SEK) Share capital (SEK) in terms of capital and votes. The proportion Number of shares Share capital and votes Stockholm exchange. The final price paid on Inc at the 2017 Annual General Meeting (AGM) 2000–2004 68,900,000 0.01 689,000 December 31, 2016 was SEK 340.60 (343.40). The will vote that no dividend shall be paid to the of shareholders resident outside Sweden was Canon Inc. 60,175,282 86.6 % 2005 68,925,000 0.01 689,250 highest market price, SEK 434.40, was recorded shareholders. In light of this information, Axis’ 7.1 percent (123 persons), with a combined BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BARCLAYS 3,479,569 5.0 % 2006 69,252,700 0.01 692,527 shareholding of 99.5 percent. The largest CAPITA on August 8. The lowest market price of the board of directors and President have decided not 2007 69,372,200 0.01 693,722 shareholder countries were Japan, UK and USA. JP MORGAN CHASE BANK NA, W9 2,615,418 3.8 % year, SEK 301.00 was recorded on March 11. to propose any dividend at the 2017 AGM and 2008 69,373,700 0.01 693,737 The number of outstanding shares amounted to that the earnings at the disposal of the AGM shall The proportion of shareholders resident in CREDIT SUISSE SEC EUROPE LTD 960,079 1.4 % 2009 69,375,700 0.01 693,757 69,461,250 on December 31, 2016. The total share be carried forward. Sweden was 92.9 percent (1,603 persons) with a BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BNY GCM 759,984 1.1 % 2010 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 combined shareholding of 0.5 percent. CLIENT turnover on Nasdaq Stockholm during the period 2011 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 Total yield Other 1,470,918 2.1 % January 1, 2016–December 31, 2016 amounted Employee stock option program 2012 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 Total yield refers to the real performance of an Total 69,461,250 100.0 % to 1.4 million shares (37.7). This is equivalent to Axis has no outstanding stock option programs. 2013 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 equity investment and consists of alteration in a turnover rate of 2 percent of the total number 2014 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 price including reinvested dividends. Axis’ total Financial information of shares. The average number of shares traded 2015 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 yield for 2016 was -0.6 percent. The annual total Axis’ ambition is to continually provide the stock per day during the period amounted to 5,683 to a 2016 69,461,250 0.01 694,612 yield has amounted to 25.1 percent over the past market, shareholders and other stakeholders value of SEK 1.9 M. The market capitalization on five years. with correct, consistent and relevant information December 31, 2016 amounted to SEK 23,659 M (23,853), a decrease of 1 percent. Ownership with the aim of increasing understanding of At year-end, Axis had 1,726 registered the company. Financial information is mainly Ownership December 30, 2016 Per-share data shareholders (1,667). The largest individual provided in interim reports, year-end reports and 2016 2015 shareholders at year-end were Canon Inc with annual reports. Major events that can materially Holding Number of Number of Holding Votes Market value shareholders shares (%) (%) (SEK ’000) Profit after financial items, SEK 12.73 12.67 86.6 percent of the share capital, followed by impact Axis’ business are communicated via 1–500 1,557 163,213 0.23 0.23 55,590 Cash flow, SEK -2.27 8.65 BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BARCLAYS CAPITA with press releases to the media, capital market and Shareholders’ equity 33.87 25.06 5.0 percent and JP MORGAN CHASE BANK NA, other stakeholders. Printed versions of interim 501–1,000 88 70,838 0.10 0.10 24,127 Share price at end of period, SEK 340.60 343.40 W9 with 3.8 percent. The combined holdings of reports and the annual report are distributed to 1,001–5,000 60 127,274 0.18 0.18 43,350 Price/equity, percent 1,006 1,370 shareholders upon request. 5,001–10,000 6 49,679 0.07 0.07 16,921 Dividend paid, SEK 0.64 0.31 10,001–15,000 0 0 0.00 0.00 0 Press releases, interim reports, year-end P/E ratio 37 37 reports and annual reports are available on the 15,001–20,000 2 38,042 0.05 0.05 12,957 P/S ratio 3.20 3.60 company’s website www.axis.com in Swedish and 20,001– 13 69,012,204 99.35 99.35 23,505,557 Result, SEK 9.20 9.39 English in accordance with the regulations of the Total 1,726 69,461,250 100.0 100.0 23,658,502 Number of outstanding shares (thousands) 69,461 69,461 stock exchange. Average number of shares (thousands) 69,461 69,461 27 Sustainability report 2016 Significant highlights during the year 85% An investigation of the possibility to produce products totally free from of all cameras halogen, that is with and encoders are neither chlorine nor PVC free. bromine, has been carried out. A new Axis was awarded Recycled Enironmental Sustainability policy Leadership plastic is used in even has been developed. Award. greater extent in Axis products. A survey showed that Contributed to the Advanced its 91% integration positions and pushed ethical and other of immigrants sustainability-related of the employees are into the labor market. issues of suppliers, very satisfied with distributors and Axis as a workplace. partners. 28 Sustainability report Sustainability strategy “Axis’ Environmental Council works with overall environmental issues and initiates projects aimed and governance at minimizing Axis’ environmental impacts and integrating environmental aspects into the product development process.” Sustainability council Sustainability is an important and natural part of Axis’ operations, Per Ädelroth in order to contribute to a smarter and safer world. Axis takes Vice President Operations Social responsibility council long-term responsibility in relation to end customers, distributors, “I’m overall responsible for Axis’ supply Louise Dolck Strömberg partners, suppliers, employees, investors and owners and also takes chain and I am part of the Management Director, Human Resources Operations a social responsibility. team as well as the Sustainability Council. ”In the Social responsibility council, different parts of In the Sustainability Council, my role is the organization are represented to drive Axis’ social As a leading market player, Axis acts from a is based on the UN Global Compact’s ten of representatives from the following functions: to bring knowledge in matters regarding responsibility matters. My role is to represent the HR position of strength and has good opportunities principles, the UN Declaration of Human Rights Human Resources, Sales, Quality and environment environment and business ethics with department and to contribute with knowledge about to influence those around it in sustainability and the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) and Communication. focus on the relationships with our working environment, diversity and anti-corruption from matters. Axis strives to be the driving force in Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights suppliers.” an HR perspective. “ Environmental council the industry when it comes to technological at Work. Axis’ Environmental Council works with overall innovations and business ethics. The company The company management ensures that business environmental issues and initiates projects takes environmental, social and economic is conducted in an ethical way and in accordance aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental responsibility and acts in an ethical, transparent with the company’s ethical guidelines. The impacts and integrating environmental Sustainability project group and responsible way in relation to its target Per Björkdahl company’s policies are continually reviewed. aspects into the product development process. groups. Axis strives to minimize its climate Director, Business Development The Environmental Council is composed of impact, pursue good working conditions and also Axis strives to make sustainability into an representatives from the following functions: “To be able to cover various areas, the project group has oppose corruption and violations of human rights. integrated part of the business strategy and R&D, Quality and environment, Product representatives from different parts of the organization. This work is conducted through sound corporate operations, where continual improvements management, Communication and Operations and With my vast experience of global business development, governance. occur at all levels of the organization. Each representatives from the company management. I offer knowledge about business ethics and sound department is responsible for the sustainanility Axis’ goal is to take sustainability into consideration business relationships. work in its unit. This work is coordinated by Social responsibility council in all business processes and to promote the Environmental Council together with the During the year, work was initiated to start a sustainable conduct in the entire value chain. Sustainability Project Group, and going forward social responsibility council. The council will drive Product development, manufacturing, distribution also by the Council for Social Responsibility, when sustainability efforts in the social responsibility and sales shall occur in a sustainable way. it is in place. The steering group for sustainability area. It will set goals, be responsible for following About Axis’ Sustainability report 2016 The sustainability work and strategy are based has overall responsibility for Axis’ sustainability up targets, have an advisory and decision-making Axis has produced sustainability reports according on the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in work. The organizational framework has the role and also promote cooperation between to GRI’s (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines for the areas of human rights, labor, environment following structure: various departments on questions such as sustainability reporting since 2010. For the third and anti-corruption. Axis signed the UN Global working environment, diversity, anti-corruption consecutive year, Axis reports according to GRI level G4 Sustainabilty council Compact in 2007 and its principles have provided and sponsorship etc. The functions proposed for Core. The report also constitutes Axis’ Communication The sustainability council has overall guidance for how Axis conducts its sustainability inclusion in the council are representatives from on Progress report to UN Global Compact. It is not responsibility for sustainability questions. This work ever since. the company management, Global sales, Human externally audited. includes ensuring that Axis’ Code of Conduct WE SUPPORT Resources, R&D, Communication and Legal. Axis also follows regulations such as the Swedish is implemented in the organization as well as The report covers the 2016 fiscal year. Axis publishes a Code of Corporate Governance, and works to checking and monitoring the work and activities Safety committees in the health and safety area sustainability report annually. Environmental council implement and test a framework for internal conducted. The sustainability council is mainly Axis has two health and safety committees in During the year, Axis carried out three acquisitions: Ausra Reinap control over financial reporting based on COSO’s composed of representatives from the company Sweden. A safety committee is composed of Environmental Engineer, Quality & Environment Citilog was acquired in February, 2N in May and (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of management. the managers of each CLC (Configuration and “I am an Environmental Engineer and part Cognimatics in June. As Axis does not have complete the Treadway Commission) Internal Control – Logistics Center), a trade union representative, a of Axis’ Environmental council. I represent Sustainability project group information from the acquired companies regarding Integrated Framework. safety representative and a representative from the Quality and Environment function in The sustainability project group is responsible the indicators that Axis reported on in 2016, these Human Resources. The other safety committee Axis participates in the above matters regarding Axis’ environmental Axis’ Code of Conduct defines the values and for the development of sustainability initiatives companies are not included in this year’s sustainability is composed of representiatives from Facilities, organizations. impact, green product development and guidelines upon which Axis conducts its business. and activities in various areas, and to ensure that reporting. The acquisitions will be part of the Human Resources and a safety representative. legal compliance.” All employees and the board shall comply with the sustainability reporting meets the UN Global sustainability report for 2017. the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct Compact’s requirements. The group is composed 30 Sustainability report 31 Stakeholder dialogue During 2016, Axis’ Sustainability Project Group Further dialogues with stakeholder groups were held meetings to plan how the dialogue with the conducted in the form of meetings, discussions, various stakeholder groups should be conducted. various types of collaboration etc. See table As a basis for identification and subsequent below for information about the dialogue with prioritization of key aspects, Axis drew on the each stakeholder group. stakeholder dialogues, which were conducted The result of the survey and other dialogues were Axis has a major impact on many people’s lives and takes a longin previous years. Axis has also taken account compiled and analyzed by the Sustainability of regulations such as GRI (Global Reporting term responsibility for how the operations affect its stakeholders. Project Group and then discussed by the Initiative), UN Global Compact, the company’s Axis creates value for its stakeholders and conducts a continual strategy and key external trends affecting the Sustainability Council, which is mainly composed dialogue with them. The aim is building long-term relationships, of representatives from Axis’ company company. management. Read more under Materiality increasing understanding of what is important for stakeholders and As part of validating the aspects, Axis analysis. continually improving the company’s sustainability efforts. conducted a survey during the year among Axis aims to conduct a regular and open dialogue all stakeholder groups in order to investigate what sustainability questions are most Safety with its stakeholders: employees, distributors important for the various groups. and partners, end customers, suppliers, investors and owners as well as society in order to find out what expectations the stakeholders have of Stakeholder Dialogue Key aspects the company’s sustainability work and what they group ONG -TERM RES think are most important for Axis to work with from a sustainability perspective. S L PO KE Employees Web survey with all employees, Great >> Occupational health and safety N Place To Work survey, development >> Non-discrimination of employees TA S discussions >> Child labor and compulsory labor >> Customer satisfaction AX yees Distribu TY o pl par to ILI Distributors and Web survey with distributors and partners >> Customer satisfaction IS tne r partners in all regions where Axis has operations, >> Market presence E m ines s conduct s r En s& IB training, webinars, customer surveys >> >> Protection of customer privacy Anti-corruption bu vir s >> Child labor and compulsory labor le Res l responsibility po ns End customers Web survey with end customers in all >> Energy consumption in the products nta S u p p li e r s E ib custond ers Axis values: regions where Axis has operations >> Non-discrimination of employees me Environment >> Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions Act as one. >> Personal integrity among users of Axis’ products on bility onsi m Always open. esp Suppliers Web survey of contract manufacturers >> Evaluation of environmental impacts, human rights r Think big. and other suppliers, training programs, and labor law and supply chain conditions al Ec webinars >> Child labor and compulsory labor >> Customer satisfaction So esponsibility ci ic r >> Anti-corruption om on >> Compliance with laws and regulations So r to s Integrity cie ty e s Investors and owners Web survey, board meetings, annual >> Customer satisfaction Inv general meeting >> >> Compliance with laws and regulations Product environmental impact >> Energy consumption in the products >> Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions >> Energy consumption in own operations Society Web survey with representantives >> Anti-corruption from trade association and university, >> Personal integrity collaboration with university, trade >> Environmental impact from products and services exhibitions and other activities for >> Compliance with laws and regulations students 32 Sustainability report 33 Materiality analysis The aspects ranked as most important for the stakeholders and that have the greatest impact on and importance for the company: Environment Axis’ environmental responsibility ranges from a direct responsibility in the company’s own The materiality analysis is based on the outcome of the dialogues operations to an indirect one outside of the organization. A large part of the environmental with Axis’ stakeholders and shows the most important questions for impact is indirect, related to product manufacturing and to energy consumption during the stakeholders and for the company. lifetime of the products. Axis works to reduce environmental impacts in the entire value chain, with a focus on the areas where the company has the greatest potential to exert an Through the stakeholder dialogues, Axis finds For Axis, it is a miminum requirement to influence and make a difference. Read more on page 38. out what economic, environmental and social comply with applicable laws and the company issues and aspects are most important for will continue to report whatever is required to The most important aspects are: the company’s different stakeholder groups. comply with these rules – but the goal with the > Carbon footprint: Axis has also reviewed the aspects regarding sustainability report is to raise the bar further. Emissions the company’s impacts, and has analyzed and One example is that Axis has signed the UN’s Energy consumption in own operations weighed up these results. The materiality analysis Global Compact, whose ten principles in the areas Transports was carried out by the Sustainability Project Team of human rights, labor, environment and antiand was performed in accordance with the GRI corruption provide guidance for how Axis should > Material in the products G4 guidelines. The materiality analysis is validated pursue its sustainability work. > Product environmental impact every year. > Energy consumption in the products Enduring profitability, creating economic value > Supplier environmental performance The aspects ranked as most important for the and reaching financial goals are of central stakeholders and that have the greatest impact importance for Axis and for the company’s on and importance for the company are divided stakeholder groups. This also constitutes the basis Social responsibility into the following focus areas: Environment, for Axis’ long-term sustainability efforts. Social responsibility and Business ethics. Axis’ social responsibility involves safeguarding human rights and ensuring good working conditions in the company’s own operations and at suppliers. This also means taking a longApart from the aspects Axis reports on in its term responsibility to contribute to society in the markets where the company operates. sustainability report, in accordance with the Read more on page 52. principle of materiality, Axis also describes other areas in the report, which are of importance for The most important aspects are: the operations, such as compliance with laws and > Diversity and equal opportunities for employees regulations. > Non-discrimination of employees > Occupational health and safety > Human rights in the supply chain > Labor law and working conditions in the supply chain Business ethics Axis has long relationships with its distributors, partners and suppliers and this is a central part of the company’s business model. Close collaboration helps to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as ethical conduct in the entire value chain. Read more on page 58. The most important aspects are: > Anti-corruption > Customer satisfaction > Customer privacy > Personal integrity among users of Axis’ products 34 Sustainability report 35 Responsibility along the entire value chain Axis’ business model with long and close relationships with its partners is and has been very important for the company’s successful growth. The value chain extends from suppliers of components, and contract manufacturers and sales through Resellers / distributors and partners, such as resellers and system integrators, SubContract End to end users of the company’s products. suppliers manufacturers CLCs AXIS Distributors System customers integrators Axis has six contract manufacturers, a large Axis’ indirect business model constitutes a core number of strategic component suppliers all over part of the company’s strategy. Sales of Axis’ the world and more than 90,000 partners in 179 products and solutions take place via distributors countries. that sell on to resellers and system integrators that in turn sell to end customers. This indirect Anti-corruption business model means that direct responsibility for manufacturing, sales, distribution and installation largely rests with suppliers, Customer satisfaction distributors and partners. Axis is actively engaged in all parts of the value chain and works to ensure that all suppliers, Customer privacy and personal integrity distributors and partners minimize their environmental impacts and take an economic and social responsibility, including acting ethically. Materials in the products and product energy performance Axis informs and regularly audits suppliers, trains distributors and informs its partners. In this way, sourcing, manufacturing, sales, distribution and Carbon footprint: use can occur in as responsible a way as possible. energy consumption, transports and emissions Through long-term and close collaboration with suppliers, distributors and partners, risks can Supplier environmental performance be minimized and the company can focus on taking advantage of opportunities, continued innovation, global expansion and sustainable Occupational health and safety growth. Important aspects The aspects, which are most important for Axis Diversity, equal opportunities and non-discrimination from a sustainability perspective impact all or parts of the value chain. Axis has reviewed where the risks in the value chain are greatest from a Labor practices and human rights in the supply chain sustainability perspective and where the aspects have the most impact. The image illustrates where in the value chain the aspects are relevant. 36 Sustainability report 37 Case Safer traffic in Melbourne EastLink is the 39 km freeway in Melbourne’s “The result has been excellent with this solution Sustainable solutions for South East suburbs. The freeway passes through two 1.6 km tunnels and carries more and we have great confidence when it comes to reliability and security. Everything has been a smarter and safer world than 240,000 vehicles per day. In those tunfantastic,” says Stuart Lindsey, Engineering nels, EastLink has an Automatic Video Incident Manager at EastLink. “What has impressed us the Detection System as part of its critical safety most was the level of technical support that has systems. been offered and continues to be offered.” Reduced power consumption and more efficient use of This system is paramount in detecting stopped or The new solution has meant a seamless migration slowing vehicles in the tunnels, enhancing road to a digital solution. This flexibility provides a office space user safety and providing EastLink’s traffic control fully functional AVID system and enables safe Axis’ network cameras and Cognimatics’ softcenter with vital real time information through operation. The system has delivered a higher ware in the future can enable presence detecvideo analytics. reliability compared with the legacy system and is tion lighting, ventilation and heating control When EastLink wanted to upgrade their existing more robust. systems and more efficient office space use. Power consumption may be reduced by up to system supplied by Citilog, they wanted to include 18 percent. new hardware and migrate to an IP solution. EastLink installed Citilog’s Automatic Incident Aalto University conducted a study aimed at Detection System in combination with AXIS investigating how a company could reduce P7216 Video Encoders. energy consumption and use office space more efficiently. For example, lights should only be turned on when people are on the premises and only in the places where they are. Desks should be used more efficiently by getting employees to share desk space, since they are not all on the premises at the same time. Aalto University More efficient healthcare wanted to obtain accurate information about with IP video how and when people spent time on the surveyed company’s premises. Recorded training optimizes medical staff “We tested a number of cameras from different Safer and more efficient training. Treatment methods at hospitals manufacturers. We considered it particularly Previously the property managers at the surveyed lumber mill production can be safer and more efficient thanks to important to be able to transmit multiple video building tried to manually calculate and estimate Axis network cameras and Axis Camera Station Hampton Affiliates identifies security risks and SIMStation’s simulation solution and Axis streams without delay or disturbance. In addition, when people arrive at and exit from buildings, were installed. Engineers are now able to gains a more efficient manufacturing process network video cameras. good image quality is a must so that small details but people’s individual patterns of movement are proactively address mechanical concerns across in its lumber mills with Axis’ network cameras can be viewed as necessary. The network cameras impossible to anticipate. Aalto University chose the mills and depend on the cameras daily for In medical emergencies, split-second decisions and Axis Camera Station. from Axis have met all of our requirements and Axis network cameras along with Cognimatics’ assistance. The entire process has become often make the difference between life and have now also passed the practical test with software. Hampton Affiliates is one of the largest death for a patient. Every move has to be right; extremely simple and streamlined, allowing flying colors,” says Joachim Hilbrand, SIMStation. manufacturers of forest products across North there’s no time for mistakes. 60 percent of all The preliminary results from the study show a resources to be reallocated in a more productive America and operates nine lumber mills spread incidents in emergency situations can be traced Practice situations and other medical procedures power consumption saving of 15-18 percent, if manner. through Oregon, Washington and Canada. With a back to non-technical causes, such as a team are filmed using Axis’ network cameras. Through the intelligent solution had been connected to The system has already proved to pay dividends. focus on natural renewable resources, these mills leader giving vague instructions or poor team the cameras, the doctor in the adjacent room all energy consumption systems in the entire When a saw blew up in a remote space, a data primarily produce lumber used in construction management. In such cases, a professional audio observes the action with the help of a monitor. building. More efficient utilization of office space recording showed operators multiple camera and other projects. video system for simulations and proper training The doctor uses a microphone to provide means that you can save a lot of desk space. The angles of exactly what happened. of specialized staff is important and may very instructions, which are communicated to the analyzed company could reduce its desk space by Each mill spans huge areas. Close to 100 well be a lifesaver. team over a speaker. a third. individuals appear at each mill on a daily basis. “It’s always humbling to see things occur, but Many areas require remote monitoring. Massive we are able to use the footage to troubleshoot In day-to-day hospital work, experience is usually Afterwards, participants can look at the “We are very satisfied with the results,” says as happens nearly every day at all of the mills,” a pieces of machinery and heavy equipment involve gained through direct encounters with patients. recording, observe their own behaviors, detect Dooley. “Far too much energy is consumed network engineer at Hampton Affiliates remarked. a great many risks, and it is top priority for Inexperienced staff may inadvertently make any errors, and discuss ways in which these can unnecessarily when people are not on the “The engineers absolutely depend on this system operators to maintain a safe workspace for their mistakes. be avoided. This means that hospital procedures premises, such as during weekends and outside to work and to work well.” staff. can be made safer and more efficient. regular business hours,” says Ken Dooley, PhD Axis cameras, monitors and microphones are student at Aalto University in Helsinki, Finland. Management wanted to identify safety hazards used in combination with software developed by before any of the employees risked injuring SIMStation, based in Vienna, Austria, in order to Note: Cognimatics is part of Axis since 2016. themselves, and be able to also monitor educate healthcare staff. machinery in places, which are not always manned by personnel. 38 Sustainability report Long-term environmental responsibility Axis strives to minimize the environmental impact from its own operations and in the company’s products and solutions. Most of Axis’ environmental impact occurs indirectly and is related to manufacturing, transports and to energy consumption when the products and solutions are used. This means that Axis aims for improvements along the entire value chain and throughout the entire lifecycle of the products and solutions. Environmental impact These included: Axis should contribute to an environmentally polycarbonate and acrylonitrileAxis works with suppliers, distributors and sustainable development by minimizing butadiene-, butadiene -and styrene > mapping the potential of producing entirely 91 percent of all cameras partners in order to minimize direct and indirect halogen-free products environmental impacts throughout its product polymer, polycarbonate, polyamide, and solution life cycles and along the entire and encoders sold during environmental impacts. This involves systematic polymethylmethacrylate, polyurethane, silicone, work to ensure that product development, > continuing to phase out PVC from products value chain. This work will be conducted through thermoplastic elastomer and rubber. 2016 were PVC free. material choice, material origin, components continual improvements in order to gradually > using recycled plastics in products to an even Axis works systematically to ensure that material In total, 85 percent of all and packaging meet quality and functionality greater extent bring about major change. choice and material origins meet quality and Axis network cameras and requirements, while minimizing environmental > implementing the Greensoft system solution, The Green Design Evaluation Form functionality requirements, while minimizing impacts. encoders are PVC free. to promote the choice of environmentally The Green Design Evaluation Form is Axis’ environmental impacts. Among other things, this includes using recycled scorecard for evaluation of the products’ friendly materials in product development This includes using recycled instead of newly material, reducing the number of product parts, environmental impact. The aim is to establish processes produced plastic, minimizing material waste, choosing low-weight components, minimizing even clearer goals, requirements and guidelines in ensuring that only conflict-free minerals are material waste, optimizing packaging, improving > conducting environmental training of Axis’ product specifications. used, ensuring that products do not contain any energy consumption efficiency in own operations personnel in Operations, Research and The scorecard makes it easier to evaluate different substances that are hazardous for people or the and in the company’s products, streamlining Development, Marketing, Sales, Logistics aspects, for example, use of recycled material, environment and phasing out health-impairing logistics flows and as far as possible choosing and of other persons who in their role optimization of product weight and volume material. environmentally friendly transports. can contribute to reducing the company’s and reduced material waste. It is used in all environmental impacts Furthermore, about 95 percent of the material Axis performs life cycle analysis on various development projects. In this way, environmental considerations are integrated in an even better in Axis’ products is recyclable or combustible in products, in order to see where the greatest > drawing up a new Environmental policy way into the product development process. accordance with Swedish recycling standards. environmental impact lies in the products’ life New environmental policy Recycling can occur either in the form of energy cycle. Smart material choice – greener Axis new environmental policy entered into or reuse of material. Environmental initiatives 2016 force in 2017. The environmental policy products During the year, Axis carried out a number of stipulates that Axis should be a leader in the Axis’ products contain different materials measures to reduce its environmental impact. environmental field. such as aluminum, zinc, steel, stainless steel, 40 Sustainability report 41 Scope 1 Scope 2 Halogen-free material In 2016, 91 percent of camera and encoder sales The material library used by the research and Ton CO2e per sales Kg CO2e per employee Ton CO2e per scope Scope 3 Axis has a long-term goal to offer halogen-free were PVC-free. In total, about 85 percent of Axis’ development department was expanded with products. network cameras and encoders are PVC-free. several recycled plastic materials during the year. 5 5 According to the International Electrochemical Bromine Axis has continued to develop products with 25,000 Commission’s (IEC) definition, the material should Bromine and brominated flame retardants may recycled plastic. In 2016, Axis developed five 4 4 contain less than 900 ppm of chlorine or bromine, be hazardous for the environment and human new products with recycled plastic, where 20,000 Ton CO2e per SEK 100 M health. Bromine and brominated flame retardants Axis has increased the proportion of recycled Kg CO2e per employee or less than 1500 ppm of halogens in total, in 3 3 order to be halogen-free. Axis has decided to are mainly found in printed circuit boards, plastic from about 40 to more than 60 percent 15,000 apply this definition to all the material in the in electronic components containing chips, compared to previous similar products (read 2 2 products. transistors and cables. more under Camera models with environmental 10,000 considerations in focus). Ton CO2e Chlorine is mainly found in polyvinyl chloride Axis conducts surveys of bromine and chlorine in 1 1 5,000 (PVC) and chlorinated flame retardants, bromine components in the company’s products, with the The packaging material for the products is is found in brominated flame retardants, among aim of reducing the use of bromine and chlorine composed of recycled material to some extent. 0 0 0 other things. as well as brominated and chlorinated flame 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Legislation, guidelines and Greensoft 2014 2015 2016 retardants in product components. Ton CO2e per 3.2 3.6 3.4 Kg CO2e 2.3 2.3 1.8 PVC Axis complies with applicable legislation and SEK 100 M PVC can emit toxic substances, is harmful to During the year, Axis also mapped the potential rules, such as the EU’s RoHS directive (Restriction both human health and the environment and of producing entirely halogen-free products. of Hazardous Substances) and the EU’s REACH is difficult to recycle. PVC is found in outdoor regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization Recycled material cables for Axis cameras, among other things. Axis and restriction of Chemicals). Axis also applies of the technologies developed by Axis, help operations over which it has control, in either including considerable increases in product sales, Recycled material conserves natural resources aims to phase-out PVC from its products and a precautionary approach, for example when it to reduce energy consumption in the product financial or operational terms. Axis’ report also (net sales increased by 11 percent during 2016), in and reduces environmental impacts. Axis works has been successful in these efforts. During the comes to choice of material. use phase. These include Axis’ Zipstream includes emissions from all inbound transports, the number of employees, and more offices. continually to find and phase in new recycled year, several new PVC-free camera models were technology, which reduces bandwidth and in other words transports from contract material into its material library, in order to In addition, Axis restricts the use of other As in previous years, in the report for 2016, developed, such as AXIS Q3615-VE, AXIS Q3617storage requirements by at least 50 percent in manufacturers to Axis’ Configuration and increase the proportion of recycled material in its substances, such as antimony and nickel. The list indirect upstream emissions in Scope 3, in other VE, AXIS P3707-PE, several variants of the AXIS video surveillance applications, and thus energy Logistics Centers (CLC) and from all outbound products. of substances where use should be restricted is words indirect emissions due to sourcing of goods Q35 series and the AXIS M304X series. consumption. Axis’ Lightfinder technology enables transports, in other words transports from CLCs updated regularly and was updated during the or services (that are not included in Scope 2), are cameras to reproduce sharp color images even to distributors. The choice of system boundaries year. included for transports from suppliers. when it is dark, at 0.18 lux and even lower. This has an impact on the results of the analysis, Greensoft eliminates the need for external illumination. which needs to be taken into consideration when Upstream emissions, for example in connection During the year, Axis created totally new comparing Axis’ results with those of other with sourcing of transports and energy, are processes to improve its use of the Greensoft Lower carbon footprint Carbon Footprint reports. reported in Scope 3. These emissions have been system solution. Greensoft makes it possible for Several activities related to Axis’ operations added in data for 2015 and 2016 but were not generate carbon dioxide emissions, which have A new requirement for this year’s report, is that Axis to more systematically collect and validate included in the figures for 2014. Updates in the Energy consumption Axis globally (MWh/employee) an impact on the global climate. Therefore, Axis under the GHG Protocol, companies should data relating to product content. calculation tool can occur in the future when new ambition is to take responsibility in these areas, report their electricity consumption using both a Axis thereby gains a better overview of the emission factors are added. to the same extent as for the manufacturing and location-based and market-based method. This 2015 content in various materials, which helps to increase use of materials with lower design of our products. Part of this work is to means that companies should report if they have Emissions due to third party deliveries contribute 2.7 reduce our overall carbon footprint and to impose purchased electricity with guarantees of origin. most to Axis total carbon emissions and 2016 environmental impact. stringent demands on our suppliers. In those cases where the company knows what accounted for 77 percent of total CO₂e emissions. 2.5 In 2016, emissions from inbound and outbound 2014 type of electricity is involved e.g. hydroelectric Energy consumption in products and Through annual monitoring and reporting of power, nuclear power or a specific mix, the special freights increased by 9 percent compared to 2015. 2.3 solutions carbon dioxide emissions, Axis gains insight into Outbound transports accounted for most of this emission factor is used just for that electricity. The cameras’ energy consumption is a significant which processes that generate the most emissions In those cases where no active choice was made, increase. For more information about Logistics part of the cameras’ total environmental impact. and where Axis needs to focus its efforts to and the company does not know the type of and transports, see page 42. reduce its impact. Life cycle analysis performed by Axis, show electricity used, the calculations are based on the that between 60 and 80 percent of the total The 2016 Carbon Footprint report focuses so-called residual mix for each country. environmental impact of network cameras is on emissions related to transports, energy Carbon footprint related to energy consumption by end users. consumption of premises, leased cars, business 1 Carbon dioxide equivalent or CO2e is a metric for Axis’ carbon emissions increased slightly from travel and paper consumption describing how different greenhouse gases, of a given Axis continually works to further improve energy 23,940 to 24,840 tons CO₂e1, an increase of quantity, contribute to the greenhouse effect and impact efficiency in surveillance systems, while retaining According to the GHG Protocol, a company about 4 percent compared to 2015. The increase global warming, measured in the equivalent amount of functionality, which can be challenging. Some is accountable for emissions resulting from was due to the company’s growth during 2016, CO2 . 42 Sustainability report 43 tCO2e per activity 30 Paper 55 21 3,068 down transports costs and carbon emissions, inbound transports measured in ton-km were Premises 2,585 caused by product transports. sea or road transports and 32 percent were air 1,954 transport. This can be compared to the goal that Customer needs and requirements should be met more than 60 percent of inbound transports 688 while reaching the set environmental targets. Leased vehicles 734 measured in ton-km should consist of sea and 946 Less air freight road freight. During the year, Axis decreased the proportion Carbon offsetting 8,947 of bulky inbound goods, in other words, goods Inbound deliveries Axis continues to carbon offset all courier 7,692 from contract manufacturers to Axis’ CLCs, due 3,943 freight. Carbon offsetting occurs in accordance to improved routines and planning for inbound with the independent international standard the goods from Asia. This contributed to a reduction 1,865 CarbonNeutral Protocol. in carbon emissions by 14 percent per ton-km3 Business travel 2,974 2016 in total freight transports until the end of 2016, Compact packaging 2,870 2015 compared to 2011, which can be compared to the Newly released products have increasingly 10,225 2014 goal of 20 percent. optimized packaging. Firstly, Axis has worked to Outbound deliveries 9,875 make the actual products smaller, and secondly, Carbon emissions for outbound transports, in 7,463 the company has optimized the packaging boxes tCO2e other words, transports from CLCs to distributors, to correspond more closely to the products’ size. 0 0 20002,000 4000 4,000 6000 6,000 8000 8,000 10000 12000 10,000 12,000 decreased by 5 percent compared to the carbon emissions in 2011. This has meant that carbon emissions measured per dispatched unit have decreased, and that During the year, Axis used more sea and road transport costs for the products have become transports than air freight; 68 percent of all lower. Emissions related to sales decreased from 3.6 tons in conference rooms at the headquarter in Lund. property owner shall work actively together CO₂e to 3.4 tons CO₂e per SEK 100 million. to reduce the environmental impact of the 3 Ton kilometer (ton-km) is a vehicle’s weight multiplied Energy consumption in operations by the distance. premises and property. In 2016, an action plan Despite the growth in emissions generated by Energy consumption in the operations increased was produced. This means that the property Axis employees2, due to energy consumption in globally, due to the expansion of activities in the owner will survey what areas that are not in the business, paper use, leased cars and business company’s logistics centers and in the number use, conduct office lighting controls, review the travel etc., emissions decreased from 2.3 tons of offices globally. This is the third largest source ventilation and arrange bicycle service. During CO₂e to 1.8 tons CO₂e per employee as a result of Axis total emissions, accounting for about 12 the year, Axis carried out the following energy of measures implemented in 2016 and increased percent of all emissions. saving measures: replaced 90 percent of the light awareness among employees. In terms of energy intensity, the energy sources in the headquarters canteen with LED Business trips represent a large part of the consumption per employee has fallen, thanks to lighting, continued to change to LED lighting in greenhouse gas emissions generated by Axis’ our energy saving measures. Energy consumption the common areas of the premises and installed employees. This is the fourth largest source of per full time employee globally, excluding logistics motion detectors where possible. Axis’ total emissions, accounting for approx. 8 centers decreased from 2.7 MWh per full time percent of all emissions. employee in 2015 to 2.5 MWh in 2016. Logistics and transports Axis continually reviews and streamlines its To address this Axis initiated carbon offsets in At the Lund headquarters, where 63 percent logistics chain, including transports from contract 2015 for all business travel. In 2016, the offset of all Axis employees are based, the goal is to manufacturers to the company’s Configuration Axis has used carbon offsets for all business trips since and fodder for livestock, preserves biological diversity, was 2,917 tons of CO₂e from business trips. If reduce electricity consumption by five percent per and Logistics Centers (CLC) and transports from 2015. In 2016, Axis offset 2,917 tons CO₂ equivalents reduces exposure to extreme weather conditions and this figure is deducted from Axis’ total CO₂e employee compared to 2015. During the year, Axis CLCs to distributors. from business trips. The carbon offsetting is conducted soil erosion, protects the soil and conserves water in the emissions, the emissions per employee would be reduced electricity consumption per employee through Plan Vivo, in the Trees of Hope in Malawi project, ground better, which is important as Malawi occasionally Axis uses sea and road transports rather than 0.9 ton CO₂e per employee. To read more about from 2.8 MWh to 2.6, in other words by 7 percent. where trees such as mangos, citrus fruits and acacia faces severe droughts. air freight as far as possible. Configuration of carbon offsetting at Axis please see page 43. This was due to increased awareness among are planted in cooperation with small farmers. In 2016, the products at various CLCs and manufacturing With income from the project, farmers can buy livestock, employees and to the energy saving measures 16,033 trees were planted. This means that a further Axis’ travel policy encourages less travel, should occur as close to the markets as possible, food, seeds for planting and fertilizer, and also pay school implemented. 14 hectares of land have been covered with forest, whenever possible. During the year, Axis in order to have good flexibility as well as short fees and material for their children. conducted thousands of hours of webinar training Green leases equivalent to an area of 19 football pitches. transport times and lead times. Axis aims to keep Axis has a green lease since 2015 with one In 2016, this delivered direct assistance to 40 farmers and seminars and virtual meetings around the world, Apart from the fact that the trees absorb CO₂, this of its property owners for the headquarters their family members and to society at large. which helped reduce business trips. During 2016, project has many environmental and social benefits. The the installation began of videoconference systems in Lund. The lease means that Axis and the 2 Inbound and outbound transports are excluded. project provides food for consumption and sale, wood 44 Sustainability report 45 > During the year, Axis reduced electricity consumption per employee from 2.8 MWh to 2.6, in other words by 7 percent. In 2016, electricity consumption in the headquarters increased by 3 percent compared to the previous year. In 2015, electricity consumption per employee increased by 7.7 percent Axis has launched five new camera models where special The wall mount also features a totally new design, which Goals compared to 2014. focus has been placed on an environmentally-friendly means that the cameras can be easily mounted on a wall Reducing electricity consumption per employee design during the development process: AXIS M1065-LW, and easily taken down. at Axis Configuration and Logistics Center, CLC, AXIS M1045-LW, AXIS M1065-L, AXIS Companion Cube LW The cameras have a simple design and are easy to in Lund. and AXIS Companion Cube L. disassemble, which is an advantage during repairs and for and target fulfilment > During the year, Axis’ electricity consumption per employee increased from 5.1 to 5.7 MWh. Environmental aspects were taken into consideration by evaluating the design based on the criteria in the Green recycling in the final stage. The packaging is also minimal. The stand has been Product environmental impact Total energy consumption at Axis’ CLC in Design Evaluation Form, without compromising on the designed so that it can fit existing cardboard boxes. Low Reducing the overall environmental impact of the Lund decreased from 437 MWh in 2015 to requirements otherwise imposed on the cameras. packaging weight and volume reduces fuel consumption products. 404 MWh in 2016. The number of employees These environmental aspects include using recycled during transports, saving transport costs and reducing > Axis has performed life cycle analysis in order also decreased, which meant that electricity plastic instead of virgin plastic raw material, simplifying environmental impacts. to see where in the products’ overall life cycle consumption per employee increased. In 2014, assembly and disassemby in order to facilitate camera electricity consumption per employee was 5.3 Green Product Design group the environmental impact is the greatest and recycling and optimizing product packaging. MWh. Axis works systematically on integrating environmental to take measures to reduce it, such as reducing Transports Overall, about 64 percent of each camera is made with aspects into the product development processes. Axis energy consumption, phasing in recycled Reducing carbon emissions by 20 percent per tonrecycled plastic. Moreover, wall mounts and stands are Green Product Design group, which is composed of material, phasing out hazardous substances km in total freight transports by the end of 2016, made with recycled plastic The plastic largely comes from environmental and product development engineers, aims and reducing material waste. compared to 2011. CDs, water bottles and personal computers. to make design decisions in the product development > During the year, Axis mapped the potential of stage that minimize the products’ environmental impact. producing entirely halogen-free product and > In 2016, carbon emissions decreased by 14 Recycled plastic means that material, which is not have launched several new PVC-free models: percent per ton-km in total freight transports renewable, is utilized, saving natural resources and AXIS Q3615-VE, AXIS Q3617-VE, AXIS P3707compared to 2011. In 2015, carbon emissions reducing the climate impact, among other ways through PE, several variants of the AXIS Q35 series and per ton-km increased by 9.1 percent and lower CO₂ emissions, compared to virgin plastic raw also the AXIS M3044 series and AXIS M304X in 2014 carbon emissions decreased by 13 material. series. percent per ton-km compared to the previous year. Material Increasing the proportion of recycled material in Reducing carbon emissions for outbound its products. transports, in other words, transports from CLCs to distributors, by an average of 5 percent > In 2016, Axis developed five new products with compared to 2011. recycled plastic, where Axis has increased the proportion of recycled plastic from about 40 > Carbon emissions for outbound transports to more than 60 percent compared to previous decreased by 5 percent compared to the 64% similar products. carbon emissions in 2011. More than 60 percent of inbound transports Energy consumption in products and solutions measured in ton-km should consist of sea and Minimizing energy consumption throughout road freight. the product’s entire life cycle, from product recycled > Overall, 68 percent of all transports measured development to end of life. in ton-km were sea or road transports and 32 plastics > Axis continually works to further improve percent were air transports during the year. In energy efficiency in the cameras, while 2015, 65 percent of all transports measured optimizing functionality. in ton-km were sea or road transports and Energy consumption in the operations 35 percent were air transports. In 2014, 76 Reducing electricity consumption by five percent percent of all transports measured in ton-km per employee at the headquarters in Lund were sea or road transports and 24 percent compared to 2015. were air transports. 46 Sustainability report 47 67 other Asia 10 critical suppliers were trained by Supplier academy Long-term responsibility in the supply chain 247 102 of 247 suppliers considered suppliers have a major impact Axis from a Axis has long-term collaboration with its suppliers. Suppliers are sustainability regularly audited to ensure that they meet Axis’ requirements perspective relating to social and environmental responsibility in their operations. Axis’ ambition is that all product manufacturing 83 should occur in an environmentally, socially and Europe ethically responsible way. The company aims to 75 have long-term collaboration and partnership with its suppliers. Axis’ customers in turn impose requirements on to a contract manufacturer, a Configuration and 22 Central and China Logistics Center (CLC), a purchasing office or a how the company works with its suppliers; for North America research and development department. instance, control by Axis that manufacturing occurs in a responsible way and that suppliers Initiatives 2016 work with social and environmental questions. During the year, Axis held internal training for the 20 inspectors who perform on-site audits Axis has a total of 247 suppliers, of which 75 are at suppliers. Axis has also produced a new in China, 67 in the rest of Asia, 83 in Europe and questionnaire, which all suppliers must answer 22 in Central and North America. Six of these before collaboration starts. are contract manufacturers, which are located in Impacts and risks Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human Furthermore, suppliers when appropriate should China, Korea, Mexico, Thailand as well as two in In addition, Axis has altered the planning and Environmental impacts in the supply chain include rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. provide Axis with a declaration of materials Poland. Contract manufacturers produce printed follow-up of on-site supplier audits so that they mining of minerals and metals, extraction of This includes requirements prohibiting any listing substances that Axis does not allow and circuit boards and assemble the products. Axis’ address in an even better way the suppliers oil for plastic, consumption of biomaterial and form of child or compulsory labor, ensuring that are thus prohibited for suppliers to use in strategic component suppliers, which cast chassis where Axis sees the greatest risks. In cases timber and use of chemicals. Energy is consumed good working conditions, keeping control the company’s products. and manufacture cameras lenses and electronic where deviations are found during an audit, these in manufacturing and hazardous waste and on environmental impacts such as energy Suppliers should either be ISO 14001 certified components, among others things, are found all should result in an action plan, which should be pollution occurs. consumption, management of waste, chemicals or have a management system in accordance over the world. implemented by the supplier within three months. and emissions and having a well-functioning Employee risks include heavy work, exposure to with ISO 14001, and otherwise meet Axis’ New this year was an internal measure to confirm water purification system. Other requirements are 102 of the 247 suppliers are considered to have chemicals and long working days with a lot of requirements. that all discrepancies have been corrected, responsible sourcing of minerals in order to avoid a major impact on Axis from a sustainability overtime. Overtime implies a risk to employee verified and completed within six months. conflict minerals. Initial evaluation perspective. During the year, Axis gained 20 new health and safety as well as a risk in terms of All new suppliers should sign Axis’ Supplier suppliers. Other initiatives include drawing up a new product quality. Thus it is extremely important to In some cases, suppliers do not sign Axis’ Code of Conduct and are initially evaluated overtime policy in accordance with EICC’s have thorough health and safety directives at the Supplier of Code of Conduct, but instead refer to Axis carefully selects its suppliers for using a self-assessment questionnaire, before (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) workplaces. their own code of conduct. This is reviewed by manufacturing and assembly of the company’s collaboration is initiated. The questionnaire, guidelines, which will be implemented at all Axis in order to verify that it corresponds with products. The selection is made according to All Axis suppliers are expected, besides complying which suppliers should fill in, contains suppliers during 2017. requirements stated in Axis’ Supplier Conduct of the criteria: quality, price, business ethics, with laws and regulations, to follow Axis’ Supplier information about environmental considerations Conduct. environmental impact, flexibility, employee Axis has also imposed stricter requirements on Code of Conduct. such as chemical management, air and water working conditions such as the right to sign suppliers to more clearly show the traceability Axis introduced its Supplier Code of Conduct emissions and social responsibility, including collective agreements and freedom to join a of minerals. Axis is sending out a new document Supplier Code of Conduct in 2011 in order to increase and clarify supplier working conditions such as working hours and trade union, and respect for human rights, in no in order to ensure that the minerals they use are Suppliers are expected to sign and comply with requirements. The introduction has meant that employee health and safety. particular order of importance. When selecting conflict-free, supplementing the Supplier Code of Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based most suppliers collaborating with Axis have suppliers, selection criterias include closeness Conduct. Read more under Conflict minerals. on Axis’ Code of Conduct and the UN Global improved their sustainability work. 48 Sustainability report Contract manufacturers and strategic component Positive effects from Axis audits include reduced suppliers to be audited also need to fill in a chemical emissions in waste water and better “The seminar about the further document regarding how they meet Axis’ safety for employees in their workplaces, with Supplier Code of Conduct requirements relating to the environment, quality reduced risk of accidents and an improved and employee safety. working environment generally. Axis ensures that was very informative and suppliers address and handle environmental risks, Thorough supplier audits the content was delivered The supplier audits aim to follow up and ensure which are considered to be significant, resulting in a simple and easy to that suppliers meet the requirements in the in fewer risks in these areas. comprehend manner.” Supplier Code of Conduct. Axis has 20 inspectors. They have undergone environmental audit training, among other things. Andrew Arulnathan Both first-tier suppliers and contract Group Quality Assurance Manager, EKO manufacturers are screened as well as Audits during 2016 second-tier component suppliers. Suppliers are During the year, Axis had a die-casting supplier classified based on risk level, taking account in China under observation that needed to make of country, credibility and previous evaluations. major changes in line with Axis’ requirements. The supplier needed to correct waste management, Of 20 new Axis suppliers during the year, 11 have chemical management and also improve employee a material impact on Axis’ operations from a safety. Axis was prepared to terminate the sustainability perspective, and all of them were agreement with the supplier. Axis provided advice screened in respect of environmental impacts, Goals in relation to drawing up an action plan and labor conditions, human rights and antidefined what measures the supplier was obliged corruption. to implement for Axis to continue working with The audits are followed up regularly. This ensures them. The supplier was under observation for that the supplier meets Axis’ requirements and in a period and received no new orders from Axis those cases where measures are needed that they during this time. As the die-casting supplier and target fulfilment are also implemented. has made comprehensive improvements, the Suppliers collaboration will continue. During the actual inspection, environmental and > At least 95 percent of the suppliers that have quality engineers from Axis visit the factory. The No collaboration with suppliers was terminated a major impact on Axis from a sustainability inspections usually take one or two days. Axis during the year due to suppliers failing to meet perspective should have a management examines the supplier’s entire production process Axis’ requirements. system in place for environmental and other right up to final delivery. The audit covers the sustainability questions, which should be Apart from audits, Axis also conducts supplier factory’s environmental impact and employee approved by Axis, or they should be certified training in order to inform them about the working conditions. This includes working hours according to ISO 14001. company’s values and requirements, including and routines, whether child labor or compulsory within the Axis Supplier Academy framework. > 85 percent have such an Axis-approved labour occurs, noise levels, fire safety, waste and management system in place, or are ISO 14001 chemical management as well as identifying and Supplier Academy certified. In 2015, 83 percent of suppliers had measuring different types of emissions. Axis also Axis Supplier Academy is a program where Axis such a management system in place or were ensures that only conflict-free minerals are used. trains suppliers locally in environmental, working ISO 14001 certified. Furthermore, Axis reviews that processes and environment and other sustainability matters. systems are in place to ensure that the operations The training program aims to increase awareness > Axis also had a goal in 2016 to train at are conducted in an ethical way in every respect. and understanding of the requirements imposed least six suppliers, which are critical from a Interviews are conducted with the management by Axis and is particularly addressed towards sustainability perspective. During the year, and employees. the suppliers that are most critical from a 10 critical suppliers were trained. sustainability perspective. If it should become apparent that a supplier does not meet Axis’ requirements, then the supplier During the year, Axis trained 10 suppliers in has three months to implement corrective China and Malaysia within the Supplier Academy actions. If the measures are not carried out after framework, mainly casting shops. The training further discussions with Axis, then the supplier relates to the requirements Axis imposes under will not get any new business. In the next stage, the Supplier Code of Conduct. the suppler will be phased out. 50 Sustainability report Conflict minerals Axis works systematically to ensure that the company’s products do not contain any conflict minerals, in other words gold, tantalum, tin, or tungsten that finance conflicts in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or from any of the neighboring countries. Conflict minerals are a very important social and Furthermore, Axis expects all suppliers to act in ethical question. Their extraction creates disputes accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank and trading in the minerals finances armed Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, conflicts and can result in child and compulsory when applicable. Suppliers must also have policies labor. and measures of due diligence in place, enabling Axis to ensure that the products and components During the year, Axis imposed stricter supplied to Axis are conflict free. requirements on suppliers to more clearly show the traceability of the minerals. From Suppliers are expected to report where the 2016, Axis is sending out a new document, minerals in the products and the various “The Confirmation of Agreement Concerning components come from and any measures taken, Conflict Minerals”, where suppliers sign that they by using the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiatives investigate their own supply chain and advise (CFSI) reporting tool – Conflict Minerals Axis if conflict minerals are discovered. Axis Reporting Template. More than 80 percent of also collects further information from contract Axis’ suppliers have reported via this reporting manufacturers. tool. Axis’ conflict mineral policy prescribes that Upon preparation of this sustainability report, Axis does not accept, tolerate or engage in any Axis did not find any case during 2016 where sourcing activities, which may finance conflicts or conflict minerals were used in the components involve any form of violation of human rights or of products supplied to the company. If Axis compulsory labor. would discover that conflict minerals are used by any supplier, Axis will send a document to Axis follows recommendations and guidelines the supplier, providing details and an action plan from the electronic industry organization to end this practice. If the measures are not Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) implemented, Axis will suspend collaboration with and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) the supplier in question. regarding taking social responsibility in the entire supply chain. Axis has a well-established process for ensuring that the minerals used by suppliers and subcontractors are conflict free. In accordance with Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, all suppliers have undertaken to obtain necessary information about their supply chain in order to ensure that conflict minerals are not used. Suppliers must report the origin of the minerals and describe how they are working to ensure that their components and products only contain conflict-free minerals. This means that suppliers must identify and inform Axis about all smelters in the value chain that supply gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. 52 Sustainability report Social responsiblity Axis is the market leader in network video and has employees in more than 50 countries. The company’s products and solutions have a great impact on many people’s lives. Axis aims to act as a model and to offer an attractive and safe workplace. Axis takes long-term social responsibility and invests in social initatives that positively impact the company’s own operations and surroundings in the markets where the company operates. Axis should adopt a long-term approach in everything it does – in order to create a smarter and safer world. Employees Axis also collaborates with schools, colleges and > The occupational health service is offered at Europe. The Swedish survey had Committed and well-qualified employees are universities and offers internships for thesis work. many offices and employees can do regular a response rate of 89 percent “Axis has a plural workforce important factors behind Axis’ successful growth. Axis employees provide instruction at schools health checks. (2014:78 percent). The high response in order to inspire and explain how it is to work rate points to dedicated employees. Axis’ in terms of cultural Motivated employees and clear leadership are > HR managers ensure that all offices respect also crucial for Axis to reach its goals. as an engineer and about technology and also average trust index was 83 percent (2014: background, gender and contribute to research projects at Lund University. the working hours and that employees receive 82 percent). 91 percent of employees think Axis should be an attractive employer and offer reasonable salaries which follow agreements age. Job opportunities are a safe working environment, where employees Health and safety a good and safe workplace and local legislation. that Axis is a very good workplace (2014: 91 percent). Axis has improved in leadership and not affected by prejudice are happy and feel pride in what they do. All Axis wants to be an employer where people feel > Regular safety and fire prevention training is has received very good results in the areas such as against sexual employees should have good opportunities to happy and remain for a long time. The company’s conducted at most offices. of work environment, equal treatment, pride develop, irrespective of gender or background. view is that healthy employees do a better job; orientation and there is leading to greater creativity, more innovation > All employees have annual career development and wellbeing. Areas for improvement include Axis offers a safe and healthy working clarifying goals. a general atmosphere of and better results. Keeping down sickness rates discussions, where they have an opportunity environment with a strong corporate culture, All employees, managers and the board are to give their view of Axis as a workplace. acceptance and embracing good career and development opportunities and benefits both Axis as a company and society. Action plans are developed in connection with covered by policies such as the company’s differences.” competitive terms of employment. The company Discussions, training and follow-up development discussions. Working environment policy, Alcohol and drugs works actively to promote increased diversity and Axis follows national laws and sector guidelines in policy, Policy against harassment and Policy Rodrigo Guedes,PR specialist in South America equality. all the countries where the company operates and > Annual safety inspections and safety for safety during trips, where Axis collaborates imposes the same demands on its suppliers and committee meetings are held in Sweden. Continual and careful recruitment in all markets with SOS International and the security partners. Axis works strategically and proactively > All managers in Sweden participate in regular company Control Risks. In Sweden there is is crucial for Axis’ continued growth and to on continually improving its working environment. working environment training. also a Rehabilitation policy and Policy against further strengthen its position in the network As part of these efforts, collaboration with a new victimization. video market. During the year, Axis employed 391 > Employee surveys are conducted regularly in occupational health service partner was initiated people, of whom 106 were women and 285 were order to gain an insight into and knowledge Collective agreements and freedom to in Sweden during the year. men. In addition, the company also acquired the of the employees’ view of the leadership and join a trade union companies Citilog, 2N and Cognimatics during Axis is carrying out a number of initiatives with other workplace-related questions. In 2016, All employees in Sweden and 75 percent of the year, which meant that the total number of the aim of being a good and safe workplace: A Great Place To Work surveys (AGPTW) the total number of employees are covered employees at year-end amounted to 2,646 (2,139). were conducted in Sweden, USA and Central by collective agreements. All employees have 54 Sustainability report 55 Think Big. > A new policy against victimization was drawn business strategy and gain an insight into the dynamism in a rapidly growing organization like up for Axis in Sweden. various operational areas. Axis. All employees are expected to be engaged and take responsibility for what they do. As regards equality, Axis has a network, the Axis > IP@Axis (Internal Projects at Axis), a job Act as one. Q Network, for female employees in Sweden. The rotation and international exchange program Axis works systematically to strengthen the aim is for women to meet, exchange experience where employees get the chance to travel and corporate culture as it is of critical importance and ideas with other women outside their own work in another Axis office globally during a that the employees share the company’s values. department and facilitate career development. limited period, either as part of a project or to This cultural matching during recruitments Always open. During the year, Axis continued to participate learn something specific. The program aims to is therefore extremely important and the in initiatives to increase interest in technology improve the utilization of different employee recruitment process is extremely thorough. The Goals among girls such Flickor på Teknis and Datatjej, competencies and learn from each other in corporate culture and values are important parts and also participated as a speaker at Lund order to become even more efficient, increase of the introduction program for new employees, University Lund and at the Female Engineering networking, strengthen the corporate culture and also in other training and employee programs. Network. and enables personal and career development the right to join trade unions and to negotiate Axis’ core values Always open, Act as one and for the employees. collective agreements, in accordance with local Policies and Code of Conduct Think big are cornerstones in the culture work. and target fulfilment legislation and what is applicable in each country. All employees, managers and the board comply > Axis Win Win Academy, a program for all This means being open to the ideas of colleagues Non-discrimination, diversity and equal with policies such as the company’s Harassment Key Account Managers and regional sales and customer needs, working together to reach Non-discrimination, diversity and equal opportunities and equality policy and Code of Conduct. The managers. the company’s established goals, remaining at opportunities the leading edge and creating the best products > Advancing the company’s position as an policies clearly lay down the responsibilities of Further training and initiatives, particularly for Axis does not tolerate any form of discrimination and solutions for customers. The values are also employer with regard to equality and diversity. each person. salespeople and managers is conducted in all or harasssment whatsover, for example based a key part of kickoff events, criteria in setting of regions and adapted to the needs of the various > During the year, Axis participated in on gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, national Good career and development opportunities salaries and in career development discussions regions and countries. initiatives to improve diversity at the origins, religious belief, age, civil status or Axis offers good career and training opportunities etc. All employees should understand Axis’ goals, workplace such as Commitment Skåne and functional impairment. and competitive working conditions in order to Training adapted to individual needs is also vision and values. Talent without borders. attract and retain committed and knowledgeable offered to employees, in consultation with their Axis’ view is that equality and diversity regarding All the company’s policies are based on the employees. The company’s bonus program covers respective managers. > Axis’ female network Axis Q Network background, competencies or other attributes core values. Last year, a core value toolbox all employees. Salaries for all employees are has promoted exchange of knowledge and fosters innovation, new thinking and employee Axis also offers the following training initiatives was launched and is used by managers in the reviewed annually. women’s careers. wellbeing. This is a competitive advantage and in order to strengthen leadership: organization. This includes modules containing helps the employees to feel proud about Axis – As a global expanding company, good career problems in order to conduct exercises and > Promoting external initiatives to raise the that Axis takes responsibility and upholds the > International Program for New Leaders, a 10 status of women in technology in society. development opportunities exist for employees. to facilitate discussions with their teams and equal value of all people. In turn, this results in month management training program. During the year, Axis helped with financing During the year, Axis had a strong focus on departments. employees becoming ambassadors, models and improving internal mobility and internal career > New managers at Axis, leadership training for and participated in Flickor på Teknis and good advocates for Axis. paths, which meant that a number of employees managers at the headquarters in Lund. Ethics and anti-corruption Datatjej, among other initiatives. changed positions in the company. Part of the corporate culture is to be a company Women and men should have the same > Axis Leadership Program, a leadership program pervaded by good ethics. Axis has zero tolerance > Zero tolerance towards discrimination and opportunities to make a career. Axis aims Training for all managers in Sweden. against all types of bribery and corruption. harassment. No incidents of discrimination to ensure that all employees with identical The company provides several training courses for Essentially all employees have signed an were reported during the year. Nor did any > Mentorship program. such incidents occur during 2015 or 2014. qualifications should have the same salary for employees as well as managers. During the year, agreement whereby they undertake not to accept identical performance and responsibility. Axis mapped the training needs and what training Corporate culture and values bribes or participate in corruption, in accordance Health and safety was carried out. Together with an external Axis’ corporate culture, with strong values, with the company’s anti-corruption policy. > An absence due to illness rate of 2.2 percent. During the year, a number of initiatives were partner, Axis quality assured and matched represents the basis for all operations and is New employees sign the agreement when they In 2016, absence due to illness amounted implemented in order to promote greater equality training needs with conducted training in an even constantly present in the day-to-day work are hired by Axis, after participating in antiand diversity: to 2.5 percent. In 2015, the figure was 2.4 better way. and in the leadership. All employees and the corruption training (see below). The agreement is percent and in 2014 it was 2.2 percent. > Axis in Sweden participated in initiatives to board should comply with the Code of Conduct, continually renewed after this. integrate newly arrived persons into society Another new initiative this year was recruitment > Work even more strategically and proactively act according to it and take responsibility for such as Commitment Skåne and Talent without training for all managers, with definite tips and Employees and managers should participate in with working environment questions. Axis upholding the company’s values. borders. Read more about Axis’ engagement advice for what to consider in order to ensure anti-corruption training on a regular basis. Almost has initiated collaboration with a new that the right person is recruited to the right This unique corporate culture is a key factor all employees and managers completed webto get new arrivals into the labor market on occupational health service partner in Sweden. position. behind Axis’ successful performance and provides based training during the year. Even employees page 57. a basis for continued strong global growth and > Managers and employees should have a good Training programs include: in the companies acquired during the year have > Axis has expanded its collaboration with the for reaching the company’s goals. The corporate insight into how Axis works with working started anti-corruption training and have signed Employment Service in Sweden in order to > An introduction program at the headquarters culture is characterized by an entrepreneurial environment questions. The company has Axis’ anti-corruption policy. recruit new arrivals and people with various in Lund for all new employees, so that they spirit, openness and responsibility and is and conducted global information campaigns types of functional impairments. will learn the corporate culture, core values, has been crucial to maintaining innovation and during the year. 82% 56 Sustainability report 57 Employees with Average age university education Axis in figures Axis participates in initiatives to get new arrivals into “This initiative is a fantastic way to make a social incl. Citilog, 2N the labor market faster. This work occurs as part of the contribution. We are contributing our knowledge while and Cognimatics Commitment Skåne framework. In this way, Axis makes a it also an excellent opportunity to find people with good 2016 2016 2015 2014 contribution to society while it is also a good opportunity to find potential employees, since the company has a and relevant skills and experience,” says Magnusson. Axis has displayed strong growth and has a continual Number of employees 2,365 2,646 2,139 1,941 continual recruitment need. recruitment need. Proportion women/men, % 27/73 26/74 27/73 27/73 Since fall 2015, Axis has participated in the Commitment Up to the time of preparing this report, Axis had two Skåne initiative whose purpose is to facilitate and shorten Group Management 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 8 men 2 women, 7 men 2 women, 7 men trainees, both engineers. The trainee positions create the time it takes for new arrivals to enter the labor the basis for people to gain permanent employment, Board of Directors 2 women, 8 men, a of whom 2 women, 8 men, of whom 1 woman, 7 men of whom 1 woman, 7 men market and promote faster integration into society. either with Axis or with some other company, by getting 2 women and 3 men are 2 women and 3 men are 1 woman and 2 men are of whom 2 men are When new arrivals have obtained their residence permit, a reference in the labor market. One person who is employee representatives employee representatives employee representatives employee representatives they can register with the Swedish Employment Service gaining work experience at Axis has a trainee position (Arbetsförmedlingen). After this companies, including that extends into 2017 and another person has obtained Employee turnover, % 7.7 8.6 7.3 6.8 Axis, are offering trainee positions via Commitment permanent employment. Workplace accidents 15 of which 17 of which 7 of which 9 of which Skåne − collaboration between companies and “There has been increasing interest and involvement 0 fatal accidents 0 fatal accidents 0 fatal accidents 0 fatal accidents Arbetsförmedlingen in the southern Swedish province of internally and we expect to receive further trainees,” Number of accidents with lost 6 8 N/A N/A Skåne. says Magnusson. workdays as a result “Trainee positions are a good way to judge people’s Axis also participates in the Talent without borders Number of lost workdays 44 61 N/A N/A professional skills, instead of needing to wait to get their project, which is part of Commitment Skåne. Under the competencies and certificates translated and evaluated,” Absence due to illness, % 2.5 N/A 2.4 2.2 Talent without borders framework, Axis offers interview says Matilda Magnusson, HR Coordinator whose remit training and help with CV reviews. Nine people have Average age 39 39 39 38 includes diversity questions. received help to date. Age distribution, employees, % Axis was one of the first companies to get involved in “Internally, people are proud that Axis is taking its social Commitment Skåne, and today a number of companies Under 30 years 14 16 14 17 responsibility,” says Magnusson. participate. 30-50 years 75 73 76 75 “For recent arrivals, trainee positions are a way to Over 50 years 11 11 10 8 experience Swedish organizational culture, which can be very different from the culture they are used to. It is Age distribution, group management % also a way for new arrivals to gain an insight into how Under 30 years 0 0 0 0 Swedish working life operates,” says Magnusson. 30-50 years 80 80 80 80 Apart from recruitment, trainee positions and evaluation of professional skills, Commitment Skåne works with Over 50 years 20 20 20 20 study visits, mentorship and on creating meeting places. Age distribution, board of directors % Under 30 years 0 0 0 0 30-50 years 50 50 50 40 Internally, people are proud Over 50 years 50 50 50 60 that Axis is taking its social Employees with 82 79 80 81 university education, % responsibility.” Matilda Magnusson, HR-koordinator 58 Sustainability report Business ethics in the entire value chain Axis is a market leader and drives the development of innovative and intelligent security solutions. Axis has long and close relationships with its distributors, partners and suppliers, which helps to ensure ethical business conduct in the entire value chain. All business relationships should be handled in a responsible, transparent, credible and consistent way. During the year, Axis advanced its positions Long-term partner relationships on the basis of watchwords such as responsibility, Axis’ Code of Conduct. In some cases, and worked in an even more focused way on Long-term relationships with partners is one of professionalism, openness and honesty. suppliers do not sign Axis’ Supplier of Code prioritizing sustainability questions and increasing the cornerstones of Axis’ business model. Axis of Conduct, but instead refer to their own Code. Axis Code of Conduct awareness of them, not just in its own operations has more than 90,000 partners in 179 countries. This is reviewed by Axis in order to verify that Axis’ Code of Conduct lays down the values and but also among other players in the value chain. Together with its partners, Axis has a global it corresponds with Axis’ Supplier Conduct of guidelines upon which Axis conducts its business. Axis’ sustainability efforts are appreciated and base of installed network video products and Conduct in terms of content. The Code of Conduct is based on the UN Global have been well-received by the company’s solutions. A key part of the collaboration with Compact’s ten principles, the UN Declaration UN Global Compact stakeholders. partners is the sharing of knowledge. Axis offers of Human Rights and the International Labor The UN Global Compact is the world’s biggest its partners a number of different training courses Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Customers are increasingly asking for eco-friendly sustainability initiative and is based on ten and programs. Read more about the collaboration Principles and Rights at Work. All employees products, for example network cameras, which principles in the areas of human rights, labor, with partners on page 10, 15 and 34. and the board should comply with the Code of are PVC-free with low energy consumption. environment and anti-corruption. Axis signed Distributors seek assistance from Axis with Axis informs its partners about its sustainability Conduct, which sets out how employees should the UN Global Compact in 2007 and has their sustainability efforts, in order to ensure work with the aim that all parties should act in an act in business-related situations, internally and worked according to its guidelines ever since. long-term sustainable conduct, right up to how ethical and sustainable way. externally. Information about what is implied by The principles provide guidance for how Axis end customers use Axis products. Axis has the Code of Conduct is included as part of the conducts its sustainability work. For a list of the Ethical guidelines, policies and regulations introduction program for new employees. Axis’ regular meetings with its distributors, where ten principles, see page 67. All business should be conducted in a responsible core values and strong corporate culture help to sustainability – from an environmental, social way, be in accordance with applicable laws and ensure openness and honesty. and ethical perspective – is an important item on regulations and be consistent with the company’s the agenda. Regular end customers meetings also Supplier Code of Conduct policies. take place at Axis ensuring a continual dialogue Axis’ suppliers for manufacturing and assembly regarding sustainability. An ethical approach is a part of the day-to-day of the company’s products are carefully selected. work, where all employees are expected to work All suppliers are expected to sign and comply with according to the company’s core values and act Axis’ Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on 60 Sustainability report Zero tolerance against corruption Axis has a policy of zero tolerance against all types of corruption. During the year, Axis further advanced its position in relation to its anti-corruption work. Upon preparation of this sustainability report, there were no known cases of bribes or corruption during 2016. Axis as a company and all its employees shall also report suspected cases of irregularities maintain the very highest standards when it concerning the company, and if they should “In order to meet and exceed comes to correct ethical and moral conduct, become aware of anything that violates the our customers’ expectations in all business relationships. In the business company’s Code of Conduct. environment where Axis operates, it is not for quality and reliability, we possible to rule out that Axis employees can The aim of the e-mail function is to obtain information if anything happens that may must ensure a sustainable come into contact with corruption. Axis therefore contravene the anti-corruption policy or Code supply chain that meets our works actively to identify and handle risks of Conduct, improve sharing of knowledge and relating to bribes, corruption and conflicts of requirements for ethical and interest, in order to protect both the individual create an understanding of what issues are relevant for employees. This also helps to develop responsible procurement. and Axis as a company. working methods for how Axis can improve Our suppliers, such as Axis, Policies and training for employees, its work on ethical questions, and to ensure must have the same focus distributors, partners and suppliers. continual further training. Axis’ anti-corruption policy prescribes that on quality and sustainable all business relationships should occur in a A description of the e-mail function and how it works is available on the Intranet. The e-mail production as we have.” responsible, transparent, consistent and credible address goes to representatives from Human way. This policy is part of Axis’ program against Tomi Rintanen, Sustainability Manager, Vaisala Resources and to the company management. bribes, corruption and conflicts of interests, and helps to clarify Axis’ position on these questions. The company’s distributors and partners, in The policy covers all employees and the board. addition to opposing corruptions and bribes, are expected to follow applicable laws and The anti-corruption policy stipulates that Axis’ regulations. Axis informs its partners so that they employees should not offer, accept or participate act in accordance with anti-corruption legislation in any activity that includes any form of bribe. in the best possible way. For example, this occurs Almost all employees have signed a document at partner conferences, through web seminars where they undertake to comply with Axis’ and in newsletters to partners. anti-corruption policy. All employees receive compulsory training in what Axis’ anti-corruption Essentially all distributors have signed a policy implies. The board has also revised and supplement to the distributor agreement where approved the anti-corruption policy. they undertake to act according to applicable laws and rules relating to bribes and corruption. Working actively with anti-corruption questions is also part of Axis’ obligations under the UN The Supplier Code of Conduct also includes zero Global Compact’s anti-corruption principle. tolerance against bribes and corruption. If a supplier should breach the Code of Conduct, it Axis also has an e-mail address which employees gets the chance to implement improvements. If can write to in order to obtain support and ask this does not happen, the supplier is phased out questions relating to corruption as well as ethical and replaced. dilemmas and challenges. Employees can ask questions and send in information they want to share regarding resolved problems. They can 62 Sustainability report 63 Protection of customer privacy Customer and personal integrity satisfaction Goals and target fulfilment Axis’ intelligent security solutions enable a smarter and safer world. Anti-corruption Axis has long-lasting and close collaboration with its customers. Use of surveillance solutions for increased security and protection Axis has zero tolerance against all types of Long-lasting customer relationships and satisfied customers are of as well as smart solutions, e.g. for traffic monitoring and for various corruption and bribes. great importance for Axis’ long-term growth and success. types of intelligent analysis shall always safeguard personal > Almost all employees, including the company integrity and customer privacy. Axis conducts regular customer surveys among As a part of Axis’ corporate culture, employees management, have signed the company’s distributors and partners all over the world in the are encouraged to interact with customers in anti-corruption policy and have participated in For Axis and the company’s partners, it is to further enhance security in order to protect Privacy masking may be used in order to protect markets where the company operates, in order to order to obtain first hand information about how training in these questions. In 2014 and 2015, extremely important that both personal integrity customer information. personal integrity. This automatically blurs faces understand customers and meet their needs. The they perceive the collaboration with the company practically all employees received training in Axis’ and customer privacy are handled correctly. This and hides some parts of the images and also surveys measure how satisfied customers are with as well as the company’s products and solutions. anti-corruption policy and signed the policy. Axis’ research and development department is essential in order to comply with laws and rules includes time restrictions for recording. Axis and how they think that Axis can improve In this way, Axis can further develop and improve always attaches the highest priority to security and is crucial for having loyal customers and > Almost all of the company’s distributors have and works to ensure that firmware and interfaces Legal restrictions for use of surveillance its working methods, products and solutions. The its customer relationships, to ensure continued maintaining long-term competitiveness. signed a supplement to the distributor agreement are robust. technologies and international trade restrictions result is evaluated against previously conducted satisfied customers. where they undertake to act according to During the year, Axis further increased its focus such as sanctions and embargoes, affect exports surveys. The information is then circulated to the Axis’ products and solutions support encryption, applicable laws and rules relating to corruption on IT security. Questions relating to IT security and sales of certain products to some countries. relevant departments in the organization, so that IP address filtering and also enable user and bribes. The supplementary agreement was have also gained an increasingly prominent role in Axis can make improvements. The objective is to authentication protection, multi-stage logins and By carefully following national and international introduced in 2014. the dialogue with distributors and partners. always be able to improve the offering. other forms of data protection. Axis also offers laws, applying sector-specific best practice > Almost all suppliers have signed the Supplier Protected systems training to its installation engineers to ensure and using technical innovations, Axis strives to Global customer surveys are conducted among Code of Conduct, where they undertake to oppose sales channel participants every second year. The 81% Axis’ network cameras and solutions are that video surveillance system installations are as ensure the least possible impact on personal bribes and corruption and have zero tolerance components in security systems. Network safe as possible. integrity. Meanwhile, users can still obtain the latest customer survey was carried out in 2015 against corruption. In those cases where suppliers devices may be exposed to threats. Axis strives increased security and protection offered by video and more than 11,000 partners in 47 countries Secure use and storage have not signed, but instead refer to their own to eliminate all types of vulnerability before an surveillance solutions. responded. 81 percent of respondents were very End users are responsible for how surveillance Code of Conduct, Axis has reviewed it. incident is likely to occur, regardless of whether satisfied with Axis. A large proportion of those cameras are utilized and for how video material is Openness and dialogue it concerns an individual camera or a larger who answered the latest survey considered Upon preparation of this sustainability report, stored, which are the two most important aspects Axis safeguards openness and invites its solution. that product quality, services and people were no known cases of bribes or corruption had of personal integrity. Axis is careful with its distributors to inspect and check how Axis stores Axis greatest assets. Among other things, Axis occurred during the year. Nor did the company choice of partners, and works actively to inform In order to ensure customer privacy and them in order to ensure as far as possible that the and handles information. No distributors have received high ratings for its IP technology 81% very satisfied with Axis become aware of any cases of corruption confidential information, all information about elected to do so to date. leadership and understanding of the market. The during 2014 or 2015. company’s network cameras and solutions are 57% customers and partners is handled in very next global customer survey is planned to be well-protected systems. Axis works continually installed and used properly. The risk of improper At Axis’ partner meetings, questions relating Customer satisfaction camera use is reduced by partners and end users to personal integrity and IT security in the conducted in 2017. NPS* Axis aims to have long and close customer acting in accordance with Axis’ recommendations company’s products are continually discussed. Furthermore, worldwide users of Axis’ support relationships. The latest global customer survey, and guidelines and with national and international Questions relating to customer privacy and have the opportunity to provide feedback which was conducted in 2015, showed at 81 laws. personal integrity are dealt with immediately from their experience. This occurs on a regular percent of customers were very satisfied with by the company and taken extremely seriously. basis after cases are closed. The information is Axis. Technological innovations in network video enable During 2016, one incident occurred where a gap compiled every quarter. * Net Promoter Score (NPS) is a method for anonymization and functionality restrictions, Customer privacy and personal integrity was found in the security system in some of measuring customer loyalty. It is calculated as which increase personal integrity protection. If a customer is not satisfied, a follow-up takes Axis shall handle customer privacy and personal Axis’ products. As soon as it was discovered, Axis follows: Together with its partners, Axis has developed place if possible. If the product in some respect integrity in a correct and secure manner. During advanced software solutions, which when immediately updated its software and corrected is not perceived as satisfactory by the customer, NPS = % Promoters % Detractors. The index 2016, one incident occurred that concerned implemented in surveillance systems, may be used the problem. Axis had processes in place and including documentation or the handling of a ranges from -100 to 100, which means that customer privacy. The problem was rectified to further enhance data protection and to ensure could rapidly inform all partners and customers case, the information is relayed to the relevant a figure over 0 is positive and a result over immediately. No such incidents or complaints that the cameras only record what is necessary. that could have been affected. development. 50 percent is very good. occurred in 2015 or 2014. 64 Sustainability report 65 Axis in society Sweden Axis sponsors sports associations, sporting and cultural events such as the Lundaloppet run and Czech Republic Axis in the Czech Republic donated Christmas presents to Children Safety Line, an organization, charity and sponsorship educational initiatives such as Flickor på Teknis, which supports children and young people aimed at encouraging girls to apply to technical up to the age of 26 with family problems or training courses. Instead of giving Christmas psychological/personal problems. Children Safety presents to personnel, Axis provided money to a Line has certified psychologists and specialists girls’ school in Hekima, Tanzania, to the Swedish who can assist and solve difficult life situations, Cancer Society and to Doctors Without Borders. anonymously. Axis’ social responsibility Axis participates in Commitment Skåne, whose Axis employees also spent a day cleaning the includes charity and purpose is to faciltate and shorten the time it Prokopské údolí nature reserve in Prague, where sponsorship. Axis contributes takes for new arrivals to enter the labor market they cut the grass, cleared leaves and twigs and to the local community in the and promote faster integration into society (see picked up rubbish. separate article). markets where the company operates, including through Poland In Poland, Axis donated money to the charitable sponsorship of educational organization Mimo Wszystko, instead of giving projects and sports associations, Axis donates Christmas presents. Mimo Wszystko helps adults local environmental initiatives sanitary articles that have intellectual functional impairments, and donations to charitable every month, such as with medical treatment and rehabilitation, among schampoo and soap, Axis employees other things. organizations. to the Red Cross. spent a day cleaning Taking social responsibility and the Prokopské údolí having a social commitment are nature reserve in part of Axis’ strategy. Charitable Prague. initiatives and sponsorship are usually initiated and conducted at a local level. The projects contribute to the local community and also benefit Axis Axis employees knitted caps for and the company’s employees. Save the Children. Some of the initiatives Mexiko undertaken and projects Together with the IT and security company completed during the year are Suro Systems, Axis donated network cameras described below. USA and a security installation to Imagina Centro In the USA, Axis was involved in a number of Comuniario, an ecological and cultural center for charitable initiatives. These included Mission 500, children and young people. This allows children Republic of Korea In the Republic of Korea, Axis employees a not-for-profit organization, which helps children and young people with limited educational knitted woollen caps for the non-governmental in need. Axis participated in Security 5K, Security opportunities to develop their cultural skills. organization Save the Children. The caps are used Softball Game, the annual Golf Classic and in the The solution has created a safe and secure to keep infants warm at night and thus prevent Security Industry Hockey Classic in order to raise environment for staff, children and young people. deaths, which can occur when children suffer a money for the organization. Axis also particpated Denisse Bistré Foundation is a home for girls chill during winter nights. in Mission 500’s annual trip to the Appalachia and boys who have been abandoned and/or region of West Virginia, where employees spent three days together with volunteers helping subjected to violence. The Foundation offers Singapore training, psychological help, food, clothes etc. families in need, including repairing trailers to The not-for-profit organization Children Cancer until the children reach the age of 18. Axis has make them safer. Food is also donated to children Foundation aims to improve quality of life for given them cameras, in order to create a safer in need through the Mission 500 framework. children with cancer and their families. Axis has environment, and also contributed food and shoes worked together with Children Cancer Foundation to a Christmas party. and financed a terrarium with plants that the Furthermore, Axis is donating sanitary articles children built, and also provided the children every month, such as schampoo and soap, to the with gift vouchers for books. Axis also donated Red Cross. These necessities are intended for the refurbished cameras to Angkor Hospital. patients who are treated there. 66 Sustainability report 67 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA & Description Page indicator About the ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Material aspect: Materials (DMA) EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 40 sustainability report Material aspect: Energy (DMA) EN5 Energy intensity 40,42 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 42 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 40 The sustainability report follows Global Reporting The sustainability report contains the During the year, Axis acquired Citilog, 2N and Comment: No indicator data available for 2016. Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines for sustainability sustainability aspects, which are most important Cognimatics, but these companies are not Material aspect: Emissions (DMA) reporting, G4. for Axis and the company’s stakeholders, the included in the reported figures. The figures EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 41-44 aspects’ boundaries and a description of how Axis include Axis’ own operations, unless otherwise EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 41-42,44 Axis reports according to the Core standard. handles these aspects. Certain indicators that stated. EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 41-44 The sustainability report also constitutes Axis’ Axis reports on refer to the 2016 Annual Report. Communication on Progress report to UN Global EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 41-42,44 Explanatory comments are provided for some of Compact. EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 41-44 the indicators. Material aspect: Products and services (DMA) EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products 38-40,44 and services GRI index Material aspect: Transport (DMA) GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting 41-44 Global Compact Index Description Page Description Page members of the workforce Principle Page Material aspect: Supplier environmental assessment (DMA) STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each Material Aspect 34-35 EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental 46-49 criteria HUMAN RIGHTS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 6 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, 3 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy and the reasons for such restatements EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the 46-49 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 28,47,50 supply chain and actions taken internationally proclaimed human rights; and ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and 33-35 Aspect Boundaries. SOCIAL IMPACT Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 46-50 G4-3 Name of the organization Cover STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Material aspect: Occupational health and safety (DMA) LABOR G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 4-5,18-19 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 30-31 LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 52-53 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 53-54 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters 115 absenteeism and total number of work-related fatalities, by region 55-56 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 30-31 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates 5 and by gender. Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 46-50 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 31 Comment: The data were not found to be relevant to break down G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 104-105 further. Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and 46-50 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 31 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and engagement, and how the organization has responded to these key Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity (DMA) Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 46-49 types of customers/beneficiaries) 5,13-17 topics and concerns and occupation. 54-55 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 5 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 54-56 REPORT PROFILE employee category according to gender, age group, minority group ENVIRONMENTAL G4-10 Breakdown of workforce 56 membership, and other indicators of diversity. G4-28 Reporting period 29 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 40 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 53 Comment: Only gender and age have been found relevant for breakenvironmental challenges; G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Comment: April 7, 2016. down of data G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 34-35,46-48 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 38-45 G4-30 Reporting cycle 29 Material aspect: Supplier assessment for labor practices (DMA) responsibility; and G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 3,29,46 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 115 LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices 46-50 structure, ownership, or supply chain Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 38-45 G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen, GRI Content Index 29,66 criteria friendly technologies. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 40 for the chosen option and reference to the External Assurance Report, LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in 46-50 addressed by the organization. ANTI-CORRUPTION if the report has been externally assured the supply chain and actions taken G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 28,40 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 55,60 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or 50 Material aspect: Non-discrimination (DMA) including extortion and bribery Comment: Axis has not sought external assurance for the report. The which it endorses HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 54-55 report has been prepared with guidance from external consultants with G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy 29 GRI expertise. Material aspect: Supplier human rights assessment (DMA) organizations DMA=Disclosure on Management Approach GOVERNANCE HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights 46-50 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES criteria G4-34 Governance structure 28-29 G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial sta29 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the 46-50 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY tements or equivalent documents and whether any entity included in supply chain and actions taken the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent doG4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior cuments is not covered by the report such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 28, 54-55, 59 Material aspect: Anti-corruption (DMA) G4-18 Process for defining the report content, the Aspect Boundaries and how 31-32 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 55,60,63 the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 63 Report Content Material aspect: Product and service labeling (DMA) G4-19 Material aspects identified 33 PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 63 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each Material Aspect 34-35 Väsentlig aspekt: Customer privacy (DMA) PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 62,63 customer privacy and losses of customer data Administration report 69 Administration report Axis AB is a public Swedish stock corporation with its registered office in Axis’ growth strategy is primarily to grow organically but also to work Lund, Sweden. The company is registered in Sweden under the corporate with acquisitions as a complement. During the year, we made three identity number 556241-1065. Since 2015, Axis AB is part of the Canon strategic acquisitions aimed at broadening our overall offering. group with Canon Inc as the ultimate parent company. The hedge fund Elliott Capital holds, through direct or indirect ownership, an equity During the first quarter, Axis acquired the French company Citilog, which interest that exceeds 10 percent. These financial statements were has specialist competence in intelligent video monitoring of traffic and approved by the board of directors on March 29, 2017. transport. The acquisition strengthens both Axis offering in the transportation segment and the opportunities to provide overall solutions in the Operations growing traffic analytics market. During the second quarter, Axis acquired Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter and safer the Czech company 2N and the Swedish company Cognimatics. 2N is a world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the trend leader in IP intercom, in other words, IP entry phones and the company in the industry by continually releasing innovative network products also works with IP audio and communication solutions for elevators. based on open platforms, which deliver increased value to customers Cognimatics develops software for the retail segment, with applications and are distributed through a global partner network. Axis has long-term e.g. for counting customers and queue measurement, which add value to relationships with partners and provides them with knowledge and Axis network video cameras. groundbreaking network products in existing and new markets. Axis has taken over sales of Canon’s network video products in EMEA and Axis has more than 2,600 dedicated employees in more than 50 countries North America. During the second half of 2016, Axis released a network The Board of Directors and President submit the following around the world, supported by a network of over 90,000 partners. camera with 20MP resolution that was developed by Axis in collaboration financial statements and consolidated financial statements Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company and is listed on with Canon. For instance, the camera may be used for detailed surveilfor the fiscal year January 1, 2016–December 31, 2016. Nasdaq Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. lance of large areas where the camera can zoom in on objects from a very long distance. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are in SEK millions. Significant events during the fiscal year Information in parenthesis refers to the preceding year. Axis’ current strategy involves meeting customers’ security needs through Axis geographical markets, EMEA, Americas and Asia, showed a stable overall solutions in a world where more and more devices are connected. performance during the year but with some variations. Asia is a region The goal is to offer a broad range of the most relevant products and that is dominated by intense local competition and strong price pressure. Contents together with partners supply product packages and services relating In the mature markets in Europe and the US, special focus was placed on to security solutions that contain more than just network video. After products for smaller installations. In growth countries, the market is still almost 20 years of work with the “internet of things”, Axis is also primarily concentrated on large installations. well-equipped to take a leading role in future developments. Administration report 69 Notes 80 The interest in network video and supplementary offerings is well spread This solution-oriented business model means that Axis is taking greater over a number of sectors and fields of application. During the year, Consolidated statement of Signatures 96 and broader service responsibility in relation to partners and end several interesting deals were completed with major chain stores, public comprehensive income 73 Audit report 97 customers. Meanwhile, it is critical to remain at the cutting edge with authorities and within the transportation sector. The close collaboration Consolidated balance sheet 74 high-tech, innovative and competitive products. with partners, distributors, resellers and application developers continued Multi-year summary 100 during 2016. Within the partner programs, members were trained in the Consolidated statement of On the product side during the year, Axis for example released improved benefits of network video in general and Axis’ product range in particular. changes in equity 75 Quarterly data 102 At the end of the year, over 90,000 companies were part of the various “Zipstream” technology enabling greater data transfer without Definitions 103 increased bandwidth and storage requirements, a laser focus function, partner programs. Consolidated cash flow statement 76 which enhances camera image quality in poor lighting conditions and Parent company income Corporate governance report 104 network-connected speakers that broaden Axis’ offering in the retail Sustainability statement 77 segment, among other areas. Sustainability is an important and natural part of Axis’ operations. The Board of Directors and Auditors 111 company takes environmental, social and economic responsibility. Axis Parent company statement of Sales to the customer groups small, medium and enterprise customers, acts in an ethical and transparent way in all its business relationships. Management team 112 comprehensive income 77 all developed positively. For smaller installations, a packaged solution Axis has high ambitions and customers are also imposing stricter Glossary 114 was released during the year under the name Axis Companion Line. This requirements on the company to meet their expectations of being a susParent company balance sheet 78 was very positively received and the project is an example of what can tainable supplier from an environmental, ethical and social perspective. Invitation to the Annual be achieved when different departments and competencies at Axis work Parent company statement of General Meeting 115 creatively together. For medium-sized customers, releases included Site In 2007, Axis signed the UN’s Global Compact, which means that Axis changes in equity 79 Designer software, which helps partners and customers to design security observes its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environFinancial information 2017 115 Parent company cash flow solutions based on unique customer needs and requirements. For large ment and anti-corruption. Axis complies with global export control statement 79 customers, the approach of assuming a greater overall responsibility regulations in order to ensure that all business is conducted in a was taken one step further, which means deeper collaboration with our responsible and correct manner. A sustainability report has partners and channel partners to solve end customer needs. been compiled for the operations every year since 2010. 70 Administration report Administration report 71 For the third consecutive year, Axis reports according to Global Reporting current receivables made a negative contribution of SEK 25 M (-300) and Group key ratios The retirement age for the President shall be 65. The pension insurance Initiative’s guidelines G4, Core level. SEK 261 M (-184) respectively, while current liabilities had a positive 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 premium shall amount to 35 percent of the pensionable salary up to a impact of SEK 236 M (59) on the net amount. The increase in inventories Net sales, SEK M 7,386 6,635 5,450 4,717 4,184 maximum of 28.5 basic amounts. For a salary in excess of 28.5 basic Axis implemented a number of measures during the year. These included was largely explained by the appreciation of the USD in relation to the Profit before tax, SEK M 884 881 714 637 569 amounts, a premium of 25 percent shall be paid. The ITP agreement shall be climate-compensating for business trips, drawing up a new environmental SEK as well as operational expansion. Net investments during the year Total assets, SEK M 4,009 3,038 2,207 1,943 1,696, applied for other senior executives, with a retirement age of 65. policy, releasing several new camera models, which are PVC-free and amounted to SEK 832 M (181) driven by acquisitions and construction of conducting an employee survey. In addition, Axis trains suppliers and the new office building. Total cash flow amounted to SEK -157 M (601) Equity ratio, % 58.7 57.3 49.7 48.2 47.7 In the event of termination of employment, a six-month mutual notice periconducts audits to ensure that they meet Axis’ strict requirements after dividends paid of SEK 44,5 M. Return on equity, % 33.7 48.4 54.8 56.9 53.1 od shall apply for the President. In the event of termination of employment Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 9.20 9.39 7.76 6.89 6.15 relating to environmental impacts, working conditions, human rights and of the President by the company, termination benefits corresponding anti-corruption. Investments Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 9.20 9.39 7.76 6.89 6.15 to up to twelve cash monthly salaries may be paid after the end of the Investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to SEK 215 M notice period. In the event of termination by the President, no termination Shares before dilution, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Research and development (111), and in intangible assets to SEK 82 M (69). Net investments for the (average) benefits shall be payable. A mutual period of notice of three to six months During 2016, 17.7 percent (15.9) of the group’s sales were invested in year according to the consolidated cash flow statement amounted to SEK Shares after dilution, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 shall apply between the company and the other senior executives. In the research and development within both hardware and software. Research 832 M (181). (average) event of termination by the company, termination benefits corresponding and development expenditure increased by SEK 247 M (127) compared Number of employees at year-end 2,646 2,139 1,941 1,627 1,403 to twelve cash monthly salaries can be paid. In the event of termination by to the preceding year and amounted to SEK 1,233 M (986). Expenditure Change of control clause any of the senior executives, no termination benefits shall be payable. With the exception of the credit agreement relating to the credit facility Definitions are presented in Note 31. on development work totaling SEK 77 M (69) was capitalized during the of SEK 50 M, no significant agreements exist that the company is party year. The capitalization principle is described further in Note 1 to the Deviations from the principles described above may be approved by the to and which take effect, change or cease to be valid if the control over Proposal regarding principles for determination of salaries financial statements. Axis’ technology is based on the proprietary ASIC board of directors, if there are specific reasons in individual cases. the company changes as a consequence of a public takeover bid or and other remuneration to the President and other (Application Specific Integrated Circuit) platforms, which are at the heart agreements of such a nature that a disclosure would be likely to occasion members of the company management of Axis’ products. The ARTPEC® chips are optimized for effective image serious harm to the company. Prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015, a deviation was made from the processing and image compression and are found in the majority of The Board of Directors proposes the following principles for determination principles adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2014, whereby a “stay Axis’ products. In conjunction with Axis’ software platforms, they form Long-term goals of salaries and other remuneration to the President and other members on board” bonus was introduced for the then members of the management a very flexible technology base on which world-leading products can be Axis has two long-term financial goals: of the company management. The guidelines shall apply to employment team. This was deemed particularly necessary due to the then outstanding developed, rapidly and cost effectively. Work on development of future >> total average annual sales growth of at least 20 percent and contracts entered into according to the general meeting’s resolutions and public offer for the company made by Canon, whereby specific reasons generations of ARTPEC® continued during 2016. >> a profit margin of at least 10 percent guidelines, and in cases where changes are made to existing terms and existed. This “stay on board” bonus complies with the remuneration conditions according to resolutions of general meetings. The guidelines principles subsequently adopted by the Annual General Meeting. An Axis conducts an active patent strategy in order to safeguard investments Corporate governance essentially correspond to the principles that have been applied to date. additional “stay on board” bonus was later introduced for the members of in core technology and intellectual capital. During the year, applications Axis has chosen to prepare a Corporate Governance Report, which is For information regarding terms of remuneration for 2016, please refer to the management team, pursuant to which payment will occur in two parts, for 18 new design families and 47 new patent families were filed, chiefly separate from the Administration Report. Note 19, Personnel. on June 30, 2016 and on June 30, 2017, provided that the provisions on related to camera technology. During 2016, 100 national patents and continued employment are fulfilled. The part that became due on June 30, a number of registered designs were granted. Axis currently holds 333 Earnings and position Remuneration to the President and other members of the company 2016 has been paid. active patent and registered design families. Sales during the year totaled SEK 7,386 M (6,635), which represented management (that is, the nine persons who together with the President growth of 11 percent compared to the preceding year. Foreign currency comprise the group management) may consist of basic salary, variable Material risks and uncertainties Research efforts are focused on four strategic areas at present: image effects had a positive impact on sales of SEK 86 M. The Video product remuneration and pension. The remuneration to nine persons in the group Axis is an international group with operations and customers all over the area, which corresponds to 96 percent of sales, increased by 7 percent quality, image analysis, system solutions and network security. Long-term management also currently includes “stay on board” remuneration, that world and is thus exposed to a number of different risks in its everyday from SEK 6,579 M to SEK 7,068 M while other sales increased to SEK 318 technological development is conducted in-house in all these areas. has been agreed and put in place in accordance with the remuneration operations. Risk management at Axis aims to minimize the risks but also to M. Gross margin fell slightly but essentially remained at the same level Research is largely carried out as an industrial undertaking in various as the preceding year and amounted to 50.2 percent compared to 50.8 guidelines adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2015. Other benefits ensure that opportunities are utilized in the best way in order to facilitate a national and local research programs. percent in 2015. and other remuneration shall be received on the same basis as for other continued rapid expansion of the business. employees. Persons who are resident outside of Sweden may be offered Personnel The group’s operating profit amounted to SEK 885M (881), which was an notice periods and termination benefits that are competitive in the Axis’ risks can be principally divided into external risk, business risk and The recruitment rate was relatively high during 2016. At year-end, the increase of SEK 4 M compared to the preceding year. Operating margin country where the persons are or have been resident or to which they financial risk. The work of managing and adapting to the risk exposure that number of employees totaled 2,646, which represents a net increase of amounted to 12.0 percent compared to 13.3 percent in 2015. Foreign have a substantial connection, preferably solutions equivalent to what the group is subject to continues on an ongoing basis. 507 people since December 31, 2015. During the year, acquired companies currency effects had a positive impact on operating profit of SEK 105 M. applies for managerial employees resident in Sweden. >> External risk is primarily handled at a group management and board level. contributed with 281 people to the net increase. Most of the increase Profit before tax amounted to SEK 884 M (881), which represented an >> Business risk is mainly handled at a group management and regional took place in sales and marketing as well as in research and development. increase of SEK 3 M compared to the preceding year. The objective of Axis AB’s remuneration policy for senior executives shall be manager level. Of the employees, 1,495 (1,323) people are employed in Sweden and 1,151 to offer compensation that helps to recruit skills and expertise and to retain >> Management and coordination of financial and insurable risks is mainly (816) in other countries. Condensed income statement it in the company. The basic salary should be determined on the basis that carried out by the group’s finance department. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 TOTAL it should be competitive. The absolute level should depend on the specific >> Function-specific risks in the company-wide functions, Finance, IT/ Financing and cash flow 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 position and the individual’s performance. systems, HR and Operations are handled and coordinated within each Net sales, SEK M 1,567 1,763 1,997 2,059 7,386 Axis had a total of SEK 908 M at its disposal on December 31, 2016, of function. Risks in the legal area are handled by Axis’ legal department in Gross profit, SEK M 786 876 989 1,056 3,707 which cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 858 M and unutilized Variable remuneration (bonus) to the President and other senior executives cooperation with external lawyers. Gross margin, % 50.1 49.7 49.5 51.3 50.2 credit facilities totaled SEK 50 M. Consequently, Axis is in a very strong Operating profit, SEK M 153 167 312 253 885 shall be based on the financial goals of the group and shall be calculated >> The exposure to intellectual property risk in the patents area is managed financial position approaching 2017. Cash flow from operating activities Operating margin, % 9.8 9.5 15.6 12.3 12.0 as a function of the sales growth and the profit margin for the year in by Axis’ specialists, in collaboration with external lawyers and amounted to SEK 721 M (803). The strong cash flow was mainly due to Profit before tax, SEK M 153 166 312 253 884 question. The bonus to the President shall be maximized at 240 percent of advisors. To date, a few disputes concerning patent infringement strong operating profit. The continued expansion during 2016 impacted Profit margin, % 9.8 9.5 15.6 12.3 12.0 the annual salary and for the other senior executives the highest individual have arisen, however, these have not had any material conseworking capital, negatively by SEK 51 M (-57), net. Inventories and bonus amount shall be maximized at 80 percent of the annual salary. quences for Axis. 72 Administration report Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 73 >> CSR related risks are handled within the scope of Axis’ general sustaiIntellectual property risk Consolidated statement of comprehensive income nability function. For further information regarding CSR, please refer to Axis is party to various disputes as part of its normal business operations, (SEK M) Axis’ sustainability report. including in the patent field. These types of disputes can be costly Note 2016 2015 and protracted. In addition, it is often difficult to predict the outcome The risks described below are not ranked in relation to one another and of complex lawsuits. The exposure to intellectual property risk in the Net sales 3 7,385.7 6,634.7 the account does not claim to be complete. patents area is managed by Axis’ specialists, in collaboration with Cost of goods and services sold -3,678.9 -3,262.2 external lawyers and advisors. To date, a few disputes concerning patent Gross profit 3,706.8 3,372.5 External risk infringement have arisen, however, these have not had any material Axis is impacted by global macroeconomic trends, like most multinational consequences for Axis. companies. Axis works on the basis of detailed monthly sales forecasts Selling and marketing expenses -1,353.0 -1,180.8 and carefully monitors global trends in order to take necessary measures Outlook Administrative expenses -298.9 -292.2 Research and development expenses -1,233.4 -985.7 if conditions should change. The market activity and inflow of new projects means that Axis’ view on Other income and changes in value 8 63.5 -32.6 the current market growth rate remains unchanged. An important factor Operating profit 4,5,6,7 885.0 881.2 Terrorism and political turbulence in many countries can naturally have for continued strong growth is increased penetration in installations an adverse impact on Axis’ global expansion. Another, partly political for smaller systems and in emerging markets. In order to meet market question, is social acceptance of camera surveillance as well as the demand and retain its position as the market-leading supplier of network Financial income 1.7 0.4 privacy issues which may arise in this context. Globally, Axis encounters video solutions, Axis will continue to develop and release a large number Financial expenses -2.5 -1.1 everything from a very positive attitude to a more sceptical view of of innovative products, refine the partner network, recruit more employFinancial items – net -0.8 -0.7 camera surveillance. There are no currently known plans for significant ees and continue to expand globally. Profit before tax 884.2 880.5 changes with regard to legal regulations or restrictions. As market leader, Axis continually strives to communicate the benefits of a safer and more Parent Company Income tax 10 -245.5 -228.4 secure environment with network video as a natural component. The parent company’s operations are primarily focused on company-wide administration. The parent company has no employees. Sales to group NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 638.7 652.1 Business risk companies amounted to SEK 119 M (108). Purchasing from group Other comprehensive income* Trust in and acceptance of new technology and applications in a companies has not taken place. The parent company’s operating profit Items that later may be transferred to the income statement high-tech market is strongly dependent on well-functioning products and amounted to SEK 58 M (-2). Exchange differences 16.6 13.8 solutions, which deliver high quality and performance. Axis’ research and Other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax 16.6 13.8 development department works continually to develop new high-tech Proposed appropriation of profits in the Parent Company products. The majority of Axis’ products are built on the proprietary Total comprehensive income for the year 655.3 665.9 network and image compression chip, ARTPEC®. ARTPEC® is optimized At the disposal of the annual general meeting: and adapted for products and applications within network video, which Net profit for the year attributable to: gives Axis a distinct advantage over other players in the market. Accumulated profit and other non-restricted SEK 831,431,161 The parent company’s shareholders 638.7 652.1 Quality is ensured through a well-defined quality and testing process as reserves well as through skilled and careful subcontractors. In order to minimize Net profit for the year SEK 445,351,467 Total comprehensive income attributable to: risks in the supply chain, from supply of components to delivery, Axis TOTAL SEK 1,276,782,628 The parent company’s shareholders 655.3 665.9 works with a number of subcontractors that are equally important from a competency and capacity perspective. The board of directors and the President propose that the profits at the Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 11 9.20 9.39 disposal of the annual general meeting be appropriated as follows: Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 9.20 9.39 Number of shares before dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 The growing market is attracting more and more players, which is leading Number of shares after dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 to increased competition. Market shares and market leadership can be To be carried forward SEK 1,276,782,628 maintained through careful competitive intelligence, a capable global TOTAL SEK 1,276,782,628 *The items in other comprehensive income above are recognized net after tax. Disclosure is provided in Note 10 of the tax that is attributable to each component in other comprehensive income. sales force as well as vigorous and rapid product development. The group finance function continually monitors days sales outstanding and Axis’ majority owner Canon Inc has informed the company’s board of payment behavior etc. in all regions. Credit risks from operating flows directors that Canon Inc at the 2017 Annual General Meeting (AGM) will are handled at a regional level. The group’s credit policy establishes the vote that no dividend should be paid to the shareholders. Based on this framework for how credit risks and credit exposure should be handled information, the Board of Directors and the President have decided not to propose any declaration of dividend at the Annual General Meeting 2017 Financial risks and that the profits at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting shall The group’s international operations involve a number of financial risks be carried forward. which are handled according to the policies adopted by the board. The overriding goal of the group’s finance function is to provide financing to group companies on an ongoing basis and handle financial risks so that potential negative effects on the group’s results are minimized. The group is primarily exposed to financing, foreign exchange and credit risk. Interest risk is assessed as being limited. For further information refer to Note 2 to the financial statements. 74 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity 75 Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated statement of changes in equity (SEK M) (SEK M) ASSETS Note Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Attributable to the parent company’s shareholders Share capital Other paid-in capital Other reserves Retained earnings Total equity Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4 319.6 184.2 Opening balance at January 1, 2015 0.7 279.2 -15.6 832.8 1,097.1 Intangible assets 5 791.4 225.6 Deferred tax assets 12 48.5 38.8 Comprehensive income Other financial assets 15 8.4 4.3 Net profit for the year – – – 652.1 652.1 Total non-current assets 1,167.9 452.9 Other comprehensive income Current assets Exchange differences – – 13.8 13.8 Inventories 13 1,106.5 1,022.2 Total other comprehensive income – – 13.8 13.8 Trade receivables and other receivables 14 876.7 547.4 Total comprehensive income – – 13.8 652.1 665.9 Cash and cash equivalents 16 858.3 1,015.8 Total current assets 2,841.5 2,585.4 Transactions with owners Dividend – – – -21.5 -21.5 TOTAL ASSETS 4,009.4 3,038.3 Total transactions with owners – – – -21.5 -21.5 Closing balance at December 31, 2015 0.7 279.2 -1.8 1,463.4 1,741.5 EQUITY & LIABILITIES Note Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Opening balance at January 1, 2016 0.7 279.2 -1.8 1,463.4 1,741.5 Equity Comprehensive income Capital and reserves Net profit for the year – – – 638.7 638.7 Share capital 0.7 0.7 Other paid-up capital 279.2 279.2 Other comprehensive income Other reserves 18 14.8 -1.8 Exchange differences – – 16.6 16.6 Retained earnings 2,057.6 1,463.4 Total other comprehensive income – – 16.6 16.6 Total equity 2,352.3 1,741.5 Total comprehensive income – – 16.6 638.7 655.3 Liabilities Transactions with owners Non-current liabilities Dividend – – – -44.5 -44.5 Borrowing 1.9 Total transactions with owners – – – -44.5 -44.5 Retirement benefit obligations 19 10.8 3.7 Deferred tax liabilities 12 282.5 217.3 Closing balance at December 31, 2016 0.7 279.2 14.8 2,057.6 2,352.3 Other provisions 20 76.2 61.2 Other non-current liabilities 29 19.6 Total non-current liabilities 391.0 282.2 Current liabilities Borrowing 1.2 Trade payables and other liabilities 21 1,251.8 993.0 Current tax liabilities 13.1 21.6 Total current liabilities 1,266.1 1,014.6 Total liabilities 1,657.1 1,296.8 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,009.4 3,038.3 76 Consolidated cash flow statement Parent company income statement Parent company statement of comprehensive income 77 Parent company income statement (SEK M) Consolidated cash flow statement (SEK M) Note 2016 2015 Note 2016 2015 Net sales 118.6 108.3 Gross profit 118.6 108.3 Operating activities Cash flow from operations 27 931.6 995.4 Administrative expenses -60.6 -110.2 Interest paid -2.5 -1.1 Operating profit 5 58.0 -1.9 Interest received 1.7 0.4 Income taxes paid -209.4 -191.5 Financial income 22 0.9 0.5 Cash flow from operating activities 721.4 803.2 Financial expenses 23 -29.0 -3.2 Financial items – net -28.1 -2.7 Profit/loss after financial items 29.9 -4.6 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents 29 -534.9 Appropriations 24 542.2 614.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 4 -214.7 -111.0 Profit before tax 572.1 609.8 Purchase of intangible assets 5 -82.3 -69.0 Other 0.3 -0.5 Income tax 10 -126.7 -135.1 Cash flow from investing activities -831.6 -180.5 Net profit for the year 445.4 474.7 Financing activities Dividend paid -44.5 -21.5 Amortization of loans -2.7 Cash flow from financing activities -47.2 -21.5 Cash flow for the year -157.4 601.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,015.8 414.6 Parent company statement of comprehensive income Change in cash and cash equivalents -157.4 601.2 (SEK M) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 16 858.3 1,015.8 Note 2016 2015 Net profit for the year 445.4 474.7 Total comprehensive income for the year 445.4 474.7 78 Parent company balance sheet Parent company statement of changes in equity Parent company cash flow statement 79 Parent company balance sheet Parent company statement of changes in equity (SEK M) (SEK M) Share Share premium Accumulated Total capital reserve profit equity ASSETS Note Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Opening balance at January 1, 2015 0.7 4.1 418.6 423.4 Non-current assets Intangible assets Net profit for the year 474.7 474.7 Patents and other rights 5 4.8 4.7 Other comprehensive income Total intangible assets 4.8 4.7 Total comprehensive income 474.7 474.7 Financial assets Transactions with owners Participations in subsidiaries 25 39.6 0.8 Dividend -21.5 -21.5 Receivables from group companies 28 27.0 Total transactions with owners -21.5 -21.5 Total financial assets 66.6 0.8 Total non-current assets 71.4 5.5 Closing balance at December 31, 2015 0.7 4.1 871.8 876.6 Current assets Receivables Opening balance at January 1, 2016 0.7 4.1 871.8 876.6 Receivables from group companies 28 1,902.7 1,168.8 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1.3 2.3 Total receivables 1,904.0 1,171.1 Net profit for the year 445.4 445.4 Other comprehensive income Cash and bank balances Total comprehensive income 445.4 445.4 Cash and bank balances 16 312.1 578.2 Total cash and bank balances 312.1 578.2 Transactions with owners Total current assets 2,216.1 1,749.3 Dividend -44.5 -44.5 Total transactions with owners -44.5 -44.5 TOTAL ASSETS 2,287.5 1,754.8 Closing balance at December 31, 2016 0.7 4.1 1,272.7 1,277.5 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 totaled 69,461,250. The quota value was SEK 0.01 per share. EQUITY & LIABILITIES Note Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 At the Annual General Meeting on April 20, 2017, the board of directors will propose that no dividend should be paid in respect of the 2016 fiscal year. During 2016, SEK 0.64 per share was paid in respect of the fiscal year 2015 Equity 17 Restricted equity Parent company cash flow statement Share capital 0.7 0.7 (SEK M) Total restricted equity 0.7 0.7 Note 2016 2015 Non-restricted equity Accumulated profit 831.4 401.2 Operating activities Net profit for the year 445.4 474.7 Cash flow from operations 27 69.3 -0.3 Total non-restricted equity 1,276.8 875.9 Financial expenses paid -29.0 -3.2 Total equity 1,277.5 876.6 Financial income received 0.9 0.5 Income taxes paid -136.5 -146.7 Untaxed reserves Cash flow from operating activities -95.3 -149.7 Tax allocation reserve 973.0 838.8 Accumulated additional depreciation 3.0 4.7 Investing activities Total untaxed reserves 976.0 843.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries, less acquired cash and cash equivalents -38.8 Purchase of intangible assets 5 -2.5 Liabilities Cash flow from investing activities -41.3 Current liabilities Liabilities to group companies 28 2.3 1.0 Financing activities Tax liabilities 13.8 23.6 Dividend paid -44.5 -21.5 Other liabilities 6.6 5.0 Group contributions received 24 676.1 820.2 Accrued expenses and deferred income 11.3 5.1 Group contributions paid 24 -1.4 -0.2 Total current liabilities 34.0 34.7 Change in current receivables/liabilities, group companies -759.6 -184.2 Total liabilities 34.0 34.7 Cash flow from financing activities -129.4 614.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,287.5 1,754.8 Cash flow for the year -266.1 464.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 578.2 113.6 Change in cash and cash equivalents -266.1 464.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 16 312.1 578.2 80 Notes Notes 81 Notes 1.3 Segment reporting Equipment and fittings 3–5 years Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting Improvement measures in leased properties 3–10 years provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker is the function responsible for allocation of resources and evaluation of the operating segIn the event that the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated recoverable Note 1 Accounting policies customers where the sale of goods is the only performance obligation, the standard ments’ results. In the group, this function has been identified as the group management. amount, the asset is immediately written down to its recoverable amount. is not expected to have any effect on the consolidated income statement. Revenue 1.1 Basis of preparation will be recognized when the customer obtains control over the goods sold, which is 1.8 Intangible assets The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 1.4 Foreign currency translation generally when the goods are delivered. Some contracts with customers include the (a) Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of the various units in the group are meaInternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretations as right to returns and discounts. The Group recognizes revenue from the sale of goods Goodwill resulting from business acquisitions is included in intangible assets. sured in the currency used in the economic environment in which the each company adopted by the EU, and also in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act at the fair value of what was received or will be received, less returns and discounts. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently mainly operates (functional currency). In the consolidated financial statements, the and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1. The most The transaction price thus contains, what IFRS 15, calls variable consideration. if events or changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Goodwill is Swedish krona (SEK) is the parent company’s functional currency and the Group’s important accounting policies applied when these consolidated financial statements Variable consideration should only be included in the transaction price if it is very measured at acquisition cost less any accumulated impairments.. presentation currency. were prepared are presented below. unlikely that a significant portion of the revenue will be reversed. Our current assessment is that IFRS 15, in this respect, will not lead to a significant change in (b) Capitalized development work Subsidiaries’ assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the end of The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of when our revenue will be recognized in the group. IFRS 15, however, will result in Axis’ technology is based on the proprietary ASIC (Application Specific Integrated each reporting period. Items in the income statement are translated at the exchange certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its increased disclosure requirements, which will have an effect on the group’s financial Circuit) platforms, which are at the heart of Axis’ products. Research expenrate on the transaction date approximated to the average exchange rates. The judgement in the process of applying the group’s accounting policies. Areas which reporting diture aimed at obtaining new technological knowledge is expensed as it arises. translation difference is recognized in other comprehensive income. involve a high degree of judgment, which are complex or are areas where assumpDevelopment expenditure, where research results or other knowledge is applied in tions and estimates are of considerable significance for the consolidated financial IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 order to produce new or enhanced products, is recognized as an intangible asset During consolidation, exchange differences, which arose in consequence of the statements, are specified where appropriate in the relevant note. and SIC-27. The standard requires assets and liabilities relating to all leases, with if it is likely to generate future economic benefits for the group. In order to be translation of net investment in foreign operations and of borrowings and other cursome exceptions, to be recognized in the balance sheet. This recognition is based on capitalized, the intangible assets must be technical and commercially applicable rency instruments which have been designated as hedges of such investments, are The financial statements of the parent company have been prepared in accordance the approach that the lessee has a right to use an asset for a specific period of time and that the group has resources to complete development and subsequently recognized in other comprehensive income. On divestment of a foreign operation, with the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recomand concurrently has an obligation to pay for that right. Recognition for the lessor use or sell the intangible asset. It must also be possible to reliably measure the in part or entirely, the exchange differences recognized in equity are posted to the mendation RFR 2. will be essentially unchanged. The standard will be applied for annual periods beginexpenditure during the development phase. The development of new platforms is income statement and recognized as a part of the capital gain/loss. ning on or after January 1, 2019, but early adoption is permitted. The group does continually capitalized over the development period. Network applications, based 1.1.1 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures not plan to early adopt the new standard. The introduction of IFRS 16 will have an on created platforms, such as network cameras, are treated as adaptations of the When the parent company or other group company carries out hedging measures to (a) New and amended standards adopted by the group as of January 1, 2016 effect on the group’s financial reporting, but the extent has not yet been evaluated. core products. Adaptations of platforms for different network applications are not offset and protect against exchange differences on net investment in a subsidiary, No new or amended standards and interpretations are expected to have a material capitalized. Proprietary development work that is capitalized is recognized at cost the exchange difference on the hedging instrument is recognized against the equiimpact on the consolidated financial statements. None of the other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations which have not yet become efless accumulated amortization and impairment. The carrying amount includes valent translation difference for the subsidiary. fective, are expected to have any material impact on the group. directly related expenditure such as for material and services and remuneration (b) New and amended standards adopted by the parent company as of January 1, to employees. Capitalized development work is written off when the asset is ready Exchange gains and exchange losses attributable to financial items are recognised in 2016 1.2 Consolidation the consolidated statement of financial position as financial income or expenses. All for use. Amortization occurs on a straight-line basis over the useful live, which is No new or amended standards and interpretations are expected to have a material Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the group deemed to be 3 years. other exchange gains and exchange losses are recognized in the item other income impact on the parent company’s financial statements. has control. The group controls an entity when it is exposed to or has the right to a and changes in value in the operating profit. variable return from its holding in the entity and can affect the return through its Capitalized development also includes know-how and technologies (such as source (c) New standards and interpretations that will be adopted by the group from January control of the entity. Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial state1, 2017 and subsequently 1.5 Inventories code) that were acquired as part of a business combination. Acquired development ments from and including the date on which control is transferred to the group. They work is recognized at the fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over the Goods for resale are valued at the lower of cost and the net realizable value IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition are to be deconsolidated from and including the date on which that control ceases. useful life, which varies between 6 and 11 years. (realizable value less estimated selling expenses) on the closing date using the FIFO and measurement. IFRS 9 deals with classification and measurement of financial principle. Internal profits on sales between group companies are eliminated. instruments, hedge accounting and impairment losses. The standard will be applied The purchase method is used for recognition of group’s business combinations. The (c) Patents, trademarks and other rights for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, but early adoption is percost of an acquisition of a subsidiary consists of the fair value of the transferred mitted. The group does not plan to early adopt the standard. During 2016, the group 1.6 Trade receivables Patents, trademarks and other rights that were acquired separately, are recognized assets, liabilities incurred by the group to the previous owner and the shares issued at cost. Patents, trademarks and other rights that were acquired through a Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services evaluated the effects of introducing IFRS 9 on an overall level. The new standard by the group. The cost also includes the fair value of assets or liabilities, which are a business combination are recognized at fair value on the acquisition date. Patents, performed in the ordinary course of business. If payment is expected within one year, is not expected to have a material impact on either the group’s classification and result of an agreement on conditional consideration. trademarks and other rights are recognized at cost on the acquisition date less any they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. measurement of financial instruments or on the group’s hedge accounting. The new accumulated amortization and impairment. Trademarks with an indefinite useful model for calculating credit loss provisions is based on expected credit losses, rather Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in life are not amortized but tested annually for impairment in connection with testing Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently at amortized than actual losses, which may result in earlier recognition of credit losses, but the a business combination are measured initially at their fair value on the date of goodwill for impairment. Patents, trademarks and other rights with definite useful cost using the effective interest method, less any provision for impairment. effect is expected to be insignificant as the group historically has reported few credit acquisition. For each acquisition, the group determines if non-controlling interests lives are amortized over their useful lives, which vary between 3 and 20 years. losses. The preliminary assessment is currently based, on the information available in the acquired entity are recognised at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s The group applies net accounting of trade receivables in cases where Axis’ counterparand is subject to change as a result of further analysis or as future information proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. (d) Customer contracts ty in turn has claims on Axis in the form of accrued discounts connected to purchasing becomes available to the group. Customer contracts acquired as part of a business combination are recognized at from Axis. Trade receivables are also recognized net against any trade payables to Axis’ Costs related to the acquisition are expensed as they arise. fair value on the acquisition date and amortized over their useful lives, which vary counterparties. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS between 6 and 7 years. 11 Construction Contracts and all the related interpretations (IFRIC and SIC). Under The amount by which the consideration, any non-controlling interest and the fair IFRS 15, revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control over the sold 1.7 Property, plant and equipment value of previous shareholdings on the date of acquisition exceeds the fair value of 1.9 Impairment of non-financial assets Property, plant and equipment is recognized at historical cost less accumulated goods or services, which replaces the previous principle that revenues are recognized the identifiable net assets acquired, is recognized as goodwill. If the amount is less Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or intangible assets depreciation and any impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure which when risks and rewards have been transferred to the purchaser. The core principle than the fair value of the acquired net assets, in the event of a lower price, the difnot ready for use are not amortized but are tested annually, or when there is an can be directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. in IFRS 15 is that a company recognizes revenue in the way that best reflects the ference is recognized directly in the statement of comprehensive income. indication of a decrease in value for possible impairment. Assets which are impaired transfer of the promised goods or services to the customer. Recognition occurs are assessed for a decrease in value whenever events or changes in circumstances Additional expenditure is added to the asset’s carrying amount or is recognized as using a five-step model framework; The standard will be applied for annual periods Inter-company transactions, balance sheet items, as well as unrealized gains and indicate that the carrying value may not actually be recoverable. An impairment is a separate asset, depending on what is most suitable, only if it is probable that the beginning on or after January 1, 2018, but early adoption is permitted. A company losses on transactions between group companies, are eliminated. Where appropriate, made for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recofuture economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the group and that can choose between ”full retroactivity” or to apply the standard prospectively with the accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed to ensure the consistent verable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less the cost of the asset can be measured in a reliable manner. The carrying amount further disclosures. The group plans to apply the standard from January 1, 2018 and application of the group’s principles. costs to sell and its value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets for the replaced portion is derecognized. All other forms of repair and maintenance will then apply the standard prospectively. In 2016, Axis performed a preliminary are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separate identifiable cash expenditure are expensed during the period in which such expenditure arises. assessment of the effects that IFRS 15 is expected to have on the consolidated In the event of different measurements of assets and liabilities at group and flows (cash-generating units). For assets (other than goodwill), which have financial statements. This assessment may change as the group plans to carry out a company level, the tax effect is taken into account, and this is recognized as a longpreviously been amortized, a review is performed on each reporting date for Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method on the original cost and is more detailed analysis during the coming year. Axis mainly supplies network video term receivable or liability. No account, however, is taken of deferred tax on group possible reversal. based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: products, which are sold in separately identifiable contracts. In contracts with goodwill. 82 Notes Notes 83 1.10 Cash and cash equivalents carryforward can be set off against a surplus for future taxation. For 2015, deferred through insurance with Alecta. According to statement UFR 10 from the Swedish Cash and cash equivalents include, in the balance sheet and in the cash flow taxes were reclassified from current liabilities to non-current assets of SEK 39 M. Financial Accounting Standards Council’s Emerging Issues Task Force, Recognition From January 1, 2010 the finance policy does not prescribe any hedging requirestatement, cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other investments in of the ITP 2 pension plan, which is financed through insurance with Alecta, this is a ment. No hedging was conducted during 2016 (2015). securities with original maturities of three months or less. Measurement of other Untaxed reserves are recognized in the parent company. We have allocated the multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the fiscal year 2016, the company did not investment in securities takes place at amortized cost. untaxed reserves between equity and deferred tax in the consolidated financial have access to the information required to report its proportional share of the plan’s Price risk arises when the group’s costs rise as a result of suppliers increasing the statements. obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it has not been possible to price of goods and services. By using several suppliers, we ensure that our purchas1.11 Financial instruments report it as a defined benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan is therefore recognized as a ing prices are market competitive. Financial instruments are classified into the following categories: financial assets 1.14 Cash flow statement defined contribution plan. measured at fair value via profit or loss, loans and receivables, as well as financial The consolidated cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with the The board has defined interest risk as the risk that fluctuations in market interest assets which are available for sale. The classification is dependent on the aim for indirect method. Changes for the year in cash and cash equivalents are divided up 1.19 Critical estimates and assessments for accounting purposes rates have a negative impact on the group’s net financial items. The finance policy which the instrument was acquired. Management determines the classification into operating activities, investing activities and financing activities. The starting Warranties states that the Treasury department must minimize the interest expense as much as of instruments on the initial accounting date, and reviews this decision at every point for the indirect method is the operating profit or loss adjusted for transactions The group offers a three-year warranty on all its network products. Management possible. The average interest rate refixing period for short-term financing must not reporting date. All financial instruments are recognized from the transaction date. which do not involve receipts or disbursements. The term cash and cash equivalents makes an estimate of the provision required for future warranty requirements based exceed 6 months. Under the financial policy, the Treasury department may deploy refers to cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and investments in securities on information regarding historical warranty requirements. interest rate derivatives to ensure that interest rates are fixed on average for a max(a) Financial assets measured at fair value via profit or loss (in the item Other income with original maturities of three months or less. All items included in cash and cash imum of 6 months. At the end of 2016, the group had short-term interest-bearing and changes in value) equivalents can be readily converted to cash. Intangible assets liabilities of SEK 0 M (2015: 0). Financial assets which are held for trading are carried at fair value via profit or loss. Group management makes the assessment that the necessary technological knowA financial asset is to be classified in this category if it was acquired principally for 1.15 Leasing ledge and financial strength exists in order to complete the capitalized intangible Excess cash and cash equivalents are invested in fixed-interest securities with a the purpose of selling in the short-term or if this classification is determined by Leases are classified as either finance or operating leases. Financial leasing exists assets into marketable products. The market for the future products is expected to maximum remaining term of one year, and an average term of no more than 6 management. when the economic risks and benefits associated with the leasing object in all be the same as where the group’s products are sold today. months. At December 31, 2016, SEK 0 M (2015: 0) was invested in fixed-interest material have been transferred to the lessee. Otherwise, it is an operating lease. The securities. The interest risk in the excess cash and cash equivalents is handled so (b) Loans and receivables group has no significant financial leasing why all leases accounted for as operating Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or intangible assets that the average interest rate on all investments must not exceed 6 months. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable leases and the lease payment is distributed linearly over the leasing period. The are tested annually, or more often, for possible impairment. An impairment is made payments that are not quoted in an active market. Characteristically, they arise group holds essentially lease for rent. For further information about the minimum by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable Sensitivity analysis when the group supplies money, goods or services directly to a customer without lease payments, see note 9. amount. The annual impairment test for goodwill and other intangible assets with The table below indicates the effect of the most important factors on the group’s the intention of trading the resulting receivable. They are included in current assets, an indefinite useful life, including performed sensitivity analysis, did not reveal any results for the fiscal year 2016. Apart from currency exposure, the factors assessed with the exception of items with maturities more than 12 months after the end of 1.16 Revenue recognition impairment. See Note 5 for more information. as having the greatest effect on results are purchase prices and payroll expenses. As the reporting date, which are classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables Revenue is measured at the fair value of what was received or will be received, a substantial part of sales and purchasing are made in USD, Axis has a natural match are included in the item Trade receivables and other receivables in the balance sheet and corresponds to the amounts received for goods sold and services rendered less Accrued discounts for currency exposure in USD. (see Note 14 Trade receivables and other receivables). discounts, returns, VAT and similar taxes. The group recognizes revenue when the Axis’ sales model contains a discount element which is adjusted after delivery. The amount can be measured reliably and it is probable that future economic benefits scale of the discounts depends on a number of factors, including volume and what Factor Change, % Effect on operating profit, SEK M At the end of each reporting period, the group assesses whether there is objective will accrue to the company. type of partner the distributor sells the products too. Management makes an estiCurrency. SEK/USD +/-5 +/64 evidence that an impairment need exists in respect of a financial asset or a group mate of the provision required for accrued discounts based on information regarding Currency. SEK/EUR +/-5 +/51 of financial assets. Where such an impairment need has been identified, the asset is The group’s revenue mainly consists of product sales. Revenue from product sales historical discount levels and expected outcomes. Purchasing +/-5 +/136 impaired to its fair value. is recognized when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which normally occurs when the products are delivered. Revenue from Acquisitions Personnel +/-5 +/102 1.12 Provisions services rendered is recognized when the services have been performed. Revenue Acquisitions requires estimates from management where a major portion relates to (b) Credit risk Provisions for obligations, such as legal requirements and product warranties, are from sales of extended warranties is recognized on a straight line basis over the the allocation of purchase price to acquired assets and liabilities and the necessary Credit risk is managed on a group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equirecognized when the group has an existing legal or constructive obligation in concontract period. adjustments to the group’s accounting policies. In connection with the acquisition valents, derivative instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, sequence of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required analysis, several assumptions were made, including future cash flows, growth, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the The recognition of interest income is allocated over the term in question using the discount rate and the choice of model for valuation. committed transactions. Only independently rated banks and financial institutions obligation. effective interest method. that have obtained the long-term rating A or better, in accordance with Moody’s or Note 2 Financial risk management Standard & Poor’s, are accepted as counterparties. The short-term rating must be If there are a number of similar obligations, the probability that an outflow of See Note 3 For further information about the group’s revenue. Moody’s P1 or Standard & Poor’s K1 or A1. If customers have been credit assessed by resources will be required for the settlement of this group as a whole is assessed. A 2.1 Financial risk factors independent raters, these assessments are used. In cases where no credit assessment provision is recognized even if the probability of an outflow in respect of one specific 1.17 Borrowing costs Risk management is handled by a central treasury department in accordance with exists, a risk assessment is performed of the customer’s credit worthiness where their item in this group of obligations is low. All borrowing costs, apart from those related to a qualifying asset, are expensed the policies adopted by the board of directors. The treasury department identifies, financial position is considered as well as previous experience and other factors. continually as they arise. Borrowing related to qualifying assets is capitalized. evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the group’s operating Individual risk limits are adopted on the basis of internal or external credit assessThe provisions are measured at the present value of the amount that is expected to units. The board has drawn up written principles both for overall risk management ments in accordance with the limits established by the board. The use of credit limits be required to settle the obligation. 1.18 Pensions and for specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest risk, credit risk, the use is regularly monitored. Advance payments or letters of credit are employed when the The group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments and the investment of excess risk is considered too high. During 2016, credit risk insurance was taken out for some 1.13 Income taxes A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the group pays fixed liquidity. of our customers. These insurance policies were not utilized. Recognized tax expense includes tax payable or recoverable in respect of the current contributions into a separate legal entity. The group has no legal or constructive year, adjusted for prior years’ tax as well as changes in deferred tax. All tax liabilities obligations to pay further contributions if this legal entity has insufficient assets to Through its operations, Axis is exposed to a number of different financial risks: a) For risk assessment of trade receivables see the age distributed accounts receivable and tax assets are measured at their nominal amount in accordance with the tax pay all remuneration to employees that is connected with the employees’ service market risk (including foreign exchange risk, price risk and interest risk), b) credit ledger in Note 14. laws and the tax rates enacted or announced and which there is a considerable deduring current or prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension scheme that is not risk and c) liquidity risk). The group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the gree of certainty will be enacted. For items recognized in the income statement, the defined contribution. Characteristic for defined benefit plans is that they state the unpredictability of the financial markets and aims to minimize potential adverse (c) Liquidity risk associated tax consequences are recognized in profit or loss. Taxes related to items amount of the pension benefit an employee will receive after retirement, generally effects on the group’s financial performance. The group uses derivative financial The group’s liquidity position is continuously analyzed in order to minimize liquidity of other comprehensive income is recognized in other comprehensive income. based on one or more factors such as age, period of service and salary. instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. risk. The finance policy states that the treasury department should ensure that the group always has credit facilities with at least one bank. According to this policy, The tax consequences of items which are recognized directly against equity are For defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions to public or privately (a) Market risk Axis must have access at all times to SEK 200 M in cash and cash equivalents or recognized against equity. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability metmanaged pension insurance plans on an mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The group’s finance policy defines how foreign exchange risk should be optimized. unutilized credit facilities. At December 31, 2016, Axis had SEK 858 M (2015: 1,016) hod, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities. The group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been Foreign exchange risk is divided into two main categories: a) transaction risk and in cash and cash equivalents and unutilized credit facilities of SEK 50 M (2015: 50). Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities are offset if there is a legal right to offset curpaid. The contributions are recognized as personnel expenses in the period in which b) translation risk. Transaction risk means the risk that fluctuations in exchange The credit facilities are effective until December 31, 2017. rent tax assets and tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and tax liabilities they are earned. rates on the net cash flow in foreign currencies may have a negative impact on the pertain to taxes charged by the same tax authority and where there is an intention group’s results. Translation risk means the risk that exchange-rate fluctuations in the The credit facilities are contingent on special requirements of the banks. to settle the balances through a net payment. Deferred tax assets in respect of Defined benefit pension plans in the group mainly consist of the ITP 2 plan’s defined group’s net investments in subsidiaries may have a negative impact on the group’s a loss carryforward are recognized to the extent that it is probable that the loss benefit obligations for retirement and family pension. The ITP 2 plan is secured results. 84 Notes Notes 85 These requirements state that: a) the interest coverage ratio, expressed as EBITDA/ To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of Revenues have been allocated per country based on where the customers are Financial Net Payable, (profit before net financial items, taxes, depreciation and dividends paid to the shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets, reduce or increase located impairment losses on non-current assets in relation to financial net expenditure) indebtedness. measured every end of quarter as a rolling twelve-month value does not fall below Non-current assets by country 2016 2015 4; b) Net Debt/EBITDA (interest bearing liabilities less cash and bank balances and Since 2007, Axis holds a AA rating according to Dun & Bradstreet. Sweden 562.4 359.1 other short-term investments in relation to profit before net financial items, taxes, Czech Republic 426.4 0.3 depreciation and impairments of non-current assets) measured every end of quarter Note 3 Segment information Other countries 122.1 50.4 as a rolling twelve-month value does not exceed 3. Total 1,111.0 409.8 The group management has been identified as Axis’ chief operating decision-maker. For details regarding the group’s and the parent company’s liquidity trend refer to Operating segments have been determined based on the information that is consiNon-current assets have been allocated per country based on where they are locathe cash flow statement for the group and the parent company. dered by group management and which is used as a basis for allocating resources ted. Goodwill and surplus values from business combinations have been allocated to and evaluating results. Axis’ group management controls, manages and monitors the country where the acquired company is domiciled. 2.2 Recognition of derivative instruments and hedging measures the operations based on three geographical regions; EMEA, Americas and Asia, with When Axis holds derivative financial instruments, primarily currency futures, it is sales growth as the main focus. In light of what is stated below, Axis considers that with the aim of protecting sales and procurement in foreign currency, as well as net it fulfills the requirements for aggregation of the three geographic regions into one Note 4 Property, plant and equipment assets in foreign subsidiaries. The Group applies hedge accounting. segment. Group Improvement measures Constructions When the transaction is entered into, the group documents the relationship between The group’s common technology platform is the foundation for the entire innovative 2016 Land Equipment & fittings in leased properties in progress Total the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the objective of the risk and broad product portfolio for network video. Continuous global sales forecasts are management and the strategy for taking other hedging action. The group also docucompiled of a separate production planning function located at the headquarters in Opening acquisition value 423.2 72.6 495.8 ments its assessment, both when the hedge instrument is taken out and during its Lund. A central purchasing department is responsible for sourcing of critical comInvestments 50.6 81.4 28.0 54.7 214.7 term, of the effectiveness of the derivative instrument used in hedging transactions ponents and procurement and placing of production among contract manufacturers Acquisition of business (Note 29) 7.8 1.3 9.1 in the evening out of fluctuations in the fair value or cash flow of hedged items. around the world. The very close cooperation with contract manufacturers creates a Sales/disposals -28.5 -1.2 -29.7 Should a hedging measure prove ineffective, recognition immediately takes place via good insight into manufacturing and quality assurance processes. Production takes Reclassifications -0.2 1.7 -1.6 -0.1 the income statement (Other income and changes in value). place in essentially the same way at all manufacturers. Translation differences 5.6 4.0 0.7 10.3 Closing acquisition value 50.6 489.4 105.1 55.1 700.1 (a) Fair value hedge Axis has an indirect sales model, which means that sales take place via distributors Opening accumulated depreciation -280.4 -31.2 -311.6 At December 31, 2016, (2015) Axis had no derivative instruments that were used for that sell on to system integrators that in turn sell to the end users. The ambition is Depreciation for the year -72.7 -15.2 -87.9 fair value hedges. first to work with a small number of distributors in each country, and then achieve scalability in the second stage through a very large number of system integrators. Sales/disposals 25.4 0.6 26.0 (b) Cash flow hedge The number of system integrators currently identified by Axis amounts to over Reclassifications -0.1 -0.1 At December 31, 2016 (2015), Axis had no derivative instruments that were used for 80,000 globally. The sales model is identical and is applied in the same way througTranslation differences -4.4 -2.5 -6.9 cash flow hedges. hout the world. Sales are monitored and analyzed in a company-wide CRM system. Closing accumulated depreciation -332.2 -48.4 -380.5 Distribution occurs through a small number of logistics centers placed in logistically Carrying amount 50.6 157.2 56.7 55.1 319.6 (c) Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation suitable locations around the world. From fiscal year 2010, Axis has amended the finance policy to not hedge net investIn the income statement, depreciation/amortization is included in cost of goods sold of SEK 10.8 M, in selling and marketing expenses of SEK 22.1 M, in administrative ment in foreign subsidiaries. The outcome of previously entered into hedges remains Legal requirements in the form of local rules and regulations exist but are not expenses of SEK 1.1 M and in research and development expenses of SEK 53.9 M in equity. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognized in the income deemed to impact the group appreciably. Stricter legal requirements from public Improvement measures Constructions statement when the foreign operation is sold. authorities in specific areas can imply new business opportunities and may 2015 Land Equipment & fittings in leased properties in progress Total sometimes also limit the possibility of operating in that very local market. Through Opening acquisition value 343.3 45.5 388.8 2.3 Fair value measurement a central development department it is possible, when required, to rapidly adapt The fair value of financial instruments which are traded on an active market, such specific products to new demands. Investments 89.9 21.1 111.0 as derivative instruments quoted on a market, is based on quoted market prices at Sales/disposals -2.2 -2.2 the end of the reporting period. The quoted market price for the group’s financial Through a uniform global approach regarding product development and sales model, Reclassifications -7.1 7.1 0.0 assets, is the current purchase price while the quoted market price for the financial the three geographical regions lack real significance. From a group and network Translation differences -0.7 -1.1 -1.8 liabilities is the current selling price. video perspective, they have a similar economic basis. The network video market is Closing acquisition value 423.2 72.6 495.8 driven by an underlying global technology shift from analog to digital technology, Opening accumulated depreciation -229.4 -17.0 -246.4 The fair value of financial instruments which are not traded on an active market among other things. Growth opportunities, margins and risks do not differ signifiDepreciation for the year -56.2 -11.9 -68.1 is determined using valuation techniques. The group uses a number of different cantly between the three segments. Sales/disposals 1.6 1.6 methods, and makes assumptions based on the prevailing market conditions at the end of the reporting period. Other techniques, such as discounted cash flow measuIn light of the above reasoning, the group only recognizes one segment. Accordingly, Reclassifications 3.0 -3.0 0.0 rements, are used to determine the fair value of the remaining financial instruments. the segment information consists of the group as a whole. Translation differences 0.6 0.7 1.3 The fair value of currency future contracts is determined through the use of market Due to acquisitions, reporting routines will be revised during 2017. Closing accumulated depreciation -280.4 -31.2 -311.6 prices for currency futures at the end of the reporting period. Carrying amount 142.8 41.4 184.2 Net sales per geographical market 2016 2015 For trade receivables and trade payables, nominal value, less any expected credits, EMEA (Europe. Middle East. Africa) 2,645.7 2,366.3 Americas 3,855.7 3,489.7 is assumed to equal their fair value. The fair value of financial liabilities is measured Note 5 Intangible assets by discounting the future contracted cash flow at the current market interest rate Asia 884.3 778.7 available for the group for similar financial instruments. Total 7,385.7 6,634.7 Group Capitalized Patents, trademarks At the end of 2016 (2015), the group had no financial instruments of the type that Revenues per country 2016 2015 2016 Goodwill development work and other rights Customer contracts Total must be disclosed based on the fair value hierarchy in IFRS 7. Sweden 15.0 0.0 Opening acquisition value 387.4 38.0 425.4 USA 3,561.7 3,213.5 Investments 76.8 5.6 82.3 2.4 Capital risk management Acquisition of business (Note 29) 343.7 85.6 58.9 27.8 516.0 Other countries 3,809.0 3,421.2 The group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the group’s ability Total 7,385.7 6,634.7 Sales/disposals -5.4 -5.4 to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to Reclassifications – – reduce the cost of capital. Translation differences 9.4 2.6 5.5 0.9 18.5 Closing acquisition value 353.1 552.4 102.6 28.6 1.036.8 86 Notes Notes 87 Opening accumulated amortization -169.0 -30.8 -199.8 Note 7 Audit fees Note 10 Income taxes Amortization for the year -39.6 -5.2 -3.1 -47.9 The 2016 AGM resolved to elect Ernst & Young AB as the group’s auditors for the Group Parent Company Sales/disposals – 5.4 5.4 period until the next AGM. In 2015, PricewaterhouseCoopers AB were the group’s Reclassifications – – auditors. 2016 2015 2016 2015 Translation differences 0.2 -3.4 0.1 -3.1 Current tax -200.2 -183.1 -126.7 -135.1 Group Closing accumulated amortization -208.4 -33.9 -3.0 -245.3 Deferred tax -45.3 -45.3 2016 2015 -245.5 -228.4 -126.7 -135.1 Carrying amount 353.1 344.0 68.6 25.7 791.4 EY The audit assignment 1.9 In the income statement, depreciation/amortization is included in cost of goods sold of SEK 0,6 M, in selling and marketing expenses of SEK 0.6 M, in administrative Reconciliation between theoretical tax expense and recognized income tax expenses of SEK 2.9 M and in and research and development expenses of SEK 43.8 M Audit work apart from the audit assignment 0.3 Tax according to current tax -194.5 -193.7 -125.9 -134.2 Tax consultancy 0.0 rate in the parent company Capitalized Patents, trademarks Other services 0.0 Tax effect relating to -24.3 -16.2 -0.8 -0.9 2015 Goodwill development work and other rights Customer contracts Total 2.2 non-deductible items Opening acquisition value 318.4 38.0 356.4 PwC Tax effect relating to 4.2 2.3 Investments 69.0 69.0 The audit assignment 0.4 1.7 non-taxable items Sales/disposals – – – Audit work apart from the audit assignment 3.0 0.2 Differences in foreign tax -30.9 -20.8 Reclassifications – – – Tax consultancy 0.6 0.7 rates Translation differences – – – Other services 0.3 0.6 Recognized income tax -245.5 -228.4 -126.7 -135.1 Closing acquisition value 387.4 38.0 425.4 4.3 3.2 *The current tax rate for 2016 is 22.0 percent (2015: 22.0). Opening accumulated amortization -138.0 -26.3 -164.3 Grant Thornton (minority auditor) Depreciation for the year -31.0 -4.5 -35.5 The audit assignment 1.7 0.8 The tax, which is attributable to components in other comprehensive income Sales/disposals – – – 1.7 0.8 amounted to the following: Reclassifications – – – Other auditors 2016 2015 Translation differences – – – The audit assignment 2.9 2.9 Before Tax After Before Tax After Closing accumulated amortization -169.0 -30.8 -199.8 Audit work apart from the audit assignment tax effect tax tax effect tax Carrying amount 218.4 7.2 225.6 Tax consultancy 0.8 0.7 Exchange differences 16.6 16.6 13.8 13.8 Other services 0.6 0.4 16.6 16.6 13.8 13.8 4.3 4.0 Group total 12.5 8.0 Impairment testing of goodwill Parent company Each year the Group examines if any impairment need exists for goodwill. Goodwill The audit fees and other fees to the parent company’s auditors have been charged in their entiNote 11 Earnings per share and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are allocated to the cash-generarety to the subsidiary, Axis Communications AB. 2016 Patents and other rights Total Earnings per share before dilution ting unit (CGU). The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined by calculating the value in use, which requires certain assumptions to be made. These calculations are Opening acquisition value 19.7 19.7 Earnings per share before dilution is calculated by dividing the profit/loss attributabased on cash flow projections using financial forecasts estimated by management Investments 2.5 2.5 Note 8 Other income and expenses ble to the parent company’s shareholders by a weighted average of the number of for the next five years. Sales have been assumed to grow by 17.1 percent on average Closing acquisition value 22.2 22.2 outstanding. Group and gross margin has been estimated at 78.3 percent on average. As companies are Opening accumulated amortization -15.0 -15.0 2016 2015 operating in a volatile growth industry with a high growth rate in the first few years, Amortization for the year -2.5 -2.5 2016 2015 Earnings attributable to the parent company’s 638.7 652.1 an estimate is also made for the next five year period, based on a normalization of Closing accumulated amortization -17.5 -17.5 Exchange differences 61.0 -32.6 shareholders the business, prior to making an assumption of the terminal value and long-term Carrying amount 4.8 4.8 Other items 2.5 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary 69,461 69,461 market growth. For these five years, average sales have been estimated to increase 63.5 -32.6 shares, thousands by 5.7 percent and gross margin is expected to be 78.3 percent. Cash flows beyond a Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 9.20 9.39 ten year period are extrapolated using a growth rate of 2 percent as an assumption of long-term market growth. The growth rate used corresponds to sector forecasts 2015 Patents and other rights Total Opening acquisition value 19.7 19.7 Note 9 Lease obligations* Earnings per share after dilution for the CGE’s industry. Discount rates have been determined on the basis of a calculated “Weighted Average Cost of Capital” (WACC) before tax, of an average of Investments Leasing costs for the year amounted to SEK 172.5 M (2015: 122.8) in the group. In calculating earnings per share after dilution, the weighted average number 12.9 percent in the CGE. Closing acquisition value 19.7 19.7 The cost refers to minimum lease payments in its entirety as no variable payments of outstanding ordinary shares is adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential or further letting occurs. Contracted future rental and leasing agreements are due ordinary shares. Opening accumulated amortization -12.6 -12.6 Amortization for the year -2.4 -2.4 for payment as follows. 2016 2015 2016 Acquisitions Carrying amount of goodwill 353.1 Closing accumulated amortization -15.0 -15.0 Group Earnings attributable to the parent company’s 638.7 652.1 Carrying amount 4.7 4.7 2016 2015 shareholders Carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives 52.9 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary 69,461 69,461 Total 406.0 Minimum lease payments Minimum lease payments shares, thousands Leasing within 1 year 162.2 127.3 A sensitivity analysis was carried out and the result of it is that if WACC increases by Note 6 Costs allocated per type of cost Leasing between 1 and 5 years 306.8 149.9 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary 69,461 69,461 shares after dilution, thousands 1 percent more than the company’s established base value, the recoverable amount Leasing more than 5 years 35.1 17.6 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 9.20 9.39 will decrease by 11 percent. If EBITDA had been 1 percent lower than the company’s 2016 2015 504.1 294.8 expectations, the recoverable amount would decrease by 8 percent. If sales growth Depreciation and impairment losses -135.8 -103.6 had been 3 percent lower than the company’s expectations, the recoverable amount Expenses for remuneration to employees -1,779.8 -1,433.3 Agreements mainly refer to rent for premises. would decrease by 16 percent. None of these hypothetical assumptions would lead Cost of purchasing and handling goods for resale -3,678.9 -3,262.2 to an impairment. *Relates to operating leases pertaining to normal agreements for the operations within stated Other external expenses* -969.7 -921.8 range regarding non-cancellable leases and other operating leases. Most lease agreements -6,564.2 -5,720.9 regarding premises contain terms and conditions that give the right to extend the lease in question during a predetermined period, and do not contain any transfer of ownership to the property *Other external expenses for 2015 includes Axis’ expenses for handling Canon Inc’s bid process. at the end of the term or any economic benefits regarding appreciation in value of the leased The expenses amounted to approximately 0.2 percent of the value of the bid. property. 88 Notes Notes 89 Note 12 Deferred tax Note 13 Inventories Note 15 Other financial assets Note 19 Personnel Group The group’s temporary differences have resulted in deferred tax assets and deferred Group Average number of employees tax liabilities in respect of the following: Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 2016 Of whom men 2015 Of whom men Group Goods for resale 1,106.5 1,022.2 Depositions 3.7 3.6 Parent Company 1,106.5 1,022.2 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Other 4.7 0.7 Argentina 2 1 2 1 Deferred tax receivables Write down of inventories to net realizable value amounted to SEK 112 M (2015: 29). 8.4 4.3 Australia 16 13 16 13 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4.1 0.9 The impairment was recognized in the income statement as cost of goods sold . Brazil 22 15 35 20 Loss carryforwards 22.5 All non-current receivables fall due within five years of the end of the reporting Canada 24 15 21 13 Financial instruments 2.7 2.7 Note 14 Trade receivables and other receivables period. Czech Republic 146 111 14 10 Inventories 8.9 12.3 Chile 5 5 4 4 Accrued discounts 13.0 13.2 Group Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents China 75 49 88 57 Other accrued expenses 23.4 23.4 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Colombia 3 2 4 2 Other items 1.1 1.5 Group Parent Company Croatia 1 1 Trade receivables 672.7 430.2 Total deferred tax assets 75.7 54.0 Provision for doubtful trade receivables -16.2 -7.2 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Finland 2 2 2 2 Trade receivables-net* 656.5 423.0 Cash and bank 858.3 1,015.8 312.1 578.2 France 53 38 30 19 Amounts offset against deferred tax assets -27.2 -15.2 Other receivables 133.9 51.6 balances Germany 43 27 44 25 under set-off rules Investments Prepaid expenses and accrued income 86.3 72.8 Hong Kong 29 15 29 16 Net deferred tax assets 48.5 38.8 in securities 876.7 547.4 India 18 14 18 15 858.3 1,015.8 312.1 578.2 Italy 20 16 21 16 Deferred tax liabilities *The amount includes contract manufacturers of SEK 1.9 M (2015: 6.2). Contract manufacturers Japan 34 17 31 18 Tax allocation reserve 214.1 184.5 refers to invoices issued to subcontractors when products are sent for reprocessing. Kenya 2 2 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 93.4 48.0 Credit rating of cash and cash equivalents Korea 11 7 11 7 Other items 2.2 Axis applies net accounting of trade receivables in cases where Axis’ counterparty Group in turn has claims on Axis in the form of accrued discounts connected to purchasing Malaysia 6 4 6 4 Total deferred tax liabilities 309.7 232.5 Dec 31, 2016 Rating 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Rating 2015 from Axis. At December 31, 2016, the effect of this net accounting, was a reduction Mexico 20 12 18 10 in trade receivables of SEK 382 M (2015: 336). Danske Bank 0.0 A 200.0 A The Netherlands 21 17 16 14 Amounts offset against deferred tax assets -27.2 -15.2 HSBC 190.4 AA78.4 AANorway 1 1 1 1 under set-off rules Changes in the provision for doubtful receivables are as follows: Nordea 622.8 AA719.3 AANew Zealand 4 4 1 1 Net deferred tax liabilities 282.5 217.3 Group Others 45.1 18.1 Poland 6 4 5 3 858.3 1,015.8 Qatar 1 1 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Group Russia 27 17 26 17 Opening balance -7.2 -6.7 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 At December 31, 2016, Axis had no investments in securities. Nor did the group have Singapore 43 22 37 20 Provision for doubtful receivables -10.0 -0.8 Opening deferred tax assets/tax liabilities* -178.5 -133.1 any investments in securities during 2015. Axis has an unutilized credit facility of South Africa 19 11 21 14 Receivables written off during the year that are 0.7 0.1 Change during the year in: SEK 50 M (2015: 50). The credit facility is effective until December 31, 2017 and is not recoverable Spain 15 12 13 11 contingent on the bank’s special requirements. During 2016, no violations of these – property, plant and equipment and intangible -42.2 -8.5 Reversed unutilized amount 0.3 0.2 Sweden 1,398 1,052 1,258 954 requirements occurred. assets Closing balance -16.2 -7.2 Taiwan 11 4 11 5 loss carryforwards 22.5 Thailand 8 3 – inventories -3.4 2.5 – accrued discounts -0.2 2.1 Age distribution of trade receivables Note 17 Share capital Turkey 4 2 3 2 Group UK 35 27 31 24 – other accrued expenses 0.0 4.4 The company’s share capital consists of 69,461,250 (2015: 69,461,250) shares of the United Arab Emirates 31 24 23 17 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 – other items -2.6 -0.9 same class. The share’s quota value amounts to SEK 0.01. USA 258 199 225 173 Not due 630.3 424.1 – tax allocation reserve -29.6 -45.0 Group total 2,414 1,766 2,065 1,508 Due for up to 3 months 42.3 4.5 Closing deferred tax assets/tax liabilities -234.0 -178.5 Due over 3 months 0.1 1.6 Note 18 Other reserves in Equity Gender distribution among senior executives * The amount includes SEK 0 M (2015: 0) which refers to income tax attributable to components Total trade receivables 672.7 430.2 in other comprehensive income (Note 10). Provision for doubtful receivables -16.2 -7.2 2016 2015 Hedging Translation reserve reserve Total Number at Women Number at Women Loss carryforwards 2016 2015 Recognized trade receivables 656.5 423.0 the balance the balance Unutilized loss carryforwards for which no deferred 88.9 63.6 Opening balance, January 1, 2015 -8.5 -7.1 -15.6 sheet date sheet date tax assets has been recognized The verified customer losses during 2016 totaled SEK 1.6 M (2015: 0.1). Translation differences 13.8 13.8 Board of Directors 8 25 % 8 13 % Potential tax benefits 30.2 21.6 Closing balance, December 31, 2015 -8.5 6.7 -1.8 Group Management 10 20 % 9 22 % Credit rating, customers (according to Dun & Bradstreet) The unutilized loss carryforwards relate to a subsidiary where there is uncertainty as Group Opening balance, January 1, 2016 -8.5 6.7 -1.8 to whether they will generate taxable income in the foreseeable future. There are no Risk range Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Translation differences 16.6 16.6 time limits regarding the use of the loss carryforwards. Lowest risk 180.5 134.3 Closing balance, December 31, 2016 -8.5 23.3 14.8 Low risk 65.0 178.9 The amount in respect of cash flow hedges, which has been transferred from equity Medium risk 284.3 38.5 to the income statement during the year is recognized net after tax and totaled SEK High risk 14.8 16.6 0 M (2015: 0). Highest risk 8.9 1.6 Unclassified 119.1 59.0 No Dun & Bradstreet data 0.0 1.3 Total 672.7 430.2 90 Notes Notes 91 Salaries and other remuneration allocated among senior executives and others Remuneration and other benefits in respect of the board of directors and senior obligations, plan assets and costs, which means that it has not been possible to remuneration to the company management as well as remuneration structures and Board of Directors, executives are shown in the table below. report it as a defined benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan secured through insurance rates of compensation in the company. President and other Basic Other Pension Other with Alecta is therefore recognized as a defined-contribution plan. The premium senior executives Others Total 2015 salary/fees* Bonus benefits expense remuneration Total for the defined-benefit retirement and family pension is individually calculated Note 20 Other provisions Board of Directors and depends on factors such as salary, previously earned pension and anticipated 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 remaining period of service. The pension contributions for the ITP insurance with Group Parent Company Biörn Riese 0.8 – – – – 0.8 Alecta amounted to SEK 30.0 M in 2016 (2015:23.7). Subsidiaries 31.3 27.9 1,333.8 1,055.5 1,365.1 1,083.4 (Chairman) Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Group total 31.3 27.9 1,333.8 1,055.5 1,365.1 1,083.4 Toshizo Tanaka – – – – Warranty provision 119.6 105.3 Expected fees for the next fiscal year amount to SEK 30.8 M. The group’s share of Håkan Kirstein 0.4 – – – – 0.4 the combined fees to the plan is negligible. At year-end 2016, Alecta’s surplus in the Of which short-term portion* -43.4 -44.1 Salaries and other remuneration above include remuneration to the board member Bert Nordberg 0.4 – – – – 0.4 form of the collective consolidation level was 148 percent* (2015:153). 76.2 61.2 and senior executives who are employed in the group. Martin Gren 1.0** 0.0 – 0.3 – 1.3 The collective consolidation level is defined as the market value of Alecta’s assets as Salaries and remuneration to the President and CEO and the board member (employed by Axis) a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated in accordance with Alecta’s who is employed in the group were paid through the subsidiary company, Axis Group Management accordance with Alecta’s actuarial calculation assumptions, which do not comply Group Communications AB. Ray Mauritsson 2.9 1.5 – 1.4 0.0 5.8 with IAS 19. 2016 2015 Salaries and other Social security (of which pension (President & CEO) Provisions brought forward 61.2 49.9 remuneration contributions expenses) Others persons in the 15.8 6.7 – 3.4 0.2 26.1 * The figure is preliminary. Changes during the year, warranty provision 15.0 11.3 Group Management 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 The retirement age for the President and CEO and other senior executives is 65. The Provisions carried forward 76.2 61.2 (8) Parent Company pension insurance premium for the President and CEO amounts to 35 percent of the 21.3 8.2 5.1 0.2 34.8 pensionable salary up to a maximum of 28.5 basic amounts. For salary in excess of * Refers to the portion which is expected to be settled within one year. The short-term portion of Subsidiaries 1,365.1 1,083.4 414.7 349.9 106.5 93.2 28.5 basic amounts, the premium amounts to 25 percent. For other senior executives, the warranty provision is classified under trade payables and other liabilities. See Note 21 Group total 1,365.1 1,083.4 414.7 349.9 106.5 93.2 the ITP agreement is applied. . 2016 Basic Other Pension Other Note 21 Trade payables and other liabilities Remuneration to the board of directors Group salary/fees* Bonus benefits expense remuneration Total Termination benefits Group Board of Directors In the event of termination of employment, a six-month mutual notice period shall 2016 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Biörn Riese 0.8 0.8 apply for the President. In the event of termination of employment of the President Directors’ fees 2.0 2.0 Trade payables 621.3 532.9 (Chairman) by the company, termination benefits corresponding to up to twelve cash monthly 2.0 2.0 Other liabilities 80.0 55.2 Toshizo Tanaka salaries may be paid after the end of the notice period. In the event of termination Håkan Kirstein 0.4 0.4 by the President, no termination benefits shall be payable. A mutual period of Short-term portion of warranty provision 43.4 44.1 Remuneration to the Board and other senior executives Social security contributions and other taxes 102.3 74.1 Bert Nordberg 0.4 0.4 notice of three to six months shall apply between the company and the other senior The board received directors’ fees for 2016 of SEK 2.0 M in total in accordance Martin Gren 1.0** 0.0 0.3 1.3 executives. In the event of termination by the company, termination benefits corresDeferred income 23.0 14.4 with the resolution of the AGM. Of the approved fees, SEK 800,000 is payable to (employed by Axis) ponding to twelve cash monthly salaries can be paid. In the event of termination by Accrued expenses 381.8 272.3 the chairman of the board, and SEK 400,000 to each of the other board members. any of the senior executives, no termination benefits shall be payable. However, no fees are payable to Toshizo Tanaka. 1 251.8 993.0 Group Management Persons who are resident outside of Sweden may be offered notice periods and terRemuneration to the President and other members of the company management Ray Mauritsson 3.3 2.6 1.4 0.3 7.6 mination benefits that are competitive in the country where the persons are or have Note 22 Financial income (namely, the nine persons who together with the President comprise the group (President & CEO) been resident or to which they have a substantial connection, preferably solutions management) may consist of basic salary, variable remuneration and pension. Others persons in the 18.3 6.6 0.2 4.8 0.2 30.1 equivalent to what applies for managerial employees resident in Sweden Parent Company Remuneration to nine persons in the group management also currently includes Group Management (9) “stay on board” remuneration, which was agreed and introduced in accordance with 2016 2015 24.2 9.2 0.2 6.5 0.5 40.6 Change of control-clause the guidelines for remuneration adopted at the 2015 AGM. Other benefits and other No agreements exist, with the exception of employment contracts, the essential Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries remuneration are received on a corresponding basis to other employees. The bonus shown in the tables includes the bonus that relates to the current fiscal contents of which have been commented upon above, between the company and Interest income, external 0.4 0.1 year and which is disbursed during the next fiscal year as well as “stay on board” the directors or employees which prescribe that remuneration shall be payable if Exchange differences 0.5 0.4 The objective of Axis AB’s remuneration policy for the senior executives shall be to remuneration to nine members of the group management. Bonus for fiscal year 2016 they: give notice; are served with notice without reasonable grounds; or if their 0.9 0.5 offer compensation that promotes the recruitment of skilled expertise and retaining will be disbursed during 2017. Bonus of SEK 1.6 M (2015:2.1) for the fiscal year 2015 employment is terminated for various reasons. it in the company. The basic salary shall be determined on the basis that it should was disbursed during 2016 to the President and CEO and a total of SEK 7.1 M (2015: be competitive. The absolute level shall depend on the specific position and the 2.7) to other senior executives. Of this sum, SEK 1.5 M represented “stay on board” Preparation and decision-making process Note 23 Financial expenses individual’s performance. Variable remuneration (bonus) to the President and other remuneration to the President and “stay on board” remuneration of SEK 6.8 M to the Subsequent to the AGM on April 13, 2016, the board established a remuneration senior executives is based on the financial goals of the group and is calculated as Parent Company 8 other members of the group management. committee composed of Biörn Riese and Bert Nordberg. During the period between a function of the sales growth and the profit margin for the year in question. The the AGMs on June 15, 2015 and April 13, 2016, the entire board constituted the 2016 2015 bonus to the President is maximized at 240 percent of the annual salary and for the * Of the directors’ fees approved by the AGM. remuneration committee. Interest expenses, external -1.8 -0.7 other senior executives the highest individual bonus amount is maximized at 80 ** Of which, directors’ fees SEK 0.4 M. Exchange differences -27.0 -2.4 percent of the annual salary. During the year, the remuneration committee advised the board of its recomOther financial expenses -0.2 -0.1 Pensions mendations in respect of principles for remuneration of senior executives. The -29.0 -3.2 In 2015, the nine persons who were members of the management team at the time The group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. recommendations covered the proportions between fixed salary and variable of Canon Inc’s public offer, each received ”stay on board” remuneration of 3 monthly The majority of the employees in the foreign units have defined-contribution pension remuneration, and the size of any salary increases. The remuneration committee also salaries. In September 2015, the board approved further ”stay on board” remuneraplans. The ITP agreement applies for employees in Sweden, which is an agreement proposed criteria for assessing bonus outcomes etc. The board discussed the remuNote 24 Appropriations tion to the same nine members of the management team. For the President, the between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation neration committee’s proposals, and reached decisions in line with the committee’s amount of remuneration is 100 percent of the gross annual salary. For the other and Co-operation (PTK) governing salaried employees’ occupational pensions. The recommendations. Parent Company senior executives concerned, the remuneration varies up to 100 percent of the gross ITP agreement contains two parts; ITP 1 and ITP 2. ITP 1 is a defined-contribution 2016 2015 annual salary. Half of the remuneration was disbursed on June 30, 2016 and the pension plan while ITP 2 has a defined-benefit retirement and family pension. The Annual General Meeting 2016 resolved to adopt the board’s proposal for guideliAdditional depreciation 1.7 -0.9 other half will be disbursed on June 30, 2017, provided that the senior executive is nes regarding determination of salary and other remuneration to the President and Provision to tax allocation reserve -192.0 -204.7 still employed on the payment date, has not had his/her employment terminated or The ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit retirement and family pension obligations are secuCEO and other senior executives. has not resigned from his/her position. This remuneration is not pension-qualifying. Reversal from tax allocation reserve 57.8 red through insurance with Alecta. According to statement UFR 10 from the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s Emerging Issues Task Force, Recognition Group contributions received 676.1 820.2 During the period after the AGM 2016, the board followed and evaluated the The results for the 2016 fiscal year have been charged with SEK 2.6 M (2015: 1.5) of the ITP 2 pension plan, which is financed through insurance with Alecta, this is a application of the guidelines for determination of salaries and other remuneration to Group contributions paid -1.4 -0.2 in bonus for the President and CEO and SEK 6.6 M (2015: 6.7) to the other senior multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the fiscal year 2016, the company did not the President and other members of the company management, which were adopted 542.2 614.4 executives. have access to the information required to report its proportional share of the plan’s by the AGM as well as ongoing and completed during the year programs for variable 92 Notes Notes 93 Note 25 Participations in subsidiaries Note 26 Contingent liabilities benefit Axis, access to know how and technology components from Canon and regarding Axis’ use of know how and cross-licensing agreements in the Canon group. Carrying amount Group Parent Company If these pilot studies should result in agreements and financial transactions between Shares owned by the parent company Registered office Corporate Share of votes Number of shares Par value Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Axis and Canon, these will also be based on market-related and favorable terms for Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, registration no. and equity Axis. 2016 2015 2016 2015 Axis Alfa AB Sweden, Lund 556599-4547 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 Customs bond 6.0 6.0 Axis Communications AB Sweden, Lund 556253-6143 99.9%* 1,599 0.2 0.3 0.3 Contingent liabilities on 27.4 Note 29 Acquisitions Axis Gamma AB Sweden, Lund 556599-4562 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 behalf of other group The significant business acquisitions completed by the group during 2016 are shown Axis Stockholmsledet 11 AB Sweden, Lund 559011-4384 100.0% 1,000 0.1 38.9 companies below. No business acquisitions occurred during 2015. Axis Technologies AB Sweden, Lund 556485-0765 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 6.0 6.0 27.4 Gren & Karlsson Firmware AB Sweden, Lund 556304-6209 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 29.1 Citilog SA 2N Holding AB (formerly Axis Beta AB) Sweden, Lund 556599-4588 100.0% 500 0.1 0.1 0.1 Note 27 Cash flow from operations On January 31, 2016, Axis Communications AB acquired 100 percent of the shares Axis Communications de Argentina SA Argentina 10.0%* 50,000 0.1 0.0 0.0 in Citilog SA, a leading provider of video monitoring solutions for the transportation Axis Comunicaciones Chile Limitada Chile 1.0%* 0 0.1 0.0 0.0 Group Parent company sector. The acquisition broadens Axis’ product portfolio with reliable video analytics tools for transportation monitoring. The group can thus offer a more comprehensive Axis Video Systems India Private Limited India 0.1%* 1 0.0 0.0 0.0 2016 2015 2016 2015 traffic solution, generating increased opportunities in the fast-growing traffic Axernet Communications Kenya Limited Kenya 1.0%* 10 0.0 0.0 Net profit/loss for the period 885.0 881.2 58.0 -1.9 analytics market. 39.6 0.8 before financial items * The remaining share is owned by other group companies. Adjusted for: Purchase price cash outflow Shares owned by subsidiaries Registered office Corporate registration no. Share of equity – depreciation of property, 87.9 68.1 The purchase price amounted to SEK 91.1 M and was paid in cash. Axis Communications AB Sweden, Lund 556253-6143 0.1%* plant and equipment Axis Network AB Sweden, Lund 556505-3450 100.0% – amortization of intangible 47.9 35.5 2.5 2.4 Cash purchase price 91.1 Axis Peripherals AB Sweden, Lund 556505-1785 100.0% assets Less: acquired cash and cash equivalents -28.0 Cognimatics Aktiebolag Sweden, Lund 556644-9996 100.0% – other items not affecting -38.5 67.5 Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 63.1 cash flow* Axis Communications de Argentina SA Argentine 90.0%* investing activities Axis Communications Pty Ltd Australia 100.0% Change in working capital Axis Communications Com e Serv Ltda Brazil 100.0% Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities on the acquisition date – inventories -25.4 -299.9 Axis Communications Inc. Canada Canada 100.0% Property, plant and equipment 0.5 – trade receivables and -261.2 184.1 1.0 -0.5 Axis Communications s.r.o. Czech Republic 100.0% Intangible assets: trademarks 4.5 other receivables 2N Telekomunikace a.s Czech Republic 100.0% Intangible assets: contracts with customers 5.1 – trade payables and other 235.9 58.9 7.8 -0.3 Axis Comunicaciones Chile Limitada Chile 99.0%* liabilities Intangible assets: technology 16.7 Axis Communications Ltd China, Hong Kong 100.0% Cash flow from operations 931.6 995.4 69.3 -0.3 Deferred tax assets 21.9 Citilog Asia Pacific Limited China, Hong Kong 100.0% Other financial assets 0.6 Shanghai Axis Communication Equipment Trading Co. Ltd China, Shanghai 100.0% * This item includes foreign currency translation effects. Inventories 4.1 Axis Communications Colombia SAS Colombia 100.0% Trade receivables 16.4 Axis Communications d.o.o. za usluge Croatia 100.0% Other current receivables 4.0 Axis Communications Oy Finland 100.0% Note 28 Related parties Cash and cash equivalents 28.0 Axis Communications SA France 100.0% Total assets 101.8 On December 31, 2016, the parent company’s non-current receivables from group Citilog SA France 100.0% companies amounted to SEK 27 M (0) and current receivables from group companies Non-current liabilities 6.6 Axis Communications GmbH Germany 100.0% amounted to SEK 1,903 M (1,169). Current liabilities to group companies amounted Deferred tax liabilities 8.7 Axis Video Systems India Private Limited India 99.9%* to SEK 2.3 M (1.0). Related party transactions are priced on market-related terms. Trade payables 3.9 Axis Communications S.r.l. Italy 100.0% Other current liabilities 8.3 Axis Communications KK Japan 100.0% All group companies are described in Note 25 Participations in subsidiaries. Total liabilities 27.5 Axernet Communications Kenya Limited Kenya 99.0%* Information about board members and members of the group management and Axis Communications Korea Co. Ltd Korea 100.0% remuneration of these members is reported in Note 19 Personnel. Apart from the Total identifiable net assets at fair value 74.3 Axis Communications Video Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100.0% remuneration to board members and the group management that is described in Goodwill 16.8 Axis LAC S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.0% Note 19, no transactions with related physical persons have taken place. The group has not provided loans, provided indemnities or issued guarantees for any members The goodwill arising through the acquisition is related to Citilog’s strong position in Axis Communications BV Netherlands 100.0% of the board or other senior executives. Axis has not had any significant financial the market. No portion of the acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax Axis Communications Norge AS Norway 100.0% transactions with the principal owner Canon Inc or its subsidiaries. Certain Axis purposes. Axis Communications New Zealand Ltd New Zealand 100.0% group companies, from the time before Canon Inc’s offer, lease business equipment Axis Communications Poland Sp. z.o.o. Poland 100.0% from subsidiaries of Canon Inc. Axis has during the year started to resell Canon Revenue and profit in acquired business Axis Communications OOO Russia 100.0% Network video products in EMEA and Americas. Axis Communications (S) Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0% Axis Communications SA Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0% Axis continually has a number pilot studies and collobaration projects in progress Axernet Communications SA Spain 100.0% with various companies. All pilot studies and collaboration projects are well-defined, are based on market-related terms, are of clear benefit to the Axis group and are Axis Communications Taiwan Co., Ltd Taiwan 100.0% governed, when required, by Non Disclosure Agreements or other agreements. Axis Communications (Thailand) Ltd Thailand 100.0% Already, prior to Canon’s bid Axis has had a number of pilot studies and collaboraAxis Komünikasyon Hizmetleri Ve Ticaret Ltd Şirketi Turkey 100.0% tion projects with companies in the Canon group. In total, there are about 10 signed Axis Communications FZE United Arab Emirates 100.0% Non Disclosure Agreements and a small number of agreements. The most important Axis Communications (UK) Ltd UK 100.0% agreements govern joint development projects, for example the development of Axis Communications Inc USA 100.0% the network camera with 20MP resolution that Axis released during the year. Pilot Citilog Inc. USA 100.0% studies are currently ongoing regarding potential purchasing synergies that could 2N USA LLC USA 100.0% * The remaining share is owned by Axis AB. 94 Notes Notes 95 Citilog contributed revenue of SEK 51 M and a net profit of SEK 1 M to the group for Acquisition-related expenses The board of directors and the President propose that the profits at the disposal of the period January 31 to December 31, 2016. If the acquisition had been carried out Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 4.2 M are included in the operating profit and in the annual general meeting be appropriated as follows: on January 1, 2016, the consolidated pro-forma for revenue and profit would show operating activities in the statement of cash flows. SEK 56 M and SEK 0 M respectively on December 31, 2016. These amounts were to be carried forward 1 276 782 628 calculated using the subsidiary’s results while adjusting for differences in accounting 29.3 Cognimatics AB Total 1 276 782 628 policies between the group and the subsidiary. On June 3, 2016 Axis Communications AB acquired 100 % of the shares in Acquisition-related expenses Cognimatics AB. Cognimatics is a leading company within solutions primarily for Note 32 Key ratios store optimization for retailers. The company provides a suite of video analytics appliAcquisition-related expenses of SEK 3.9 M are included in the operating profit and in cations that are used to increase knowledge about customer behavior and movement Key ratios Definitions Purpose operating activities in the statement of cash flows. patterns, thereby improving the customer experience and providing more efficient Return on Profit after financial The key ratio shows the operation’s return and secure operation of the stores. Access to Cognimatics’ knowledge and technology equity items and tax divided on the equity contributed by the share29.2 2N Telekomunikace a.s. strengthens Axis’ offering in the fast growing retail segment. Axis Communications by average equity. holders and is thus a measurement of how On May 30, 2016, Axis Beta AB (now 2N Holding AB) acquired 100 percent of the and Cognimatics have collaborated for several years when it comes to technology and profitable the group is. Investors can comshares in 2N Telekomunikace a.s. and 2N USA LLC. 2N is a leading player in the IP sales in order to offer integrated solutions to a number of common customers. pare this metric with current bank interest intercom field and is also active in other areas such as IP audio and communication or returns from alternative investments. solutions for lifts. The company has well-established sales channels, through electriPurchase price cash outflow The metric can also be used to compare cians and telecom installers as well as lift manufacturers, which will complement The purcahse price amounted to SEK 61.7 M which was paid in cash. profitability between companies in the Axis’ present global sales channels. Together with 2N, Axis can meet the increased same industry. demand for integrated solutions based on open standards that deliver increased seReturn on Profit after financial The key ratio shows the operation’s return Preliminary purchase price analysis* curity. An important shared mission is to accelerate the shift from analog to IP-based capital items plus financial on the equity that the shareholders and intercom systems and to develop new opportunities. The market is growing and Axis Initial cash purchase price 61,7 employed expenses divided by lenders have made available. The metric can continue to drive the market trend through this acquisition. Less: acquired cash balances -7,2 average average thus shows the group’s return, independent Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents investing 54,5 capital employed. of financing choice, and can be used in Purchase price cash outflow activities connection with investment evaluations. The purchase price amounted to SEK 475.9 M, of which SEK 437.8 M was paid in cash Gross margin Gross profit as a perThe key ratio shows the margin before peron the acquisition date. The remainder of the purchase price will be settled in two Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities on the acquisition date centage of net sales sonnel costs and other external expenses. parts, the first half of which shall be paid 12 months after the acquisition date and Trade receivables 2,4 Earnings per Net profit for the year The key ratio is important for a share’s the other half 24 months after the acquisition date. Other current receivables 0,3 share divided by the average valuation as together with the price per number of shares. share it can used to compute the P/E ratio. Cash and cash equivalents 7,2 Initial cash purchase price 437.8 Operating Operating profit as The key ratio shows the margin before fiTotal assets 9,9 margin a percentage of net nancial items and taxes Less: acquired cash balances -20.5 Deferred tax liabilities 0,8 sales. Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 417.3 Trade payables 0,8 Equity ratio Equity as a percentage The key ratio shows how large a proportion investing activities Other current liabilities 1,2 of the balance sheet of the assets are financed with equity. The total metric can be of interest when evaluating Fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities on the acquisition date Total liabilities 2,8 the group’s solvency in the longer term Property, plant and equipment 8.2 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 7,1 Profit margin Profit before tax as The key ratio shows the margin before tax. Intangible assets: trademarks 52.9 Goodwill 54,6 a percentage of net Intangible assets: contracts with customers 22.7 sales. Intangible assets: technology 69.0 Revenue and profit in acquired business Intangible assets: rights 1.8 Cognimatics contributed revenues of SEK 12 M and a net profit of SEK 5 M to the Return on equity 2016 2015 Other financial assets 3.7 group for the period from June 3 to December 31, 2016. If the acquisition had been Profit after financial items R12 884 881 Inventories 54.7 carried out on January 1, 2016, the consolidated pro-forma for revenue and profit Taxes -195 -194 Trade receivables 40.1 would show SEK 21 and SEK 9 M respectively on December 31, 2016. These amounts Profit after financial items R12 less tax 690 687 Other current receivables 4.8 were calculated using the subsidiary’s results while adjusting for differences in Average equity 2,047 1,420 accounting policies between the group and the subsidiary. 33.7% 48.4% Cash and cash equivalents 20.5 Total assets 278.4 Acquisition-related expenses Deferred tax liabilities 27.5 Acquisition-related expenses of SEK 1.7 M are included in the operating profit and in Return on capital employed 2016 2015 Trade payables 29.3 operating activities in the statement of cash flows. Profit after financial items R12 884 881 Other current liabilities 18.1 Financial expenses R12 -3 -1 Total liabilities 74.9 *Pending a final purchase price analysis, all surplus values have been allocated to Profit after financial items R12 + financial expenses 887 882 goodwill R12 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 203.5 Goodwill 272.4 Average capital employed 2,049 1,420 Note 30 Post-balance sheet events 43.3% 62.1% The goodwill arising through the acquisition is related to 2N’s strong position in There are no significant events to report. Some of the key ratios may be easily computed from the financial statements and are therefore the market. No portion of the acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax not presented above. purposes. Not 31 Appropriation of profits Revenue and profit in acquired business (Amounts in SEK) 2N contributed revenue of SEK 165 M and a net profit of SEK 4 M to the group for At the disposal of the annual general meeting: the period May 30 to December 31, 2016. If the acquisition had been carried out Accumulated profit and other non-restricted reserves 831,431,161 on January 1, 2016, the consolidated pro-forma for revenue and profit would show SEK 290 M and SEK 16 M respectively on December 31, 2016. These amounts were Net profit for the year 445,351,467 calculated using the subsidiary’s results while adjusting for differences in accounting Total 1,276,782,628 policies between the group and the subsidiary. 96 Signatures Audit report 97 Signatures Audit report The board of directors approved these financial statements and consolidated financial statements for publication To the general meeting of the shareholders of Axis AB (publ), corporate identity on March 29 2017. The income statements and balance sheets of the parent company and the group will be number 556241-1065 submitted to the Annual General Meeting on April 20, 2017 for adoption. Report on the annual accounts and consolidated goods is recognized upon delivery and acceptance by the customer, which The board of directors and the President affirm that the consolidated financial statements have been prepared accounts has occured when the significant risks and benefits have transferred to in accordance with international accounting standards, IFRS as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair the buyer. The company’s sales model includes rebates and other sales view of the group’s financial position and results of operations. The financial statements have been prepared in incentives which are settled in retrospective, as described in note 1. Due accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and give a true and fair view of the parent company’s Opinions to the variety and complexity of contractual terms across the Group’s financial position and results of operations. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of markets, and the magnitude of the data involved in making the estimations, Axis AB (publ) for the year 2016. The annual accounts and consolidated we have considered the estimation of rebates and other sales incentives The statutory administration report for the group and the parent company provides a true and fair review of the accounts of the company are included on pages 69-96 in this document. development of the group’s and the parent company’s operations, financial position and results of operations recognised based on sales during the year to be complex. We have and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the parent company and the companies forming part of the therefore determined the revenue recognition to be a key audit matter. group. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, During our audit we have evaluated and tested the process of revenue Axis AB, 556241-1065 the financial position of the parent company as of 31st of December 2016 recognition and accrual of rebates and other sales incentives. Amongst and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in other procedures, we have tested the company’s controls over revenue accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts recognition and accounting for rebates and executed analytical audit Lund, March 29, 2017 have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and procedures over the historical accuracy of judgments made. We have present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group also performed analytics over product sales compared to the prior year, as of 31st of December 2016 and their financial performance and cash compared sales trends to expectations, tested contractual agreements, flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial conducted sample testing over revenue cutoff at year-end and obtained Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual external accounts receivable confirmations. Biörn Riese Ray Mauritsson Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the Chairman President and CEO other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We have evaluated whether the disclosures within the annual report are appropriate. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company Acquisition of 2N Telekomunikace a.s. and Citilog SA and and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and Martin Gren Toshizo Tanaka The group acquired 2N Telekomunikace a.s. and Citilog SA in 2016. The Board member Board member consolidated balance sheet for the group. acquisition price for 2N Telekomunikace a.s amounted SEK 475.9 million and acquired intangible assets SEK 418.8 million of which goodwill Basis for Opinions amounted SEK 272.4 million. The acquisition price for Citilog SA amountWe conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on ed SEK 91.1 million and acquired intangible assets SEK 43.1 million of Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. which goodwill amounted SEK 16.8 million. Bert Nordberg Håkan Kirstein Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Board member Board member Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent The company’s disclosures over the acquisitions are included in note company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for 29 and note 1. The accounting for these two acquisitions has required accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsia significant amount of management estimation. The key judgments bilities in accordance with these requirements. relate to the allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities Haris Mustafic Madhavi Kagganti acquired and adjustments made to align with the group’s accounting Employee representative Employee representative We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and policies. In preparing the purchase price allocation the company applied appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. various assumptions in respect of future cashflows, growth, discount rates and selection of valuation model. The purchase price allocation Other Matters is a key audit matter as the assessment process requires significant Marie Nässlind The audit of the Annual Report 2015 has been performed by another management judgement and imposes significant estimates. Employee representative auditor, who has presented an auditors report with the appointed minority auditor, dated 14th of March 2016 with unmodified opinion in We assessed and tested management’s processes for preparing the Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. purchase price allocation for example by assessing the reasonableness in future cashflows and growth assumptions. Our valuation specialists Key Audit Matters have supported us in testing the company’s models and methods for Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional the purchase price allocation and the reasonableness in selecting a judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts valuation model, as well as assumptions on for example discount rate and Our audit report was submitted on March 29, 2017. and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were future cashflows as well as economic life of assets. We also tested the Ernst & Young AB Grant Thornton Sweden AB addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion adjustments made to align the acquired companies’ accounting principles thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but with those of the group. we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures within the annual report. Johan Thuresson Stefan Hultstrand Revenue Recognition Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant The revenues amounted SEK 7,385.7 million in 2016. The revenue Minority auditor recognition principles are described in note 1. A revenue from sale of 98 Audit report Audit report 99 Other Information than the annual accounts and We also: Report on other legal and regulatory Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee consolidated accounts > Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual requirements that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give This document also contains other information than the annual accounts design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and Opinions rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-68 and pages 100obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. 103 and pages 111-116. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated are responsible for this other information. a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misaccounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of statement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Directors and the Managing Director of Axis AB (publ) for the year 2016 standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. > Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit conclusion regarding this other information. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit be our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminisprocedures performed are based on our professional judgment with In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with > Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we Basis for Opinions by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit > Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumstances and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be materially Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are furthat are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a misstated. in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We ther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independbasis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as ent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal is in If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical accordance with the Companies Act. that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a Lund, March 29, 2017 material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Ernst & Young AB Grant Thornton Sweden AB Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Managing Director consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Johan Thuresson Stefan Hultstrand preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the Managing Director Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause a Minority Auditor and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations company and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are > Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. presentation. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board > Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and financial information of the entities or business activities within the ment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going concern things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and the that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in Auditor’s responsibility internal control that we identified. take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from reassuring manner. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independauditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a ence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters Auditor’s responsibility high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards applicable, related safeguards. our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit > has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most give rise to liability to the company, or annual accounts and consolidated accounts. important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore > in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter or when, in judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in benefits of such communication. accordance with the Companies Act. 100 Multi-year summary Multi-year summary 101 Multi-year summary INCOME STATEMENT (SEK M) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 KEY RATIOS 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net sales 4,183.5 4,716.8 5,449.7 6,634.7 7,385.7 Net sales growth, % 16.9 12.7 15.5 21.7 11.3 Cost of goods and services sold -2,080.0 -2,286.6 -2,627.7 -3,262.2 -3,678.9 Gross margin, % 50.3 51.5 51.8 50.8 50.2 Gross profit 2,103.5 2,430.2 2,822.0 3,372.5 3,706.8 Operating margin, % 13.8 13.6 13.1 13.3 12.0 Other income and changes in value -30.0 -8.0 -1.6 -32.6 63.5 Profit margin, % 13.6 13.5 13.1 13.3 12.0 Selling and marketing expenses -747.5 -864.4 -1,019.6 -1,180.8 -1,353.0 Depreciation/amortization, SEK M 50.0 55.4 72.0 103.6 135.8 Administrative expenses -171.0 -208.9 -226.7 -292.2 -298.9 Equity, SEK M 810 937 1,097 1,742 2,352 Research and development expenses -579.7 -708.6 -858.7 -985.7 -1,233.4 Equity/assets ratio, % 47.7 48.2 49.7 57.3 58.7 Operating profit 575.3 640.3 715.4 881.2 885.0 Balance sheet total, SEK M 1,696 1,943 2,207 3,038 4,009 Net financial items -6.5 -3.1 -1.5 -0.7 -0.8 Interest-bearing liabilities, SEK M 140 3 Profit after financial items 568.8 637.2 713.9 880.5 884.2 Net debt, SEK M 325 338 415 1,016 855 Tax on net profit -141.5 -158.3 -174.6 -228.4 -245.5 Capital employed, SEK M 950 937 1,097 1,742 2,355 Net profit for the year 427.3 478.9 539.3 652.1 638.7 Return on capital employed, % 66.9 67.9 70.5 62.1 43.3 Return on equity, % 53.1 56.9 54.8 48.4 33.7 Number of employees (average for the period) 1,278 1,532 1,797 2,065 2,414 BALANCE SHEET (SEK M) Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2013 Dec 31, 2014 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Sales per employee, SEK M 3.3 3.1 3.0 3.2 3.1 Non-current assets 210.9 270.5 338.3 452.9 1,167.9 Operating profit per employee, SEK M 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Inventories 536.0 636.8 722.3 1,022.2 1,106.5 Trade receivables 391.9 592.0 636.5 423.0 656.5 Other receivables 92.8 105.9 95.0 124.4 220.1 PER-SHARE DATA 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 464.5 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 Profit after financial items, SEK per share 8.19 9.17 10.28 12.67 12.73 Total 1,696.1 1,942.9 2,206.7 3,038.3 4,009.4 Cash flow, SEK per share 0.57 –1.83 1.11 8.65 -2.27 Equity, SEK per share 11.66 13.49 15.79 25.06 33.87 Equity 809.8 936.9 1,097.1 1,741.5 2,352.3 Share price at end of the period 177.50 223.80 199.60 343.40 340.60 Non-current liabilities 124.6 159.3 187.4 282.2 391.0 Price/equity, percent per share 1,523 1,659 1,264 1,370 1,006 Current liabilities 761.7 846.7 922.2 1,014.6 1,266.1 Dividend paid 5.50 5.00 5.50 0.31 0.64 Total 1,696.1 1,942.9 2,206.7 3,038.3 4,009.4 P/E ratio 29 32 26 37 37 P/S ratio 2.95 3.30 2.54 3.60 3.20 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 6.15 6.89 7.76 9.39 9.20 CASH FLOW STATEMENT (SEK M) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 6.15 6.89 7.76 9.39 9.20 Cash flow from operating activities before change in working capital 416.7 567.6 689.2 860.1 772.1 Number of shares before dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Change in working capital -56.1 -90.1 -88.7 -56.9 -50.7 Number of shares after dilution, average, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Cash flow from operating activities 360.6 477.5 600.5 803.2 721.4 Number of outstanding shares, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Cash flow from investing activities -79.1 -117.0 -141.6 -180.5 -831.6 Average number of shares, thousands 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 69,461 Cash flow from financing activities -242.0 -487.3 -382.0 -21.5 -47.2 Cash flow for the period 39.5 -126.8 76.9 601.2 -157.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 425.0 464.5 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 464.5 337.7 414.6 1,015.8 858.3 OPERATING CASH FLOW (SEK M) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Profit after financial items 568.8 637.2 713.9 880.5 884.2 Depreciation/amortization 50.0 55.4 72.1 103.6 135.8 Taxes -237.4 -128.2 -103.8 -191.5 -210.8 Total 381.4 564.4 682.2 792.6 809.2 Change in working capital -56.1 -90.1 -88.7 -15.0 -50.7 Net investments -79.1 -117.0 -141.6 -180.5 -831.6 Operating cash flow 246.2 357.3 451.9 597.1 -73.1 102 Quarterly data Definitions 103 Quarterly data Definitions Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year Invoiced sales per product group (SEK M) 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Capital employed P/E Video 1,347.5 1,607.6 1,885.5 1,738.8 1,546.9 1,714.9 1,864.1 1,941.8 7,067.7 Total assets less non interest-bearing liabilities including deferred tax Market value divided by profit after full tax. Other 6.8 8.7 20.2 19.6 20.1 47.8 133.1 117.0 318.0 liability. Total 1,354.3 1,616.3 1,905.7 1,758.4 1,567.0 1,762.7 1,997.2 2,058.8 7,385.7 P/S Cash flow per share Market value divided by net sales. Cash flow for the year divided by the average number of shares. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year Profit margin Invoiced sales per region (SEK M) 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Earnings per share Profit before tax as a percentage of net sales. EMEA 470.4 554.2 602.2 739.5 585.7 565.2 671.0 823.8 2,645.7 Net profit for the year by the average number of shares. Americas 713.0 859.9 1,084.8 832.0 810.0 984.1 1,068.9 992.7 3,855.7 Profit per employee Asia 170.9 202.2 218.7 186.9 171.3 213.4 257.3 242.3 884.3 Equity per share Operating profit after depreciation/amortization divided by the average Total 1,354.3 1,616.3 1,905.7 1,758.4 1,567.0 1,762.7 1,997.2 2,058.8 7,385.7 Equity divided by the number of outstanding shares. number of full-time employees. Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Full year Equity ratio Return on capital employed Income statement (SEK M) 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Equity as a percentage of the balance sheet total Profit after financial items plus financial expenses divided by average Net sales 1,354.3 1,616.3 1,905.7 1,758.4 1,567.0 1,762.7 1,997.2 2,058.8 7,385.7 capital employed. Gross profit 710.1 821.7 973.6 867.1 785.5 876.0 989.4 1,056.0 3,706.9 Gross margin Gross margin % 52.4 50.8 51.1 49.3 50.1 49.7 49.5 51.3 50.2 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. Return on total assets Operating profit 144.8 116.5 388.7 231.2 153.1 166.8 312.2 252.9 885.0 Profit after financial items plus financial expenses divided by average Operating margin % 10.7 7.2 20.4 13.1 9.8 9.5 15.6 12.3 12.0 Net debt balance sheet total. Profit after financial items 144.5 116.2 388.7 231.1 153.2 166.2 312.0 252.8 884.2 Net interest-bearing receivables and liabilities. Sales per employee Operating margin Sales divided by the average number of full-time employees. Operating profit as a percentage of net sales. Operating margin after depreciation of property, plant and equipment Operating profit after depreciation of property, plant and equipment as a percentage of sales. 104 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 105 Corporate Governance Report 2016 Axis Aktiebolag’s (publ) (hereafter “Axis”) Corporate Deviations from the Code Principal owners Attendance Annual General Meetings 2012-2016 Governance Report for 2016 is presented below, In light of the ownership structure in Axis where Canon Inc. for some Number of shares Share of equity and votes and has been reviewed by the company’s auditor. time owns 86.6 percent of the shares and votes, the 2016 Annual General Number % The report describes the division of responsibilities Meeting (AGM), like the 2015 AGM, did not appoint a nomination Canon Inc. 60,175,282 86.6 % 250 100 within Axis and also how the company’s three committee. The company thus deviates from the Code’s rules with regard BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BARCLAYS 3,479,569 5.0 % CAPITA decision-making bodies – the annual general meetto a nomination committee. The duties of the nomination committee ing, board of directors and President – operate and JP MORGAN CHASE BANK NA, W9 2,615,418 3.8 % 200 80 under the Code will be performed instead, where appropriate, by Axis’ interact. largest shareholder Canon Inc. or by the company’s board of directors. As CREDIT SUISSE SEC EUROPE LTD 960,079 1.4 % far as election and remuneration of auditors is concerned, the board has BNYMSANV RE GCLB RE BNY GCM 759,984 1.1 % 150 60 Introduction appointed a special group that prepares the procurement process. This CLIENT Other 1,470,918 2.1 % 100 40 Corporate governance is the system whereby the owners, directly group has special experience in questions relating to appointment and or indirectly, govern and control the company. At Axis, governance, remuneration of auditors, which is considered to be of benefit to Axis and Total 69,461,250 100.0 % management and control are distributed among the shareholders, the raises the quality level. 50 20 board of directors and the President in accordance with prevailing laws, regulations and instructions. Share capital, voting rights and ownership 0 0 Axis had 1,726 shareholders at the end of 2016 according to the share 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Axis is a public Swedish stock corporation with its registered office in register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. The company’s largest Number of shareholders Votes in % Lund, Sweden. Axis was floated on the Stockholm Stock Exchange in owner is Canon Inc. (86.6 percent). Foreign investors’ equity interest was 2000 and is currently listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s main market. The 99.5 percent. The five largest owners had total holdings corresponding to company follows the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act as well 97.9 percent of the share capital. For additional ownership data see pages as the stock exchange regulations for listed companies in Sweden. The 24 and 105 in the printed annual report. The company’s share capital Provisions in Articles of Association Axis does not apply any special arrangements as regards the running of company has not committed any breaches of Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules totaled SEK 0.7 M at year-end. At December 31, 2016, the number of The company’s articles of association do not contain any limitations the AGM, either on account of provisions in the articles of association or, and regulations or of best practice in the stock market. shares amounted to 69,461,250, all shares carry one vote and equal right in respect of how many votes each shareholder may cast at a general as far as the company knows, shareholders’ agreements. to share in the company’s assets and earnings. meeting of shareholders. There are no special provisions in the company’s Axis applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (hereafter the articles of association regarding appointment and dismissal of board Annual General Meeting, April 13, 2016 “Code”). Axis does not deviate from the Code, with the exception of what members or regarding amendment of the articles of association. The AGM, which was held in Lund on April 13, 2016 resolved as follows: is expressly stated below. Information about the Code may be found on www.bolagsstyrning.se. Annual General Meeting The AGM resolved in accordance with the principal owner’s proposals, The general meeting is Axis’ highest decision-making body, and the forum namely to elect five ordinary board members without any deputy board through which the shareholders can exercise their influence over the members, to re-elect the board members Bert Nordberg, Biörn Riese, Control model company. The ordinary general meeting where the board shall submit Håkan Kirstein, Martin Gren and Toshizo Tanaka, to re-elect Biörn Riese the annual report and consolidated financial statements is called the as Chairman of the Board, and that directors’ fees shall be paid of The shareholders Annual General Meeting (AGM). The auditors submit the audit report SEK 2,000,000 in total to be allocated as follows: SEK 800,000 to the make up the Annual General Meeting and the audit report for the group at the AGM. The particulars of the chairman of the board and SEK 400,000 to each of the other members, AGM are governed by the Swedish Companies Act and by the articles however, fees shall not be paid to Toshizo Tanaka. Proposal of association. Axis’ AGM is held annually in the Lund area during the first half of the year. When and where the meeting will be held will be The AGM has not authorized the board to resolve that the company announced in connection with the interim report for the third quarter in should issue new shares or acquire its own shares. Annual General Meeting the preceding year. Information regarding the shareholders’ right to have matters addressed at the AGM, is available on the company’s website Nomination Committee Election Election Info from the time of the report’s publication. The notice convening the AGM The AGM resolves on the appointment of a nomination committee in is published no later than four weeks prior to the AGM. At the AGM, applicable cases. In light of the ownership in Axis where Canon Inc. owns Board of Directors Info information is provided about Axis’ performance during the past year and 86.6 percent of the shares and votes, no nomination committee was Remuneration Committee Audit Committee resolutions are passed on important questions. The shareholders are given appointed at the 2016 or 2015 AGMs. the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Axis group and Goals the results for the past year. Apart from the legal requirements concernProposals and views from shareholders concerning the composition of the Strategies Reports External Control auditors ing the right of shareholders to participate in the AGM, preregistration for board may either be submitted in writing to the address: Control instruments the AGM is required under Axis’ articles of association within the period Axis AB, attn. Adrienne Jacobsen, Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 Lund, specified in the convening notice. When applicable, notification should Sweden, or by phone +46 46 272 18 00. The President & CEO Info also be provided if the shareholder intends to take along assistants. Those and Group Management shareholders who cannot personally attend may be represented by proxy. 106 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 107 Board of Directors The formal work plan of the Board of Directors The board discussed compliance with the Swedish Code of Corporate For information about the President’s and Group Management’s shareDuring the period between AGMs, the board of directors of Axis constiUnder the Swedish Companies Act, the board is responsible for drawing Governance and continually handled other questions, which are the reholdings see pages 112-113 of the printed annual report and the company’s tutes the highest decision-making body in the company. The duties of the up and evaluating Axis’ overall, long-term strategies and goals, adopting sponsibility of the board in order to ensure good governance and control in website. board are governed by the Swedish Companies Act and by the articles the budget and taking decisions affecting the operations and major the company. The board conducts an annual evaluation of its work through of association. The current articles of association were adopted at the investments in Axis’ organization and operations. The formal work plan of the agency of the chairman. Such an evaluation was carried out within the The President and CEO manages the day-to-day work, and is responsible AGM 2015 and are available in their entirety on www.axis.com.According the board is adopted annually by the board. The duties of the board and board without the involvement of external parties. In the evaluation carried for keeping the board informed of the performance of the operations, to the company’s articles of association, the board of directors shall the division of responsibilities between the board and the President and out for 2016, each board member answered a questionnaire in order to and for ensuring that they are being conducted in accordance with the consist of a minimum of three and a maximum of seven members, with a CEO are described in the formal work plan and in the board’s instructions get an idea of the board members’ opinions about how the board work has board’s guidelines and instructions. The President keeps the board and the maximum of three deputy board members. to the President and CEO. It is incumbent on the President and CEO, in been conducted, what measures can be taken to improve the board work chairman continually informed of Axis’ and the group’s financial position consultation with the chairman of the board, to prepare the decision data, and what issues should be given more attention, among other things. and performance. The group management team held eleven formal and a The board members Bert Nordberg, Biörn Riese, Håkan Kirstein and the notification and the agenda for each board meeting. The notification number of informal meetings during the year. Two of these were extended Martin Gren were present at the AGM on April 13, 2016. The board and decision data are to be circulated to the board members in good time. According to the formal work plan of the board at least five ordinary strategy meetings where areas dealt with included; the long-term innovamember Toshizo Tanaka was not present. The minutes are to be circulated to the board members after the meeting, meetings must be held annually in addition to the statutory meeting. tionand growth agenda, core values and their development, organization and a copy stored securely by the company. Apart from this, the board may convene when circumstances so require. and employee development and efficient processes. Re-election occurred of the board members Bert Nordberg, Biörn During 2016, the board held twelve board meetings including the statutory Riese, Håkan Kirstein, Martin Gren and Toshizo Tanaka, Biörn Riese was The role of the chairman of the board of Axis AB, among other things, is meeting. See table on page 106 for in the printed annual report for meeting re-elected as Chairman of the Board. The board of directors thus consists to monitor the progress of the business, to organize and lead the work attendance. Remuneration to the Board, Auditor, President and Senior of five members elected by the AGM. of the board and to be responsible for ensuring that the other directors Executives continually receive the information they require to carry out the work of A presentation of the board may be found on page 111 in the printed The board members Bert Nordberg, Håkan Kirstein and Biörn Riese the board with maintained quality and in accordance with the Swedish annual report. Board of Directors (since March 1, 2017) are deemed to be independent in relation to Axis, Companies Act. Directors’ fees of SEK 2,000,000 are payable, according to the resolution the company management and to the major shareholders. Martin Gren Committees of the AGM on April 13, 2016. The chairman receives fees of SEK 800,000 is employed by the subsidiary Axis Communications AB and is thus The work of the Board during 2016 and each of the other board members receives fees of SEK 400,000, not deemed to be independent in relation to Axis and the company During the period since the 2016 AGM, the board has continually followed Remuneration Committee however, no fees shall be paid to Toshizo Tanaka. management but is deemed to be independent in relation to the major and discussed Axis’ performance based on monthly reporting of the Questions relating to decisions and guidelines regarding salary and other shareholders. Toshizo Tanaka is deemed to be independent in relation to Axis group’s financial situation and its operations. In addition, the board terms of employment for the company management (including President) Auditor Axis and the company management but not independent in relation to the regularly received and discussed reports from the Axis group’s various and other employees are handled by a special remuneration committee. Fees to auditors and minority auditors are payable according to approved company’s largest shareholder Canon Inc. lines of business. The committee is composed of Biörn Riese, Chairman, and Bert Nordberg. invoice, pursuant to the resolution of the AGM on April 13, 2016. President and CEO Ray Mauritsson is a co-opted member when dealing Information regarding the remuneration to board members approved During 2016, the board also continued to focus on the strategy for the with certain issues. Employees from Axis’ HR department attend in a President and Senior Executives by the AGM may be found in the table below and in Note 19, Personnel. network video field, and on the constant changes in external factors reporting capacity. The principles for remuneration of the President and other persons in the Other information about the board members may be found on page 111 of and competition. The geographical and product-related growth strategy company management were determined by the AGM on April 13, 2016. the printed annual report. Information about the shareholdings of board was discussed in light of the opportunities generated by collaboration The board follows and evaluates the application of the guidelines for The guidelines essentially correspond to the principles that have been members may be found on page 111 of the printed annual report and on with and support from the company’s largest owner Canon Inc., on determination of salaries and other remuneration to the President and other applied to date. The objective of Axis AB’s remuneration policy for senior the company’s website. market-related terms. In addition, the board also discussed and decided members of the company management, which have been adopted by the executives shall be to offer compensation that helps to recruit skills and on the acquisitions which were made during the year and also followed AGM and also follows and evaluates any ongoing and completed during the expertise and to retain it in the company. the progress in constructing Axis’ new office building in Lund. year programs for variable remuneration to the company management. The Composition of the Board of Directors board also monitors remuneration structures and rates of compensation in Remuneration to the President and other members of the company Attendance the company. management (namely, the nine persons who together with the President comprise the group management) may consist of basic salary, variable Name Year elected Independent Total fees Remuneration Board meetings Committee meetings Committee Audit Committee remuneration, “stay on board” remuneration and pension. Biörn Riese (Chairman of the Board) 2015 Yes 800,000 x 12 (12) 2 Questions relating to internal control and audit are handled by the board in its entirety and therefore no special audit committee has been appointed. Basic salary Bert Nordberg 2015 Yes 400,000 x 11 (12) 2 During 2016, Axis was also audited by a special auditor and a minority The basic salary should be determined on the basis that it should be Martin Gren 1984 No 400,000 – 10 (12) – auditor. competitive. The absolute level should depend on the specific position Håkan Kirstein 2015 Yes 400,000 – 12 (12) – and the individual’s performance. Toshizo Tanaka 2015 No – – 9 (12) – The President & CEO and Group Management Haris Mustafic 2015 – – – 5 (12) – Axis’ group management consists of ten members, and is led by the Variable remuneration (employee representative for IF Metall) President and CEO, Ray Mauritsson (born 1962). Ray Mauritsson holds Variable remuneration (bonus) to the President and other senior Cristian Ionescu-Idbohrn 2013 – – – 8 (12) – a Master of Science, Engineering physics from Lund University, and an executives shall be based on the financial goals of the group and shall (employee representative for SACO, deputy) Executive MBA from the Institute of Economics, at Lund University. He be calculated as a function of the sales growth and the profit margin for Madhavi Kagganti 2015 – – – 12 (12) – (employee representative for SACO) joined Axis in 1995, and took over as President and CEO in 2003. Prior to the year in question. The bonus to the President shall be maximized at this, Mauritsson held leading positions at TAC (now Schneider Electric). He 240 percent of the annual salary and for the other senior executives the Marie Nässlind 2015 – – – 9 (12) – (employee representative for Unionen) has a directorship in HMS Industrial Networks but has no other significant highest individual bonus amount shall be maximized at 80 percent of Mats Friberg 2015 – – – 10 (12) – assignments outside of Axis. Neither Ray Mauritsson nor related parties the annual salary. Other benefits and other remuneration shall be (employee representative for Unionen, deputy) to him have any substantial shareholding or partnership in companies that received on the same basis as for other employees. During 2016, 12 board meetings were held in total. Axis has significant business relations with. 108 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 109 Pension The company does not operate any outstanding share-related or shareThe company’s report on internal control over The retirement age for the President shall be 65. The pension insurance price related incentive programs. financial reporting 2016 C. Internal control function premium shall amount to 35 percent of the pensionable salary up to a Axis’ internal control function works on developing, improving and semaximum of 28.5 basic amounts. For a salary in excess of 28.5 basic The company’s system for variable remuneration to senior Introduction curing the internal control function in the group. This involves proactive amounts, a premium of 25 percent shall be paid. The ITP agreement shall executives efforts focused on the control environment as well as examining how be applied for other senior executives, with a retirement age of 65. The President and CEO and the company management are covered by The present report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish the internal control works in practice. This work was intensified further the same bonus program as other employees. The program is based on Companies Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and during 2016. Termination benefits financial targets for the group and is based on sales growth and profit is limited to internal control over financial reporting. Axis’ process for In the event of termination of employment, a six-month mutual notice margin. For the 2016 fiscal year, the bonus amounts were maximized internal control over financial reporting is structured in accordance with Risk assessment period shall apply for the President. In the event of termination of at 240 percent of an annual salary for the President and CEO and the the COSO framework (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the The Board carries out an overall risk inventory on a regular basis. This employment of the President by the company, termination benefits highest individual amount for the other senior executives was 80 percent Treadway Commission), with the control environment as a base for other involves identifying, measuring and describing material risks related corresponding to up to twelve cash monthly salaries may be paid after of an annual salary. Resolutions regarding bonus programs are approved components and activities; risk assessment, control activities, information to the entire group. The internal control function uses the board’s risk the end of the notice period. In the event of termination by the President, by board for one year at a time. and communication as well as monitoring. inventory and input from the controller functions in order to assess risks no termination benefits shall be payable. A mutual period of notice of in the financial reporting and to compare them with established controls. three to six months shall apply between the company and the other senior Audit Control environment Errors can arise in connection with bookkeeping or in valuation of assets, executives. In the event of termination by the company, termination Axis’ auditors are elected by the AGM. At the AGM on June 15, 2015, the The board of directors has overall responsibility for establishing and liabilities, revenue and expenses. The risk assessment also includes risks benefits corresponding to twelve cash monthly salaries can be paid. In provision in the company’s articles of association about the auditor’s term maintaining an effective system for risk assessment and internal control. of e.g. fraud and favoritism to another party at the company’s expense. the event of termination by any of the senior executives, no termination was changed and the option to elect a deputy auditor was removed. The The day-to-day work of maintaining an effective internal control benefits shall be payable. articles of association prescribe that the election of auditor should now environment and continuous risk assessment in respect of the financial Control activities occur for one year. reporting has been delegated to the President and CEO, who in turn has The risks identified are handled by developing the control environment’s Persons who are resident outside of Sweden may be offered notice delegated function-specific responsibility to managers at appropriate various policies, but also by documenting and following up the most periods and termination benefits that are competitive in the country At the AGM 2016, Ernst & Young Aktiebolag were elected as auditors levels in the group. important business processes. There are both general and more detailed where the persons are or have been resident or to which they have a with Johan Thuresson as auditor in charge for the period until the control activities, aimed at ensuring efficiency in the group’s processes substantial connection, preferably solutions equivalent to what applies end of the next AGM. Thuresson was born in 1964 and has been an The basis of the control environment consists of a firmly-established as well as preventing, discovering and correcting faults and deviations in for managerial employees resident in Sweden. Authorized Public Accountant since 1995. At the same AGM, shareholders corporate culture and a number of company-wide policies as well as the the financial reporting. The activities include manual controls, controls representing approximately 10.2 percent of the shares in the company, work of the internal control function. embedded in IT systems and controls in the underlying IT environment, Deviations from the principles described above may be approved by proposed that a minority auditor should be appointed by the Swedish known as general IT controls. Appropriate control activities have also the board of directors, if there are specific reasons in individual cases. Companies Registration Office, to participate in the audit together with A. Corporate culture been designed for operations that are conducted by third parties on Prior to the Annual General Meeting 2015, a deviation was made from the company’s auditor for the period until the next AGM. The proposal Axis has a strong and firmly-established corporate culture, which fundabehalf of the company. the principles adopted by the Annual General Meeting 2014, whereby was supported by owners representing approximately 10.2 percent of mentally encourages all employees to think creatively and innovatively, a “stay on board” bonus was introduced for the then members of the the shares in the company. Shareholders have subsequently made an and to show respect for each other’s diversity. Everyone is encouraged The company’s financial performance is monitored continuously by the management team. This was deemed particularly necessary due to the application to the Swedish Companies Registration Office that a minority to question, take the initiative and take responsibility, and to strive at board through comprehensive monthly report packages, and through then outstanding public offer for the company made by Canon, whereby auditor should be appointed and the Swedish Companies Registration all times towards the common goals, guided by our core values – “Act as reports by the CFO at all board meetings. Compliance with the company’s specific reasons existed. This “stay on board” bonus complies with the Office has subsequently appointed a minority auditor, Grant Thornton one”, “Think big” and “Always open”. The corporate culture is founded on finance policy is followed up monthly in the report package. A high level remuneration principles subsequently adopted by the Annual General Sweden AB with Stefan Hultstrand as auditor in charge. Hultstrand was confidence, trust and personal responsibility. of transparency in the report material and financial processes enables any Meeting. An additional “stay on board” bonus was later introduced for the born in 1955 and has been an Authorized Public Accountant since 1995. deficiencies in internal control to be identified and rectified. members of the management team, pursuant to which payment will occur B. Various policies in two parts, on June 30, 2016 and on June 30, 2017, provided that the Responsibility and authority are defined in the delegation plan adopted by Information and communication provisions on continued employment are fulfilled. The part that became the board, attestation instructions, handbooks, other policies and codes. Important guidelines, handbooks and similar information relating to the due on June 30, 2016 has been paid. financial reporting are updated and communicated to the employees The group’s most important policies relate to financial control, commuconcerned on an ongoing basis. There are both formal and informal nications issues and business ethics. The basis for financial control and information channels to the company management and to the board for Read more about Axis’ corporate governance Read more about how sustainability issues follow up consists of an overall group finance and accounting policy. The important information from the employees. The board meets regularly are a natural part of Axis’ operations aim of Axis’ communications policy is to ensure that external and internal with representatives of the various central functions in the Axis Group information disclosure is accurate and uniformly structured. Part of the when they attend board meetings as well as through individual meetings. Read more about Axis’ corporate governance on our website under Axis’ sustainability report for 2016 may be found on pages communications policy deals with Investor Relations (IR) and is intended The President and CEO and the CFO keep the board continuously informed under About Axis/Investor relations/Corporate Governance where the 26-66 in this annual report. On Axis’s website, under About Axis/ to ensure compliance with the appropriate laws and stock exchange rules of the group’s financial position, performance and any areas of risk. There following information may be found: Sustainability, you can read more about the company’s sustainability work. and to provide a reliable and accurate view of Axis and its operations are guidelines for external communication that ensure that the company > Corporate Governance Reports to players in the financial market. Axis operates a Code of Conduct. The meets demands for correct information. > Articles of Association purpose of the Code is to set out the approach, values and guidelines > Information from previous AGMs (convening notices, minutes, that Axis’ employees shall apply in matters of business ethics and also Monitoring resolutions) the approach to human rights and freedoms. As part of the business Observance of internal policies, manuals and codes and of the > Information about the nomination committee ethics work, an anti-corruption policy has also been adopted and an appropriateness and functionality of the established control activities > Information about principles for remuneration to senior executives internal channel has been established for questions about ethical business is continually validated, through the financial reporting and control, > The board’s evaluation of guidelines for remuneration of variable decisions or reporting of violations of the anti-corruption policy or other as well as through documented audits carried out by the internal remuneration programs business ethics questions. This is handled by representatives from the control function. > Report on variable remuneration schemes management team and the group functions Legal and HR. 110 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors and Auditors 111 The annual risk assessment provides the basis for planning of follow-up activities. There is a special process for ensuring that reported deficiencies are remedied. The company’s auditors attend at least two board meetings per year, at which the auditors give their assessment and observations on the business processes, accounts and reporting. The chairman of the board also maintains continuous contact with the auditors. Board of Directors and Auditors During 2016, the internal control function made five visits to subsidiaries and to regional offices. The focus has been on management testing, i.e. The controller organisation is evaluated on an ongoing basis by the Group ensuring that critical controls for the financial reporting are performed in Finance function and CFO with the aim of ensuring quality and efficiency. accordance with existing documentation. This work will continue during The CFO actively participates in the recruitment process of all qualified 2017. Companies that were not visited during the year participated in controllers. self-assessments. Axis does not have a separate internal audit function. Based on a good The internal control function continually reports the result of the control environment and external audits by auditors, the board has performed internal control activities to the CFO and annually to the decided that at present there are no special operational circumstances or board. The board of directors also approves the planning for the coming other factors which would justify setting up such a function. year based on the performed risk inventory and risk analysis. Biörn Riese Martin Gren Bert Nordberg Employee Chairman of the Board since 2015 Born: 1962 Born: 1956 representatives: Board member since: 1984 Board member since: 2015 Born: 1953 Chairman of: Aktiebolag Grenspecialisten Chairman of: Innovativa Solutions Sweden AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE Board member since: 2015 Board member of: Askero Sagoboks Förlag AB, Sigma Connectivity AB, Vestas Wind Cristian Ionescu-Idbohrn Board member of: American Chamber of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Commerce, Swedish Anti-corruption Institute AB, Eikos Aktiebolag, Grenspecialisten Systems A/S Board member since: 2013 Förvaltning AB, Handelsbolaget Dekad, Board member of: Aktiebolaget Electrolux, Employee representative for SACO (deputy) (IMM), Mercuri Urval Foundation, My Special H. Lundén Holding Aktiebolag, Tobii LU Holding AB, Rothschild Nordic AB, SAAB Shares in Axis: 0 To the general meeting of the shareholders of Axis AB (publ), corporate identity number 556241-1065. Day (Min Stora Dag) Foundation Technology AB Aktiebolag, SCA Hygiene AB, SkiStar AktieEducation: Master of Laws (LL.M) and a Graduate degree in Economics/Business Education: Lund University, Honorary doctor bolag, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA Madhavi Kagganti HC, Lund University Education: Degree in Electrical Engineering Engagement and responsibility Administration, Stockholm university Work experience: Founder of Axis from Malmö’s Tekniska Läroverk, Sweden Board member since: 2015 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year 2016 Work experience: Mannheimer Swartling Employee representative for SACO (ordinary) Principal employment: Employed by Axis Work experience: Chairman and CEO Sony Advokatbyrå AB, Carl Swartling Advokatbyrå, Shares in Axis: 0 on pages 104-110 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. District Court Service Communications AB Mobile Communications AB (previously Sony Shares in Axis: 0 Ericsson), Ericsson Group, Data General Principal employment: Senior Adviser Corporation, Digital Equipment Corporation Haris Mustafic The scope of the audit & Lawyer, Jurie Advokat AB Principal employment: Various directorships Board member since: 2015 Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s Employee representative for IF Metall (ordinary) examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate Shares in Axis: 0 governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe Marie Nässlind that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Board member since: 2015 Employee representative for Unionen (ordinary) Opinions Shares in Axis: 0 A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph Mats Friberg the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts and are in accordance Board member since: 2015 with the Annual Accounts Act. Employee representative for Unionen (deputy) Shares in Axis: 0 Lund, March 29, 2017 Ernst & Young Aktiebolag Grant Thornton Sweden AB Håkan Kirstein Toshizo Tanaka Born: 1969 Born: 1940 Board member since: 2015 Board member since: 2015 Chairman of: Companies in the Eltel group, Board member of: Canon Inc. Auditors: The InfraNet Company AB Education: Degree in Economics from Keio Ernst & Young AB. Johan Thuresson Stefan Hultstrand Board member of: Cherrystone AB, University, Japan Auditor in charge: Johan Thuresson, companies in the Eltel group Work experience: Various executive positions Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant born 1964. Authorized Public Accountant. Education: M.Sc. in Economics, Stockholm in the Canon group Assigned to Axis since 2016. Minority Auditor University, Sweden Principal employment: Representative Director Work experience: Niscayah Group AB, & Executive Vice President, Canon Inc. and Grant Thornton Sweden AB. StatoilHydro Sweden AB, Svenska Statoil AB, Chief Financial Officer, Canon Inc. and several Auditor in charge: Stefan Hultstrand, Statoil Detaljist AB, Imtech Nordic AB executive positions in the Canon group, incl. born 1955. Authorized Public Accountant. Principal employment: President and CEO Vice Chairman of the Board of Supervisory Assigned to Axis since 2015. Minority auditor for the Eltel Group Directors of Océ N.V. Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 112 Management team Management team 113 Management team Ray Mauritsson Fredrik Nilsson President and Chief Executive Officer General Manager, North America Born: 1962 Born: 1967 Employed by Axis since: 1995 Employed by Axis since: 1996 Education: Master of Science, Engineering Education: Master of Science, Electrical Engineering, physics, Lund University and Executive MBA from Lund University, Economics studies at Lund University the Institute of Economics, Lund University and the University of Uppsala Previous employment: TAC Previous employment: ABB Directorships: HMS Networks AB Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 Bodil Sonesson Malin Ruijsenaars Vice President, Global Sales Chief Personnel Officer Born: 1968 Born: 1971 Employed by Axis since: 1996 Employed by Axis since: 2004 Education: Master of Business Administration, Education: PA program, Lund University, International Finance, Lund University and Master of European Studies Brügge, Belgium, Konstanz University, Germany Postgraduate studies, UC Berkeley, USA Previous employment: Lars Weibull Previous employment: Mercedes-Benz Customer Directorships: Swedish Chamber of Commerce in Assistance Center, DaimlerChrysler Denmark Paris, Tomra Systems ASA Sweden Shares in Axis: 0 Directorships: Arcam Aktiebolag (publ), Auranest Holding AB and RU Konsult Shares in Axis: 0 Per Ädelroth Fredrik Sjöstrand Johan Paulsson Vice President, Operations Vice President, Finance and Chief Technology Officer Born: 1966 Chief Financial Officer Born: 1963 Employed by Axis since: 1994 Born: 1969 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Education: Master of Science, Industrial Employed by Axis since: 1998 Education: Master of Science, Electrical EngineEngineering and Management, Chalmers, Education: Master of Business Administration, ering, Lund University Gothenburg Lund University Previous employment: Ericsson, Anoto Previous employment: Accenture Previous employment: E.ON, PwC Directorships: poLight AS, SaFP and Winplantan AB Directorships: Color your life by Elisabet Ädelroth Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 AB, JLT Mobile Computers AB (publ) and JLT Mobile Computers Sweden AB Shares in Axis: 0 Lars Åberg Jonas Hansson Peter Lindström Vice President, Marketing Chief Information Officer Director New Business Born: 1966 Born: 1967 Born: 1970 Employed by Axis since: 2008 Employed by Axis since: 2000 Employed by Axis since: 2003 Education: Master of Business Administration, Education: Master of Science, Chemical Education: Technical Engineer, Lund University, Lund University, IFL Executive General Engineering, Lund University and Degree in Degree in Electro science, Executive MBA, EFL Lund Management Program, Stockholm School of Journalism, Lund University University School of Economics and Management Economics Previous employment: Netch Technologies Previous employment: Sony, BPE Broadcast Previous employment: Unilever, Ericsson Mobile Directorships: Creofant AB Professional Europe, GoPoint, Gandalf Data Communications, Bona Kemi Shares in Axis: 0 Directorships: Formpipe Software AB Shares in Axis: 0 Shares in Axis: 0 114 Glossary Sidhuvud Rubrik 115 Glossary Invitation to ASIC (Application Specific Integrated Circuit) Protocol Annual General Meeting ASIC is a circuit that is designed for a specific application rather than a A set of formal rules describing how data shall be transmitted over a circuit for more general functions, such as a microprocessor. network. Low-level protocols define electrical and physical standards and The use of ASIC as a component in electronic products can enhance high-level protocols are concerned with data formatting. TCP and IP are performance, reduce power consumption, improve security and lower the examples of high-level protocols. cost. The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Notification and ordering the notice can occur Server company’s premises at Edison Park, Emdalavägen 14, > in writing to Axis AB, attn. Adrienne Jacobsen, CCTV (Closed Circuit Television) A computer or software application providing services to other computers Lund, on Thursday, April 20, 2017 at 3.00 p.m. The Emdalavägen 14, 223 69 Lund, Sweden or CCTV is a private video system within a building or facility which is used which are connected to it via a network. The most common example is notification of participation must be received by Axis > by phone on +46 46 272 18 00 to Axis AB’s to visually supervise a location for security or industrial purposes. a file manager which has a local disk and which handles inquiries from AB no later than 4.00 p.m. on Wednesday April 12, headquarters. clients regarding reading and writing files on the disk. 2017. The notification should include the shareholder’s name, Swedish civil registration or corporate registraThe notification must also state the number of HDTV (High Definition Television) tion number, address and phone number as well as the assistants (however, not more than two) the shareHDTV offers up to five times higher resolution and double linear resolIP (Internet Protocol) number of shares represented. holder wishes to bring to the annual general meeting. ution compared with traditional, analog TV and is usually transmitted A communication transport protocol used in order to transmit data via If participation is through power of attorney, including in widescreen (widescreen 16:9). HDTV is built on the SMPTE 296 and Internet. Also see TCP/IP. Shareholders who wish to participate in the annual – in the case that the grantor of a power of attorney is SMPTE 274M standards which are defined by the Society of Motion general meeting must be listed as a shareholder in the a legal entity – a certified certificate of incorporation Picture and Television Engineers, SMPTE. print-out of the share register produced by Euroclear or other document showing the competency of the TCP/IP Sweden AB on Wednesday April 12, 2017 Shareholders authorised signatory, shall be submitted in good time (Transmission Control Protocol over Internet Protocol) whose shares are held through nominees, must get prior to the annual general meeting. Linux The TCP/IP protocol defines how data is transmitted securely between the nominee to register the shares in their own name, The original power of attorney must be presented. The Linux is an open source operating system within the Unix family. Due to networks. TCP/IP is the most widespread communication standard and the so that the shareholder concerned is registered in the power of attorney form is available from the company its stability and accessibility, Linux has gained popularity both within the basis for how the Internet works. share register on Wednesday, April 12, 2017. Such and on the company’s website www.axis.com. open source world and as regards commercial applications. registration may be temporary. The final day for trading in the company’s shares including right to dividend is Thursday, April 20, 2017 Video encoder The notice is available on www.axis.com and is sent Network camera A video encoder has an in-built network connection and web server, free of charge to shareholders on request to their Digital video camera with built-in Ethernet network connection and web among other things. Its function is to take analog video (PAL/NTSC) from specified postal address. 2017 server. The digitally compressed video from the camera can be seen traditional analog cameras, digitalize and compress video and allow the immediately from all computers which are connected to a network. digital video stream to be accessible over a network. Financial information Reports may also be ordered from: Axis AB Annual General Meeting: Thursday April 20 April, 2017 Emdalavägen 14 Interim report, January-March: Friday April 21 SE-223 69 Lund, Sweden Interim report, January-June: Wednesday July 12 Phone: +46 46 272 18 00 Interim report, January-September: Friday October 20 Fax: +46 46 13 61 30 E-mail: pressoffice@axis.com Financial information is available in Swedish and English on Axis’ website: www.axis.com Advisor & Copywriter, Sustainability report: Lof Group Communications Copywriter, Annual report: Aspekta Graphic design: Axis Communications / Brytmark & Partners Contact for the annual and sustainability report: Translation: Word of Mouth Communications Photo & Illustration: Axis Communications / Lars Owesson / Martin Olson / Getty Images / Björn Hallerborn, PR & Corporate Communications Manager iStockphoto / Shutterstock / Rickard Grönkvist / Bästa Kompisar / Way Creative Phone: +46 46-272 18 00 Printing: Exakta Print E-mail: pressoffice@axis.com 70330/EN/1703/R1 About Axis Communications Axis offers intelligent security solutions that enable a smarter, safer world. As the market leader in network video, Axis is driving the industry by continually launching innovative network products based on an open platform delivering high value to customers through a global partner network. Axis has long-term relationships with partners and provides them with knowledge and ground-breaking network products in existing and new markets. Axis has more than 2,600 dedicated employees in more than 50 countries around the world, supported by a global network of over 90,000 partners. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Sweden-based company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit our website www.axis.com. Corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund www.axis.com ©2017 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modifications without notice.
