MONSANTO 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT W O R K I N G T O G E T H E R , it’s well within our reach. A place where all people have access to balanced meals and better tomorrows. A healthy planet that can nourish and sustain all forms of life. But getting there means taking on major challenges that no one can overcome alone. As we take decisive action and continue to embed sustainability into our business, we also work with collaborators and partners to cultivate meaningful change. From the planting of ideas to the harvesting of results, we’re striving to make sustainable agriculture a positive force. Not just for today, but for generations to come. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 2 The same holds true for the communities One of those commitments has been to help and relationships that root our many our industry mitigate and adapt to climate cultures and foster our common growth. change with the goal of freezing or reducing agriculture’s carbon footprint. In fiscal year At Monsanto, that makes our mission simple: 2016, we pledged to work with farmers on Provide tools for farmers to help nourish climate-smart agriculture systems and to make the growing global population and help our own operations carbon neutral by 2021. I’m preserve the Earth for all who share it – encouraged by the progress we’ve made, sharing people, plants, wildlife and communities. information and data modeling with farmers and investing in a collaborative initiative to help It’s an understatement to say 2016 was a provide tools that measure greenhouse gas difficult year in the agriculture business. reductions from carbon-smart farming practices. Long-term demand for crops continues to rise with the growing population. But No resource on Earth is more valuable than our business faced significant economic its people. That’s why we’ve invested in a headwinds and had to exercise an abundance global approach to education, community FROM THE CHAIRMAN of financial discipline last year to deliver the health and onand off-the-job safety. We No one knows better than farmers that level of innovation our customers need. also continue to encourage students in many the land that feeds us belongs to more of the communities where we do business That’s one of the reasons I’m proud to bring than just our generation. We pass it to pursue careers in science, technology, you Monsanto’s 2016 Sustainability Report. along to future generations with the engineering and math in order to build a strong Despite those headwinds, the company did goal of leaving it in better shape than pipeline of talented innovators for the future. not let up on our long-term commitments when we arrived. to the environment, to human rights and to the communities where we live and work. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 3 In the area of food and nutrition security, food our world demands with more efficient sustainability challenges and agriculture’s Monsanto continues to participate in multiuse of land, water and other resources. unique position to help address them. stakeholder initiatives like Water Efficient Maize for Africa (WEMA), which is developing droughtWe were pleased to be recognized again No single company or industry can tackle these resistant corn seeds, and regional efforts like in 2016 as one of the world’s most sustainable challenges alone. Working together, however, Grow Asia and Grow Africa, established by the companies in Newsweek’s Green Rankings. we can create sustainable solutions for the World Economic Forum. In the United States, But sustainability is a matter of continuous effort world’s future generations. We saw measurable we are a founding partner of Invest an Acre, and improvement, as reflected in the United progress and a renewed commitment to which helps farmers donate a portion of their Nations 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable our goals in 2016, and we look forward to crop proceeds – matched by Monsanto – to Development Goals. As a signatory to the continuing to provide sustainable solutions fight hunger in their local communities. United Nations Global Compact, we look to that help farmers feed our growing world. the Compact’s principles on human rights, To promote biodiversity, we finalized our position labor, the environment and anti-corruption Sincerely, in 2016 on biodiversity and an accompanying practices to inform our decisions and guide our strategy that aligned with the United Nations actions. Our United Nations Global Compact Convention on Biological Diversity, as well as Communication on Progress is in accordance with the needs of farmers. We continue to invest with the Global Reporting Initiative and reflects Hugh Grant in understanding healthy soils and the farming our work to contribute to the attainment Chairman of the Board practices that promote them through the Soil of the Sustainable Development Goals. and Chief Executive Officer Health Partnership, and to play an active role in supporting organizations that seek to understand Most importantly, we approach sustainability and promote the health of pollinators, as a long-term, collaborative effort. In including the Honey Bee Health Coalition. 2016, we entered into an agreement to be acquired by Bayer. My enthusiasm for this All of these efforts are aimed at sustainable combination rests in part on the belief that intensification – using innovation to grow the Bayer shares our understanding of the world’s Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 4 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY M O N S A N T O ’ S A P P R O A C H T O S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Sustainability is firmly embedded in our core business strategy, operations and products as evidenced by our continued progress against our goals and commitments and alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We will continue to develop best in class innovations and demonstrate our commitment to sustainability through our products, processes and partnerships that advance sustainable agriculture. We embrace continuous improvement as the path forward to become a more sustainable company. As we look back on our progress over the last year, our efforts can be categorized in three broad areas: PEOPLE, PLANET and our COMPANY, as summarized in the following pages. Our approach encompasses these key principles: T R A C K I N G W I T H T H E S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S •• Act Ethically and Responsibly Monsanto recognizes the critical role that business must play in reaching the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). •• Advocate for Biodiversity As a company focused on agriculture and feeding the world, our work contributes in some way to each of the 17 goals. We have mapped our material topics against the SDGs and determined our alignment. See Page 20 for more details, as •• Advance Product Stewardship well as the table on Page 107. •• Create a Great Work Environment •• Drive Modern Agricultural Innovation •• Engage Communities and Society •• Foster Collaboration and Transparency •• Improve Global Food and Nutrition Security •• Reduce Our Environmental Impact Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 5 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Helping make balanced meals F OOD SECU RIT Y GOA L: IMP ROVE HA RVEST S more accessible for everyone on the planet and improving lives for Help farmers double yields by 2030 from 2000 levels for canola, corn, cotton and soybeans. farmers, employees, consumers Based on population growth predictions, Monsanto made a commitment in 2008 to develop improved seeds and agronomic practices to and communities. help farmers double yields by 2030 from 2000 levels for canola, corn, cotton and soybeans in countries where farmers have access to the full complement of tools for these crops, including plant breeding, biotechnology and agronomic management. Helping to Ensure Food and According to the United States Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service, significant progress has been made against these Nutrition Security aggressive goals, especially in countries of high technology adoption. •• Between 2013 and 2016, more than 70 conventional DroughtTEGO™ hybrids were Canola 44% of Goal approved for commercial release in a number of African countries as part of the Corn 33% of Goal Water Efficient Maize for Africa (WEMA) initiative, a multi-stakeholder partnership Cotton 28% of Goal that aims to improve food security and 2 03 0 livelihoods among smallholder farmers. Soybeans 21% of Goal G OAL Double Yields •• In Vietnam, Monsanto collaborated Yield-gain percentages are based on a three-year rolling average. Data source: USDA Production, Supply and Distribution View and analysis by with the government to train 5,000 rice Monsanto. Note: Progress against the cotton goal dropped somewhat from the previous three-year rolling average due to less water availability for irrigation in two key growing regions. For more information on this goal, see Our Commitments to Sustainable Agriculture white paper. farmers on corn planting techniques to improve their livelihoods; participating FA R M E R L I V E L I H O O D S G O A L S farmers converted 2,200 hectares from rice to corn within three months. Improve the lives of 5 million resource-poor farm families by 2020. •• The Monsanto Fund pledged to fund a series of global initiatives to help fight 4.2M Smallholder Farmers $50B in Additional Net Income Since 2008 Adopting Biotech as a Result of Technology Adoption* malnutrition among women and children. Based on global meta-analysis data compiled by ISAAA. *Past Monsanto reports included annual income increases, which fluctuate year over year. We have now moved to reporting on a cumulative basis. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 6 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Reaching out to Communities Improving Lives for Our People Forging the Way in Human Rights •• We are encouraging students to learn •• We’ve built leadership exchange programs •• We celebrated the 10th anniversary more about and pursue careers in that empower selected employees of the adoption of our formal science, technology, engineering and across our global business to accelerate Human Rights Policy in 2016. math (STEM) by supporting student their professional development. In 2016, •• In 2016, we conducted more than groups and initiatives like Planet Forward, 299 hand-selected leaders from our 21,000 assessments of our global Net Impact and FIRST Robotics. company around the world participated business partners on human rights. at local, regional or global levels. •• The Monsanto Fund continues to make a •• Consistent with our Water, Sanitation and positive impact in rural America through •• As a company, we continue to leverage Hygiene (WASH) Pledge, we have begun the America’s Farmers community outreach the power of inclusion and diversity. In to improve sanitation conditions in our programs, awarding mostly education2016, we added inclusion as a metric facilities and nearby communities. related funding in excess of $36 million in our leadership assessment tool. across the United States since 2010. •• We joined the Human Rights Campaign •• We continue to maintain an excellent Business Coalition for Equality in 2016, •• Over the last several years, our Off-the-Jobemployee safety record and, in a group of leading U.S. employers Safety efforts around the world have reached 2016, we reduced our injury severity supporting the Equality Act. nearly 2.1 million people through in-person index by 48 percent since 2011. safety events. In 2016, we reached millions •• In 2016 our Technology group started more through new social media efforts the Women in Science Exchange. The in India and the United States, including vision of this initiative is equal presence, a new partnership with the Red Cross. leadership impact and recognition of women and men throughout technology. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 7 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Balancing agricultural productivity CARBON NEUTRALITY with societal demands for food, fuel and fiber and with the optimal use Achieve a carbon neutral operational footprint by 2021 and drive carbon neutral practices. of environmental resources through Commissioned third-party expert to quantify potential GHG emission reductions of key on-farm mitigation strategies for solutions that help farmers grow agricultural practices; this information and modeling were shared publicly. crops more efficiently. Carbon-Neutral Collaborative assembled and commissioned to help develop carbon accounting framework for specific agricultural practices and systems. Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change R E S O U R C E C O N S E R VAT I O N G O A L •• Monsanto is pursuing a multi-pronged Help farmers use one-third fewer key resources per unit of output to grow crops. approach to carbon neutrality. We’re striving to improve the greenhouse gas (GHG) Monsanto made a commitment in 2008 to develop improved seeds and agronomic practices that by 2030 would help farmers use one-third fewer key resources than in 2000 per unit of output to grow corn, soybeans and cotton. We recognize these improvements will be made by farmers who intensity of our crop protection business, utilize new technologies and better management practices provided from a diverse set of collaborators, one of which is Monsanto. Progress against these goals are impacted by weather conditions and revised calculations and data from the USDA’s Agricultural Resource Management survey and investing in technologies that help us use Natural Resources Inventory. energy more efficiently. We’ve established an internal carbon price, and we’re developing approaches to increase farmer adoption Soybeans 40% of Goal of carbon neutral crop production. Corn 43% of Goal Cotton 80% of Goal 2000 Source: Monsanto internal estimates. Reflects U.S. results only 2 03 0 BASE LI NE due to limitations on reliable data elsewhere. Key resources G OAL include land use, irrigation water, energy, soil loss and greenhouse One-third Fewer Key Resources gas emissions. For more information on this goal, see Our Commitments to Sustainable Agriculture white paper. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 8 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY •• We’re developing a scalable and verifiable GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY carbon accounting framework by assembling and mobilizing the Carbon-Neutral Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our crop protection operations by 22 percent (per pound of active ingredient) Collaborative, a group with wide-ranging by 2020, relative to our 2010 baseline. expertise in agricultural greenhouse gases. •• We identified specific sustainable farm practices with the potential of reducing 89% of Goal more than 100 million metric tons of carbon dioxide emissions in the United States. This 2 0 10 2 01 6 2 02 0 was publicly shared in a commissioned BASE LI NE PROGRESS G OAL third-party report and concurs directly 5.6 4.5 4.37 with the USDA’s “10 Building Blocks Total GHGs for Climate Smart Agriculture” plan. per Product, Metric Ton/ Metric Ton •• As a co-chair of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Climate Smart Agriculture Working Group, U S E N U T R I E N T S M O R E E F F I C I E N T LY we’ve moved from planning stages to on-the-ground implementation in Help farmers use nutrients more efficiently and curb greenhouse gas emissions on 1 million acres in the United States by 2020. several road-test countries to increase the understanding and adoption of climate-smart agricultural practices. 20% of Goal 2 0 14 2 0 16 2 02 0 BASELINE PROGRESS G OAL Acres 200K 1M Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 9 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Ensuring Access to Fresh Water I R R I G AT I O N WAT E R A P P L I C AT I O N E F F I C I E N C Y •• Monsanto is a member of the UN Increase irrigation water application efficiency across our global seed production operation by 25 percent by 2020, Global Compact CEO Water Mandate compared to our 2010 baseline. and participated on the Mandate’s 2015-16 Steering Committee. •• To enhance the efficiency of our 47% research activities, we are moving of Goal certain research activities from the field into state-of-the art greenhouses, which 2 0 10 2 0 16 2 02 0 BASE LI NE PROGRESS G OAL enables us to capture and reuse the Efficiency 67% 75% 84% water used in irrigating research crops. •• Our commitment to using water more efficiently in our field irrigation operations, as well as on the contract farms that grow seed for our company around the world, has the potential to save an estimated 30 to 80 billion gallons of water each year. •• We share best practices in water management as members of the WBCSD Water Leadership Working Group. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 10 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Advocating for Biodiversity M O N A R C H H A B I TAT •• We codified our biodiversity strategy and position in 2016 to better align with the United Nations Convention 103% on Biological Diversity, our business of Goal goals and the needs of farmers and society now and in the years to come. 2015 2016 2016 BASELINE PROGRESS GOAL Monsanto •• We continued to protect beneficial species Monarch 72 70 by supporting and contributing to honey Habitats bee health research and continuing our commitment of $3.6 million over three years to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation’s 100K 100K Monarch Butterfly Conservation Fund. Milkweed Plants for Farmers Reached with Best Planting Where Quality Management Practices •• We continued our work with Conservation Habitat is Needed for Monarch Habitat International to protect and restore Both monarch goals were achieved in fiscal year 2016, and we released funding forests, with 17,000 combined hectares* to supply another 100,000 milkweed plants. completed. Our multi-year commitment in Indonesia was completed in 2016 and our work in Brazil continues. H O N E Y B E E H E A LT H •• We joined the Midwest Row Crop Collaborative, which committed to raising Establish multi-stakeholder coalition to address declining honey bee health (completed and ongoing). $4 million to accelerate the work of the Includes more than 40 organizations across the value chain. Soil Health Partnership with farmers Invest $3 million in research and development for controlling varroa destructor mites (ongoing; across the Midwestern United States. $4 million invested to date, exceeding original commitment). *1 hectare = 2.47 acres Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 11 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Placing high ethical standards, Addressing Critical Issues around the world to better understand the effective corporate governance, perspectives and address the concerns of responsible product stewardship •• In 2016, 22 product and technology our neighbors. and transparent reporting at the stewardship reviews and 253 field trial •• Working from a 2015 assessment, in 2016 center of the way we operate our compliance and trait quality corporate we established resources for all of our sites global business. audits were performed globally with to create formal community engagement corrective action taken where needed. plans, and we implemented formal plans Corporate Governance •• We supported the passage of the U.S. at 100 percent of our manufacturing sites federal approach to food labeling that around the globe. •• Our commitment to sustainability starts at became effective in July 2016. the top. The Sustainability and Corporate •• We supported the conclusions of numerous Enhancing Supply Chain Responsibility Committee of our board regulatory authorities and other Effectiveness of directors reviews the company’s organizations that counter the International sustainability goals and reporting, and Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) •• By expanding the scope of our assessment meets periodically with stakeholders. classification of glyphosate as a probable outreach to strategic suppliers, we •• In 2016, Dwight M. (Mitch) Barns joined human carcinogen and retained an realized a 37 percent increase in the the Monsanto board as part of the People independent consultant to convene an number of responses to our Select and Compensation and Sustainability and expert panel to review IARC’s assessment. Supplier Sustainability Assessment, which Corporate Responsibility Committees. The panel’s peer-reviewed findings are evaluates their economic, environmental published in Critical Reviews in Toxicology. and social profiles and behaviors. •• The Center for Political Accountability ranked Monsanto as a tier one company •• We were recognized by the Women’s out of 500 companies included on the Engaging with our Neighbors Business Enterprise National Council CPA-Zicklin Index, indicating a high level of and highlighted by Fortune Magazine in transparency regarding political contributions. •• We have Community Advisory Panels at November 2015 for our Supplier Diversity all our chemical manufacturing facilities Mentoring Program in the United States. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 12 14 GUEST CONTRIBUTORS A N D C O M M E N TAT O R S 26 Rodney Irwin, Pursuing a broad range of sustainable agriculture Managing Director, Financial solutions to help nourish our growing world. Capital Focus Area, WBCSD 38 Zhenie Velasco, Registered Nutritionist Dietitian & 31 Associate Professor, Philippines 41 Keith and Sue of Richland County, Ohio (on Monsanto Fund donation to local 4-H committee) Helping make balanced meals more accessible for 47 Luke Visconti, Founder and CEO, everyone on the planet and improving lives for DiversityInc farmers, employees, consumers and communities. 60 Debbie Reed, Executive Director, 58 Coalition on Agricultural Greenhouse Gases 63 Amy Braun, Sustainability Director, Kellogg Company Balancing agricultural productivity with societal demands for food, fuel and fiber and with the optimal use of environmental resources Chris Brown, through solutions that help farmers grow crops more efficiently. Vice President, Environmental Sustainability, Olam International 85 Jenny Bell, Europe Sustainability Risk and Impact Manager, PepsiCo Europe 72 Todd Hogrefe, Director, Central Region, Placing high ethical standards, effective corporate National Fish and Wildlife Foundation governance, responsible product stewardship and transparent reporting at the center of the way we operate our global business. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 13 16 OUR PORTFOLIO OF PRODUCTS 16 Row Crop Seeds 17 Vegetable Seeds 18 Crop Protection 18 Data Science 19 A G R I C U LT U R A L I N N O VAT I O N : O U R We are more than 20,000 employees from APPROACH TO around the world committed to pursuing S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y a broad range of sustainable agriculture 21 Governing and Managing Our Sustainability Commitment solutions to help nourish our growing world. 21 Identifying Material Topics 26 Integrating Finance We produce seeds for fruits, vegetables and key crops – such and Sustainability as corn, soybeans and cotton – that help farmers have better 27 Working Collaboratively harvests while using water and other important resources more and Transparently efficiently. We work to find sustainable solutions for soil health, 28 External Charters and Principles help farmers use data science to improve farming practices 28 Inviting Conversation and conserve natural resources, and provide crop protection 29 Earning Recognition products to minimize damage in the field from pests and disease. Through programs and partnerships, we collaborate with others to help tackle some of the world’s biggest challenges. We are a diverse collection of food enthusiasts, moms and dads, innovators, botanists, farmers and problem solvers all striving for the same thing: helping to make balanced meals – of fruits, vegetables and protein – more accessible to all and doing it in a way that helps preserve the planet. 2015 Sustainability Report | 14 Monsanto 2016 2016 Revenue: Global Locations with Significant Operations: $13.5B 350+ FACILITIES in 6 2 C O U N T R I E S See our 2016 Form 10-K for Complete Financial Information 20K+ Employees Globally See our 2016 Form 10-K for Details S T. L O U I S, M I S S O U R I ,U S A Global Headquarters Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 15 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO OUR PORTFOLIO OF PRODUCTS We are dedicated to providing farmers innovative, high-quality crop production products and services. Our seeds, crop protection products and data science offerings are most effective when used in combination as part of an integrated systems approach. Row Crop Seeds Through scientific development and highTHE PLANT BIOTECHNOLOGY PROCESS We develop and deliver systems to technology applications, we can more quickly enable stronger, more resilient crops and effectively identify and select the seed traits that can result in better harvests while that bring improved attributes to farmers. 1 Desired trait of a living organism is identified using resources more efficiently. The science of plant biotechnology and Throughout the history of civilization, plant its products, commonly referred to as Beneficial trait is breeding innovations were made as solutions to problems. For as long as farmers have worked genetically modified organisms (GMOs), have helped develop highly effective solutions 2 introduced into the target plant the fields, they understood that in order to for farmers. Biotechnology when applied survive, they needed plant varieties specifically in agriculture and at Monsanto strengthens Plant is tested adapted to their conditions. Plant selection plant resistance to insects, adverse weather 3 for food and environmental safety that was initially done by farmers has evolved conditions and enables more effective weed and nutritional value into the science of plant breeding. Today, plant control and farming practices that are more breeders increasingly understand genetic sustainable and better for the environment. characteristics and focus on developing plant varieties that have greater tolerance to adverse Our global row crop seed brands include 4 Plants with the new trait are better able to thrive weather conditions and increased disease DEKALB®, Asgrow®, Deltapine®, Agroeste®, resistance over previous generations of crops. Channel®, La Tijereta® and WestBred®, which are complemented by regional and local brands. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 16 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO EXPLORING PRECISION Vegetable Seeds BREEDING TECHNIQUES We combine plant breeding with modern Monsanto is exploring a wide range of precision scientific techniques to create more breeding techniques, including gene editing, which we flavorful and attractive vegetables that can believe will offer new tools to drive crop improvements better withstand nature’s challenges and in agriculture through a broad range of solutions that help farmers deliver better harvests. These techniques provide consumers with visually-appealing, will enable plant breeders to more effectively and great-tasting vegetables on their plates. efficiently deliver better seed products, as well as offer plant scientists additional resources to provide new Vegetables that look, feel and taste appealing plant biotechnology solutions. encourage consumption of these nutritious Gene-editing techniques, including CRISPR-Cas, offer foods. And vegetables that stay fresh a way for scientists to develop targeted integration of longer can reduce food waste. Some of our specific genes, as well as the opportunity to enhance seeds produce vegetables with enhanced beneficial plant characteristics or remove undesirable nutritional profiles. Improved seed offerings ones. Simply put, the science effectively mirrors the are allowing increased opportunity for the search-and-replace function in word processing applications. We are currently exploring the potential farmer, the grocer and the consumer. application of this and similar innovative techniques in the development of seed products, which would More than 98% More than 98 percent of our vegetable seed complement the existing suite of research and of our vegetable research research and development is in plant breeding. development tools that we use today. Gene editing and development is Currently, two of our vegetable crops include represents a promising application of science and is in plant breeding. biotechnology innovations: sweet corn and one of many enabling technologies that will help drive innovation for agriculture in the coming years. squash. In both cases, these innovations were developed because traditional methods of pest and disease control were not as effective as a biotechnology solution. Our vegetable seed brands include Seminis® and De Ruiter®. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 17 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Crop Protection Data Science At any stage, seeds, plants and crops are at risk We offer an integrated operating system to from insects, weather, poor soil conditions, support farmers’ agronomic decisions with weeds and disease. We work to create real-world data to help them optimize sustainable solutions to help protect plant productivity, profitability and sustainability. health and minimize environmental impact. The Climate Corporation, a subsidiary of Our current crop protection offerings include Monsanto, offers the Climate FieldView™ Roundup® branded agricultural herbicides, platform, an integrated platform that helps Warrant®, Harness® and Harness® Xtra branded farmers sustainably increase productivity and herbicides and the Acceleron® family of seed efficiency with digital tools. The platform brings applied solutions. Our Agricultural Biologicals together data science, predictive analytics, platform includes understanding, applying integrated seed science, field science, local and precisely deploying microbes and other weather monitoring and data modeling to products to enhance soil and plant health. As develop customized insights both by field part of the BioAg Alliance with Novozymes and in specific locations within a given field. and through our own BioDirect™ technology In addition to helping farmers have better research pipeline, we use naturally occurring harvests, these insights provided by Climate processes and microbials to help protect plants, FieldView™ enable them to improve profitability increase nutrient uptake and to control weeds, by making better informed decisions and by insects and viruses. using resources more efficiently. It’s good for the farmer and the environment. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 18 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO AG R I C U LT U R A L I N N O VAT I O N : OUR APPROACH TO S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Our commitment to sustainability is embedded in our core business strategies. Our continued improvement in operations and investment in innovative products is evidence of our progress against our sustainability commitments. We are focused on how Monsanto can contribute to •• Advocate for Biodiversity •• Drive Modern Agricultural Innovation the 2030 Development Agenda of the United Protect species, promote sustainable Provide farmers with the products, Nations and advancement of the Sustainable landscapes and preserve and improve processes and data they need to reap Development Goals (see Page 20). Driving plant varieties to increase genetic diversity the best possible harvests while using sustainable agriculture requires a wide range of and share benefits to advance sustainable resources as efficiently as possible to systematic approaches and an understanding of agriculture and farmer livelihoods. combat the challenges they face like how to optimally use resources. At Monsanto, climate change and freshwater scarcity. we employ modern agriculture techniques and •• Advance Product Stewardship technologies to help farmers feed the world’s Work to ensure that our products are •• Engage Communities and Society growing population in a sustainable manner. developed and used in a way that optimizes Continue to grow positive relationships farmer productivity while minimizing with the communities where we do Monsanto is committed to sustainability. Our risks and environmental impacts. business and with society at large. Invest in approach encompasses these key principles: rural communities and provide support to •• Create a Great Work Environment •• Act Ethically and Responsibly smallholder and large commercial farmers Provide employees with the skills, benefits Ensure effective corporate governance, alike. Preserve and respect human rights and protections they need to move our strive for ethical behavior from all of and dignity. company and industry forward while our employees and drive sustainable growing and developing professionally. practices within our supply chain. Celebrate and leverage the benefits of inclusion and diversity. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 19 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Foster Collaboration and Transparency M A P P I N G T O T H E S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S Work with others to integrate and act on wide ranging expertise and perspectives. Adopted in September 2015, the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) comprise 17 goals and Elicit feedback and encourage questions 169 associated targets that address the world’s most pressing economic, social and environmental challenges. about our company and its products. The SDGs are the result of years of multi-stakeholder engagement among governments, NGOs and business. •• Improve Global Food and Nutrition Security The private sector plays an important role in achieving the SDGs and Monsanto’s work contributes in some way to each of the 17 goals. Based on our business and our unique place at the start of the food chain, we have Spearhead and participate in initiatives that identified six goals that are particularly relevant to our business, as well as three additional goals of significant bring farmers the tools and skills they need importance to how we work. We identified these nine goals by looking at each of the 169 targets and mapping to grow food sustainably. Engage food and them to our material topics. As we continue strengthening our commitment to modern, sustainable agriculture, nutrition leaders in ongoing dialogue. we will look to these SDGs in particular to inform our strategy and actions. We are also looking at how the SDGs apply on a regional basis and adapting our approach to the local or regional context, where applicable. •• Reduce Our Environmental Impact Identify opportunities to reduce greenhouse S T R O N G E S T A L I G N M E N T W I T H S I X S DG s T H AT A R E M O S T RE L E VA N T T O M O N S A N T O ’ S gas emissions, use water more efficiently and B U S I N E S S A N D R E P R E S E N T T H E A R E A S W H E R E W E C A N H AV E T H E M O S T I M PA C T. minimize waste throughout our business, including improvement in our own practices and processes and in partnerships with our contract seed production growers. Helping make a Improving lives for farmers, Using resources more efficiently both balanced meal employees, consumers on the farm and here at Monsanto. more accessible and communities. for everyone. T HREE SDGs THAT REP RESEN T HOW WE A RE WORK I NG T O I M PAC T T H E S I X G OA L S T H AT A RE MOST RELEVA N T T O OU R B U SIN ESS. To quickly access information in this report that demonstrates how we’re supporting each of the 17 SDGs, please reference the table on Page 107. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 20 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO sustainability throughout the company’s functions, operations and processes in all regions of the world. The Office is directly accountable to the ESPSC and works closely with our Global Business Operations and Executive Teams. Identifying Material Topics Monsanto worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to identify the sustainability topics that matter most to the success of our company and to our many stakeholders. This process, known as a materiality assessment, and aligns the resources needed to achieve was conducted in 2015, and we expect the Governing and Managing Our them. Both of these committees have results to be relevant for several years to Sustainability Commitment oversight of our sustainability efforts. come, unless there are major changes to our business. The assessment is designed to Our sustainability commitment starts with the Our Office of Sustainability is a crossinform our sustainability strategy, business Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility functional team of leaders who have specific actions and the content of this report. For Committee of our board of directors, which responsibilities in core areas of sustainability a detailed description of the process and reviews and monitors our overall corporate including stakeholder engagement, food and its outcomes, see Pages 102–106. sustainability performance. Operationally, nutrition security, environmental management, our Executive Sustainability and Product health, safety, supply chain, global policy, Stewardship Committee (ESPSC) assesses business conduct and human rights. The Office global challenges and opportunities, sets is responsible for aligning and embedding direction, reviews goals and commitments, Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 21 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S , R E S P E C T I V E LY, DEFINITION B E C AU S E T H E Y R E L AT E T O T H E A R E A S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Business conduct and ethics Product Safety and Stewardship – Developing and stewarding modern, innovative •• Business continuity •• Human health agricultural products and technologies that meet or exceed regulatory requirements •• Risk mitigation •• Environmental impacts relative to safety, human health and the environment and help farmers more •• Reputation •• Community safety effectively and sustainably feed the world. •• License to operate •• Product durability Modern, Innovative Agricultural Technologies and Products – Responsibly •• Business success •• Harvests applying innovation to technologies, products and services that help farmers •• License to operate •• Farmer livelihoods have better harvests and use resources efficiently. •• Integrated business solutions •• Environmental impacts •• Risk mitigation •• Environmental impacts Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation – Developing technologies, systems •• Operational footprint •• Human health and products that help farmers mitigate and adapt to climate change, help •• License to operate •• Food and nutrition security manage the impacts of climate change and reduce our operational greenhouse •• Innovation •• Harvests gas footprint. •• Business continuity •• Larger societal impacts •• Business success •• Harvests Sustainable Chemistry – Developing socially and environmentally responsible weed, •• License to operate •• Farmer livelihoods insect and disease management solutions and agronomic practice improvements •• Risk mitigation •• Environmental impacts for use in crop production. •• Integrated business solutions •• Biodiversity •• Essential product input •• Water sufficiency and access •• Operational footprint •• Human right to water Water Consumption and Management – Applying innovation and best practices •• Sufficient water access •• Sanitation and health to protect, conserve and manage water resources related to our operations, •• Energy/cost to move water •• Impacts and risks of drought contract seed production and crop production. •• Climate change adaptation •• Essential product input •• Risk mitigation •• Environmental impacts •• Human rights •• Climate change adaptation Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 22 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S , R E S P E C T I V E LY, DEFINITION B E C AU S E T H E Y R E L AT E T O T H E A R E A S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Customer choice •• Fair competition •• Reputation •• Innovation Business Practices and Competition – Following methods or processes to deliver •• Regulatory approvals •• Farmer livelihoods products and services that meet the standards of customers based on value, quality, •• Business success •• Food and nutrition security service and fair competitive market practices. •• Customer development and retention •• Community vitality •• Responsible consumption and production •• Harvests •• Business success Global Hunger and Nutrition Security – Helping farmers generate better harvests •• Human health •• License to operate through a broad range of sustainable solutions and collaborations to help nourish •• Farmer livelihoods •• Innovation a growing world population and increase farm efficiency. •• Rural development •• Climate change adaptation •• Climate change adaptation •• Reputation •• Human rights •• Fair competition Business Ethics and Transparency – Operating in a transparent, compliant, •• License to operate •• Knowledge of company practices ethical and socially responsible way. •• Risk mitigation •• Corporate governance •• Employee retention and engagement •• Transparency •• Corporate governance and citizenship •• License to operate •• Facility management •• Community safety, Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society – Enhancing the •• Business continuity vitality and development communities in which Monsanto operates and engaging in philanthropy, STEM •• Employee engagement •• Human rights education and employee volunteerism for the betterment of society. •• Future workforce •• Educated public •• Corporate citizenship •• Humanitarian and disaster relief •• Community engagement and support •• Product development •• Consumer protection Regulatory Approval Systems – Executing robust product assessments to secure •• Business success •• Environmental protection product approvals, ensuring compliance with regulations and managing conditions •• Business growth •• Economic development of registrations. •• Business continuity •• Food and nutrition security •• License to operate Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 23 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S , R E S P E C T I V E LY, DEFINITION B E C AU S E T H E Y R E L AT E T O T H E A R E A S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS •• Farmer livelihoods •• Business success •• Product access Smallholder Farmers – Engaging with smallholder farmers to help them overcome •• Reputation •• Food and nutrition security challenges, leading to better harvests, improved livelihoods and resource access. •• Market opportunity •• Poverty eradication •• Community development •• Reputation •• Climate change mitigation Land Use and Deforestation – Ensuring soils and forests thrive by utilizing, •• Ecosystem services •• Environmental impacts encouraging and enabling the use of best management practices, products and •• Climate change mitigation •• Biodiversity services by farmers and engaging in partnerships to protect and restore forests. •• Biodiversity •• Water quality and access •• Sustainable intensification •• Land use change •• Harvests •• Harvests Soil Health – Promoting land stewardship through the application of effective and •• Climate change mitigation •• Climate change mitigation innovative farm practices to enhance crop production today and ensure its viability and adaptation and adaptation for future generations. •• Environmental impacts •• Environmental impacts •• Sustainable intensification •• Farmer livelihoods •• Business conduct and ethics •• Fair conditions and pay Human Rights – Supporting the full realization of human rights of our •• License to operate •• Eliminating child labor employees and business partner employees throughout our value chain. •• Reputation •• Eliminating forced labor •• Risk mitigation •• Gender equality •• Business success •• Innovation •• Access to products Patents and Plant Variety Rights – Preserving and improving plant varieties with •• Risk mitigation •• Economic growth intellectual property protection to increase genetic diversity, and share benefits •• Collaboration •• Morality of patenting life to advance sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods. •• License to operate •• Farmer choice •• Market development •• Business success and continuity Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits – Attracting, retaining, developing, •• Innovation •• Economic growth incenting and empowering Monsanto employees, promoting professional •• Diverse perspectives •• Increased skilled workforce growth, leveraging the power of inclusion and diversity, and creating a great •• Employee engagement, •• Inclusion and diversity work environment. development and well-being •• Human rights Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 24 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO T H E T O P I C S L I S T E D H AV E B E E N I D E N T I F I E D A S M AT E R I A L M AT E R I A L T O P I C / T O M O N S A N T O O R O U R S TA K E H O L D E R S , R E S P E C T I V E LY, DEFINITION B E C AU S E T H E Y R E L AT E T O T H E A R E A S L I S T E D B E L O W MONSANTO STAKEHOLDERS GMO (genetically modified organism) Labeling – Commitment to a consistent •• License to operate •• Heightened societal interest U.S. federal labeling law for food products that contain ingredients derived from •• Reputation •• Health and safety perceptions crops grown with GMO seeds. •• Business continuity •• Business success •• Environmental impacts Biodiversity – Safeguarding ecosystems where Monsanto and its farmer customers •• License to operate •• Community vitality operate by protecting species, promoting sustainable landscapes, and preserving •• Reputation •• Health and conservation of species and improving plant varieties and sharing benefits. •• Soil and water quality •• Soil and water quality •• Pollinators •• Business success •• License to operate •• Individual and community •• Recruiting and retention health and wellness Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness – Ensuring a healthy, safe and secure •• Employee engagement, •• Health system burdens workplace that promotes well-being. development and well-being •• Education •• Risk mitigation •• Livelihoods •• Cost savings •• Innovation Data Security, Management and Access – Ensuring responsible management, •• Data ownership and privacy •• Business success privacy and security of farmer, business partner, employee and company data •• Access to digital services •• Risk mitigation while expanding farmer access to digital agriculture solutions. •• Farmer livelihoods •• Customer relationships •• Business conduct and ethics •• Transparency Political Spending – Managing political actions and contributions responsibly, •• Business success •• Fair competition transparently and in alignment with Monsanto’s policies. •• Reputation •• Anti-corruption Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 25 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO They also have the ability to identify decisionmaking our team critical to information sharing. Integrating Finance useful information to ensure that the company We help ensure that sustainability is included and Sustainability is optimizing its approach to sustainability. in conversations across the company.” by Rodney Irwin For the past several years, Monsanto has enrolled “Creating a sustainable future for the Managing Director, World Business their emerging leaders in the WBCSD Leadership world is extremely important to us here Council for Sustainable Development Program. The company’s most recent participant, at Monsanto,” says Cyeria. “The finance Cyeria, Director of Internal Audit, credits the community has the opportunity to make an There is mounting pressure on the planet to program for guiding her understanding of the impactful and lasting change in this regard.” provide for a growing number of people with linkage between sustainability and enterprise risk. less space and resources than ever before. At the WBCSD, we aim to provide current and future Monsanto is truly To integrate sustainability and finance for business leaders with an in-depth understanding the long term, companies must be willing focused on making the of sustainability challenges and opportunities to encourage their finance professionals to world’s farmers more that will feed into their strategic decisionexpand their traditional view of finance and making. Through our Leadership Program, we create change that goes beyond their current productive using less help all professionals think about sustainability job descriptions. At Monsanto, I’ve witnessed resources. Integrating and corporate resources in a broader way. a culture where people can make a difference, supported by their senior leadership team. sustainability and finance From my background in accounting and has furthered this effort economics, I have come to believe that “Incorporating conversations about sustainability the finance and accounting community is into our decision-making process was a and helped us align our uniquely qualified to address the challenges direct outcome of the WBCSD Leadership business goals with our that our planet and society face. Companies sustainability focus. Program,” according to Nanci, VP of Finance must account for more than their financial and General Auditor at Monsanto. “We saw it as transactions, and the skill set of the finance a wonderful opportunity for us to understand Cyeria and accounting profession is a natural fit how sustainability and our business strategy are Director of Internal Audit, for accounting for external resources that connected. Our finance function is involved in Monsanto companies have not measured in the past. many different projects throughout our company, Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 26 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Stakeholders Working Collaboratively and Transparently We engage with stakeholders that have interests in: agriculture production • water • soil health • human rights • climate change • food and nutrition security • biodiversity • food labeling • science and technology • business practices • innovation • inclusion and diversity • youth development • community health and other topics related to our business. As more people join the conversation about food, what ingredients it includes and how it is The table below provides just a sampling of the numerous stakeholders with whom we engage around the world. produced, we have a responsibility to help make relevant information available to them. Based Academy for Nutrition and Dietetics • African Agricultural Technology Foundation on feedback from stakeholders, we’ve taken (AATF) • American Society for Nutrition • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) • Climate Leadership Group • Field to Market Alliance • Honey Bee Health Coalition significant steps to engage in conversations Advocacy and • Institute for Sustainable Agriculture • Network USA of United Nations Global about how food is grown and gets from farm to Professional Groups Compact • Soil Health Partnership • The Sustainability Consortium • World Business table, as well as the role we play along the way. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • World Economic Forum (WEF) New Vision for Agriculture • World Food Programme USA We interact in a transparent way with American Production and Inventory Control Society (APICS) • Biotechnology organizations and individuals on an ongoing Innovation Organization • Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) • Council of basis as part of regularly planned visits, technical Supply Chain Management Professionals (CSCMP) • CropLife International • Food Industry Groups Marketing Institute • Global Sourcing Council • Grocery Manufacturers Association • seminars, conferences and updates. Although International Seed Federation • National Confederation of Industry Brazil • National, the frequency and types of our engagement Regional and Local Farmers' Associations • National and Regional Seed and Crop vary, the intent to stay engaged in areas of Industry Associations • US-ASEAN Business Council, Inc. mutual interest is foremost in our minds. The Asian-American Chamber of Commerce, St. Louis • Catalyst • Diversity Awareness groups identified throughout the report provide Partnership (DAP) • Federacion Mexicana De Empresarios LGBT (FME LGBT) • insight into how they see our role in society. Heartland Black Chamber of Commerce, St. Louis • Mid-States Minority Supplier Development Council • Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) • National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) • National Minority Supplier We have also developed and co-sponsored Development Council (NMSDC) • St. Louis Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Diversity Groups online forums where consumers can ask • St. Louis Minority Business Council • Southern Regional Minority Supplier questions about where their food comes from Development Council • United States Business Leaders Network (USBLN) • Veteran Business Resource Center • WEConnect International • Women’s Business and other topics of interest. These include Development Center (WBDC) • Women’s Business Enterprise Council South • A Conversa, GMO Answers, Hablemos Claro, Women’s Business Enterprise National Council • Women’s Minority Business Development Agency Business Center Chicago La Conversación, and The Conversation. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 27 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO External Charters and Principles Inviting Conversation “Does Monsanto support mandatory Monsanto’s policies and business activities are Monsanto operates online discussion forums labeling of GMO informed by a variety of external charters and in multiple languages including A Conversa foods? If no, why?” principles. Some of these include, but are not (Brazil), La Conversación (Latin America) and limited to: The Conversation (North America and India). Pages 96–97 These forums are dedicated to addressing •• American Business Act on Climate Pledge questions raised by anyone. Here are 10 of the “If studies show that •• Customs-Trade Partnership actual questions asked and answered on these exposure to glyphosate Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) sites, along with where you can find information can cause serious on these topics in this report. health problems, •• International Labour Organization’s Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work “What steps are you why is it still used?” “How can you ensure actually taking Pages 95–96 •• Privacy and Security Principles for Farm Data that your products toward solving world •• Sustainable Development Goals are safe for us?” hunger besides producing GMOs?” “Will you expand •• United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Pages 72; 92–94; 95–96; 97 your corporate •• UNGC CEO Water Mandate Pages 32–36 social responsibility action to mitigate the •• Universal Declaration of Human Rights agricultural crisis?” “Why sue farmers?” “Why don’t we ever •• U.S. Green Building Council’s hear anything positive Pages 19–20; 32–36 Leadership in Energy & Environmental Page 99 about GMOs?” Design (LEED) Principles Pages 16; 97 •• WBCSD WASH Pledge “Many of my friends “What are you doing say that Monsanto to make a legitimate “What are the is contributing to impact in your environmental monoculture. What carbon emissions?” benefits of GMOs?” is your opinion?” Pages 59–62; 64 Pages 16; 64; 73 Pages 69; 79 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 28 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Canada’s Best Diversity Employers Earning Recognition Monsanto Canada was selected as one of Canada’s Best Diversity Employers in 2016. The people of Monsanto work hard to advance the company’s sustainability efforts. •• Military Friendly And while we don’t do it for the external Monsanto was named a military recognition, we appreciate it when received. friendly employer. Following are some of the recent honors we’ve •• Women’s Business Enterprise received from third-party organizations. National Council (WBENC) Monsanto has been recognized as People one of America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises •• DiversityInc due to our inclusive supply chain. For the ninth consecutive year, Monsanto •• Dream Company for Young People was recognized as one of the Top 50 Monsanto was recognized as a most Companies for Diversity. Monsanto ranked Planet desired company among young people number 7 on the DiversityInc Top 12 in Argentina starting their careers. Companies for Employee Resource Groups •• Newsweek Green Rankings list and number 8 on the DiversityInc Top 9 •• STEM Jobs The Newsweek Green Rankings are one of Companies for People with Disabilities list. Monsanto participated in a benchmark study the world’s most recognized assessments of effective practices in STEM employment of corporate environmental performance. •• Human Rights Campaign and was recognized as number 11 on the Monsanto saw significant progress, moving Corporate Equality Index score of 100. STEM Jobs Approved Employer list. from number 84 to number 22 in the global •• Hispanic Network and Black EOE Journal rankings and from number 52 to number 12 •• Community Enrichment Award Monsanto was recognized as a Top Diversity in the U.S. rankings. Clarion, Iowa Employer by HISPANIC Network Magazine •• EcoVadis CSR and Black EOE Journal. Monsanto was •• Occupational Safety Merit Award Monsanto Europe (Antwerp site) has been recognized as a Top Employer for West Fargo, N.D. granted a Gold Recognition Level in 2016. Hispanics, African-Americans and the •• Governor’s Workplace Safety Awards LGBTQ community. Remington, Ind. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 29 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO process safety and pollution prevention by •• Great Place to Work’s 50 Best the National Chemical Industries Council. Workplaces for Flexibility Monsanto placed number 11. •• CII Safety Health & Environment (SHE) Award Monsanto India ranked third in the •• Hawaii’s Most Charitable Companies Manufacturing Category. In 2016, Hawaii Business magazine ranked Monsanto Hawaii number 13 on a list of •• Environmental Leadership Award Hawaii’s Most Charitable Companies. Bogotá, Colombia, site was recognized by Responsible Care®. •• Clean Company and Industry Two Monsanto Mexico sites (Culiacan and Nextipac) were recognized by the Jalisco State Environmental Agency and Mexican Environmental Federal Agency. •• Costa Rica Blue Flag Program Deltapine Site in Costa Rica was recognized Company for its exemplary environmental practices. •• World’s Most Admired Companies •• National Green Industry Award For the fourth consecutive year, Fortune Monsanto Thailand was recognized for named Monsanto one of the World’s excellence in environmental sustainability. Most Admired Companies, ranking •• Advanced Certificate of Health and Safety Monsanto number 1 in our industry. Management System (Gold Flag) •• Great Place to Work Monsanto Indonesia was recognized Monsanto has been recognized as an by the Ministry of Manpower of the employer of choice in virtually every region Republic of Indonesia for excellence in where we operate. In 2016, Monsanto was environmental, safety and health standards. recognized as a Great Place to Work in •• CICM Responsible Care Award four new locations: the Caribbean, Central Monsanto Malaysia was recognized for America, Costa Rica and Guatemala. excellence in employee health and safety, Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 30 32 HELPING TO ENSURE FOOD AND NUTRITION SECURITY 32 Promoting Food Security in Africa 34 Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods 35 Providing Critical Information to Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise 35 Training Smallholder Farmers 37 Fighting Malnutrition, Impacting Children: Monsanto Fund 38 L.E.A.D.ing Globally 39 REACHING OUT TO COMMUNITIES 39 Staking the Future on STEM 39 Engaging University Students 40 Inspiring Future Science and Technology Leaders 41 Supporting America’s Farmers and Rural Communities 41 Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety 43 Volunteering for the Greater Helping make balanced meals more accessible for Good: Monsanto Together everyone on the planet and improving lives for farmers, employees, consumers and communities. 44 IMPROVING LIVES FOR OUR PEOPLE 44 Developing Our Employees At Monsanto, we’re passionate about people. Our goal is to 46 Embracing the Power improve lives everywhere: for our employees, the farmers with of Inclusion and Diversity whom we work and in the communities we touch around the 47 Fostering Innovation world. In collaboration with a diverse group of public, private and Through Inclusion nonprofit stakeholders, we’re improving global food security and 48 Rewarding Great Work 49 Employee Composition Data striving to eliminate hunger, malnutrition and poverty. We offer 51 Promoting Employee Health, our employees a work environment that is safe and inclusive. Safety and Well-Being And we’re educating the next generation of leaders and investing 53 Health and Safety Data in causes that make a genuine difference in people’s lives. 54 F O R G I N G T H E WAY IN HUMAN RIGHTS 54 Upholding Our Human Rights Standards 55 Tracking Our Progress 56 Respecting Human Rights in High-Risk Areas 56 Helping Eradicate Child Labor 2015 Sustainability Report | 31 Monsanto 2016 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO HELPING TO ENSURE FOOD AND NUTRITION SECURITY Helping make balanced meals more accessible to all is a complex undertaking that encompasses interdependent factors including crop production, access to inputs, distribution systems, agronomic knowledge, technology, access to capital and local customs. Expanding Water Efficient companies of all sizes, royalty free, to deliver Maize for Africa (WEMA) these hybrid seeds to smallholder farmers. Many of our activities focus on areas of the world where the need is the greatest and most urgent, In Africa, maize (or corn) is the main source Between 2013 and 2016, more than 70 including Africa and Asia. We play an active role of food for more than 300 million people. conventional DroughtTEGO™ hybrids have been in the World Economic Forum’s (WEF) New The production of corn in this area is extremely approved for commercial release in Kenya, Vision for Agriculture and have done so since challenged by the lack of rainfall, ineffective Mozambique, South Africa, Tanzania and its inception. This includes, but is not limited to, seed varieties and often devastating levels of Uganda, and 23 seed companies now license WEF’s Grow Africa and Grow Asia initiatives. drought and pestilence. The WEMA project, new hybrids and make them commercially a multi-stakeholder partnership, strives to available to African farmers – without improve food security and livelihoods among paying a royalty to Monsanto. Farmers using Promoting Food Security in Africa smallholder farmers in sub-Saharan Africa by DroughtTEGO™ hybrids have harvested 20 to developing hybrid maize seed that uses water 35 percent more grain under moderate drought We are involved in several multi-stakeholder more efficiently and resists insect pests. conditions as compared to the seeds they had collaborations in Africa to help introduce historically planted. new technologies and practices and develop The WEMA partnership works to develop a viable markets. pipeline of conventional and biotech maize seeds While only conventional seeds have been for African farmers under the DroughtTEGO™ available through the WEMA partnership thus and TELA™ brands, respectively. The partnership far, WEMA plans to introduce white maize makes the seed variety licenses available to seed biotech hybrids in South Africa and Kenya Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 32 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO (pending approval) in 2017 to address insectGrow Africa: Supporting the Helping Cowpea pest challenges. Insect-protected maize has Southern Agricultural Growth Become Insect-Resistant been grown widely in other areas of the world Corridor of Tanzania (SAGCOT) for nearly 20 years, but in Africa it took time to Cowpea is an important food grain legume establish regulatory processes to approve its use. As part of our WEF Grow Africa commitment, we in Africa’s dry conditions. Nearly 200 million are helping to advance the goals of SAGCOT. people consume this crop due to its quality Since the inception of the WEMA program, DroughtTEGO™ protein content, and it is grown on more than hybrids have positively impacted the lives of approximately The vast majority of farmers in sub-Saharan Africa 12.5 million hectares of land. Monsanto is 250,000 sub-Saharan African farming families, or more are women tending crops on small areas of land continuing to support the efforts of the AATF, than 1.5 million people. to provide for their families. These smallholder a not-for-profit organization working to help Seed-company licensing is ongoing, and a farmers face many challenges, like insects, disease improve cowpea productivity. pipeline of additional conventional hybrids are and drought, which can mean the difference being approved for commercial release as part between having enough food for their children A pest known as the Maruca pod borer can of WEMA’s continued work toward improving and village or not. reduce harvests by 80 percent. Because most food security and livelihoods for more than cowpea farmers lack access to effective In Tanzania, the economy is highly dependent insecticides, AATF has accessed specific 25 million people in sub-Saharan Africa. on agriculture, and the government has made it genes from Monsanto to protect cowpea W E M A C O L L A B O R AT O R S a national priority by establishing Kilimo Kwanza against the Maruca pod borer and is facilitating (Agriculture First), a program to achieve food security, license agreements and educating farmers on Led by •• African Agricultural Technology poverty reduction and increased economic growth. Foundation (AATF) sustainable use of the insect-protected seeds. Funded by •• Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation The government designated SAGCOT as the In 2016, cowpea trials were planted in Burkina •• Howard G. Buffett Foundation focus of new partnerships that aim to enable Faso, Ghana, Malawi and Nigeria. Additionally, •• United States Agency for International Development (USAID) agricultural growth in this region. We have AATF made progress toward commercialization been a partner in SAGCOT since its start in with the filing of regulatory applications in Key Partners •• National Agricultural Research 2010. Working with NGOs, farmer organizations, Institutes in Kenya, Mozambique, Ghana, Malawi and Nigeria. Moving forward, South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda researchers and the Ministry of Agriculture, we’re AATF hopes to expand field trials to additional •• International Maize and Wheat helping improve crop production systems and Improvement Center (CIMMYT) countries and to continue working with others •• Monsanto the maize value chains in the region. The aim is to bring insect-resistant cowpea to the to improve food security by providing improved African marketplace. maize seed for farmer demonstrations, training village based advisors and working with agro-dealers to improve their business acumen. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 33 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Helping Make Cassava Virus-Resistant Grow Asia: Improving We continue to support the Virus Resistant Farmer Livelihoods Cassava for Africa (VIRCA) project with funding and technical advice. Cassava is a nutrient-rich The Association of Southeast Asian Nations root vegetable that serves as a dietary staple for (ASEAN) region is home to 625 million people 130 million people in East Africa. Unfortunately, who face food and nutrition insecurity as a the plant is highly susceptible to diseases like constant threat. The ASEAN goal is to feed one cassava brown streak disease (CBSD) and cassava of the world’s youngest and fastest-growing mosaic disease (CMD). populations through sustainable and efficient use of land and water resources by minimizing Working with varieties that already provide some the impacts of, and the contributions to, climate protection against CMD, the VIRCA project change. We’re engaged in several related initiatives is using biotechnology to improve cassava’s as part of our WEF Grow Asia commitment. improved water efficiency and reduced the use resistance to CBSD because native resistance of pesticides, fungicides, labor and other costs hasn’t been found in the cassava genome. Vietnam by as much as 80 percent. Resistance to CBSD would help increase the chance that farmers have abundant harvests. V I E T N A M R I C E -T O C O R N In recent years, demand for Vietnamese-grown R O TAT I O N T I M E L I N E Field trials are currently underway, and the rice has dropped dramatically, impacting the VIRCA team continues to work with government livelihoods of Vietnamese farmers in the Mekong Monsanto Vietnam team introduced a regulators who will review improvements in, and 2014 Delta. The Vietnamese government began rice-to-corn crop rotation concept to the safety of, the new cassava varieties before assist farmers in growing both crops, while helping farmers transition their rice paddy fields they are made available to smallholder farmers. minimizing the impact to the environment. to corn and soybean fields, while preserving V I R C A C O L L A B O R AT O R S the rice-growing ecosystem that is still important 2015 Our DEKALB® Cultivation Rice-to-Corn to Vietnam. Rotation Protocol was selected as a preferred cropping system by the Vietnamese Ministry •• Donald Danforth Plant Science Center of Agriculture and Rural Development. Working alongside the government, Monsanto •• Kenya Agricultural Livestock and Research Organization trained 5,000 rice farmers on corn planting The Vietnamese government issued Decree 195 2016 techniques. Within three months, farmers in to encourage farmers to convert low yield rice •• National Crops Resources Research Institute in Uganda areas to corn. Participating households who two regions converted 2,200 hectares from rice convert will receive a cash support of US $150 •• Monsanto (funding and technical advice) to corn, increasing their income by up to 400 each, accompanied by technical training in percent. The new crop rotation process also planting corn. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 34 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO a change by the Indonesian government in Monsanto Farm AgVisory® Services. This interest rates and loan policies, the program service was renamed FarmRise™Mobile participants, including Monsanto, are looking Farm Care in 2016 and integrated into The for alternative ways to help smallholder Climate Corporation’s portfolio of services. farmers secure the credit they need. Knowing that 70 percent of smallholder farmers globally have access to cellular telephones, we Philippines combined agronomic knowledge and mobile technology to bring free, relevant information The Philippines Partnership for Sustainable and advice directly to farmers in the field to help Agriculture (PPSA) secretariat was formed in them make decisions for a successful harvest. November 2015 to support the WEF Grow Asia initiative. A working group was convened to The number of registered farmers using the support corn production and has started a value platform has grown from 10,000 to more than chain initiative in the Zamboanga Peninsula 4 million, with more than half of the growth Indonesia supporting 10,000 yellow corn smallholder occurring in the last couple of years. Monsanto farmers that can potentially supply feed to 7,100 teams in Asia and Africa will work together with The WEF Partnership for Indonesia Sustainable hog farmers. We are part of the initiative, poised The Climate Corporation to further expand Agriculture (PISAgro) addresses food security to provide technical assessment support and FarmRise for smallholder farmers around the by increasing agricultural production and education on best agronomic practices and to world. As part of The Climate Corporation improving the welfare of smallholder farmers. supply hybrid seed best suited to the area. portfolio, FarmRise subscribers will benefit The decade long initiative aims to increase from the expertise and focus of a leader agriculture productivity by 20 percent, increase in digital agriculture and data science. farmer incomes by 20 percent and decrease Providing Critical Information to greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent. Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise ™ Training Smallholder Farmers Together with Indonesian farmers, Bank Rakyat Smallholder farmers, who make up about Indonesia, Cargill and the Regional Government 90 percent of all farmers globally, are often Another way we strive to make a real difference of East Java, Monsanto participated in a pilot challenged with rural isolation and limited in the lives of farmers and farming communities is project in 2016, which focused on maximizing agronomic resources. Since 2010, we have by offering training to smallholder farmers, both corn crop productivity and providing farmers helped to empower smallholder farmers in through sustainability partnerships and as part with access to financing and credit. Due to India through a free mobile platform called of our standard business practices. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 35 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S O M E E X A M P L E S O F M O N S A N T O S M A L L H O L D E R FA R M E R T R A I N I N G I N F I S C A L Y E A R 2 0 1 6 COUNTRY T YPE OF TRAINING NUMBER OF SMALLHOLDER FARMERS Philippines Farmers received productivity training on overall best agronomic practices – 57,000 from insect resistance management to choosing the best hybrid for their land. Indonesia Through a partnership with PISAgro, farmers received training on good agriculture practices to improve productivity, including irrigation, planting and harvesting. Farmers learned 115,000 sustainable practices such as reduced tillage and composting to produce natural fertilizer. Vietnam Farmers received training on the overall best agronomic practices for productivity and sustainability through DEKALB® conventional field days and meetings. In addition, they 340,000 were educated on DEKALB® corn with Genuity® stacked trait technology before the product’s launch using online resources and field tours. India As part of Project SHARE 2, farmers learned how to increase productivity in a sustainable 71,000 way through demonstration plots, irrigation infrastructure and partnerships. (projected three-year goal) India Farm trials and Indian Cotton Farmer Network 17,243 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 36 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO BRAZILIANS RECEIVE globally, Monsanto Fund has put in place INMED Partnerships COURSES ON BAKING, a series of initiatives that will leverage the for Children, Brazil F O O D P R E PA R AT I O N expertise and regional partnerships of key AND GASTRONOMY organizations around the world. Monsanto Through a partnership with INMED in Brazil, Fund aims to help fight malnutrition by Monsanto Fund has committed $3 million over Monsanto Fund projects in São Paulo, Brazil, focus on three years to improve nutrition for mothers improving access and encouraging healthy food and nutrition. One initiative provides baking, food behaviors toward food, with a focus on and children ages six months to five years in preparation and gastronomy education to low-income populations through nonprofit organizations Hope the needs of women and children. Petrolina. Monsanto’s operations in Petrolina Unlimited and Casa do Zezinho. The courses teach better are relatively new and when we began working eating habits and food safety best practices and help there we recognized the need to help the participants find alternative sources of employment, Healthy Food Alliance for children in this remote and impoverished area. resulting in better incomes and quality of life. Hope Early Education, United States Unlimited and Casa do Zezinho taught 250 Brazilians Leveraging INMED’s experience as a about baking, food preparation and gastronomy. In October 2016, Monsanto Fund, the American successful convener of local government and Heart Association (AHA) and Nemours (a nongovernment agencies, and a local public nonprofit children’s health system) announced policy applicable to the preschools, the program Fighting Malnutrition, a five-year, $3.9 million pilot program in St. will involve mothers and young children Impacting Children: Monsanto Fund Louis to increase access to healthy food, assess through community events, workshops and challenges related to food deserts and promote health agents who will provide training in early Monsanto Fund, the philanthropic arm of our healthy eating in both center-based childcare childhood nutrition and related concepts. The company, is a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit settings and home environments. The Healthy project will also increase access to fresh foods funded by Monsanto (see Page 91 for more Food Alliance for Early Education pilot program through vegetable gardens in preschools. Over information). Many of the Fund’s activities is part of Healthy Way to Grow, a joint initiative three years, the initiative is expected to benefit align with or complement company efforts of AHA and Nemours, which is expanding in the over 150 preschools and 32,000 children. to assist rural residents and the communities St. Louis region to include more than 120 early where Monsanto employees live and work. care centers and aims to improve the nutritional Monsanto Fund is currently reviewing potential partners with whom to launch a high-impact, health of more than 18,000 young children from nutrition-focused program in Kenya, similar to To address malnutrition and food birth to age five. If successful, the approach could those announced in Brazil and the United States. insecurity impacting young children be applied to projects in other communities. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 37 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsan to h elps us educa t e L.E.A.D.ing Globally Regist ered Nu tri tionist Die ti tians Consumers are increasingly interested in learning where their food comes on th e in t ersection be tween food, from. Through our Leaders Engaged in Advancing Dialogue (L.E.A.D.) initiative, we’re modern agriculture and nu tri tion. learning from and sharing information with dietitians, nutritionists and others involved Zhenie Velasco Registered Nutritionist in conversations about the intersection Dietitian & Associate Professor, of food, nutrition and agriculture. Philippines Originally launched in the United States, L.E.A.D. expanded internationally in 2016 to Indonesia, the Philippines, Spain and Vietnam. Through one-on-one meetings and dietitians and academics and provides them with L.E.A.D. expanded conferences with local dietitians, academics answers to their questions about our company internationally and regulators, we’re sharing information and and our role in the food value chain. By having in 2016 to Indonesia, building relationships globally. We’ve already an open dialogue, we hope to empower the Philippines, Spain visited several universities and had in-depth and Vietnam. others to have conversations with today’s discussions with students and academics in farmers, whether a smallholder farmer in Africa public health, nutrition, business and marketing. or a row crop farmer in Iowa, the media and This international expansion builds upon the even their friends and family. By clearing up L.E.A.D. Network: a group of 15 experts in misinformation about food, L.E.A.D. benefits the United States with diverse backgrounds, our company, farmers and society as a whole. including food service, healthcare, media and retail. Our network engages with food and nutrition professionals, like culinary specialists, Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 38 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO REACHING OUT TO COMMUNITIES Having a positive impact in communities is a key priority at Monsanto. Our support of STEM education and community health and safety are investments in our collective future. Staking the Future on STEM As technology increasingly becomes a bigger to technology and agriculture. These emerging Monsanto also provided grants and coaching part of people’s daily lives, it’s more important leaders will be critical in solving environmental to Agriculture Future of America and the Alpha than ever for individuals to be equipped with and societal challenges. Gamma Rho and FarmHouse fraternities. science and engineering skills. We aim to partner and create tools for students that will encourage Agriculture Programs Planet Forward them to be curious, think critically and ask questions in an effort to make better evidenceOur partnerships with collegiate organizations Monsanto sponsors Planet Forward, a student based decisions. Working collaboratively, we help us attract and educate top undergraduate organization founded at George Washington provide funding to prepare the next generation talent and increase the gender, racial and University that encourages students to of leaders by encouraging students to learn more ethnic diversity of students participating in search for innovative solutions to the biggest about and pursue careers in STEM, particularly agriculture programs. Sigma Alpha, a professional challenges facing our planet. Through in the food and agricultural industries. agricultural sorority in the United States, storytelling, media and convening, Planet participated in a year-long National Ag Education Forward empowers new voices and elevates Challenge with Monsanto. More than 20 percent compelling ideas. Our employees engage with of its chapters wrote lesson plans on key topics Planet Forward members from around the Engaging University Students in modern agriculture to present to elementary globe in multiple venues annually, including We believe in the importance of working with and middle school students. Five winning the annual Planet Forward Summit. More than college students to address the pressing needs chapters were selected to train all Sigma Alpha 200 students and faculty from 33 colleges of today and tomorrow, especially as it relates chapters on their exemplary lesson plans in 2017. and universities attended the 2016 Summit. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 39 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO THINKING ABOUT FOOD SECURITY leaders on topics such as food security and the effects of climate change. In April 2016, 73 Inspiring Future Science Thought For Food (TFF) is an organization dedicated to participants from a variety of disciplines and nine and Technology Leaders tackling the global challenge of feeding a future population universities attended a solution lab at Washington of more than 9 billion people. The organization hosts an The Monsanto Fund supports FIRST Robotics University in St. Louis, Mo. The lab focused on annual competition to empower university students to Competition teams in United States how we can move closer to a carbon neutral or learn more about food security and inspire them to make communities to nurture student interest a difference. In 2016, Monsanto sponsored a team from carbon positive food supply chain and featured in STEM. The organization’s mission is to Brazil that designed a new approach to prevent grain from four expert speakers from Missouri Botanical falling off of trucks on their way to storage facilities, which inspire young people to be science and Gardens, Monsanto, Soil Health Partnership and contributes to significant food loss in South America. technology leaders by engaging them USDA. We strive to help members understand in exciting mentor-based programs. how modern agriculture is and must be a part of the solution for these challenges. In The 2016 FIRST Robotics Championship was November 2016, we sponsored a breakout held in April 2016 and nearly 20,000 youth, 900 session and interacted with more than 1,000 teams and 1,300 volunteers participated. Over students at the annual Net Impact Conference. 40,000 people from 39 countries attended. The Monsanto Fund sponsored 97 student teams PRIME with $288,600 in funding across 30 Monsanto communities in 14 states. In the Monsanto In Brazil, Monsanto forms mentoring relationships booth, students were challenged to create with undergraduate students at local universities “BrushBots” made from toothbrushes, a motor, in a program known as Monsanto PRIME. Our a battery and other materials. The BrushBots employees interact with students through career raced on a multi-lane race track, competing for workshops, career fairs, lectures, field days the fastest time. Over the course of the four-day and internships. The objective of PRIME is to event, 30 Monsanto engineers volunteered their strengthen Monsanto’s relationship with students time, encouraging creativity and innovation by Net Impact taking relevant coursework and help provide the students and providing technical assistance. knowledge and professional opportunities. In As a sponsor of Net Impact – an organization 2016, PRIME targeted 30 universities and impacted of student and professional leaders interested in approximately 7,000 students in-person, as well as addressing global challenges – Monsanto has an additional 2,000 after the launch of an online helped design solution labs that engage emerging platform called Monsanto Universidades. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 40 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO HELPING IMPROVE America’s Farmers Grow Ag Leaders provides M AT H S C O R E S A M O N G students an opportunity to earn $1,500 Taking a Global Approach to FIRST GRADERS Community Health and Safety scholarships to help fund their education in an ag-related field of study. In 2016, in partnership Among the grant recipients under the America’s Farmers with the National FFA Organization, the Monsanto Community Health Grow Rural Education program was the Breckenridge Fund awarded $528,000 to 352 deserving students. Public School District in Breckenridge, Minn., which Our sites implement vital programs to tackle received $10,000 to enhance their math curriculum. America’s Farmers Grow Communities, while pressing issues impacting the health, safety and The school used most of the funds to purchase LearnPad tablets with the intention of increasing not strictly an educational initiative, provides an well-being of our employees, their families and first grade student math achievement on the STAR opportunity for eligible farmers to win a $2,500 our neighbors. These programs range from health Math assessment. When the first grade students of donation to direct to a rural nonprofit of their fairs and blood drives to educational initiatives Breckenridge took the STAR Math assessment in about healthy nutrition and how to protect choice. In 2016, the Monsanto Fund awarded more September 2014, only three students scored at grade than $3 million to nonprofits in 1,324 counties oneself against insect bites, sun exposure level. After integration of the LearnPads into the curriculum, 31 of 41 first grade students achieved second across 40 states, with more than $922,000 going and contagious diseases. grade level scores on their STAR Math assessment. toward schools and educational programs. Africa. Access to sufficient food remains a challenge in many parts of Africa. In response to Supporting America’s Farmers Groups like America’s Farmers are this need and in addition to their pay, we provide and Rural Communities maize to our seasonal workers and their families very important for communities like through the Maize Meal Project. Providing this Sponsored by the Monsanto Fund, the following America’s Farmers community outreach programs ours. There have been a lot of cuts supplemental food source has resulted in notably increased energy and improved health among work to make a positive impact in rural America through the support of communities, schools and in our 4-H program over the past our seasonal workforce and has benefited other community members as well. youth. The programs have awarded more than few years. This funding will allow $36 million across the United States since 2010. them to continue programs that had MAIZE MEAL PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS America’s Farmers Grow Rural Education to be put on hold. Established: 2015 encourages eligible farmers to nominate their local public school districts to apply for $10,000 Each seasonal worker receives 22 pounds of maize per month or $25,000 grants to enhance math and science Keith and Sue Enough to feed a family of three for one month education. In 2016, the Monsanto Fund awarded Richland County, Ohio, who directed a $2,500 donation to Richland County 4-H Committee. Meals distributed since inception: nearly 130,000 $2.3 million to 175 rural public school districts. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 41 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO India. Venomous snake bites are a significant by providing mosquito bite prevention education, hazard on the farms and in the villages of rural encouraging the wearing of long pants and sleeves, India. We continue to make anti-snake venom and offering insect repellent and hats with insect kits available across seed production villages net mesh. Our sites also maintain mosquito control in multiple Indian states either by proactively measures, such as eliminating standing water and placing the kits with rural hospitals at strategic spraying to reduce mosquito populations around locations or transporting the kit directly to rural the perimeter of our buildings and plots. clinics in response to snake bites. Our leadership has prompted other seed companies in India to replicate this program, providing the larger rural Community Safety community with access to anti-snake venom kits. Monsanto’s focus on safety extends beyond the job site. Throughout the last several years, our Off-the-Job Safety (OTJS) efforts focused on ANTI-SNAKE VENOM KIT GETTING YOUR OWN AMERICAN in-person safety events, reaching over 2.1 million RED CROSS FIRST AID APP PROGRAM HIGHLIGHTS people around the world. In order to reach an Established: 2008 even larger audience, we decided to incorporate Text “GETFIRST” to 90999 to download the app, or the use of social media in our community search “American Red Cross” in the Apple App Store, Total people treated: 86 safety outreach efforts. As such, we reached Google Play or Amazon Marketplace or go to redcross. People treated FY16: 22 approximately 7 million people globally in org/apps. Once downloaded, the app content is fiscal year 2016. available without an internet connection and most app components are also available in Spanish. Tropical and Subtropical Regions. When United States. In March 2016, Monsanto and the Zika virus created significant concerns for the American Red Cross announced a threeon the farm. When the sponsorship was activated, pregnant women because of the potentially year partnership, with Monsanto as the exclusive our content was pushed out to the more than serious consequences for their unborn children, sponsor of the American Red Cross First Aid App. 3 million people who had already downloaded we reinforced our education on mosquito bite The app includes videos, fact sheets, Red Cross the app. Together, the American Red Cross and prevention for travelers and workers. Mosquitoes first aid tips, a quiz and an opportunity to receive a Monsanto, through its connection with farmers, can transmit a wide variety of diseases (e.g., social media badge. As part of this sponsorship, we seek to increase app download penetration among Chikungunya, Dengue, West Nile) and are present are providing content for the app’s new rural safety rural communities. This potentially life-saving app in many places people live or work. We further section, which incorporates our Growing Safely is a vital preparedness tool that may serve as the work to reduce the risk of employees being bitten video series and covers more than a dozen safety first line of support for communities remote from topics, ranging from ATV safety to child safety emergency medical services. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 42 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO A D AY O F Facebook page have reached nearly 3.8 million GIVING BACK individuals. These posts primarily highlighted our rural drinking water infrastructure and Monsanto Gives Back is a day of volunteering in rural sanitation improvements, anti-child-labor communities across the United States and Puerto initiatives and vehicle safety awareness efforts. Rico organized by our Row Crops Manufacturing Within the past two years, Monsanto employees Women’s Network. It is closely associated with the Monsanto Together program in that participants are created nearly 500 Safety Bigul blog posts. able to count time volunteered for Monsanto Together These blog posts received more than 3,300 service grants. In its second year, the 2016 event was views from 106 countries in fiscal year 2016. expanded to include our Crop Protection, Breeding, and Technology Development and Agronomy functions. Volunteer projects included the planting of a pollinator habitat for continued educational purposes at a local Volunteering for the Greater school, harvesting vegetables for a local food pantry Good: Monsanto Together and general beautification of the community. The Monsanto Together Volunteer Program MONSANTO GIVES BACK encourages our employees around the 2016 HIGHLIGHTS more than 5,000 employees volunteered more world to volunteer for causes that matter than 105,000 hours across many countries. to them and rewards them for their time 1,375 employees participated at 77 sites Since its launch in 2010, the Monsanto and effort by offering service grants that Together Volunteer Program has recorded 5,695 hours donated, surpassing target by 126 percent support the organizations they support. more than 400,000 volunteer hours and has Service grants range from $250 for individual granted more than $2 million to nonprofit India. In an effort to share important safety volunteer efforts and up to $5,000 for teamorganizations focused on such causes as food messages with the people of this large country, based volunteer events. For every 20 hours of and nutrition, STEM education and veterans. the Monsanto India team turned to two social media platforms: the Monsanto India Facebook® service an employee volunteers at an eligible page and the safety blog, Safety Bigul. The various nonprofit, he or she can earn $250 for that safety, corporate social responsibility and human organization. In calendar year 2015 (the most rights initiatives featured on the Monsanto India recent year for which totals are available), Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 43 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO IMPROVING LIVES FOR OUR PEOPLE To ensure the success of our employees, we invest in world-class training and development, foster inclusion and diversity, and work to provide a healthy and safe work environment around the world. Developing Our Employees M O N S A N T O ’ S L E A D E R S H I P E XC H A N G E P R O G R A M S S U M M A R Y We’ve built nine-month programs that empower selected employees to accelerate their professional development Development, Performance and help the company identify and nurture strong leadership candidates at three key career milestones. and Rewards (DPR) 2016 MEMBERS PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS PURPOSE GLOBALLY Under the 70/20/10 principle, the most impactful professional development and growth (70 •• Leaders who manage •• Engage in dialogue with Executive 33 other leaders Team members about Monsanto’s percent) occurs in the context of an individual’s Global •• Have demonstrated high levels global businesses job performance in their current job, while 20 Leadership of potential and performance •• Expand skills in business planning Exchange processes and strategy percent impact is achieved through coaching and •• Enhance capabilities as senior leaders 10 percent impact comes through formal training. Monsanto is uniquely positioned to leverage the Regional •• Leaders of projects or teams •• Discuss challenges and opportunities 159 70/20/10 principle through its continued focus on •• Have demonstrated high levels facing Monsanto’s businesses Leadership within region of potential and performance maximizing an individual’s daily work with support Exchange •• Expand business acumen and coaching from their manager. •• Improve ability to influence and lead effectively The DPR process integrates an individual’s Local •• Future leaders typically •• Gain deeper understanding of 107 performance on the job and professional early in career Monsanto’s businesses and Leadership development with financial rewards. Monsanto •• Have already shown leadership expectations Exchange high potential •• Hone critical and strategic also provides excellent training opportunities for thinking skills its employees around the world. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 44 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO People Leader Learning Series (PLLS) NON-MANAGERIAL MANAGERIAL AV E R A G E H O U R S O F T R A I N I N G As part of our efforts to help employees bring PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE out the best in each other, we created the TOTAL 20 10 PLLS – a classroom training program that focuses on enabling and further developing leadership P E R C E N TA G E O F E M P L O Y E E S Male 99 97 skills critical for managers. In 2016, 350 people RECEIVING REGULAR leaders completed a PLLS workshop. PERFORMANCE REVIEWS Female 97 96 TOTAL 98 97 Empowering Employees with Learning Opportunities P E R C E N TA G E O F E L I G I B L E Male 99 97 EMPLOYEES RECEIVING CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS Female 97 96 To support the growing needs of our diverse global workforce, we’ve invested in TOTAL 98 97 a number of specialized learning resources that allow our employees to take ownership of their professional development. •• English for Leaders Program •• Tuition Assistance •• Monsanto’s Apprenticeship Program Monsanto offers the opportunity for Eligible employees can receive Designed primarily to promote skilled labor employees – for whom English is not reimbursement for tuition expenses opportunities for women in the region their native language – to improve their as established by their region. In the around our Soda Springs, Idaho, location, English skills to help them in their current United States, for example, Monsanto this 55-week paid program gives apprentices leadership role and develop them for will reimburse up to $7,500 per calendar specialized mechanical and on-the-job future opportunities. year for eligible full-time employees or training in preparation for a full-time position $3,750 per calendar year for eligible part-time •• Skillsoft at Monsanto upon successful completion of employees. In calendar year 2016, Monsanto This online content portal hosts a variety of the program. reimbursed over $1.1 million in tuition to courses, e-books, videos and more, giving employees in the United States. global employees the power to access professional development content when it is convenient for them and through their preferred device. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 45 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO networks to help their diverse protégés grow Business Resource Networks (BRNs) Embracing the Power of their careers within Monsanto and gain significant Inclusion and Diversity leadership roles. Our employee-led resource groups enhance and diversify Monsanto through member-focused Honoring and leveraging inclusion and diversity initiatives, such as professional growth and drives employee engagement, innovation and Tackling Unconscious Bias connecting with customers and communities. business success. While diversity reflects a person’s In 2016, our BRNs included: background and culture, including race, religion, Through face-to-face and virtual workshops, veteran status, disability, gender identity, sexual we’re training employees how to overcome •• Access – For employees, their families and orientation and other attributes, inclusion unconscious bias to counteract implicit attitudes our customers with visible and non-visible references our ability to achieve outstanding that can have potentially negative effects on disabilities. performance by embracing these differences. Our business decisions and people’s actions. •• African-Americans in Monsanto Management Advisory Committee (MAC) Inclusion •• Encompass – For employees and their families and Diversity Council (MIDC) of 22 global leaders Women in STEM to foster support and communication among provides direction and oversight regarding our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender employees. inclusion efforts to build trust, promote innovation We support women in leadership and in STEM and maintain our competitive advantage. fields worldwide through grassroots initiatives, •• The Family Network – For employees and their including Lean-In Circles and professional families to help them balance work and family Just as data and analytics are shaping the future of responsibilities. networks. These groups support women as they agriculture, we’re using measurements to improve balance personal responsibilities and corporate people outcomes. Through research, we found •• Monsanto Asian Connection leadership. Monsanto women who work as that our best leaders build trust by developing their •• Monsanto Latin Network scientists and engineers have also formed networks teams, exercising managerial acumen and creating an to enhance female leadership in STEM fields. •• VanGuard – For employees and their families inclusive environment. We’ve since added inclusion as a global metric in our leadership assessment who are current or prior members of the military. Fiscal year 2016 also marked the inaugural tool to determine how effectively our leaders graduates of our Women in Science and •• Young Professionals Network engage their teams. Measuring inclusion is critical Engineering (WiSE) class of women leaders, •• Women’s Network – U.S. and global chapters to tracking progress and building accountability. who were trained at Washington University in St. Louis. WiSE, active on college campuses •• IamMonsanto (Iam) Networks – At locations in the United States, inspires women to where there’s no critical mass of a particular Sponsoring Diversity study and build careers in STEM fields. demographic, these site-based groups The Executive Sponsorship program includes channel many BRNs into one group. senior leaders who leverage their position and Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 46 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO diversity through its culture of inclusion and Monsanto’s senior management is doing a Fostering Innovation global employee base has been a critical remarkable job at fostering inclusion and talent Through Inclusion component of the company’s success. that impacts the bottom line. Through its many initiatives, Monsanto has created an environment by Luke Visconti The company’s mission to create an inclusive where leaders and employees are motivated to Founder and CEO, culture starts at the top. For example, its achieve more. DiversityInc Management Advisory Committee Inclusion and Diversity Council of top global leaders provides DiversityInc is dedicated to helping corporations I NC LU S ION A N D DI V E R S I T Y AT MON S A N T O strategic direction around inclusion to promote understand the business benefits of diversity. innovation, build trust and impact the bottom Since 2001, we’ve quantified corporations’ Employees participating in MIDC 51 line. It’s not uncommon to see Hugh Grant, Executive Sponsors Programs (ongoing) commitment to inclusion through our List of Monsanto’s CEO, in the room during diversity Top 50 Companies for Diversity. Companies discussions, which says to me that at Monsanto, Global Business Resource Networks 21 that embrace diversity and look for top talent – there’s no such thing as trickle-up diversity. regardless of background or ethnicity – are the Percentage of global workforce 15% that participate in Inclusion and most successful. Our list of top 50 companies Monsanto is a data-driven company and Diversity BRNs regularly outperforms the U.S. stock market. measures all aspects of employee management, including recruitment, talent advancement and Leaders who graduated from the 30 Monsanto, which was included among inaugural Women in Science and the effectiveness of its inclusion and diversity Engineering (WiSE) Leadership Series DiversityInc’s Top 50 companies for Diversity in 2016 initiatives. The company has also implemented in 2016, understands that in a globally programs that accelerate inclusion such as competitive environment, innovation is Leaders and employees who 3,000+ sponsorship, unconscious bias workshops and have participated in Unconscious what sustains growth and success. A diverse Bias Training the Business Resource Networks (BRNs) that are workforce is the key to innovation and means covered in this report. Percentage toward goal of 5,000 leaders ~ 50% that more ideas and perspectives are driving expected to participate in Unconscious toward the best business solutions. Monsanto is also strongly committed to diversity Bias Training among its suppliers. It recently took its business As the world’s population grows, the global Total spend with Diverse Suppliers ~ $182 acumen to its global network of diverse suppliers in 2016 (see Page 101) Million demand for food is increasing at staggering rates, and offered mentoring from senior leaders. The and companies like Monsanto must understand results were win-win for both parties: suppliers and communicate with farmers from varying are more efficient and profitable, which translates backgrounds. Monsanto’s commitment to to lower procurement costs for Monsanto. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 47 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Rewarding Great Work E M P L O Y E E B E N E F I T S B Y A R E A S O F S I G N I F I C A N T O P E R AT I O N ( L O C AT I O N S W I T H 3 0 0 + E M P L O Y E E S ) Monsanto provides employees with a LIFE INSURANCE HEALTHCARE DISABILIT Y PARENTAL LEAVE RETIREMENT OUTPLACEMENT comprehensive total rewards package including compensation, retirement benefits, R* T** R T R T R T R T R T Location healthcare benefits and much more. Compensation plans are aligned with local St. Louis, USA markets and are competitive and equitable Sao Paulo, Brazil and in accordance with local laws. They include a common short-term incentive plan Antwerp, Belgium for non-sales direct regular employees; in Luling, USA addition, direct management employees receive annual long-term incentive grants. Muscatine, USA Monsanto’s benefits are designed to attract and Maipu, Argentina retain the best employees. In the United States Soda Springs, USA and in our businesses around the world, we provide a suite of benefits to regular full-time Bergschenhoek, Neth. and part-time employees who work 20 hours per week or more. Individuals that are employed Ahura Ctr, India directly by Monsanto on a temporary basis may become eligible for medical plan benefits and *R = Regular Employee – An individual hired and employed by Monsanto who is actively working fullor part-time with no expected end date. paid holidays based upon the length of their employment and retirement benefits based **T = Monsanto Temporary Employee – An individual hired for certain periods of time during the year(s) (fullor part-time) and is a direct Monsanto employee. on the number of hours worked. Employee classification, benefit plans and Great Place to Work policies differ by country and location due to hiring practices, statutory requirements, market practice and cultural norms. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 48 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Employee Composition Data Total Workforce Employees by Employment Type Workforce by Region 2% 9% 20,800 18% 17% 98% 56% Employees Full Time Part Time Asia/Africa Europe Note: We do not centrally track contract workers. Our Environmental, Safety North America South America & Health Group applies an algorithm to the total number of hours worked by contract workers to derive a Full Time Employee equivalent for OSHA reporting purposes in the United States. New Hires by Gender New Hires by Age Group New Hires by Region 5% 11% 18% 36% 12% 50% 64% 45% 59% Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Asia/Africa Europe North America South America Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 49 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Employee Composition Data Employees by Gender Employees in Minority Groups* Return to Work and Retention Rate After Parental Leave by Gender 23% 92% 96% 32% 68% Female Male *United States only. Excludes Caucasian males and Caucasian females. Female Male Employees Leaving Employment Employees Leaving Employment Employees Leaving Employment by Gender by Age Group by Region 26% 16% 22% 16% 33% 12% 67% 58% 50% Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Asia/Africa Europe North America South America Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 50 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S E V E R E I N J U R Y R AT E D O W N 4 8 P E R C E N T S I N C E 2 0 1 1 A N D 4 P E R C E N T I N 2 0 1 6 Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being TOTAL RECORDABL E RATE 1.30 Our employees are our greatest assets, and 1.00 1.17 their health and safety are of the highest priority. 0.91 SEVERITY RATE To this end, we’ve invested in a number of 0.71 world-class health, safety and wellness initiatives. 0.70 0.58 0.68 0.58 0.59 0.60 0.53 All of our sites are governed under our environment, safety and health (ESH) policies, which encourage the active involvement and representation of employees through ESH councils or committees. Approximately 95 percent of our workforce is represented 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 on ESH committees. As we progress, we Our TRR has decreased 29 percent relative to fiscal year 2011 and 15 percent relative to the 2012-to-2015 average of 0.59. In addition, injury recognize the opportunity to create severity has decreased by 48 percent relative to fiscal year 2011, 28 percent relative to the 2012-to-2015 average of 0.95 and 4 percent relative to a prior best of 0.71. more efficiency and consistency in our occupational health and safety programs. Making an Impact on Injury Severity severe injuries and illnesses. Armed with that In 2016, we designed a management system information, we now emphasize efforts aimed A common measure of occupational health at eliminating or correcting those identified framework that will enable us to better control and safety is Total Recordable Rate (TRR). activities or introduce new approaches to risks, ensure compliance and leverage resources However, in 2011, we expanded our focus to prevent injuries or illnesses, such as: across our global operations. The Monsanto measure and track the relative severity of all ESH Management System is designed with •• Commitment by senior leadership to reduce work-related injuries and illnesses to evaluate enhancements to align with international overall injury severity, while ensuring wellwhere we can have the greatest impact. Our management system standards while integrating being and achieving business success. efforts are resulting in significant declines in Monsanto specific business process requirements both injury and illness frequency and severity. •• Emergence of a world-class management and hazard specific requirements. We are on track to launch an enterprise information technology system to help identify and anticipate risk Through a comprehensive risk evaluation priorities, perform risk-based audits and solution in fiscal year 2017, that will enable process and predictive safety data analysis, sites to develop, maintain and continuously conduct process safety benchmarking. we identified activities that likely lead to more improve their local ESH Management Systems. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 51 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO •• Standardized assessment of and safety carbamate insecticides. We have eliminated the Protecting Our Guests protocols developed for more than 6,000 use of these substances at nearly 60 percent of machines currently used in the field. sites or otherwise changed work procedures to Monsanto’s Contractor Guest Program has limit worker exposure. Regular medical screenings, worked for decades to provide a safe work •• Expansion of in-vehicle technology to where still needed, continue to validate that our environment for everyone who works at or visits more than 30 percent of fleet to improve employees work safely with these insecticides. our facilities. This program applies to all of our management feedback, improve driving suppliers who work in our facilities, production behaviors and reduce collisions and rollovers. In addition, we continue to bolster employee fields and sites around the globe. The Contractor •• Automation of laboratory and field planting well-being across the globe with initiatives Guest Program is a formal system that identifies to reduce ergonomic-related injuries. such as: work risks, provides risk-based targeted safety guidelines, ensures proper safety oversight •• Multi-site application of best practices in food •• Our Africa Health Initiative, which benefited all and safety auditing and, most importantly, vendor management, which achieved a 100 employees in the region through preventative protects our contractors’ personal safety. percent reduction in food poisoning incidents. screenings for HIV and health conditions such as elevated blood pressure or glucose Through a formal prequalification process, we levels. Some of our larger sites also offer ensure that only suppliers compliant with our Supporting Wellness in on-site HIV treatment and counseling. safety standards support us for site-specific, the Workplace •• At our site in Petit, South Africa, we installed regional and global level projects. Through In 2016, we designed a management system high-tech noise reduction material in the these processes we get closer to our aspiration framework that enables us to better control production area so that employees are no of an injury-free and incident-free work risks, ensure compliance and leverage resources longer at risk for noise-induced hearing loss. environment at all of our sites. This approach across our global operations to prevent injuries They can now perform their work without not only provides all of us with a safe working and illnesses. In certain types of work, employees the need to wear hearing protection. environment, but the safety culture carries may encounter hazards that could potentially over to our supplier companies’ workforce •• In the Netherlands, we developed a program impact their health. We strive to protect our and to the communities where Monsanto to help employees manage stress and employees with world-class safety protocols and our suppliers live and operate. improve work-life balance. The program and, where risk is not fully eliminated, ensure that included issuing new policies, educating everyone is equipped with and trained for the employees, creating an environment for use of the proper protective gear. In the past two employee-management dialogue and taking years, we have focused specifically on reducing steps to improve conditions to lower stress. our employees’ exposure to organophosphate or Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 52 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO M O N S A N T O S TA R H E A LT H A N D S A F E T Y D ATA PROGRAM EMPLOYEES AND CONTRACTORS NOT SUPERVISED SUPERVISED CONTRACTORS* BY MONSANTO EMPLOYEES INJURY AND INJURY AND The Monsanto Star designation recognizes site OCC DISEASES DAYS AWAY OCC DISEASES DAYS AWAY Total Recordable Lost Days Total Recordable Lost Days commitment to safety and health leadership, employee By Region Rate (TRR) Rate (LDR) Rate (TRR) Rate (LDR) engagement and personal well-being. To achieve Star Asia Pacific (China & Taiwan, India, Asia Pacific) 0.18 1.26 0.00 0.00 status, a site must receive third-party certification of its safety and health management system, demonstrate EMEA (Europe, Middle East, Africa) 0.61 3.88 0.66 9.71 industry-leading safety and health performance, and strive to continuously improve. As sites strive to reach Latin America North 0.28 4.61 0.10 0.38 or maintain Star status, occupational incident rates and injury severity are reduced while fostering engagement Latin America South 0.60 4.90 0.07 0.33 and a shared safety culture. There are a total of 148 Monsanto Star sites. North America (Canada, Puerto Rico, United States) 0.99 5.74 0.86 4.50 Tracking Health and Safety Performance Health and safety data are included for both employees By Gender** and contract workers by region in the charts that follow. For injury data, minor injuries that require only on-site Female 0.34 2.39 0.48 3.92 first-aid treatment are not included in the reported rates. Male 0.83 8.73 0.25 1.72 The “Lost Days Rate’’ is based on calendar days and begins one day after the injury or illness occurred. Injury Rate (IR), Occupational Disease Rate (ODR), Lost Days Rate (LDR) and Total Recordable Rate (TRR) are INJURY AND calculated using the following formula and are based INJURY OCC DISEASES OCC DISEASES DAYS AWAY on U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration Injury OCC Disease Total Recordable Lost Days (OSHA) Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements: Totals Rate (IR) Rate (ODR) Rate (TRR) Rate (LDR) IR = Total Number of Injuries / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 Employees and Supervised Contractors* (2016) 0.60 0.06 0.66 4.68 ODR = Total Number of Occupational Disease Contractors not Supervised by 0.24 0.06 0.30 2.23 Cases / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 Monsanto Employees (2016) LDR = Total Number of Lost Days / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 2016 0.47 0.06 0.53 3.75 TRR = (Total Number of Injuries + Occupational 2015 0.54 0.06 0.60 4.31 Diseases) / Total Hours Worked x 200,000 2014 0.50 0.08 0.59 6.76 The factor 200,000 is derived from 50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 employees. By using this factor, the resulting rates are related to the number of workers, * Contract workers supervised by Monsanto employees. rather than the number of hours. ** U.S. gender information for non-employees (contractors) is not reported to ensure compliance with data and labor regulations. OCC = Occupational Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 53 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO F O R G I N G T H E W AY IN HUMAN RIGHTS Respecting and protecting the dignity of every person is a long-held commitment of Monsanto. To this end, we have policies and practices in place to ensure that fundamental human rights are respected and advanced. We’ve accomplished a lot in the decade since our Human Rights Policy was adopted. Throughout 2016, we celebrated several significant milestones and enhanced our Training Collective Bargaining efforts to improve working conditions for all. In 2016, 96 percent of new employees Twenty four percent of Monsanto’s regular completed computer-based training on employees are covered by a collective bargaining Upholding Our Human Monsanto’s Human Rights Policy. Beginning in agreement. In 2016, we did not experience any Rights Standards 2015, we also required full-time employees in our situations with our unions that resulted in a research and development business functions work stoppage. Our commitment to human rights is formalized to complete a more in-depth computer-based in our Human Rights Policy and informed by training focused on issues where field laborers may be particularly vulnerable. Some of this training Supplier Contracts the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour carried over to 2016 and is included in the We view our seed supply and labor provider Organization’s Fundamental Principles and training hours in the table on the following page. contracts as areas of significant investment Rights at Work. Our Policy respects and advances where human rights have the potential to be the rights of our more than 20,000 employees We employ security professionals around the impacted negatively. In 2016 we had contracts and those of our business partners around the world to safeguard our sites and our workers. with 22,831 such entities and all of the contracts world. To maintain the high standards of our All of our security employees and individual included human rights clauses. Policy, we monitor our sites and our business security contractors have been trained on our partners across several key areas. Human Rights Policy. In certain areas of the world where we contract with security companies, our Human Rights Champions provide training to groups of employees from these companies. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 54 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO C E L E B R AT I N G 10 YEARS SINCE THE H U M A N R I G H T S AT M O N S A N T O : 2 0 1 6 H I G H L I G H T S I M P L E M E N TAT I O N O F O U R HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY New Employees Trained on our Human Rights Policy 96% Hours of Human Rights Training by Monsanto Employees in 2016 886 •• 2006: Board of directors adopts the Monsanto Human Rights Policy. Security Employees and Individual Security Contractors Trained on our Human Rights Policy 438 •• 2007: Employees chosen as Human Rights Champions. Percentage of Contracts with Seed and Labor Suppliers with Human Rights Clauses 100% •• 2008: Mandatory human rights training Human Rights Assessments of Business Partners Globally 21,520 for all employees established. Labor Providers Audited at our U.S. Corn Manufacturing and Breeding Sites 93 •• 2009: Monsanto joins the United Nations Global Compact. Workers Covered Under Audits at U.S. Corn Manufacturing and Breeding Sites 8,825 •• 2010: Monsanto receives its first 100 Contracts not Renewed with Business Partners for Acting Inconsistently with our Human Rights Standards, percent score on the Human Rights Including Child Labor (126), Working Hours (2) and Safety (1) 129 Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index. •• 2011: Monsanto joins BSR’s Human Rights Working Group as a charter member. In certain countries, a significant number of •• 2012: Human rights clauses incorporated in Tracking Our Progress the partners with whom we work are contracted 100 percent of seed supply contracts. indirectly, but the party that contracts with •• 2013: Monsanto again receives a score of 100 percent those business partners is obligated to on Corporate Equality Index; convenes supplier Working with Our Business Partners cascade the contract language to advance summits on regional basis throughout the world. We strive to identify and do business with our standards and Human Rights Policy. •• 2014: Monsanto signs on to the UN Global Compact partners who share our commitment to human CEO Water Mandate and WBCSD’s WASH Pledge. We also conduct periodic audits of our rights and ethical business practices. For the •• 2015: 25,000+ business partner assessments suppliers to ensure they are acting consistently business partners with whom we contract conducted globally. Monsanto elected as with our Human Rights Policy. When inaugural chair of the board of Network directly, their contracts bind them to uphold violations are identified, our first choice is to USA of the UN Global Compact. the elements of our Human Rights Policy. We’re work with our business partner to improve •• 2016: Monsanto receives fourth consecutive also phasing in a purchasing system that asks all their practices in compliance with our 100 percent score on the Corporate Equality business partners to complete a questionnaire Index and joins the Human Rights Campaign’s standards. Sometimes, however, business about their employment practices and policies. Business Coalition for the Equality Act. relationships need to be terminated. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 55 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S U P P O R T I N G E Q UA L I T Y water and sanitation. After visiting this farm and significant issues from our operations involving the seeing the dramatic improvements made, we rights of indigenous peoples in fiscal year 2016. Monsanto joined the Human Rights Campaign Business reinstated a contract with the grower in 2016. Coalition for the Equality Act in 2016, a group of leading U.S. employers supporting the Equality Act. The Equality Act is federal legislation in the United States that would Ensuring Our House is in Order Respecting Human Rights provide the same basic protections to lesbian, gay, in High-Risk Areas bisexual, transgender or questioning (LGBTQ) people as In our owned global operations, we have several are provided to other protected groups under federal methods for assessing human rights impacts. Our We conduct a global risk assessment of our law. Monsanto has a long history of employing a diverse field operations every three years. In our most Human Rights Champions assess the operations workforce and creating an inclusive environment for recent assessment in 2014, we identified 10 its employees, including recruiting, hiring, retaining in the geographies they cover, with priority on the highest risk countries and report any concerns. countries with the greatest human rights risks and promoting employees from all dimensions of diversity. We are committed to ensuring that every and have concentrated our efforts on assessing voice is heard and every person is treated equally. The Environmental Safety and Health Corporate and improving conditions in these areas. In fact, Audit team conducts human rights assessments in 2016, we were able to audit 98 percent of our Making a Difference with when they visit highand medium-risk country business partners located in high-risk countries. Our Standards sites on a rotating basis that may not have been recently assessed. The findings from these Our employees play a pivotal role in heightening audits are tracked in our recently implemented Helping Eradicate Child Labor awareness of human rights and creating better management system to ensure more consistent working conditions in their respective regions. reporting and implementation of corrective The use of child labor is a systemic problem One prime example is Monsanto Foundation measures and actions across our global operations. throughout India. Our Child Care Program seed manager and production research scientist, (CCP) Steering Committee oversees efforts Kasonde. Based in Zambia, Kasonde helps In 2016, we marked our third consecutive year of to monitor our business partners’ fields in monitor human rights issues with our growers audits at our U.S. corn seed manufacturing sites. India, remove any child laborers younger throughout the region. As a result of Kasonde’s The 2016 audits identified several opportunities than the legal age limit of 14 and encourage efforts, we notified one of our Zambian for improvement in our manufacturing sites, and parents to enroll these children in school. contract growers that his contract would be corrective actions are being instituted. terminated for failing to meet our standards for One of the ways Monsanto minimizes instances working conditions. This action prompted the Where indigenous peoples live near or work in of child labor in India is through our Model Village grower to make significant changes, including our facilities, we do our best to accommodate any designation, a title awarded to communities with building new housing with access to clean special needs they have. We did not discover any at least 50 farmers or 16 production hectares Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 56 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO that have had no child labor observed by the In our business partners’ vegetable and corn HELPING TO ENSURE THE CCP monitoring teams during the season. As an fields in India, no children were found working H U M A N R I G H T T O WAT E R incentive and in recognition, Monsanto provides in 2016. in-kind donations to schools in every Model In April 2014, Monsanto became the first agriculture Village. In 2016, 12 out of 17 eligible villages company to sign the WBCSD WASH Pledge, earned Model Village status. Navigating New Legal formalizing our commitment to ensuring that all Monsanto employees and contractors under Provisions in India our direct control have access to safe water, Another way we work to eliminate child labor in sanitation and hygiene at the workplace. India is through our Social Mobilizer program. Late in fiscal year 2016, India passed the Child Social Mobilizers are women trained in social Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act. Among In 2016, we evaluated the results of our site-wide WASH other provisions, this new law allows children to Pledge assessment to identify and address any gaps work who we hire to follow reported instances associated with the WASH principles. Out of nearly 250 of child labor and meet with farmers, families, work in family enterprises, including farms, as global sites surveyed, less than 25 had validated concerns. women’s groups, school officials and local long as they are also able to attend school. Prior Corrective actions have been made or are in the process leaders to promote the benefits of sending to this law, we counted any child working in our of being implemented to address those issues. children to school rather than the fields. business partners’ fields – regardless of family Over the past year, Monsanto’s efforts in the area status or school enrollment – as a child laborer in of water and sanitation have helped 250,000 rural In 2016, our child labor monitoring program our monitoring. Now, when children are found in community members in India adopt healthy and hygienic recorded 0.29 percent child labor in our business the field, we will verify whether they are members lifestyles that will have positive long-term health impacts. partners’ hybrid cotton seed fields in India. This of the farmer’s family, whether they are enrolled Under this project, Monsanto has a target of building amounted to 159 children in total. In 2016, we in school and whether school was in session more than 2,500 toilets in 85 villages in the states of had significant challenges in recruiting growers, during the time the child was found working. Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Silvassa which resulted in the need to grow seeds in and Telangana over the next three years. Extensive some areas that were considered tribal and We anticipate there could be a change in the hygiene awareness training has been undertaken percentage of children in the workforce due to with a focus on influencing behavioral change in the employed significant amounts of migrant labor. communities to help them manage cultural barriers. This contributed to the increased child labor the Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act. The completion of the first year of the program saw percentage in 2016, as children traveled and While we will not be able to implement a tighter construction of more than 600 household units worked with their parents. For next season, child labor standard than this new law provides, and 15 school sanitation units for communities. we have put additional measures in place to we will continue our education and awareness Hygiene kits containing basic toiletries were encourage migrant workers to find schooling campaigns in production areas to attempt to distributed to more than 37,000 children, including for their children, whether at home or in their minimize the use of child labor. near our corn seed production facility in Eluru. WASH work location. and hygiene training sessions were held across more than 200 schools to promote awareness. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 57 59 M I T I G AT I N G A N D ADAPTING TO C L I M AT E C H A N G E 60 Pursuing Carbon Neutrality 61 Sharing Data Modeling for Carbon Neutral Crop Production 62 Collaborating on Climate Action: the Carbon-Neutral Collaborative 62 Collaborating to Drive Nutrient Efficiency 63 Moving From Planning to Action on Climate-Smart Agriculture 65 Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing Population 66 E N S U R I N G AC C E S S T O F R E S H WAT E R Balancing agricultural productivity with 66 Using Water More Efficiently societal demands for food, fuel and fiber 67 Addressing Water Risks and with the optimal use of environmental resources through solutions that help 68 ADVOCATING FOR BIODIVERSITY farmers grow crops more efficiently. 68 Connecting Biodiversity and Agriculture We only have one Earth to provide for our needs today 70 Protecting Species and tomorrow. We’re focused on pursuing agricultural 72 Enabling Responsible Pest Control solutions that can help produce what’s needed to feed a 74 Promoting Sustainable Landscapes growing global population while preserving our natural 75 Digging into Soil Health environment. This starts with identifying solutions that help 77 Researching Ag Biological Solutions for us use resources more efficiently within our own facilities Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control and out in the fields. We’re working to adapt to and mitigate 78 Preserving and Improving Plant Varieties and Sharing Benefits climate change by improving our operations and collaborating with others. And we’re continuing to protect freshwater sources, preserve biodiversity and improve soil health. 80 G U I D I N G A N D AU D I T I N G O U R E N V I R O N M E N TA L PERFORMANCE 81 Environmental Data Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 58 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO M I T I G AT I N G A N D ADAPTING TO C L I M AT E C H A N G E Climate change is already directly impacting agriculture and continues to be one of the most pressing challenges facing humanity. As company entirely devoted to agriculture, we are particularly attuned to the potential effects of climate change including drought, extreme heat, severe weather events, shifting climatic trends, rising sea levels, shifting pest Global farmland expanded from 4,429 to 4,930 more crops from existing farmland while infestations, compromised harvests and flooding. million hectares, an 11 percent increase from reducing GHG emissions per acre of land 1961 to 2012. Since this 500 million hectare and per bushel produced. These production Agriculture, forestry and other changes in land farmland expansion into forest or grasslands has systems often include weed control solutions usage account for approximately 24 percent of released roughly 3 billion metric tons of carbon that can reduce the need for tillage, thus human-related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions dioxide per year, it is imperative that farmland decreasing tillage passes over the field. like carbon dioxide. Mitigating climate change expansion be slowed or halted to minimize Reducing or eliminating tillage allows less is a daunting challenge, but the urgency for future GHG emissions. The good news is that disruption of the soil, which increases the taking action is real – the severity of climate wider use of modern farming technologies can ability of the soil to store and maintain carbon. change will depend on the amount of GHG accelerate productivity improvements so that Data analytics and precision agriculture reductions that can be accomplished in the next tomorrow’s food demands could be met with techniques enable farmers to more precisely 25 years. Simultaneously, expected population existing farmland, eliminating the need for apply fertilizer, use fuel and water more growth indicates that food security is at risk further deforestation or other land conversions efficiently, and maximize productivity from unless we accelerate production while reducing to agriculture. existing land. These are all components of carbon food waste – all without continuing to expand neutral farming, and they concur directly with farmland into forests and other natural areas. Monsanto develops sustainable agronomic the USDA’s “10 Building Blocks for Climate Smart systems that include highly productive hybrids Agriculture” plan. But in order to combat climate and varieties that enable farmers to produce change, we must collectively do even more. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 59 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO neutral crop production methods in Pursuing Carbon Neutrality Monsanto’s leadership in focusing on exchange for their carbon reduction value to offset our remaining carbon footprint. soil health as a means to achieve In December 2015, we announced a goal to become carbon neutral across our company’s The practice of offsetting carbon has grown in companywide carbon neutrality, and by operations by 2021. We are pursuing a popularity in recent years and typically entails multi-pronged strategy for achieving this companies funding or investing in projects incentivizing the engagement of their important milestone: aimed at balancing carbon emissions with value chain and customers to improve •• We strive to improve the GHG intensity of carbon sequestration efforts that are not directly our crop protection business, which is the associated with their core business. Our approach, soil health, is brilliant. We can’t feed 9.7 known as carbon insetting, is different because it largest contributor to our carbon footprint. billion people in 2050 without improving soil generates and retires carbon offsets entirely within •• We are focused on reductions and invest our direct agricultural supply chain, partnering health and restoring lost carbon to soils. in technologies at our facilities and sites within our immediate scope of influence and around the world in order to use energy more working specifically with our farmer customers Debbie Reed efficiently and access cleaner energy sources. as partners in helping achieve carbon neutrality. Executive Director, Coalition on Agricultural Greenhouse Gases •• We have established an internal price Carbon neutral crop production methods, for carbon, which we use when making assessment (LCA) studies at the national and farm including precision nutrient management, strategic decisions and investments. levels to better understand which crop-based reduction of tillage and expansion of cover •• We work with our contract seed growers crops, allow large-acreage crops like corn and strategies have the greatest potential to reduce to encourage and help them adopt soybeans to be grown more sustainably. This carbon emissions (see Page 61). These studies carbon neutral crop production methods. approach builds soil carbon in amounts equal to have indicated that systematic carbon neutral We consider our contract growers to or greater than the total amount emitted to grow practices could allow agriculture to become a be part of our carbon footprint. and harvest those crops. Widespread adoption key solution to slowing climate change. We’ve of these methods could result in carbon neutral convened the Carbon-Neutral Collaborative (see •• We are developing an approach to quantify crop production on millions of acres of farmland, Page 62) to serve as a forum of industry-leading and verify carbon that is sequestered through well beyond Monsanto’s carbon footprint. technical experts to collaborate, advise and help the use of carbon neutral farming practices. build a framework to account for the positive We will work with farmer customers to In order to make progress against our carbon impacts that carbon neutral farming can deliver. increase the adoption of these carbon neutrality goal, we have commissioned life-cycle Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 60 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO A P P LY I N G R I G O R T O INVESTING IN OUR CARBON NEUTRAL Sharing Data Modeling for GREENHOUSE GAS COMMITMENT Carbon Neutral Crop Production REDUCTIONS In working toward our goal of carbon neutrality and As part of our commitment to make our own We are investing millions of dollars around the world to encouraging farmers to adopt carbon neutral crop operations carbon neutral, we commissioned improve our crop protection and other facilities to make production methods, we are working with others to third-party expert ICF International to examine them more energy efficient. Some examples include: ensure a credible and scientific approach, which includes: the potential for reducing carbon emissions • A new cogeneration plant was installed at our Antwerp, •• Peer-reviewed validation of GHG reduction models through agriculture in the United States. The Belgium, crop protection plant to ensure sustainable •• Development of a transparent GHG resulting report, titled Charting a Path to Carbon steam and electricity production and reduce carbon accounting and computation framework Neutral Agriculture: Mitigation Potential for emissions by about 12,000 metric tons annually. •• Third-party verification of Monsanto’s Crop Based Strategies, shows that widespread • We will be converting our boiler at our Muscatine, corporate emissions adoption of recommended practices could Iowa, crop protection plant from using coal to natural potentially result in more than 100 million gas in 2017, resulting in an expected reduction of •• Third-party verification of adoption of metric tons of annual greenhouse gas emissions 42,000 metric tons of carbon emissions annually. mitigation practices •• Ongoing research into soil health and soil carbon stocks reductions in the United States alone. That’s • We have installed an array of solar panels at one of equal to the carbon absorption potential of more our sites in Shameerpet, Hyderabad, India, which will •• On-farm demonstrations and testing of best practices avoid 70 metric tons of carbon emissions annually. than 2.5 billion tree seedlings grown for 10 years. • At many of our production sites in Brazil, we are Carbon-smart practices, coupled with converting from conventional light bulbs to highGREENHOUSE GAS innovations like biotechnology and advanced efficiency, long-lasting LED bulbs. This has reduced EMISSIONS INTENSITY breeding, are vital tools that can help farmers close to 800 metric tons of carbon emissions and adapt to and mitigate climate change. We saved more than $1.6 million between 2013 and 2016. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions in are committed to encouraging the use of our crop protection operations by 22% Goal per pound of active ingredient by 2020, innovative farming techniques and carbonrelative to our baseline in 2010. smart practices that will help reduce emissions. Part of this commitment includes the sharing In fiscal year 2016, we continued our of data and modeling results with the broader FY 2016 strong progress toward our 2020 goal, agriculture community, which we have begun Progress achieving 89% of goal in fiscal year 2016 to do with the public release of the ICF report (up from 73% in fiscal year 2015). in June 2016. See Page 64 to learn more about carbon neutral crop production. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 61 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO achieve greenhouse gas reductions and water •• Coalition on Agricultural Greenhouse Gases Collaborating on Climate Action: quality benefits. Monsanto is also investing $1.6 (C-AGG) will provide a forum for wider the Carbon-Neutral Collaborative million in matching funds to the CIG to help fund engagement with GHG experts. the work of the Carbon-Neutral Collaborative. Among the most critical tasks for encouraging carbon neutral crop production and for achieving Carbon-Neutral Collaborative members: our goal of carbon neutrality is a scalable and Collaborating to Drive verifiable carbon accounting framework that will •• The Soil Health Partnership, a joint effort Nutrient Efficiency of NCGA, the Walton Family Foundation provide a transparent system for measuring and and Monsanto to work with growers to In partnership with Cargill, General Mills, Kellogg, reporting carbon reductions from the adoption use more than 100 test sites to demonstrate PepsiCo and Walmart, we have introduced of specific agricultural practices and systems. the highest-impact cropping rotations the Midwest Row Crop Collaborative through Such a framework requires wide ranging expertise and systems. which we’re engaging with farmers, consumers, and collaboration among many stakeholders. supply chain partners and NGOs like the •• AgSolver, Inc., responsible for developing Environmental Defense Fund, The Nature We have assembled and commissioned the the data and computation platform to Carbon-Neutral Collaborative, a group of experts Conservancy and World Wildlife Fund-U.S. to support field monitoring. find ways to manage nutrient applications more and leading scientists in agricultural greenhouse gases, to help develop this framework. While •• Applied GeoSolutions LLC performing efficiently and curb greenhouse gas emissions initially conceived as a means to lend scientific the validation of the DeNitrificationon 20 million acres of U.S. crop land by 2020. rigor to our carbon neutral aspirations and to DeComposition (DNDC) model. As part of this initiative, we collaborated with help in the building of an accounting framework •• Colorado State University performing model GROWMARK to focus on working with individual to quantify soil carbon sequestration, the comparisons with the COMET-Farm model. farmers to develop customized nutrient action collaborative approach and efforts of the team •• Kansas State University performing soil plans by using data science, in-field sensors and were recognized in early September 2016 by carbon modeling research. other tools. Currently, 200,000 acres of farmland the USDA. The USDA awarded a $1 million have been enrolled in year one of the initiative, Conservation Innovation Grant (CIG) to our •• Climate Smart Group Inc. creating the which promotes efficient and innovative use of partner, the National Corn Growers Association GHG accounting framework. fertilizer. GROWMARK is a regional agricultural (NCGA), to help advance the framework research •• University of Illinois at Chicago and supply cooperative serving farmers in more and development. This recognizes that this soil Crop Growers, LLC will use satellite than 40 U.S. states and Ontario, Canada. carbon accounting framework can serve in the future as a model for corporations and other technology to verify that carbon offset entities to encourage conservation adoption and practices were executed in order to accurately report mitigation. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 62 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GABRIELA BURIAN Moving From Planning to Action W B C S D C L I M AT E S M A R T A G R I C U LT U R E WORKING GROUP on Climate-Smart Agriculture Global Lead Sustainable Agriculture, Monsanto Kellogg Company, PepsiCo, Leading food and agri-business companies Co-Chairs The CSA Working Group is now in its second year. Our first Monsanto, Olam Kellogg Company, PepsiCo, Monsanto and Olam year was one of planning and bringing people to the table. Now we’re taking action in road-test regions where CSA Banamex, Coca-Cola, Diageo, co-chair the Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) members are engaged in pilot programs on the ground. DuPont, Novozymes, PwC, Members Working Group, which is part of WBCSD’s Low Monsanto will apply lessons learned through our sustainable Starbucks, Tyson Foods, Unilever, landscape partnership with Conservation International Walmart, Yara International Carbon Technology Partnerships initiative (LCTPi). and our research into carbon neutral crop production. By 2030: Climate risks threaten crop production, food •• Make 50% more food available security and agriculture’s pivotal role in rural •• Reduce agricultural and landCHRIS BROWN use change emissions from livelihoods and broad-based development. The Goals commercial agriculture by at least WBCSD CSA Working Group fosters and expands 50% percent (65% by 2050) Vice President, Environmental Sustainability, •• Strengthen the climate resilience collective action in order to promote adoption of of farming communities Olam International climate-smart agricultural systems worldwide. Rather than creating systems from scratch, we are expanding on proven programs and adapting them for regional needs. Food Availability, Resilience Pillars The CSA Working Group co-chairs offer Olam, a vertically integrated global ag business, is building and Emissions Reductions upon its experience with more than 4 million smallholder insights into their companies’ roles in this farmers and sharing best practices. We’re all large companies important initiative. doing good work in our own ways, but not one of us is going Scaling-up Investment in Climate to be able to solve the challenges we face independently. Smart Agriculture, Improving Businesses’ Ability to Measure Action Areas and Monitor Progress, Implement Agriculture-Driven Zero Deforestation and Sustainable A M Y B R AU N JENNY BELL Land-use Commitments Sustainability Director, Europe Sustainability Risk and Impact Manager, Brazil (no deforestation), Ghana Kellogg Company PepsiCo Europe (smallholder farmers), India (water Road-Test Regions challenges), North America* (family Kellogg has robust commitments around sourcing We chose to embark on the regional pilots based on the and owner-operated farms), sustainable ingredients, so we hope to focus on shifting Working Group’s action areas and the expertise of the Southeast Asia (no deforestation) global supply chains by focusing on resiliency and members. PepsiCo is a significant commodities purchaser, mitigation. The CSA Working Group is examining how we so we know that end of the business very well. Others have can tap into the farmer-led North American Climate Smart direct relationships with farmers. By representing all sides of * The United States is considered a priority country Agriculture Alliance to replicate its work with family and the supply chain, the CSA Working Group members will learn for this initiative, but not a road-test country. owner-operated farms, and leverage that with publicfrom each other to scale climate smart agriculture globally. private partnerships, NGOs and other stakeholders. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 63 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO CARBON NEUTRAL CROP PRODUCTION BENEFITS DESCRIPTION OF TOOLS Data-Enabled Precision Agriculture Using data science and information technology to make better informed decisions about applying inputs like fertilizer, Uses energy, fertilizer pesticides and irrigation water. and other inputs more efficiently Microbial Innoculants Microbial products that are made from naturally-occurring microbes that offer real benefits to growers, like improving crop nutrient uptake and promoting growth and yield. Highly Productive Crops Crops that produce more grain and plant material while absorbing more carbon per acre of land. Absorbs more carbon Cover Crops Crops grown to provide cover to farmland and prevent soil erosion while absorbing carbon between primary crop seasons. Biotech Plants Enables carbon neutral crop production by allowing weeds to be more easily controlled while reducing tillage. Enables carbon neutral practices and Improved Plant Breeding improves harvests Rapid development of advanced plant varieties, which enable better harvests and more plant productivity. New plant varieties may absorb and store more carbon per acre, while providing pest and drought tolerance. Returns Crop Residue carbon to soil Parts of the plant that are left on the field after harvest to return carbon to the soil while enhancing soil quality. Cover Crops Crops grown to provide cover to farmland and prevent soil erosion while absorbing carbon between primary crop seasons. Helps keep carbon stored in soil; Reduced Tillage fights erosion Tilling disturbs the soil and releases carbon in the soil to the atmosphere. Minimal or no tillage helps protect soil structure and keeps carbon in the soil. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 64 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO element of a farmer’s success and a powerful Applying Data Science to Feed tool in advancing sustainable agriculture. a Growing Population As part of the Climate FieldView platform, The Climate Corporation, a subsidiary of The Climate Corporation is developing the Monsanto, aims to help all the world’s farmers agriculture industry’s first in-field sensor network, sustainably increase their productivity through including a state-of-the-art soil nitrate sensor. the use of digital tools. The integrated Climate These nitrate sensors will feed information FieldView™ digital agriculture platform brings into the agronomic models used to power the together seamless field data collection, inClimate FieldView nitrogen monitoring tools, depth analysis, advanced agronomic modeling which help farmers optimize the amount of and local weather monitoring into simple mobile and web software solutions. Climate nitrogen used on their fields. These tools also Our sensor network will allow farmers to input fertility management FieldView gives farmers a deeper understanding practices they’ve used in order to provide collect an unprecedented of their fields so they can make more informed fertility insights customized to each farmer. amount of field and operating decisions to optimize yields, maximize efficiency and farm more sustainably. The nitrate sensor is the first in the Climate environmental data, at a Nutrient management is among the most research pipeline of sensor technologies more frequent and granular that will create a true digital agriculture critical, and sometimes costly, decisions ecosystem to support the important agronomic level, to drive insights that farmers must make. In many crops, like corn, decisions farmers make each season to can help farmers unlock nitrogen fertilizer improves harvests by adding protect and increase yield sustainably. more of a necessary nutrient to the soil, but it untapped yield potential can present some environmental challenges. Climate FieldView technology also enables while optimizing their When nitrogen fertilizers metabolize and farmers to identify zones within their fields oxidate, they emit nitrous oxide, a potent that may require different planting and use of key resources. greenhouse gas that can contribute to climate management practices, helping them use Sam Eathington change. Also, heavy precipitation can release their land efficiently and sustainably. Then, The Climate Corporation, Chief Scientist recently applied nitrogen to waterways through the collection of their own performance where it may impact aquatic life. Knowing data, farmers can compare results of different when, where and how much to apply is a key seed systems and planting practices to determine the best practices for their land. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 65 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ENSURING ACCESS T O F R E S H W AT E R Nearly 70 percent of all fresh water use by humans is in agriculture. Water is a critical resource for all life, including the crops that help feed, fuel and clothe us. In many areas of the world, fresh water is becoming increasingly scarce due to greater demand, growing populations and the impacts of climate change. As the world’s population rises, it’s increasingly important to optimize Using Water More Efficiently our water use and provide farmers with tools Our overall irrigation to increase water use efficiency, while also Monsanto is committed to increasing irrigation water application helping them adapt in times of water scarcity. water application efficiency across our global efficiency reached Monsanto is a member of the UN Global seed production process by 25 percent by 75 percent Compact CEO Water Mandate and sat on the 2020, compared to our 2010 baseline. This in 2016. commitment, which includes our operations, as Mandate’s 2015-16 Steering Committee – the well as on the contract farms that grow seed for initiative’s main governance entity charged our company’s products, presents an opportunity with strategic, administrative and financial to save an estimated 30 to 80 billion gallons of arrangements. The CEO Water Mandate water each year, depending upon precipitation. is a public-private initiative designed to assist organizations in the development, In 2016 we increased our irrigation implementation and disclosure of water water application efficiency by 12 percent, sustainability policies and practices. compared to our 2010 baseline. That means our overall irrigation water application efficiency reached 75 percent in 2016. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 66 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Our global sites are also engaged in •• Cooling Tower Efficiencies in Brazil water reduction activities in addition to For cooling towers to work properly, a our irrigation water application efficiency portion of the water within the system must initiative. These activities include: be periodically replaced with fresh water to remove mineral and salt deposits. With a •• Moving Research Operations from focus on reducing water usage, our São José Fields into Greenhouses dos Campos facility successfully completed To enhance the effectiveness and efficiency a project that decreased the amount of fresh of our research activities, we are moving water needed for operating the cooling certain field testing activities from the towers, saving 24,000 cubic meters of farm field into greenhouses. Greenhouse water at no cost. farming enables more crops per square acre by stacking crops vertically and allows us to reduce, capture and reuse the water used to irrigate our crops. For our research THE LEARNING CENTER AT G O T H E N B U R G operations, the smaller footprint combined Addressing Water Risks with a comprehensive water-recapture and recycle system will mean that our new Gothenburg, Neb., is home to Monsanto’s Water Working in 62 countries, some of our facilities Utilization Learning Center, which focuses on better are located in water-stressed areas. To better greenhouses use one-fifth of the water understanding water and its role in growing food. understand how water availability might impact normally used on an open cornfield. The Learning Center is located on one of the most our operations and the surrounding communities •• Installation of Pressure Regulated Valves important water resources for agriculture in the United and landscapes, in 2015 we mapped water States – the Ogallala Aquifer. This location is ideal Water pressure can build up in irrigation for studying water issues, irrigation systems, water risks at all of our facilities across the globe, systems and potentially damage the system. use efficiency and overall irrigation management. including the areas where contracted growers At our facility in Juana Diaz, Puerto Rico, Scientists at the Learning Center conduct research and produce seed for us. The mapping utilized the it was necessary to routinely discharge demonstrations year-round to provide farmers with World Resources Institute Aqueduct Map. We information about how to increase their annual crop irrigation water to prevent the pressure yields through better, more efficient water management. identified 14 facilities in high-risk areas (see from building, which resulted in some of the Page 59 of our 2015 Sustainability Report). water not being used for irrigation. By fitting These sites developed action plans to mitigate the system with new pressure regulated our water risks. Tracking progress against valves, we were able largely to avoid this these action plans has enabled best practice practice, increasing water efficiency by sharing among our site teams and suppliers. approximately 23,000 cubic meters a year. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 67 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO A D V O C AT I N G F O R BIODIVERSITY Biodiversity is defined as the variability of life on Earth. Millions of plant, animal and microorganism species form ecosystems that are essential for life and for feeding a growing population in a changing climate. We are committed to actions that protect, preserve and restore biodiversity and the natural environment while benefiting farmers, our business and society – now and for generations to In 2016, we codified our biodiversity strategy to M O N S A N T O P O S I T I O N S TAT E M E N T come. Not only is biodiversity necessary better align with the United Nations Convention ON BIODIVERSITY to sustain life, address climate change and on Biological Diversity, our business goals and Earth is home to millions of species of plants, animals and protect our waterways, it is also critical to the needs of farmers and society. The strategy microorganisms that inhabit the ecosystems responsible agriculture and our ability to discover and provides both a structure for decision-making for providing food and other essentials for life. The welldevelop new products for farmers. and a way to organize the many initiatives and being of agriculture and of communities around the world depends on biodiversity and the landscapes and collaborations we’re already undertaking. ecosystems it supports. The United Nations Convention M O N S A N T O ’ S B I O D I V E R S I T Y S T R AT E G Y on Biological Diversity (CBD) defines “biological diversity” as the variability among living organisms from all sources including, terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems and the Protect species from challenges associated with farming to Connecting Biodiversity ecological complexes of which they are part; this includes sustain and improve the viability of plant, animal and insect life, including pollinators. and Agriculture diversity within species, between species and of ecosystems. Promote sustainable landscapes by conserving and restoring The relationship between biodiversity and At Monsanto, we understand and value the importance of habitats to protect agricultural and natural resources. agriculture is a two-way street. All farms are biodiversity for agriculture and society at large. We work to conserve and promote the sustainable use of biodiversity part of a larger natural landscape that provides Preserve and improve plant varieties to increase genetic within species, between species, and of ecosystems as it diversity and share benefits to advance sustainable agriculture essential resources for successful farming: relates to our research, products and practices. Our position and farmer livelihoods. fresh water, healthy soil, beneficial pollinators is informed and guided by the CBD and its objectives, which and a stable climate that’s conducive to crop include the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and landscapes, and the fair and equitable sharing of growth. As stewards of the land, farmers the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources. understand that agriculture and biodiversity intersect and interact in complementary ways. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 68 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO By taking a sustainable approach to farming – which includes promoting the use of best practices in production, planning and local decision-making processes – those who work in agriculture can protect, conserve and restore the biodiversity that’s so vital to healthy landscapes. U N D E R S TA N D I N G T H E M O N O C U LT U R E D E B AT E Some critics of modern agriculture question the wisdom of growing a single crop on a large swath of land – which they refer to as monoculture production. Their concern is that this is not ecologically sound and poses greater risks to food security and the environment. We acknowledge these concerns and actively broaden the genetic diversity of the crops on which we work to address the risks and ensure an optimal harvest in a sustainable manner. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 69 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO convened by the Keystone Policy Center. The from another expert’s perspective. Launched Protecting Species HBHC represents more than 40 members in early 2015, the project’s first job swap from nonprofits, government, academia and is featured in a documentary video. We collaborate with stakeholders on a range business. The Bee Healthy Roadmap, unveiled of initiatives aimed at better understanding •• Monsanto also helped develop the Tools in 2014, guides how we can improve the health honey bee health and restoring and expanding for Varroa Management guidebook, of pollinators while still meeting the needs of monarch butterfly and other habitats. And which has been downloaded by more farmers and preserving nature. Some of the we offer products and services that enable than 5,000 people around the world. recent progress made by the HBHC includes: farmers to grow more food on less land •• Improving Honey Bee Nutrition Monsanto has also invested in honey bee using fewer resources, reducing the impact Our help organizing the HBHC’s Forage & health initiatives on our own. These include: of farming on the natural environment. Nutrition Working Group led to an important •• Since 2013, Monsanto invested more than dialogue with the U.S. President’s Pollinator $4 million in research and development Addressing Honey Bee Health Health Task Force and the potential for related to varroa mites – the single largest collaboration on pollinator issues. We also factor in the decline of honey bees. Honey bees help produce one in three bites awarded a grant to Project Apis m. to establish of our food, but face many challenges to their •• We formed the Monsanto Honey Bee 2,000 forage acres, aimed at educating health. Scientists and researchers are striving Advisory Council (HBAC) to engage outside California landowners and almond growers to better understand why this is happening and experts for guidance on our honey bee of the production benefits of planting early have identified the parasitic varroa mite as one of health research and programs. HBAC blooming plants on their unused grove areas the major causes. As part of our commitment to members include: and adjacent lands to benefit honey bees protect the species, we are working hard, alongside nutritionally during pollination periods. others, to find solutions to this complex challenge. -David Mendes, commercial beekeeper and past •• Bee Understanding Project president of American Beekeeping Federation We are active in collaborative efforts that drive Incidental pesticide exposure often results -Gus Rouse, honey bee queen breeder and owner honey bee health awareness. Some of the from a lack of understanding, coordination of Kona Queen Hawaii, Inc. collaborations we have engaged in as part and communication between farmers -Larry Johnson, row crops farmer and of our commitment include: and beekeepers. To address this issue, we commercial beekeeper worked with the HBHC in developing the -Dr. Gene Robinson, Honey Bee Health Coalition. We have invested Bee Understanding Project, which has University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign our resources and continue to play an active beekeepers, farmers, entomologists and -Dr. Dennis vanEngelsdorp, Entomology, role in the Honey Bee Health Coalition (HBHC) crop advisors swap jobs to see honey bees University of Maryland Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 70 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Learning about Natural Behaviors: spectacles. Each year, a migration of monarch The Honey Bee Challenge. The 4-H Ag butterflies takes place from parts of the United Innovators Experience is a partnership between States and Canada to a winter site in Mexico. Monsanto, the National 4-H Council and Land Grant Universities that helps more than 10,000 Restoring habitat for monarch butterflies is an young people annually develop the professional, important part of our commitment to foster leadership and STEM skills needed to support biodiversity and protect species while promoting the future of the ag industry and feed a growing productive and sustainable agricultural areas. world population. The program, which targets Each year, monarchs suffer losses from youth in states with a strong agricultural industry, extremes of weather, predators, pathogens, focused on honey bees this year with the parasites and even climate change. A resilient Farmers and ranchers are traditional stewards of Honey Bee Challenge. monarch population has to be large enough the land across much of the historical monarch The Honey Bee Challenge was developed by the to absorb big losses in bad years and have habitat, putting them in a unique position to 4-H Extension at The Ohio State University, and sufficient breeding habitat to recover in good help support a sustainable monarch population. delivered a hands-on opportunity for kids to years. We are leading by example and working Importantly, they can implement practices to learn about honey bee habitats, the role of honey with others to foster collaborative action expand, enhance and protect habitat sites in bees in modern agriculture and challenges faced among federal, state and local entities. noncrop landscapes adjacent to productive crop by bees and beekeepers. This activity helped land. Restoring monarch habitat and increasing The cornerstone of this support is a $3.6 farmers’ harvests are compatible goals. participants learn more about the importance million contribution from Monsanto Fund over of honey bees and the contribution they make three years to the National Fish and Wildlife Monsanto continues to promote agriculture’s in helping pollinate a third of our food, while Foundation’s Monarch Butterfly Conservation role in monarch conservation and foster developing their teamwork, communication Fund. This partnership funds priority conservation collaboration at the state, regional and national and leadership skills. needs to achieve a more robust and healthy levels through our participation in the Monarch migrating monarch population. We also Collaborative. This summer, more than 70 Supporting Monarch Habitat completed our promise to establish monarch participants from conservation groups, federal Expansion Through Leadership breeding habitats at our managed facilities agencies, the research community, farmer and Collaboration to help support outreach to farmers. With organizations, crop associations and the private support from Pheasants Forever, we added sector exhibited their strong support for monarch The annual two-way migration of the 22 sites in 2016 bringing the total number of conservation and willingness to continue monarch butterfly is one of nature’s greatest breeding habitats on Monsanto sites to 72. collaborative efforts to make needed progress. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 71 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO 2 0 1 6 N AT I O N A L F I S H A N D W I L D L I F E F O U N D AT I O N ( N F W F ) M O N A R C H S U P P O R T * The National Fish and Wildlife Foundation received Grants Awarded $1.2 million ($2.4 million cumulative since 2014) $6 million from USDA Natural Resources 22: habitat restoration, milkweeds and other nectar-producing plants seed supply, Conservation Service (NRCS), Regional Conservation Projects Funded coordination and capacity building at state and regional levels Partnership Program, for technical and financial assistance Expected Impact 16,000 acres of habitat created, 600 pounds of native plant seeds produced, 453,000 milkweed seedlings planted, 176,000 persons reached that will help farmers restore monarch butterfly habitat 2016 MONSANTO MONARCH SUPPORT IN ADDITION TO NFWF FUNDING across a nine-state region. This NRCS program provides funding only for partnerships that can demonstrate Grants Awarded $270,000 ($770,000 cumulative since 2014) significant leverage with other funding sources. As Organizations Funded Missourians for Monarchs, Monarch Collaborative, Monarch Watch at the University of Kansas, Sand County Foundation, University of Guelph our major corporate partner in monarch conservation, Expected Impact (from 2015-2016 Make 200,000 milkweed plants available free of charge Monsanto was key to securing this additional $6 million. Support) Impact as of Todd Hogrefe September 2016 100,000 milkweeds have been distributed and planted across 77 sites in 23 states Director, Central Region, * Monsanto is the primary corporate funder of the NFWF Monarch Butterfly Conservation Fund. National Fish and Wildlife Foundation G A I N I N G C E R T I F I C AT I O N S Enabling Responsible Pest Control Modern advances in equipment and application F O R W I L D L I F E H A B I TAT S tools powered by data science and global There’s no single right way for every farmer positioning systems, as well as site-specific to protect their fields from weeds, insects Monsanto has multiple sites recognized by the Wildlife application methods, can help farmers use Habitat Council under its Conservation Certification and diseases. It is not a best practice to use pesticides more precisely and efficiently. With program. In 2016, we increased the number of our certified any one solution exclusively or in excess. innovative advances, farmers can protect their sites from 15 to 31, with special focus on establishing Monsanto is committed to developing and crops as safely and precisely as possible. These new pollinator habitat sites. These certifications partnering with others on a diverse range recognize outstanding wildlife habitat management advances increasingly allow farmers to apply of crop protection solutions to support an and environmental education efforts at our sites. the right protection, in the right amount, in integrated pest management (IPM) system, the right place and at the right time. offering farmers more precise ways to apply the right protection in a more targeted way. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 72 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Weed Resistance MORE PRECISION FOR BETTER HARVESTS Weed control is a primary challenge for farmers Glyphosate-based pesticides work best when they’re used in the right place, at the right time and in the and resistance to various crop protection right amounts. This precision helps farmers use resources more efficiently when growing safe, healthy food. products has complicated that challenge over the years. Herbicides play an important role in helping farmers control weeds and reduce MORE THAN tillage. But if a weed control program is not sufficiently diverse, there is potential for the 95% WATER development of resistant weed populations. While it’s impossible to prevent resistance, a systematic IPM approach to establishing durable R I G H T P L AC E R I G H T T I ME RI GHT AMOUNT weed control in fields can deliver successful Modern tools like GPS guidance Pest and weed levels It doesn’t take much  on sprayers and site-specific c  hange every season, pesticide to be effective. solutions. Following label recommendations, nozzles help farmers target so farmers adapt to use In fact, pesticide sprays  pesticide applications. only what’s necessary. are more than 95% water. using the correct rate and using multiple herbicides with diverse modes of action can delay the onset of resistance and help control multiple herbicides from Monsanto and other complementary pipeline of herbicide tolerances resistant weeds. Proper management of weeds companies to guard against weed resistance. It in corn, soybeans and cotton to provide requires that we develop and share best farming is the foundation for the introduction of new farmers additional approaches to overcome practices, such as IPM systems and crop rotation, technologies and system durability. Each year tough-to-control weeds. These integrated and that we use more advanced information tools Monsanto provides more than $100 million in solutions create effective weed control to maximize efficient and effective weed control. financial incentives to an average of 70,000 and durable weed resistance management U.S. farmers to encourage the adoption of the systems, all while sustainably protecting the Our Roundup Ready PLUS® Crop Management platform and use of multiple herbicides. This farmer’s harvests and enabling profitability. Solutions and other similar regional programs platform has also become the standard by provide and promote cost-effective and Learn more about Roundup® branded which we have launched similar approaches proactive weed management recommendations, non-selective herbicides and their active to promoting best practices in weed control in education and training supported by academics ingredient, glyphosate, on our website. Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Paraguay and Uruguay. and industry partners. Roundup Ready PLUS Read more about studies on the safety is the established, industry-leading platform Pending regulatory approval, our herbicide profile of glyphosate on Page 95. providing incentives to farmers for the use of biotech trait pipeline will enable a diverse and Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 73 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO hectares to natural vegetation. In the process, this Promoting Sustainable Landscapes S U S TA I N A B L E A G R I C U LT U R E L A N D S C A P E collaboration provided new jobs for local women, I N I T I AT I V E , I N D O N E S I A : FA S T FA C T S creating economic value in the community. Together with Conservation International (CI) and Duration 2013-2016 local communities, we’re working to improve, With the help of 50 area families, 10,000 hectares have been restored in the Cerrado Plains Region of Brazil. protect and restore forests while preventing Monsanto Investment $1.2 million illegal deforestation. We’re promoting soil health We are now focused on building awareness on multiple fronts, supporting research and Participating Households 1,500 and fostering debate about what constitutes collaborating on projects and demonstration farms sustainable agriculture in a landscape-scale Farmers Trained on Best Practices 275 with the Soil Health Partnership (SHP) across context. To this end, we have collaborated on the United States and South America and with a series of roundtable discussions in various Hectares Protected 7,000 smallholders farmers in Africa and Asia. And we regions of Brazil that emphasize the need to continue to develop products and technologies Corn Crop Productivity Increase 30%-100% see landscapes from an integrated, multithat help farmers gain better harvests on less sectoral and multi-functional perspective. land while reducing environmental impacts Farmer Monthly Income Increase 34% The goal is to identify opportunities that and the conversion of forests to farmland. maximize synergies and minimize conflicts Seedlings for Reforestation 19,900 between agricultural production and the Children and Women Participating Reforesting Biodiversity Hot Spots sustainable use of natural capital in rural areas. in Education Sessions 405 Monsanto has been working with CI on its To support these efforts, we’re working with CI and Government Officers Trained 51 Sustainable Agriculture Landscape initiative since WBCSD on a white paper that will be published and Reductions in Agriculture Expenses 50% 2008 in Brazil and since 2013 in Indonesia. made available to all in 2017. The paper will include: •• An overview of the three pillars of Brazil. The Cerrado Plains Region of Brazil Indonesia. Pakpak Bharat, North Sumatra, landscape-scale agricultural sustainability is home to an astonishing array of plant and Indonesia, is a mountainous region with dense (protecting natural capital, sustainable animal species. However, the region has forests and rivers, on which villagers depend production and governance) undergone significant deforestation, which has for their livelihoods. Monsanto worked with CI impacted soil health, water levels and habitat •• An overview on sustainable and local stakeholders to improve agricultural for beneficial species. We have worked with landscapes in Brazil production, protect biodiversity and enhance CI, local communities and farmers to increase the livelihood of smallholder farmers. Efforts •• Proposed sustainable agriculture guidelines harvests while conserving existing natural areas targeted critical watersheds and degraded buffer for owners and decision-makers in in agricultural landscapes and restoring 10,000 zones – those spaces between the farmland government and the private sector Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 74 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO and the forest. Outreach focused on helping S O I L H E A LT H R E S E A R C H S U P P O R T E D B Y M O N S A N T O smallholder farmers increase productivity on their existing land, rather than expanding Soil Health Partnership See adjacent article. their farm footprint. A key element of this initiative included education and outreach on environmental topics, especially targeting Intelligent Landscape A five-year initiative led by the U.S. Department of Energy and USDA Agricultural knowledge transfer to women and children. Design Project Research Service that applies data science modeling tools to local soil health data. This program funds new university research into the role cover crops play in soil health, Sustainability Research crop productivity and sustainable agriculture practices. Monsanto provides funds for Digging into Soil Health Program seeds and other inputs, as well as soil analysis of all fields involved in the research. When it comes to delivering a robust S O I L H E A LT H PA R T N E R S H I P AT A G L A N C E harvest, the soil beneath our feet plays an incredibly important role; it is critical to •• Recruit a network of demonstration farms to investigate innovative farmers and to securing our food supply. Soil soil management practices. is a complex ecosystem with a vast world •• Establish research protocols that will allow farmers and others to measure the Primary Goals of microorganisms that make it possible connection between a diverse range of soil management practices and soil health. •• Publish findings and recommendations that highlight the economic for plants to grow. Monsanto has invested and environmental benefits of healthy soil. significantly in better understanding healthy soils and the farming practices that promote Demonstration 100 farms by 2017 them, both through our purchase of the Farm Goal soil analysis business of Solum, Inc., in 2014, and through key research partnerships. Demonstration 65 farms Farms to Date One of the flagship research efforts we support in the United States is the Soil Health Partnership, established in 2013. SHP is an initiative of the Reached Through More than 1,000 farmers and students SHP Field Days National Corn Growers Association that is supported by the Walton Family Foundation and Monsanto with scientific advising from environmental groups like Environmental Defense Fund and The Nature Conservancy, Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 75 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Agricultural COVER CROPS Research Service and several university soil experts. SHP was originally slated as a five-year HOW DO T HE Y WORK? program, but in 2016, the Midwest Row Crop Absorbs Carbon from the Atmosphere KE Y B E NE F IT S Collaborative (see Page 62) committed to raising an additional $4 million, and Monsanto has Combats Soil Erosion committed to an additional $1 million between and Helps Keep 2017-2020 to continue SHP efforts. In part due Carbon in the Soil to this support, the NCGA’s board of directors voted to expand the project from its original Enriches Soil Health Cover crops are planted after the harvest of a primary crop. five-year time frame to 10 years. SHP is identifying, testing and measuring information among farmers, with management practices to improve soil the support and resources to benefit health and benefit farmers’ operations. farmers’ bottom lines and advance Many farmers are implementing innovative more sustainable agriculture. management practices that result in economic and environmental benefits. SHP is building Learnings from the SHP and collaboration upon the work of these farmers to provide with academic leaders in soil carbon connections between on-farm practices and may contribute to the development of a improving soil health. The focus of the work scalable and verifiable carbon accounting includes planting cover crops, reducing framework that could provide a transparent tillage, improving water quality practices system for measuring and reporting carbon and giving closer consideration to precise in agricultural production. While still under nutrient applications. Farmer cooperators development, a framework and agreed upon and agronomists are coming together to standard of carbon accounting in agriculture help guide and share the work of the SHP. could help establish an approach to be shared The results of this farmer-led project are and could support the path to Monsanto’s expected to provide a platform for sharing goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2021. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 76 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO THE PLANT MICROBIOME Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control Our Agricultural Biologicals platform includes the work we’re doing as part of The BioAg Alliance, which uses microbes to improve plant and soil health and protect against pests, and the research we’re conducting as part of our BioDirect™ technology product pipeline, which taps into natural processes for pest control. These products are designed to complement or replace other chemical options to help farmers improve their harvests while stewarding the environment. The BioAg Alliance PATHOG EN IC COM M EN S A L MIC ROB ES M ICROB ES This unique partnership between Monsanto Damage plants by Influence plants’ and Novozymes is focused on research and causing infection or ecosystems, which then creating a harmful impact the microbes and development of products based on enzyme environment the health of the plants technologies and beneficial microorganisms like certain bacteria and fungi to provide B EN EFIC IA L M ICROB ES Supply plants with beneficial nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorus • Enhance root farmers with sustainable agricultural solutions. growth, giving plants a good start and physical support • Protect plants from disease There are as many as 5 billion microbes in and repel pests • Help plants tolerate conditions like heat, flooding and drought a tablespoon of soil, and they can have a significant impact on plant and soil health, improve nutrient uptake and efficiency, promote growth and increase productivity. They may also protect against destructive insects and provide disease protection. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 77 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO The BioAg Alliance combines Novozymes’ B I O A G A L L I A N C E U. S . F I E L D T R I A L P R O G R A M R E S U LT S industry leading expertise in the discovery, formulation and fermentation of microbes with Monsanto’s extensive field testing experience, precision data science, understanding of the challenges of crop production and our established commercial distribution network. These collective strengths bring an unmatched level of research and development to the creation of new microbial products and a Results from the U.S. field trial program showed Results from the U.S. field trial program showed path to deliver these sustainable innovations that the top new microbes increased corn that the top new microbes increased soy to the farmer. The BioAg Alliance is focused yields by an average of more than three bushels per acre yields by an average of more than two bushels per acre on bringing solutions to meet the farmer’s agronomic needs of today and tomorrow. BioDirect™ Technology aims to target varroa mites that adversely affect honey bee health. Other research projects could The BioAg Alliance is currently running the Using our understanding of pest and plant help safeguard crops from insect infestations and world’s largest microbial research program to genomes, we’re able to precisely focus improve plant health with protection from viruses. develop the next generation of these products. on a natural process to protect plants and beneficial species from pests and disease. Visit our website to learn more about The BioAg Alliance has conducted microbial our Ag Biologicals pipeline, including field tests in over 20 countries in North and Our BioDirect™ technology uses a process called The BioAg Alliance and BioDirect™. South America, Europe and Asia in our effort Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) interference, or RNAi, to to discover new transformational microbial manage the production of a specific protein in its solutions for farmers. Testing continued in target. RNAi is a natural process cells use to turn Preserving and Improving Plant 2016, with the top new microbes increasing down, or suppress the activity of specific genes. Varieties and Sharing Benefits corn yields in U.S. field trials by an average of The accuracy and specificity of this biological more than three bushels per acre. Today, the solution allows a farmer to protect crops from Monsanto recognizes and respects that plant BioAg Alliance’s products are used on around insects, disease and weeds while sustaining a good materials are a resource for the common good. 65 million acres, but Monsanto and Novozymes environment for beneficial insects and wildlife. Sustainable agriculture is dependent upon their envision that its products will be used on conservation, improvement and global exchange. 250 to 500 million acres globally by 2025. Our BioDirect™ research focuses on key challenges farmers face today. Our lead project Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 78 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Preserving Plant Varieties P R E S E R V I N G A N D I M P R O V I N G P L A N T VA R I E T I E S A N D S H A R I N G B E N E F I T S : E X A M P L E S Like all living things, seeds eventually expire Working with other companies and the Centre for Genetic Resources, of the Netherlands Seed Collection Missions (CGN), to collect and screen wild relatives of spinach and lettuce. and lose their ability to germinate and grow into plants. To ensure an ample supply of plant For crops including cucumber, lettuce, maize, pepper, spinach and tomato, we have varieties, seeds must be collected, preserved and Seed Increases conducted hundreds of seed increases each year for CGN, INRA (France) and the United States regenerated – a process called conservation. Department of Agriculture National Plant Germplasm System. For 20 years, we have provided support to the USDA Germplasm Enhancement of Maize We have participated in and provided financial (GEM) program. support for numerous seed collection missions for We donated breeding rights to four cotton lines to Institut de L’Environnement et de hundreds of varieties of particular plant species. Recherches Agricoles, which is the national research organization operating the national In-Kind Donations and cotton breeding program in Burkina Faso. Once the seeds are collected, they must be stored Technology Sharing We have been involved in Water Efficient Maize for Africa initiative since 2008 and donated in facilities known as seed or gene banks to keep valuable corn germplasm to this project (see Page 32). them viable for agriculture. Most seed companies like Monsanto have specifically designed facilities We have provided scientific and technological support to combat disease in cassava crops, a dietary staple in East Africa (see Page 33). to help store viable seeds. But at any given time, the world needs to keep tens of millions of seed samples viable, far more than any one entity could manage. So, we also support efforts of public gene Improving Plant Varieties Sharing Benefits banks to effectively store these samples and make Improving plant varieties is at the core of Monsanto shares the benefits of improved them available to breeders around the world. our seed business. Through conventional plant varieties and other technologies through An important part of this process of conservation breeding, advanced breeding techniques in-kind donations of germplasm, or seeds, and is the regeneration of the seeds by growing and biotechnology, we broaden the range knowledge transfer of plant characteristics and plants from them and then harvesting the new of biodiversity in plants to improve agriculture, best practices pertaining to the use of these seeds. We do this for our own seed, and we help farmers earn better livelihoods and seeds. We also provide financial support to also donate excess capacity in our facilities and contribute to global food and nutrition public-private breeding consortia and other provide personnel to help gene banks worldwide security. See Pages 32–34 for organizations aimed at improving the availability regenerate their seeds. This helps ensure the more information. of high-quality seeds and technologies to viability of stored seed, which can then be used farmers and others. by farmers and breeders within private companies, public institutions or nonprofit organizations. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 79 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GUIDING AND AUDITING OUR E N V I R O N M E N TA L PERFORMANCE Our Environmental Management Guidelines highlight our commitment to environmental management systems like ISO 14001. Notably, 100 percent of our global crop protection chemical production sites are externally validated through the ISO 14001 or RC14001® locations are periodically audited to ensure We regularly report the progress of our certification program. This requires formal compliance with ESH legal requirements, corporate audit program and completion status processes in identification of environmental as well as company ESH policies. of corrective action plans to the highest levels impacts, routine internal auditing and corrective of management and our board of directors. actions, and management review. Additionally, Each audit is conducted by ESH professionals We review our audit findings collectively to all of our seed production locations have specifically trained on auditing, and entails identify opportunities for improvement, both comprehensive environmental management thousands of questions designed to discern at our sites regionally and globally. Beyond the systems. These management systems have compliance and identify findings. For every corporate audit program, sites conduct more been developed and implemented by teams finding, a team of ESH professionals from frequent self-audits (with corrective action of environmental professionals, based at the audited site and headquarters develops tracking and reporting to management) as part headquarters and at our global sites, who are a corrective action plan with a specified due of our ESH management system. This robust focused on compliance with legal requirements, date. This team works to address any issues approach to ESH auditing gives a high degree of company policy and continuous improvement. or concerns associated with the findings. In assurance that Monsanto’s operations comply addition to reviewing and overseeing the entire with legal requirements and company policy. Monsanto’s auditing program is another audit process, management also commissions important tool for driving environment, an external review of our program to ensure safety and health (ESH) excellence. All of our it incorporates industry best practices. manufacturing and research and development Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 80 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO E N V I RONMENTAL DATA: EN E RGY U SE AN D EM ISSION S CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 Direct Energy Consumption (1000 GJ) Natural Gas and Other Gaseous Fuels 5,430 6,230 5,460 2,960 2,800 1,900 8,390 9,030 7,360 Oil (including Diesel) 526 423 444 1,050 891 797 1,760 2,210 2,080 3,330 3,530 3,320 Coal, Coke and other Solid Fuels 1,010 1,360 1,300 3.9 0.2 0.4 1,010 1,360 1,300 Waste Fuel 2,190 2,590 2,440 -2,190 2,590 2,440 TOTAL 9,150 10,600 9,640 4,010 3,690 2,700 1,760 2,210 2,080 14,900 16,500 14,400 Biomass Fuels Used in Direct Energy Generation 200 133 131 811 704 739 1,010 837 870 Biomass Fuels Shipped Off-Site for Energy Generation 1.4 1.6 0.0 *1,740 1,990 1,820 *1,740 1,990 1,820 Indirect Energy Consumption (1000 GJ) Purchased Electricity 6,940 6,910 6,780 1,850 1,880 1,650 8,790 8,780 8,420 Purchased Steam 1,980 2,070 2,080 7.1 1,980 2,070 2,080 TOTAL 8,920 8,980 8,860 1,860 1,880 1,650 10,800 10,900 10,500 Consumed Primary Sources in Electricity Generation (percent of total Indirect Energy) Location Based •• Hydro, Biomass, Geothermal, Nuclear, Solar, Wind 50% 49% 57% 35% 37% 36% 46% 46% 53% •• Natural Gas and other Gaseous Fuels 18% 18% 16% 18% 19% 18% 18% 18% 16% •• Coal, Coke and other Solid Fuels 32% 31% 26% 41% 38% 42% 34% 33% 29% •• Oil (including Diesel) 1% 1% 1% 7% 6% 4% 3% 3% 2% Energy Consumption Summary (1000 GJ) Total Energy Consumption (Direct and Indirect) 18,100 19,600 18,500 5,870 5,560 4,340 1,760 2,210 2,080 25,700 27,400 24,900 KEY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL DATA TABLES GJ = gigajoules • MT = metric tons • ML = 1,000 cubic meters • m3 = cubic meters • CO2 = carbon dioxide • CO2 e = carbon dioxide equivalent • NOx = nitrous oxide PO4 = phosphate • SOx = sulfur oxide • VOC = volatile organic compound • POTW = Publicly Owned Treatment Works • = Not Applicable or Data Not Collected Reported data in the environmental tables are rounded to three significant digits or, for small values, presented as no less than one-tenth the indicator reporting unit. This approach enhances data usability while providing sufficient detail without becoming numerically cumbersome. *Fiscal years 2014 and 2015 items noted were updated from what was previously reported to reflect corrections and/or changes to the data or calculation methodology. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 81 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO E N V I RONMENTAL DATA: EN E RGY U SE AN D EM ISSION S CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 Energy Consumption Outside the Organization Scope 3 (1000 GJ) Logistics and Business Travel *6,270 4,990 5,070 Contracted Land 2,330 1,940 2,030 Energy Intensity (GJ per $1,000 Revenue) Total Direct and Indirect Energy Intensity (Scopes 1 & 2) 1.62 1.82 1.85 Total Direct GHG Emissions Scope 1 (1000 MT) Direct GHG Emissions (CO2e) *1,400 *1,330 1,290 240 219 159 118 148 141 *1,760 *1,700 1,590 •• CO2e from Biomass Used (Consumed) On-Site 24.0 16.0 15.7 88.2 76.6 81.0 112 92.6 96.7 •• CO2e from Biomass Sold for Off-Site Energy Generation 0.2 0.2 0.0 194 222 204 194 222 204 Total Indirect GHG Emissions Scope 2 (1000 MT) Indirect GHG Emissions (CO2e) Location Based 959 964 827 288 277 246 1,250 1,240 1,070 Indirect GHG Emissions (CO2e) Market Based 837 249 1,090 Total Direct and Indirect GHG Emissions (1000 MT) Total GHG Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) Location Based *2,360 *2,300 2,110 527 496 406 118 148 141 *3,000 *2,940 2,660 Total GHG Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) Market Based 2,130 408 141 2,670 Other Indirect GHG Emissions Sources Scope 3 (1000 MT) Logistics and Business Travel *466 371 379 Contracted Land 203 162 170 Energy and greenhouse gas intensity ratios using annual net revenue were up in fiscal years 2015 and 2016 due to lower annual revenue. Starting with fiscal year 2016 in reporting for Scope 2 (Indirect) GHG Emissions, both “Location Based” and “Market Based” reporting are provided per the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. A location-based method reflects the average emissions intensity of grids on which energy consumption occurs, while a market-based method reflects emissions from electricity that sites have purposefully chosen (or their lack of choice). Please see GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance for additional details. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 82 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO E N V I RONMENTAL DATA: EN E RGY U SE AN D EM ISSION S CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS COMPANY VEHICLES COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 GHG Emissions Intensity (MT per $1,000 Revenue) Total Direct and Indirect Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) Location Based *0.190 *0.196 0.197 Total Direct and Indirect Emissions (CO2e) (Scopes 1 & 2) Market Based 0.198 Other Emissions (MT) Sulfur Oxide (SOx) Emissions, Combustion and Process 1,560 1,520 1,410 43.0 38.2 38.2 1,610 1,560 1,450 Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) Emissions, Combustion and Process 3,110 3,280 3,030 653 693 568 3,770 3,970 3,600 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 92.8 93.0 88.6 0.9 *0.9 0.9 93.7 *93.9 89.5 Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHGs) are calculated using various standardized emissions calculation methodology and factors, including the World Resources Institute and World Business Council on Sustainable Development. Greenhouse Gas Protocol, USEPA GHG Reporting Program and Emission Factors, and location-based factors: USEPA eGRID, IEA Country Specific factors, and other site or case specific factors and calculations as reviewed by our third-party assurance auditors. “Market Based” values based on residual emission factors from the 2014 Reliable Disclosure Systems for Europe – Phase II for European sites, plus location-based values for all other sites. E N V I RONMENTAL DATA: WAT E R U S E CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS CONTRACTED LAND COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 Fresh Water Withdrawal (ML 1000 m3) Surface Water *5,280 *5,750 5,720 8,260 8,130 6,180 451,000 382,000 350,000 *465,000 *396,000 362,000 Ground Water 19,100 19,000 19,500 10,800 10,600 13,700 433,000 272,000 242,000 463,000 301,000 276,000 Municipal Water 1,370 1,340 1,180 *6,950 6,000 3,790 37,800 23,000 23,400 *46,100 30,300 28,400 Collected Rainwater 110 87.2 39.1 279 275 168 58.7 4.0 95.7 448 366 303 Purchased Wastewater for Reuse (R1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 212 186 396 681 675 0.0 893 861 396 Misc. Water Purchases (bulk, deionized, and bottled) 0.7 0.6 180 3.2 3.6 4.6 0.9 0.8 0.8 4.8 5.1 185 TOTAL *25,900 *26,200 26,600 *26,500 25,200 24,200 921,000 676,000 616,000 *975,000 *729,000 667,000 Water Reuse and Recycling (ML 1000 m3) Volume of Condensate/Cooling Tower Water Recycled/Reused 345,000 334,000 332,000 31,800 2,820 2,560 376,000 337,000 334,000 Volume of On-Site Process Wastewater Recycled/Reused 3,700 3,390 4,860 85.3 52.4 36.0 3,790 3,450 4,900 TOTAL 348,000 337,000 336,000 31,900 2,870 2,600 380,000 340,000 339,000 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 83 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO E N V I RONMENTAL DATA: WAT E R U S E CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS CONTRACTED LAND COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 Process Wastewater Discharged (ML 1000 m3) (Process wastewater only; does not include domestic sewage, per GRI Guidelines) Discharged to Off-Site Treatment (e.g. publicly owned treatment works) 635 720 594 469 409 400 1,100 1,130 995 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Subsurface (e.g. deepwell/leachfield) 1,980 2,020 2,150 1,980 2,020 2,150 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Surface Water (e.g. river) *16,800 *16,700 14,700 259 255 230 *17,100 *17,000 14,900 TOTAL *19,500 *19,400 17,400 728 664 630 *20,200 *20,100 18,000 Process Wastewater Quality Data for Direct Surface Water Discharges (MT) •• Biological Oxygen Demand 54.0 52.3 60.0 54.0 52.3 60.0 •• Nitrates/Nitrogen to Surface Water (as N) *45.9 *44.8 65.9 *45.9 *44.8 65.9 •• Phosphates (as PO4 ) 217 216 364 217 216 364 •• Total Suspended Solids 63.5 37.6 92.0 63.5 37.6 92.0 E N V I RONMENTAL DATA: WA S T E CROP PROTECTION SEEDS & TRAITS CONTRACTED LAND COMPANY TOTAL FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 FY’14 FY’15 FY’16 Total Waste (MT) Energy recovery 203 608 665 36,200 7,520 28,000 1.2 1.2 2.1 36,400 8,120 28,600 Incineration 3,580 3,500 5,200 12,100 9,460 10,900 6.8 3.4 21.8 15,700 13,000 16,100 Landfill 8,600 7,060 7,200 21,000 17,600 17,700 966 460 167 30,500 25,100 25,100 Other 73.3 17.8 4,080 303 3,000 7,160 *321 Reuse/Recycle/Composting 7,940 7,300 7,190 146,000 84,800 130,000 70,200 25,500 20,100 224,000 118,000 157,000 Total Hazardous Waste 2,680 2,930 4,370 8,260 6,320 8,030 10.8 7.1 23.8 10,900 9,250 12,400 Total Non-Hazardous Waste 17,700 15,500 15,900 211,000 113,000 178,000 74,200 26,000 20,300 303,000 155,000 215,000 TOTAL 20,400 18,500 20,300 219,000 120,000 186,000 74,200 26,000 20,300 314,000 164,000 227,000 Waste Shipped Off-Site or Composted The total waste shipped off-site or composted in fiscal year 2016 was 227,000 metric tons. The increase from 2015 was mainly driven by our Seeds and Traits operations in waste seeds and biomass being utilized for energy recovery. Hazardous waste was not exported or imported by Monsanto across country borders. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 84 86 O U R C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 86 Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee 87 Engaging with Shareowners 89 Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business 90 Political Contributions 90 Engaging with Our Neighbors 91 The Monsanto Fund 92 ADDRESSING CRITICAL ISSUES 92 Stewarding Product Safety 95 Supporting the Science on Glyphosate 96 Transparently Summarizing Placing high ethical standards, effective Our View on Food Labeling corporate governance, responsible product 98 Supporting Transparency in Academic Partnerships stewardship and transparent reporting at 99 Protecting Intellectual Property the center of the way we operate our 99 Pursuing Effective Regulatory Approval global business. 100 WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS As a global, publicly traded company, we hold ourselves to the highest of standards. Our governance framework 101 Excelling in Trade Compliance and policies serve as checks and balances as we 101 Supporting Diverse Businesses set and pursue our goals, monitor our progress and continue to improve. We’re committed to being a force 102 REPORTING OUR PROGRESS for good in our work with individuals, organizations 102 Gathering Stakeholders’ Perspectives and communities and to have a positive impact on 103 Where Impacts Occur society while returning value to our shareowners. 107 UN Sustainable Development Goals Table 109 GRI Index 120 UN Global Compact Table Monsanto 2015 Sustainability Report | 85 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO O U R C O R P O R AT E GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Monsanto is committed to high ethical standards and the values of effective corporate governance. Corporate governance touches all aspects of our company and is an important part of both who we are and how we conduct ourselves every day. Our governance framework gives our highly experienced board of directors R E C E N T K E Y C O R P O R AT E the structure necessary to provide appropriate Sustainability and Corporate GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS oversight to the company. Responsibility Committee •• We added Mitch Barns, of Nielsen Holdings This section focuses on the responsibilities Central to Monsanto’s commitment to plc, to our board of directors. and actions of the Sustainability and Corporate sustainability is oversight from our board •• We adopted a proxy access bylaw amendment Responsibility Committee (SCRC) of our board of of directors, particularly its SCRC, which is to enable eligible Monsanto shareowners to directors and provides a high-level overview of have their own director nominee included in charged with reviewing and monitoring the our corporate governance structure, as well as the company’s proxy materials, along with company’s sustainability performance and candidates nominated by our board of directors. key corporate governance activities undertaken risks. In this capacity, the SCRC represents and As a result of the continued evolution of practice since the beginning of 2016. Additional reports back to the full board of directors. regarding proxy access implementation, we information can be found in the governance amended the provision in a manner that sections of our 2016 Proxy Statement and The experience and expertise of SCRC members eliminates certain restrictions and conditions website. Links to specific information are on use of the provision by eligible shareowners. span multiple industries and disciplines including included in the GRI G4 Index of this report, food, energy, agriculture, academia, technology, •• We enhanced public disclosures regarding political beginning on Page 109. spending and lobbying activities in 2016. healthcare, consumer goods and performance management. These diverse backgrounds help ensure that the committee has a comprehensive view of the sustainability topics that impact our company, the environment, communities, customers and other key stakeholders. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 86 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO The SCRC reviews the company’s sustainability Some of the specific matters discussed by NEW BOARD MEMBER goals and reporting and meets periodically with the SCRC in 2016 included climate action, J O I N S S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y A N D C O R P O R AT E stakeholders to hear external perspectives and consumer food and nutrition, human rights, RESPONSIBILITY to identify and investigate significant emerging biodiversity, external stakeholder engagement, COMMITTEE issues. The committee members also receive and collaboration and input from a farmer panel. discuss periodic reports on our business conduct For more information, see the Sustainability and As we continue to effectively leverage data and insights program, progress related to our Human Rights Corporate Responsibility Committee charter. to help meet the needs of our customers, we also look Policy, charitable donations and commitments, at ways to incorporate this experience and approach and political contributions and lobbying activities. among our board of directors. In 2016, Dwight M. (Mitch) Barns joined the Monsanto board. Mr. Barns serves on Engaging with Shareowners The SCRC considers and approves funding for the People and Compensation and Sustainability and our corporate political activities and appoints Corporate Responsibility Committees. Since January We engage in dialogue with our major 2014, Barns has served as the chief executive officer of members of our senior management to our shareowners throughout the year about Nielsen Holdings plc, a global performance management Good Government Fund Advisory Panel to ensure various corporate governance topics, including company. Since joining Nielsen in 1997, Barns has lived that our corporate political spending consistently executive compensation and sustainability. and worked on three continents and has held leadership operates and complies with applicable laws roles across all major parts of Nielsen’s business. We encourage shareowners to contact and supports our overall goals and strategic our board, independent lead director or objectives. The committee is also responsible corporate secretary through our website for reviewing and considering such topics as or regular mail at the following address: biotechnology approvals and product launches, GMO labeling and the company’s reputation. Monsanto c/o David F. Snively, Corporate Secretary In fiscal year 2016, the SCRC met five times (for our lead independent director use: and reviewed and discussed many of the topics c/o Office of the Lead Director) covered throughout this report and other Monsanto sustainability efforts. The committee 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard approved this report, which included the Mail Stop A3NA sustainability materiality assessment conducted St. Louis, MO 63167 in fiscal year 2015 and early fiscal year 2016. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 87 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E AT A G L A N C E Board •• 12 out of 13 of our directors are independent. Independence •• Our CEO is the only management director. •• The board is composed of 10 men and three women, including one African-American member and one member who resides outside the United States. Board •• The board is composed of one member under the age of 50, and 12 members over the age of 50. Composition •• The board regularly assesses its performance through board and committee self-evaluation. •• The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee leads the full board in considering board competencies and refreshment in light of company strategy. •• We have six board committees – Audit and Finance, Executive, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Board People and Compensation, Science and Technology, and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility. Committees •• All committees are composed entirely of independent directors with the exception of the Executive Committee (our chairman and CEO serves on this committee). •• Our chairman is CEO of our company. He interacts closely with our independent lead director. Leadership •• The independent board members elect our lead director annually. Among other duties, our lead director Structure chairs executive sessions of the independent directors to discuss certain matters without management present. Risk •• Our full board is responsible for risk oversight and has designated committees to have particular oversight of certain key risks. Our board oversees management as management fulfills its responsibilities for the assessment Oversight and mitigation of risks and for taking appropriate risks. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 88 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO 14 allegations related to our Human Rights Driving Ethical Conduct Policy were made in categories other than and Corporate Citizenship discrimination. Two of these were resolved, Throughout Our Business and 12 were found to be unsubstantiated upon investigation. Resolutions ranged from Open communication with our employees compensation settlement to coaching and business partners is critical. We work and process remediation. together to address difficult workplace situations and concerns. Through our boardOur annual compliance certification provides chartered global Business Conduct Office an additional opportunity to ensure we are in (BCO), we implement ethics and compliance compliance with our policies and codes of initiatives and directives. As allowed by local conduct. In 2015, 100 percent of our global India and the United States. We refreshed and law, employees may submit questions or voice employees completed the certification process. deployed the anti-corruption training course for concerns to the BCO via an internal toll-free employees who were identified as having the telephone number, an email address or through potential to interact with government officials. a third-party provider to ensure anonymity. Leading With Integrity In 2016, we addressed a total of 500 Ethical business conduct is the responsibility Preventing Corruption inquiries, 283 of which were requests for of every employee, and it is up to management guidance regarding compliance and business to lead by example. That’s why in 2016 we Anti-corruption policies and procedures have ethics, and 217 were comments about work continued our training series aimed at emerging been communicated to all 13 members of our environments, stewardship of corporate leaders within the company, but available to all board of directors, 100 percent of our employees assets and observed behaviors that might employees. The Monsanto Ethical Leadership and 100 percent of our business partners with be inconsistent with our policies or codes Professional Development Series is designed procurement origination or renewal in the last 24 of conduct. Of these inquiries, four were to promote a culture of ethics and provide months through our Supplier Code of Conduct. allegations of discrimination. All four were opportunities for career enhancement. In 2016 we Anti-corruption training has been provided to 100 investigated, and none required intervention trained more than 500 employees through this percent of our employees who may represent or further remediation. During the fiscal year, process in numerous locations across Honduras, our company to government officials. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 89 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO record of collaborating with our neighbors. Political Contributions Two of the primary ways we approach this is through Community Advisory Panels (CAPs) Participating constructively and transparently in and formal site community engagement plans. the political process is essential to our company’s long-term success. We contribute to U.S. political CAPs include local residents and community candidates and industry and trade groups in a leaders who meet regularly with representatives manner compliant with all applicable laws and from our facility management team to discuss reporting requirements. The Sustainability and Monsanto’s operations in the community, Corporate Responsibility Committee of our board environmental concerns, safety, emergency of directors oversees political contributions. preparedness, community involvement and any other issues or concerns raised. Each group In 2016, the Center for Political Accountability on one through door-to-door contact. solicits feedback and counsel from neighbors and (CPA), a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization As a result of this assessment process, in works to build meaningful relationships within the that brings transparency and accountability to 2016 we established an internal community communities surrounding our facilities, helping corporate political spending, ranked Monsanto engagement portal with resources and us inform our operational decision-making. in the first (best) of five tiers out of a universe guidelines for all sites to develop formal plans. of 500 companies included on the CPA-Zicklin We have formal CAPs at all our chemical Index. The 2016 ranking recognizes our efforts to We have implemented formal community manufacturing facilities, and new groups increase and clarify the information we share on engagement plans at 100 percent of our are launched based on local stakeholder the political disclosures portion of our website. manufacturing sites around the globe. Plus, in needs and interests. We have established connection with our 2015 assessment, these CAPs in Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, efforts have expanded to the Research and Puerto Rico and the United States. Development organization in order to reach Engaging with Our Neighbors While CAPs work well in some areas, we more communities across the globe. Our goal want to make sure we are tailoring our is to implement a community engagement With more than 350 production, manufacturing, engagement to meet the needs of the local plan at 100 percent of our plant breeding sites R&D and office facilities around the world, we communities. In 2015, we assessed our current by fiscal year 2018. As of fiscal year 2016, 20 are part of many local cultures, communities community efforts, hosted town hall listening percent of our global plant breeding sites have and villages. Being a good community citizen sessions and talked with our neighbors one implemented a community engagement plan. has always been a priority, and we have a long Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 90 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT PLANNING PROCESS we live and work around the world, with an emphasis on farming communities, ensuring access to a balanced meal and STEM education. Current Engagement •• Who are we currently engaging? We collaborate locally to prioritize the most 1 Assessment •• How are we engaging? 4 pressing issues and implement lasting solutions. •• Who from the site is involved? As part of Monsanto’s commitment to •• What community risks or threats exist? Community inclusion and diversity, the Fund maintains a Value/Risk Assessment •• What is the site’s value/output? 2 (concurrent with step 1) •• Includes Global Security, Corporate Engagement Plan nondiscrimination policy. In 2015, the Fund Engagement, Technology, Supply Chain determined that the nondiscrimination policy Each site strengthens and/ or builds their community would apply to all donations in the United •• Who should we be engaging with? engagement plan States. Previously, the nondiscrimination policy •• How should we be engaging with them? 3 Stakeholder Dialogue •• How do they want us to engage with had applied only to donations made directly them and the community? by the Fund. Now, the same nondiscrimination policy is applied to the Monsanto Fund Matching Gifts Program, the America’s Farmers The community engagement assessments Moving forward, several regions have made Grow Communities grant program and any identified best practices that many of our their way through the community engagement other donations by the Fund regardless of facilities had already implemented, such as safety planning process (see accompanying whether the Fund selects the donations training, initiating community health programs graphic) with the hopes of building even or if donations are selected by others. and engaging with many community members. more meaningful relationships within the communities surrounding our plants. Monsanto Company applies similar standards Engagement topics included education, to Monsanto Together Volunteer Program religion, law enforcement, personal safety and grants and other initiatives. environmental conservation. Some sites shifted The Monsanto Fund their engagement plans based on assessment results; for instance, one site historically focused As the philanthropic arm of our company, the on safety efforts, but turned their attention to Monsanto Fund, a U.S.-based 501(c)(3) nonprofit working with local retailers and stakeholders funded by Monsanto, seeks to make a positive as a result of their community assessment. sustainable difference in the communities where Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 91 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO ADDRESSING CRITICAL ISSUES At Monsanto, we are dedicated to facing the tough issues head-on and working through them collaboratively. Through stakeholder engagements, the development of our materiality assessment and the monitoring of what’s being said about the company in the media, we are developing a better understanding of what society and key stakeholders want to know about Monsanto and its products and business practices. program includes third-party auditing of Biotech and crop protection products are members’ biotechnology stewardship policies some of the most studied products in the Stewarding Product Safety and practices. In 2016, ETS certification was world. Before any of these products ever reach achieved by Monsanto in Europe and South the market, they undergo an extensive and Monsanto is firmly committed to ensuring that Africa for biotechnology-derived plant thorough process to ensure their safety and our products and technologies are safe and products, and ETS certification was achieved effectiveness. This starts in our own labs and environmentally responsible. Our dedication to for insect-resistance management (IRM) in facilities and ultimately involves years of review product stewardship encompasses responsible Argentina, Australia and Canada. By 2018, we by multiple regulatory agencies. Some of the management of technologies and products expect that all of our operations globally for internal product stewardship processes we have across our seed, traits and crop protection biotechnology-derived plant products will be in place are outlined on the following page. businesses from concept to discontinuation. ETS certified. We engage in product stewardship initiatives through other organizations as Product stewardship efforts at Monsanto are well, including the American Seed Trade supported by the industry-wide Excellence Association, CropLife International, EuropaBio Through Stewardship (ETS) initiative. This and the International Seed Federation. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 92 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO data required by regulatory authorities that Product Development evaluate products for commercial approval. Monsanto implements field trial procedures The processes to gain approvals for both biotech that go beyond what is required to achieve and crop protection products include rigorous the highest level of compliance and identifies regulatory reviews to ensure product safety ongoing process improvements. We have and determine effective stewardship plans. embraced preventive auditing and selfFor an overview of the regulatory oversight reporting to encourage employees and field during these complex development processes, cooperators to identify and immediately see the diagram on the following page. report potential concerns and incidents. For a biotech seed product, the research and Monsanto’s Trait Quality Program focuses on development process takes about 13 years LCStAMP delivering the intended biotech trait at each and costs on average $136 million, with Our seed and crop protection products are phase of development and commercialization more than a quarter of that cost incurred as subject to our Life Cycle Stewardship Activities and is managed through rigorous internal part of the regulatory testing and approval Management Process (LCStAMP) to ensure policies, procedures, training and audits. The process. In fact, the longest phase of biotech their safety and integrity from discovery and Trait Quality Program aims to ensure that our product development occurs during regulatory development through production, marketing, customers experience consistent product science and registration activities, which distribution and discontinuation. In 2016, 22 performance globally with maximum benefit. takes more than five years. The research product and technology stewardship reviews and development process for a new crop were completed. In 2016, a total of 253 corporate audits across protection product takes about 10 years all functions were performed to assess field and can cost as much as $250 million. trial compliance and trait quality, with 87 Field Trials and Trait Quality Program percent closed satisfactorily and the remaining 13 percent on track to be resolved through Field trials are an important component of the corrective action. While we believe that our development of all new seed varieties. Testing compliance program is among the most GMO products in regulated field trials is vital comprehensive and successful compliance to develop important scientific information, programs in the industry, we continually assess the performance of a new trait and review and strengthen our practices. generate the necessary environmental safety Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 93 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO R E G U L AT O R Y S T E P S F O R D E V E L O P I N G B I O T E C H A N D C R O P P R O T E C T I O N P R O D U C T S DISCOVERY PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 L AUNCH DISCONTINUATION Proof of Concept Early Development Advanced Development Pre-Launch Test for safety and effectiveness Identify one pesticide compound or biotech trait with commercial potential Test for allergens and toxicity (biotech seeds) Not required, but Monsanto internal process Generate safety data from multiple sources Submit to multiple regulatory agencies Address regulatory agencies’ questions Ongoing research and product monitoring Prepare technology use guides and labeling/packaging Re-register after defined period and provide additional safety data, as applicable Cooperate with others on product discontinuation For more information on specific initiatives, visit the product stewardship section of our website. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 94 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO HANDLING glyphosate as a probable carcinogen. IARC P E S T I C I D E WA S T E Supporting the Science subsequently made the same determination on Glyphosate about red meat. In fact, a special report Monsanto participates in industry-led container by Reuters found that, “Over four decades, management and disposal projects around the world, Glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup® [IARC] has assessed 989 substances and and in the CropLife International Obsolete Stocks project, brand herbicides, has a long history of safe use as activities, ranging from arsenic to hairdressing, which addresses pesticide waste globally with a focus an essential tool that spans more than 40 years. in Africa. In Brazil, we support the National Institute and found only one was ‘probably not’ During that time, glyphosate has proven to be a for Processing Empty Containers (InpEV), a nonprofit likely to cause cancer in humans.” organization that represents the crop protection industry breakthrough for farming. In fact, glyphosate has to provide proper disposal of agrochemical containers. In been described as a once-in-a-century herbicide. Based on the overwhelming weight of calendar year 2015 (the most recent year for which this data Not only do glyphosate products work really well evidence, Monsanto strongly disagrees with is available), more than 45,000 tons of empty packages on weeds, but they also help farmers grow crops IARC’s classification of glyphosate. Importantly, were disposed of in an environmentally proper way. This more sustainably. For example, glyphosate has independent experts have concluded that volume represents 94 percent of primary packaged products commercialized during the preceding year. helped farmers adopt what is called conservation IARC overlooked decades of thorough sciencetillage, which helps enable farmers to disturb less based analysis by regulatory agencies around We also create our own initiatives when we identify an soil with tillage and drive their tractors across unfulfilled need, like we found in Indonesia. All of our the world and selectively interpreted data crop protection product packaging contains guidelines the field less. As a result, farmers can reduce soil to arrive at its classification of glyphosate. for proper disposal of the containers after use. However, for erosion and carbon emissions, which is good for some farmers, leaving spent pesticide containers in the field soil health and the environment. Regulatory agencies have reviewed all the is still a common practice. As part of our commitment to key studies examined by IARC – and many product stewardship, Monsanto initiated pesticide waste When it comes to safety, glyphosate has more – and arrived at the overwhelming collection programs. For instance, in the first year of this been extensively tested. The overwhelming consensus that glyphosate poses no effort in Indonesia, the program led to the proper recycling and disposal of over 1,100 containers. This initiative helps conclusion of experts worldwide, including unreasonable risks to humans or the environment to ensure pesticide residue doesn’t end up in the land or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency when used according to label instructions. To waterways. The program is also intended to further educate (EPA) and European Food Safety Authority be clear: No regulatory agency in the world growers about the importance of proper waste disposal. (EFSA), is that glyphosate can be used considers glyphosate to be a carcinogen. safely according to label instructions. In fact, since IARC classified glyphosate, In March 2015, the International Agency for regulatory authorities in Australia, Canada, Research on Cancer (IARC) created unwarranted Europe, Japan, New Zealand and the United confusion and concern by highlighting only States have publicly reaffirmed that glyphosate selected data and erroneously classifying does not cause cancer. In May 2016, the Joint Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 95 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Food and Agriculture Organization of the United be listed under California’s Proposition 65 (Prop the IARC classification to individual cases of Nations and World Health Organization Meeting 65), which requires the state to maintain a “list cancer, and they’re running advertisements to on Pesticide Residues again concluded that of chemicals known to the state of California recruit plaintiffs. These claims are baseless and “glyphosate is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic risk to cause cancer.” The proposed listing is based without merit. The scientific evidence clearly to humans from exposure through the diet.” solely on IARC’s classification of glyphosate. shows that glyphosate is not a carcinogen. Monsanto has taken legal action to prevent For more information on glyphosate, read To better understand how IARC arrived at such what would be a flawed listing. this article from our Beyond the Rows blog. an inconsistent conclusion, Monsanto retained a scientific consultant to convene an expert Recent delays in the European Union and panel to review IARC’s assessment. The charge United States regulatory processes may also be Transparently Summarizing to the experts was to take a thorough look at attributed in part to the unwarranted concern Our View on Food Labeling the data in the monograph, assess the scope of generated by IARC’s classification of glyphosate. the research included or excluded, and publish The European Commission’s decision in June What we put on our tables reflects our their conclusions. The experts concluded that 2016 to defer for another 18 months the renewal history, family and culture. It’s how we “the data do not support IARC’s conclusion that of the market authorization for glyphosate provide for our loved ones and hungry glyphosate is a ‘probable human carcinogen’ and, pending further research is a clear example. generations to come. So it’s no surprise that consistent with previous regulatory assessments, Indeed, while glyphosate meets or exceeds all all over the world, people are having spirited further concluded that glyphosate is unlikely requirements for a full renewal under European conversations about food and how it’s grown. to pose a carcinogenic risk to humans.” The law and regulation, the political debate around expert panel’s peer-reviewed findings are glyphosate became highly emotional because As a company involved in one of the first steps published in Critical Reviews in Toxicology. of the IARC classification. In the United States, of food production, we know how important For more information about the expert panel the EPA has also announced plans to convene that conversation is. We have the conversation and its members, please visit our website. a Scientific Advisory Panel and identified the every day with growers, consumers, family IARC classification as a motivating factor. members and the thousands of people who Even so, IARC’s inconsistent classification of have toured our sites and asked us questions. glyphosate continues to receive attention and After IARC classified glyphosate in March 2015, That’s why, in the United States, Monsanto cause confusion. For example, the California plaintiffs’ attorneys in the United States have was a part of the Coalition for Safe Affordable Office of Environmental Health Hazard begun soliciting plaintiffs for personal injury Food – a group of more than 1,100 associations, Assessment has proposed that glyphosate lawsuits. These attorneys are attempting to tie groups and businesses across food and Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 96 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO agriculture, from farm to fork, with very diverse Simultaneously, consumers demand and GMO SAFETY views on how food should be produced and deserve consistent, transparent information sold, but united on one important goal: the about what’s in their food. We believe a uniform The safety of our products is our first priority. passage of a national labeling standard framework establishing consistent requirements After 30 years of research and assessments, the on GMOs that provides transparency and for companies helps accomplish this goal. science and safety behind GM crops has been well established and strongly supported by the scientific information to consumers, farmers and community that includes multiple health societies, businesses alike. Through the tireless work of While this national standard may not be perfect, hundreds of independent scientific experts and the Coalition with representatives from food it’s better than the alternative: a patchwork of dozens of governments around the world. and agriculture, a new law was passed to create state regulations with no across-the-board standards, which could cause a can of soup A recent study from the National Academies of Sciences, a national framework for food companies to Engineering, and Medicine underscored this conclusion. provide the public with information about or pasta to have as many as 50 different labels Following a two-year, evidence-based approach GMO ingredients. This effort is an example based on each state’s standards. We support involving the analysis of more than 1,000 research of how people with diverse perspectives one system that provides clear, consistent publications and broad transparency through public information to help people make decisions about meetings, presentations and comments, the May 2016 were able to sit down in healthy dialogue the foods they eat. This framework provides that, report found no persuasive evidence of adverse health and deliver a workable national solution. effects attributable to consumption of foods derived from and what’s more, it means that food companies genetically engineered (GE) crops or a causal relationship Supporting the farmers we serve – from could use these tools to share information between GE crops and environmental problems. family farmers in Iowa to village growers in about more than just GMO ingredients, Additionally, the American Medical Association, National Africa – has been our priority for many years. including sustainability, sourcing and more. Academy of Sciences, World Health Organization and Farmers will always be a priority focus for us, Food and Drug Administration have all concluded and we recognize the importance of finding We know the conversation about food will after reviews of decades of extensive studies that GMO common ground and collaborating for the continue – around dinner tables, within ingredients are as safe and nutritious as other ingredients. coexistence of all types of farming practices. families, and in the aisles of food markets all over the country. We look forward to In a world that is getting warmer, thirstier and participating in that conversation, and we more crowded every day, it’s critically important welcome a collaborative discussion. that farmers have access to all types of agriculture solutions, from better seeds that help keep bugs and weeds out of crops to data apps that help track soil health. We know our work helps farmers produce safe, sustainable harvests. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 97 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO H O W W E C O L L A B O R AT E W I T H A C A D E M I C S A N D U N I V E R S I T I E S Supporting Transparency in Academic Partnerships Our society is facing some big challenges, like combating climate change, utilizing water and other resources more efficiently and making a more balanced meal accessible for everyone. Exchange information Product testing  Invite academics to Seek advice on t he No single organization or company can do it t hrough academic and for review by conduct field trials safety and performance alone, and Monsanto is certainly not an expert industry conferences regulatory agencies on our products of our products in all areas, so we partner with others like scholars and researchers at major universities to tackle some of these big challenges. Within agriculture, the relationships between the public and private sector are critical and have existed for decades. Like many companies, Co-author Recruit the bestand Provide information Advise decision-makers peer-reviewed research brightest towork and resources to on sound agricultural policy across sectors, we communicate, collaborate in academic journals in agriculture the general public and exchange ideas with dozens of public sector scientists on matters of common interest. We see public-private collaborations partnerships play an important role in our We have continued our efforts to be transparent as essential to the advancement of science, as research and often produce outcomes that in describing our working relationships with well as to educating and sometimes correcting benefit society. Many products we use every day academics to the public through our own misinformation the public has about science, are the result of multi-stakeholder partnerships. website, Beyond the Rows blog and through innovation and the related conversation guest posts in third-party publications like Forbes. Like many companies, we sometimes fund a of food and agriculture production. professor’s research program or help them carry We do not have all of the answers or expertise. A professor may be the world’s leading expert out public education and outreach, but Monsanto We see public-private collaborations as essential in a particular field, and we need their insight doesn’t offer professors direct compensation. This to the advancement of science, innovation to help us address a tough problem or to verify is not unusual. Scientific research at universities is and agriculture to help bring the best products our own work. Sometimes we want an outside very often funded by outside sources, including and services to our farmer customers. perspective on a product or idea on which we the government, foundations and companies. are working. No matter what the reason, these Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 98 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Protecting Intellectual Property of market exclusivity during which the market will determine whether the invention has value. As consumers ourselves, the safety of Our world faces big challenges. Among them, As one member of the agriculture industry striving our products is paramount to each of us population growth, water limitations and climate to meet the needs of farmers and our growing who works at Monsanto. Our company is change are creating increased demand on resources ranging from arable land to water population in a sustainable manner, we recognize the importance of encouraging investment in built on a foundation of science. and energy. innovation. Sustainable agricultural products will Dr. Phil Miller, help meet the needs of farmers and society today Vice President, Global Corporate Affairs Daunting as they may be, at Monsanto we believe and in the future. We believe that innovation these challenges are not insurmountable. We are There’s not been a single substantiated works hand in hand with effective national the industry leader when it comes to research and incident of harm to human health associated systems that respect and protect the intellectual development to bring forward new innovations with biotech products. property rights of innovators. Intellectual property that drive long-term agricultural productivity. And rights help enable innovation since they provide our R&D investment has resulted in remarkable Both the agriculture industry and regulatory a mechanism for the sharing of new innovations advances across plant breeding, biotechnology bodies could be more effective at helping and recognition of the value of those innovations. and data-driven agriculture tools that help consumers understand the way regulators do farmers everywhere grow more with less. their assessments. There’s a significant gap in people’s knowledge about science, safety and As a company dedicated to bringing – and sharing Pursuing Effective the benefits of all the agriculture technologies across our industry – new innovative solutions for Regulatory Approval that are used, whether it’s chemistry or biotech. farmers, we are supportive of the development This content is adapted from an From a business perspective, it’s also crucial that and enforcement of national policies concerning interview by Bloomberg BNA with regulatory systems are funded appropriately so intellectual property rights that are complemented Dr. Phil Miller, Monsanto’s Vice they can conduct their thorough assessments by other development-oriented policies to ensure President, Global Corporate Affairs. in a timely fashion. In Monsanto’s case, our optimal societal benefit. Intellectual property protections such as patents provide incentives product introduction cycles are seasonal. We get What Monsanto looks for in regulations is to disclose and share information related to an an opportunity to introduce a new innovation effectiveness, predictability and robustness. innovative advancement that enables other third to farmers only once a year. Timing is critical. That’s what gives consumers confidence in the parties to work with and further improve upon If we receive required approvals late, farmers decisions that are made by regulators. Monsanto prior inventions. In exchange for their disclosure, may have to wait another whole year to get has had biotech products that have been well the holder of a patent is provided a limited period the opportunity to leverage that innovation. studied and understood for more than 20 years. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 99 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO WORKING WITH OUR SUPPLIERS Monsanto relies on a vast network of suppliers across 19 primary categories including services, equipment and raw materials, as well as our network of seed production partners. Our procurement function is committed to doing our part to bring a broad range of solutions to help nourish our growing world. We support purchasing approaches that promote environmental, ethical and social principles. AV E R A G E S U P P L I E R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y S U R V E Y S C O R E B Y C AT E G O R Y B Y R E G I O N 2 0 1 6 We expect to conduct business with suppliers who comply with our global Supplier Code Global of Conduct and demonstrate a commitment AVER AGE S URVE Y SCORE Average 81% 80% to ethical, environmental and economic 78% 77% 72% 74% 72% 71% Asia sustainability. All current and new suppliers Africa 66% 66% 66% 61% invited to engage in business with Monsanto must complete a computer-based profile that 55% 48% 53% 54% Europe & Middle covers a range of sustainability topics. Monsanto East requires its suppliers to conform to our Supplier South Code of Conduct through the establishment America of new contracts and at the time of contract North renewal. The global procurement section of America our website provides prospective and existing suppliers easy access to information about what is expected of them, including access to the Environmental and Forced Labor and Human Rights, Child Corporate Ethics Supplier Code of Conduct in 29 languages. Product Safety Discrimination Labor, Working and Transparency Compensation The chart shows the average scores of participating suppliers across categories by geographic hub compared to the Global Average. Suppliers that completed the 2016 survey are included in the graph. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 100 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO In 2015, we completed our first Select Supplier of U.S. Customs and Border Protection that Sustainability Assessment to weigh the economic, partners with importers who can demonstrate environmental and social profiles and behaviors their readiness to manage and monitor their of strategic suppliers. In 2016, we expanded the trade compliance through self-assessment. number of suppliers receiving the survey by 58 percent. Collectively, these suppliers represent $1.12 billion or 16.6 percent of our global annual Supporting Diverse Businesses procurement addressable spend. We use these comprehensive supplier performance profiles Monsanto values a diverse and inclusive to enhance supplier relationship management environment and extends this to all suppliers efforts, assess opportunities and risks, and in our global supply chain. As we strive to be develop supplier specific plans that incorporate the leading provider of agricultural products in our global supply chain. Our strong efforts best practices. and solutions worldwide, we recognize to include women-owned businesses in the value of a diverse supplier base. global sourcing opportunities, along with the high level of engagement from our Global Monsanto consistently ranks in DiversityInc’s Excelling in Trade Compliance Supplier Diversity Network Leads in each Top 50 list, ranked No. 43 in 2016. During our region, earned Monsanto the prestigious Monsanto is committed to compliance with second year of the Monsanto Supplier Diversity WEConnect International Best Progress all export laws and regulations that govern Mentor Program in the United States, we were Award during our first year of membership. the transportation of our products across recognized by Women’s Business Enterprise international borders. We are certified under National Council and highlighted by Fortune several voluntary trade compliance programs Magazine in November 2015. Monsanto began in the United States, such as the Customs-Trade extending this program to other global regions Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and in December 2016, starting with Brazil. the Importer Self-Assessment (ISA) program. As we expand our supplier diversity platform, C-TPAT establishes measures to add security to we’ve placed a heightened focus on doing trade in order to safeguard the world’s industry business with women's business enterprises from terrorists. The ISA program is an initiative Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 101 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO REPORTING OUR PROGRESS This report does more than simply relay our commitment to sustainability; it highlights our challenges and opportunities. It sparks conversations that help us more acutely understand what matters to our company and shareowners, farmers, policymakers, communities and consumers. Those insights guide the content of this report, as well as inform where we may focus our future efforts. For us, sustainability reporting is a communications, engagement and D R AW I N G B O U N D A R I E S strategic management tool. We are dedicated Gathering Stakeholders’ and committed to continued improvement, and The scope of information covered in this report varies Perspectives based on the type of content provided. Footnotes to the discipline of reporting allows us to identify data tables designate the scope and reporting period and assess our opportunities for advancement. We seek a broad range of perspectives to learn covered by the applicable data. Unless otherwise more about what’s important to all of the people noted, the information pertains to our global Seeds and Each year, we publish a sustainability report and organizations touched by our business. Genomics and Ag Productivity segments and corporate that includes our United Nations Global In 2015, we worked with Business for Social functions including consolidated subsidiaries, but excluding joint ventures. Environmental, health and Compact Communication on Progress. This Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit business safety data and human rights data are based on fiscal report is prepared in accordance with the network and sustainability consultancy, to year 2016, which ran from September 1, 2015, to August Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 voluntary conduct a formal materiality assessment to better 31, 2016. We do not distinguish between fiscal and Sustainability Reporting Guidelines “Core” understand what is important to both stakeholders calendar years for anecdotal information, and as a result, option and incorporates many aspects of and the continued success of our company. some information may be noted from other calendar years. Locations referenced throughout this report the “Comprehensive” option. We are also Materiality assessments are typically updated every without a country name are within the United States. tracking how our efforts align with the United several years or when there is a major, fundamental Nations Sustainable Development Goals. change to the organization being assessed. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 102 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Together with BSR, we explored a broad list of M AT E R I A L T O P I C S M AT R I X topics. BSR interviewed Monsanto employees from different areas of our business around the Climate Change Mitigation Product Safety & world and 20 external stakeholders. They spoke & Adaptation Stewardship Modern, Innovative with representatives from NGOs, academia, Agricultural Technologies and Products research institutions, public health organizations, Land Use & Smallholder Deforestation Farmers Sustainable government, the food industry, consumers, Chemistry community neighbors and our farmer customers. Soil Global Hunger & Nutrition Health Security Business Practices & Competition A scoring system was applied to the results Biodiversity I MP ORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Water Consumption & Management of these interviews, which enabled us to plot the topics on a matrix that visually represents Business Ethics where each falls relative to its importance to & Transparency our company and our stakeholders. With the Human Rights Positive Patents & Plant Relationships matrix developed, BSR hosted an in-person Variety Rights with Local Communities Political GMO workshop and virtual review sessions to Spending Labeling & Society Regulatory gather feedback from key Monsanto leaders Approval Systems and identified any needed adjustments. Data Security, Management & Access Occupational Health, Where Impacts Occur Safety & Wellness Responsible A key principle of the GRI G4 Guidelines is Marketing to determine and report where a company’s Corporate Tax material topics impact the business, key Legacy Issues Talent Management, stakeholders and society at large. An impact Diversity & Benefits can be positive or negative. The tables on the following pages summarize the Waste Board Management Diversity topics that both external stakeholders and Monsanto business regions identified as INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS most important. We also indicate where we believe these impacts occur relative to our Note: Topics that appear in the lower third segment of the Material Topics Matrix are not included in the tables in this report. business, suppliers, farmers and consumers. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 103 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Mapping External Stakeholder Views FOOD/GRAIN Topic INDUSTRY NGOs FARMERS ACADEMIA GOVERNMENT on Material Sustainability Topics Product Safety and Stewardship The table at the right maps the most important Modern, Innovative Agricultural sustainability topics for Monsanto from an Technologies and Products external stakeholder perspective. The green Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation circles indicate that the particular stakeholder viewed the material issue as high in importance. Sustainable Chemistry Water Consumption and Management Business Practices and Competition Global Hunger and Nutrition Security Business Ethics and Transparency Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Serving Smallholder Farmers Land Use and Deforestation Soil Health Human Rights Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits GMO Labeling Biodiversity and Ecosystems Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness Data Security, Management and Access Political Spending Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 104 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Mapping Monsanto Views on SOUTH NORTH AMERICA ASIA/ Topic AMERICA (U.S., Canada, Mexico) AFRICA EUROPE Material Sustainability Topics by Regions of the World Product Safety and Stewardship Modern, Innovative Agricultural The table at the right maps the most Technologies and Products important sustainability topics for Monsanto Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation from an internal perspective for each region of the world in which we operate, Sustainable Chemistry as indicated by the green circles. Water Consumption and Management Business Practices and Competition Global Hunger and Nutrition Security Business Ethics and Transparency Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Serving Smallholder Farmers Land Use and Deforestation Soil Health Human Rights Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits GMO Labeling Biodiversity and Ecosystems Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness Data Security, Management and Access Political Spending Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 105 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Mapping Where Sustainability Topic MONSANTO SUPPLIERS FARMERS CONSUMERS Impacts Occur Product Safety and Stewardship The table at the right maps where impacts Modern, Innovative Agricultural occur along Monsanto’s business value Technologies and Products chain, as indicated by the green circles. Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Sustainable Chemistry Water Consumption and Management Business Practices and Competition Global Hunger and Nutrition Security Business Ethics and Transparency Positive Relationships with Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Serving Smallholder Farmers Land Use and Deforestation Soil Health Human Rights Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits GMO Labeling Biodiversity and Ecosystems Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness Data Security, Management and Access Political Spending Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 106 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Monsanto’s work contributes to all 17 Sustainable Development Goals. Goals highlighted in bold green are core to Monsanto’s business and represent the areas where we can have the most impact. Goals highlighted in italic green represent how we are working to impact the goals that are core to our business. For more information, see Page 20. GOAL LOCATION/DESCRIPTION People, Page 32 (Promoting Food Security in Africa), 34 (Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods), 35 (Providing Critical Information to No poverty – end poverty in all Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise), 35 (Training Smallholder Farmers), 41 (Supporting America’s Farmers and Rural Communities), 43 (Volunteering its forms everywhere. for the Greater Good: Monsanto Together); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) Zero hunger – end hunger, achieve food Executive Summary, Page 6; We Are Monsanto, Page 16 (Our Portfolio of Products), 19 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to security and improved nutrition and Sustainability); People, Page 32 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate promote sustainable agriculture. Change), 78 (Preserving and Improving Plant Varieties and Sharing Benefits) Good health and well-being – ensure healthy People, Page 32 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 41 (Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety), 51 (Promoting lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being), 52 (Protecting Our Guests); Planet, Page 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Quality education – ensure inclusive and People, Page 35 (Providing Critical Information to Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise), 35 (Training Smallholder Farmers), 39 (Staking the Future equitable quality education and promote on STEM), 39 (Engaging University Students), 40 (Inspiring Future Science and Technology Leaders), 41 (Supporting America’s Farmers and lifelong learning opportunities for all. Rural Communities), 44 (Developing Our Employees) Gender quality – achieve gender equality People, Page 46 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity); 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 88 and empower all women and girls. (Corporate Governance At A Glance) Clean water and sanitation – ensure People, Page 57 (Helping to Ensure the Human Right to Water); Planet, Page 62 (Collaborating to Drive Nutrient Efficiency), 65 (Applying Data availability and sustainable management Science to Feed a Growing Population), 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water), 74 (Promoting Sustainable Landscapes), 72 (Enabling Responsible of water and sanitation for all. Pest Control), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control) Affordable and clean energy – ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable Planet, Page 60 (Pursuing Carbon Neutrality), 61 (Investing in Greenhouse Gas Reductions) and modern energy for all. Decent work and economic growth – People, Page 32 (Promoting Food Security in Africa), 34 (Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods), 35 (Providing Critical Information to promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise), 35 (Training Smallholder Farmers), 39 (Staking the Future on STEM), 39 (Engaging University Students), economic growth, full and productive 40 (Inspiring Future Science and Technology Leaders), 41 (Supporting America’s Farmers and Rural Communities), 44 (Developing Our employment and decent work for all. Employees), 46 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity), 48 (Rewarding Great Work), 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 107 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GOAL LOCATION/DESCRIPTION We Are Monsanto, Page 18 (Data Science), 19 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); People, Page 32 (Promoting Food Industry, innovation and infrastructure – build Security in Africa), 34 (Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods), 35 (Providing Critical Information to Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise), resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and 35 (Training Smallholder Farmers); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 65 (Applying Data Science to Feed a sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Growing Population); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Reduced inequalities – reduce inequality within People, Page 32 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 41 (Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety) and among countries. Sustainable cities and communities – make cities People, Page 32 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 41 (Taking a Global Approach to Community Health and Safety), and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient 43 (Volunteering for the Greater Good: Monsanto Together) and sustainable. Responsible consumption and production – We are Monsanto, Page 16 (Our Portfolio of Products); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 66 (Using Water ensure sustainable consumption and More Efficiently), 72 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 75 (Digging into Soil Health), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for production patterns. Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control); Company, 92 (Stewarding Product Safety) Climate action – take urgent action to combat We Are Monsanto, Page 18 (Data Science), 19 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating climate change and its impacts. and Adapting to Climate Change), 65 (Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing Population) Life below water – conserve and sustainably Planet, Page 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water), 72 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions use the oceans, seas and marine resources for for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control); Company, Page 92 (Stewarding Product Safety) sustainable development. Life on land – protect, restore and promote Planet, Page 62 (Collaborating to Drive Nutrient Efficiency), 63 (Moving From Planning to Action on Climate-Smart Agriculture), sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, 68 (Connecting Biodiversity and Agriculture), 70 (Protecting Species), 72 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 74 (Promoting sustainably manage forests, combat Sustainable Landscapes), 75 (Digging into Soil Health), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest desertification, and halt and reverse land Control), 78 (Preserving and Improving Plant Varieties and Sharing Benefits) degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Peace, justice and strong institutions – promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship development, provide access to justice for all Throughout Our Business), 90 (Political Contributions) and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Partnerships for the goals – strengthen the means of We Are Monsanto, Page 27 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently), 28 (External Charters and Principles); Planet, Page 62 implementation and revitalize the global partnership (Collaborating on Climate Action: the Carbon-Neutral Collaborative); Company, Page 102 (Gathering Stakeholders' Perspectives) for sustainable development. Also stories throughout this report. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 108 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO GRI G4 Index G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION G4-1 CEO Letter, Page 3 CEO Letter, Page 3; Executive Summary, Pages 5-12; We Are Monsanto, Page 19 (Agricultural Innovation: Our Approach to Sustainability); G4-2 Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 1, 1A, 7A Organizational Profile G4-3 Monsanto Company G4-4 We Are Monsanto, Pages 16-18 G4-5 St. Louis, Missouri, United States G4-6 We Are Monsanto, Page 15; Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 2, Note 25 G4-7 Certificate of Incorporation G4-8 We Are Monsanto, Pages 15-18; Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 1, Note 25 G4-9 We Are Monsanto, Page 15; People, Page 49 (Employee Composition Data); Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 1 (Employee Relations), Item 8 G4-10 People, Page 49 (Employee Composition Data); Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 1 (Employee Relations), Item 8 G4-11 People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) G4-12 Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) On Jan. 5, 2016, we approved additional actions which together with our Oct. 6, 2015, actions comprise Monsanto’s 2015 Restructuring Plan. G4-13 For details, please see Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Note 5 Restructuring. See also, People, Page 55 (Human Rights at Monsanto: 2016 Highlights) G4-14 Company, Pages 92-97 (Stewarding Product Safety) G4-15 We Are Monsanto, Page 27 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently), 28 (External Charters and Principles) G4-16 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in our Consolidated Financial Statements are covered in this report. See Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Note 21 G4-18 Company, Page 102 (Reporting Our Progress) G4-19 We Are Monsanto, Page 21 (Identifying Material Topics) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 109 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION G4-20 People, Page 49 (Employee Composition Data), 53 (Health and Safety Data); Planet, Page 81 (Environmental Data); Company, G4-21 Page 102 (Reporting Our Progress) Greenhouse gas reporting data, including the 2010 baseline for our GHG intensity goal, was revised to include additional CO2 sources G4-22 identified during our most current validation process. G4-23 Report scope and aspect boundaries remain the same as 2015. Stakeholder Engagement We Are Monsanto, Page 27 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently); Planet, Page 62 (Collaborating on Climate Action: the Carbon-Neutral G4-24 Collaborative); Company, Page 86 (Our Corporate Governance Framework), 102 (Reporting Our Progress); also discussed throughout this report. G4-25 We Are Monsanto, Page 27 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently); Company, Page 102 (Reporting Our Progress) G4-26 G4-27 We Are Monsanto, Page 28 (Inviting Conversation); Company, Page 102 (Reporting Our Progress); also discussed throughout this report. Report Profile G4-28 Fiscal year 2016; See also Company, Page 102 (Drawing Boundaries) G4-29 Fiscal year 2015 G4-30 We plan to report on our sustainability commitments annually on a fiscal year basis. G4-31 fiona.l.woody@monsanto.com This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 “Core” option and contains many elements of the “Comprehensive” option. See G4-33 for G4-32 our approach to external assurance and assessment of key sustainability data. We have sought and received an external assessment of our Child Care Program in India from SGS India Pvt. Ltd. See Independent Assessment G4-33 Statement on Page 121. We have sought and received external assurance from Bureau Veritas of data reported for environmental indicators (see Assurance Letter on Page 123) and the section of the report entitled Working with Our Suppliers (see Assurance Letter on Page 127). Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 110 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO G E N E R A L S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Governance G4-34 We Are Monsanto, Page 21 (Governing and Managing Our Sustainability Commitment); Company, Page 86 (Our Corporate G4-35 Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance; 2016 Proxy Statement, Pages 25-26 G4-36 G4-37 Company, Page 87 (Engaging with Shareowners); 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 28 G4-38 Company, Page 88 (Corporate Governance at a Glance); Website: Corporate Governance G4-39 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 22 G4-40 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 20 G4-41 2016 Proxy Statement, Pages 29-31 We Are Monsanto, Page 21 (Governing and Managing Our Sustainability Commitment); G4-42 Company, Pages 86-87 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance; 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 23 G4-43 Company, Pages 86-87 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 23 G4-44 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 24 G4-45 We Are Monsanto, Page 21 (Governing and Managing Our Sustainability Commitment); Company, Pages 86-87 G4-46 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance; 2016 Proxy Statement, Pages 26-28 G4-47 Company, Pages 86-87 (Our Corporate Governance Framework); Website: Corporate Governance G4-48 The Board of Directors Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee Company, Pages 86-87 (Our Corporate Governance Framework), 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and G4-49 Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business); 2016 Proxy Statement, Page 28 We have various ways of gathering concerns across company functions and regions of the world including: customer product inquiries, employee and contractor inquiries, consumer online contacts via monsanto.com, discover.monsanto.com, and world areas’ websites. G4-50 Each concern has an established process and business owner for addressing the situation. Summary reports for each area flow to regional, functional or executive leaders; 2016 Proxy Statement, Pages 23; 29 G4-51 G4-52 2016 Proxy Statement, Pages 33-38 G4-53 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Website: Code of Ethics; Website: Our Pledge G4-57 Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) G4-58 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 111 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 8 G4-EC2 Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) G4-EC3 Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Note 16 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Monsanto supports a variety of infrastructure investments through its philanthropic arm, the Monsanto Fund, a U.S.-based G4-EC7 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization funded by Monsanto. For more information, see the Monsanto Fund Report. People, Page 32 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security), 34 (Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods), 35 (Training G4-EC8 Smallholder Farmers), 39-41 (Reaching Out to Communities); Planet, Page 74 (Promoting Sustainable Landscapes) Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy/Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Indicators highlighted in green have been externally assured) G4-EN3 G4-EN4 G4-EN5 G4-EN15 Planet, Pages 81-83 (Environmental Data: Energy Use and Emissions) G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN18 G4-EN21 G4-EN6 (Partially reported) Planet, Page 61 (Investing in Greenhouse Gas Reductions) G4-EN19 We Are Monsanto, Page 16 (Our Portfolio of Products); Planet, Pages 59-60 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), G4-EN7 65 (Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing Population) Aspect: Water (Indicators highlighted in green have been externally assured) G4-EN8 Planet, Page 83 (Environmental Data: Water Use) G4-EN10 G4-EN22 G4-EN9 (Partially reported) Planet, Pages 66-67 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 112 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Biodiversity We Are Monsanto, Page 29 (Earning Recognition); Planet, Pages 68-79 (Advocating for Biodiversity). We continue analyzing our G4-EN11 operations that are near or adjacent to areas of high biodiversity to ensure our operations do not affect sensitive habitat. G4-EN12 (Partially reported) Planet, Pages 68-79 (Advocating for Biodiversity) G4-EN13 Aspect: Effluents and Waste (Indicators highlighted in green have been externally assured) G4-EN23 Planet, Page 84 (Environmental Data: Water Use/Waste) G4-EN25 Our Luling, Louisiana, plant experienced an air emission release when a leak occurred in a reactor condenser, allowing G4-EN24 methyl chloride to release to the air. An estimated 160 pounds methyl chloride was emitted, exceeding the U.S. (Externally assured) Environmental Protection Agency’s 100 pound reportable quantity. There were no injuries or community impact. Across the globe, Monsanto complies with a diverse set of regulatory programs designed to protect water bodies and related habitats and routinely audits against these requirements. Beyond these audits, Monsanto regularly performs G4-EN26 self-assessments of all of our chemical manufacturing operations to confirm that we are not causing adverse impacts to groundwater or neighboring water resources. See also: Planet, Page 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27 Planet, Pages 59-79 Monsanto partners in agricultural container recycling programs globally, but does not currently collect this information centrally. In 2016, we estimate that approximately 92 percent of our U.S. crop protection product packaging was either refillable or recycled. With more than 85 G4-EN28 percent of our products sold in refillable containers and the other 15 percent in single-use plastic jugs, as part of the Ag Container Recycling Council (ACRC) initiative, we are diligently working to reduce product packaging waste. See also: Company, Page 95 (Handling Pesticide Waste) Aspect: Compliance Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material fines or G4-EN29 nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Additional information is provided in Monsanto’s Form (Externally assured) 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2016, Item 3, Note 24–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Aspect: Transport G4-EN30 Planet, Pages 81-82 (Environmental Data: Energy Use and Emissions) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 113 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Overall G4-EN31 (Partially reported) Planet, Page 61 (Investing in Greenhouse Gas Reductions), 70-72 (Protecting Species) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 Company, Pages 100-101 (Working with Our Suppliers) G4-EN33 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms We do not have a single formal mechanism in place to respond to all grievances Monsanto might receive regarding environmental G4-EN34 issues. Rather, we respond on a case-by-case basis, working with relevant company functions and involving upper-level management as appropriate. Typically, this work involves our Environmental, Safety and Health organization or our Regulatory organization. Category: Social Subcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1 People, Pages 49-50 (Employee Composition Data) G4-LA2 People, Page 48 (Rewarding Great Work) G4-LA3 People, Page 50 (Employee Composition Data) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations (Partially reported) We comply with the notification periods required in the regions of the world where we work. When an area has no specified G4-LA4 notification policy, we build our communication timeline in a way that accounts for the needs of our employees and their circumstances. Where collective bargaining agreements are in place, Monsanto follows the notification guidelines established in these agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 People, Page 51 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being) People, Page 51 (Making an Impact on Injury Severity), 53 (Tracking Health and Safety Performance). G4-LA6 Note: We do not track absentee rates. In fiscal year 2016 there were no work-related fatalities. G4-LA7 People, Pages 51-52 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being) Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9 G4-LA10 People, Pages 44-45 (Developing Our Employees) G4-LA11 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 114 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 People, Page 49 (Employee Composition Data); Company, Page 88 (Corporate Governance at a Glance) Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) G4-LA15 People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Subcategory: Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR1 People, Pages 54-55 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) G4-HR2 People, Pages 54-55 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Aspect: Child Labor G4-HR5 People, Pages 56-57 (Helping Eradicate Child Labor); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Our assessments did not find any instances of forced labor in 2016. For information on our assessments, see: G4-HR6 People, Pages 55-56 (Tracking Our Progress); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Aspect: Security Practices G4-HR7 People, Pages 54-55 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 People, Page 56 (Tracking Our Progress) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 115 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9 People, Pages 54-57 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) G4-HR11 People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 89 G4-HR12 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Subcategory: Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1 Company, Page 90 (Engaging with Our Neighbors) (Partially reported) Monsanto locations include administrative and sales offices, manufacturing plants, seed production facilities, research centers and learning centers located in mainly rural communities around the world. Information about specific operations is not reported due to security reasons. We employ a variety of measures to keep employees, visitors and communities safe including process safety management, pollution prevention, community awareness and emergency response planning. While Monsanto manages the following areas to mitigate and minimize the local impact of its operations on local communities and neighbors, each site type deals with a different set of potential community impacts. •• All sites have the potential to affect a community via fire, traffic, waste disposal and water consumption. •• Seed production, crop protection and research operations could impact a community through air emissions, noise, hazardous material release, light pollution and more. G4-SO2 Qualified audit teams conduct oversight compliance audits with attention to environmental, industrial hygiene, safety and property protection and occupational medicine at each Monsanto facility on a rotation with staff responsible for ongoing management of environmental, health and safety conditions. All of our sites have off-site consequence analysis for all highly hazardous materials (HHM) handled, including all credible scenarios (wind directions, etc.) to ensure proper community notification systems exist as needed; plant emergency response is sufficient; and drills with local authorities. Our global Crop Protection chemical production sites follow local Responsible Care programs and have externally validated environmental (ISO 14001 or RC14001®) management systems in place. See also: Planet, Page 80 (Guiding and Auditing Our Environmental Performance) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 116 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-SO3 (Partially reported) Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) GR-SO4 Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Aspect: Public Policy G4-SO6 Company, Page 90 (Political Contributions); Website: Political Disclosures Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-SO7 Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K, Note 24 Aspect: Compliance Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Additional information is G4-SO8 provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2016, Item 3, Note 24–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) G4-SO10 People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society We do not have a single formal mechanism in place to respond to all grievances Monsanto might receive regarding impacts on society. Rather, we respond to grievances on a case-by-case basis, working with relevant company functions and involving upper-level management as appropriate. G4-SO11 We address general concerns, for example those regarding our history, business and product lines, through various outreach programs, including our website and social media. We address more local concerns with outreach by our local and regional management and relevant personnel. Subcategory: Product Responsibility Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Company, Page 92 (Stewarding Product Safety), 95 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate); G4-PR1 Website: Product Stewardship; Website: Safety and Technical Information Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle. G4-PR2 Additional information is provided in Monsanto’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending August 31, 2016, Item 3, Note 24–Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Outlook, and the Legal Proceedings sections. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 117 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO S P E C I F I C S TA N D A R D D I S C L O S U R E S GRI INDICATOR LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Aspect: Product and Service Labeling •• Sourcing of components of the product or service: no •• Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact: yes G4-PR3 •• Safe use of the product: yes •• Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts: yes Our crop and vegetable seeds and crop protection products are covered by and assessed for compliance with the procedures identified above. Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material incidents G4-PR4 of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. See also: Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Based on a large survey of our farmer customers across a wide range of countries executed each year, both large and small acre farmers who raise G4-PR5 row crops and vegetables report the following: high marks to our seed brand performance, strong satisfaction for biotech trait seed performance and a growing number respond that they would be willing to recommend Monsanto’s products to a friend. Aspect: Marketing Communications We Are Monsanto, Page 27 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently), 28 (Inviting Conversation); Company, Page 92 G4-PR6 (Stewarding Product Safety), 95 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate), 96 (Transparently Summarizing Our View on Food Labeling); Website: Safety and Technical Information; Website: Labeling Food and Ingredients Developed from GM Seed Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material incidents of G4-PR7 noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. See also: Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Monsanto did not experience breaches of customer privacy or loss of customer data in fiscal year 2016. Aspect: Compliance Monsanto regularly and routinely collects compliance information regarding its global operations. We did not identify any material incidents G4-PR9 of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. See also: Monsanto 2016 Form 10-K: Item 3, Note 24 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 118 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO G R I D I S C L O S U R E S O N M A N A G E M E N T A P P R O A C H O F M AT E R I A L T O P I C S See Pages 21-25 for definitions of each material topic listed below. LOCATION/DESCRIPTION We Are Monsanto, Page 28 (External Charters and Principles); Planet, Page 72 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Product Safety and Stewardship Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control); Company, Page 92 (Stewarding Product Safety), 95 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate) Modern, Innovative Agricultural We Are Monsanto, Page 16 (Our Portfolio of Products); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 65 (Applying Data Science to Technologies and Products Feed a Growing Population), 72 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control) Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change) Sustainable Chemistry Planet, Page 72 (Enabling Responsible Pest Control), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control) Water Consumption and Management Planet, Page 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water) Business Practices and Competition Company, Page 98 (Supporting Transparency in Academic Partnerships ), 99 (Protecting Intellectual Property), 99 (Pursuing Effective Regulatory Approval) Global Hunger and Nutrition Security People, Page 32 (Helping to Ensure Food and Nutrition Security) We Are Monsanto, Page 27 (Working Collaboratively and Transparently), 28 (External Charters and Principles), 28 (Inviting Conversation); Business Ethics and Transparency Company, Pages 86-87 (Our Corporate Governance Framework), 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business), 98 (Supporting Transparency in Academic Partnerships) Positive Relationships with People, Page 39 (Reaching Out to Communities), 52 (Protecting Our Guests); Company, Page 90 (Engaging with Our Neighbors) Local Communities and Society Regulatory Approval Systems Company, Page 92 (Stewarding Product Safety), 95 (Supporting the Science on Glyphosate), 99 (Pursuing Effective Regulatory Approval) People, Page 32 (Promoting Food Security in Africa), 34 (Grow Asia: Improving Farmer Livelihoods), 35 (Providing Critical Information Serving Smallholder Farmers to Smallholder Farmers: FarmRise), 35 (Training Smallholder Farmers) Land Use and Deforestation Planet, Pages 68-69 (Advocating for Biodiversity), 74 (Promoting Sustainable Landscapes) Soil Health Planet, Page 75 (Digging Into Soil Health), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control) Human Rights People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights) Seed Patents and Plant Variety Rights Planet, Page 78 (Preserving and Improving Plant Varieties and Sharing Benefits); Company, Page 99 (Protecting Intellectual Property) Talent Management, Diversity and Benefits People, Page 44 (Improving Lives for Our People) GMO Labeling Company, Page 96 (Transparently Summarizing Our View on Food Labeling) Biodiversity and Ecosystems Planet, Page 68 (Advocating for Biodiversity) Occupational Health, Safety and Wellness People, Page 51 (Promoting Employee Health, Safety and Well-Being), 53 (Health and Safety Data) Data Security, Management and Access The Climate Corporation Website: Guiding Principles on Data and Privacy Political Spending Company, Page 90 (Political Contributions); Website: Political Disclosures Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 119 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO UN Global Compact Index THE TEN PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE LOCATION/DESCRIPTION Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection 1 of internationally proclaimed human rights. People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Businesses should make sure that they are People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights), 54 (Upholding Our Human Rights Standards), 55 (Tracking Our Progress), 2 not complicit in human rights abuses. 56 (Respecting Human Rights in High-Risk Areas), 56 (Helping Eradicate Child Labor); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of 3 association and the effective recognition People, Page 54 (Upholding Our Human Rights Standards); Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights), 55 (Human Rights at Monsanto: 2016 Highlights); Company, Page 100 4 forms of forced and compulsory labour. (Working with Our Suppliers) Businesses should uphold the effective People, Page 54 (Forging the Way in Human Rights), 55 (Tracking Our Progress), 56 (Helping Eradicate Child Labor); 5 abolition of child labour. Company, Page 100 (Working with Our Suppliers) Businesses should uphold the People, Page 46 (Embracing the Power of Inclusion and Diversity), 47 (Fostering Innovation Through Inclusion); Company, 6 elimination of discrimination in respect Page 88 (Corporate Governance At A Glance); 100 (Working with Our Suppliers), 101 (Supporting Diverse Businesses) of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water), 68 (Advocating For Biodiversity); 7 approach to environmental challenges. Company, Page 92 (Stewarding Product Safety) Businesses should undertake initiatives to Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change), 66 (Ensuring Access to Fresh Water), 68 (Advocating for Biodiversity), 8 promote greater environmental responsibility. 74 (Promoting Sustainable Landscapes), 80 (Guiding and Auditing Our Environmental Performance); Company, Page 92 (Stewarding Product Safety) We Are Monsanto, Page 16 (Our Portfolio of Products); People, Page 32 (Promoting Food Security in Africa); Planet, Page 59 (Mitigating Businesses should encourage the development and 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and Adapting to Climate Change), 65 (Applying Data Science to Feed a Growing Population), 77 (Researching Ag Biological Solutions for Plant and Soil Health and Pest Control) Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all 10 its forms, including extortion and bribery. Company, Page 89 (Driving Ethical Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Throughout Our Business) Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 120 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT STATEMENT Introduction & Objective of work: Monsanto company has engaged SGS India Pvt. Ltd., to conduct an independent random assessment to their CCP (Child Care Program) for Monsanto during fiscal year 2016 (November 2015 to May 2016). The assessment statement applies to CCP within the scope of the work described in SOW (Statement of work), dated November 12, 2015 as part of an agreement by & between Monsanto Company and SGS, dated July 1, 2013. Methodology: This independent assessment by SGS India Pvt. Ltd., has undertaken the following activities: 1. Witnessing of CCP auditors field assessments at different locations. 2. Witnessing of CCP auditors sensitizations ‘program at different locations 3. Interviews with various stakeholders (seed coordinators, Farmers, Farm workers, etc) to collect the information related to CCP program. 4. Witnessing Other CCP related programs like bridge schools, Multi stakeholders meeting. 5. Review of document and reports shared by Monsanto. 6. 10 % Desk audit of CCP assessment reports. 7. Review of centralized HR data, relevant KPIs in Monsanto India office at Hyderabad (Shameerpet) in India. Our work was conducted in accordance with SGS standard protocols/procedures and guidelines for external verification based on current best practice in independent assessment. Our observations: On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above • We have not observed any points to indicate that the statements reviewed by us are inaccurate. • In our opinion Monsanto has established appropriate systems on implementation of Child care program and collection of data for review and further action. • Opportunities for further improvement on Child Care Program are recommended. Page 1 of 2 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 121 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Exclusions and Limitations: Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to: • Assessments of region not included by Monsanto in the scope of assessment. • CCP process outside the defined period in the contract. • Statements (Any expressions of opinions, belief, aim and or future plans by Monsanto) and statements of future commitments. This independent assessment statement should not be relied upon to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist. Statement of impartiality, independence and competence SGS India Pvt. Ltd., is the world’s leading Verification, Testing and Certification organization offering a wide range of quality related technical services with more than 60 years. SGS India Pvt. Ltd has implemented a Code of Integrity across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day to day business activities. We have conducted this assessment independently, and there has been no conflict of interests. The assessment team has vast experience in conducting verification and assessment on social, ethical & health and safety information, systems and processes, over 15 years combined experience in this field with very good understanding of SGS India Pvt. Ltd., standard protocols for Assessment reports. Attestation: M V Suresh Savita Manjunath Consumer and Retail Consumer and Retail Operation Manger-SAS-South India Head-SAS Date: June 08, 2016 Page 2 of 2 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 122 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction and objectives of work Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) has been engaged by Monsanto to conduct an independent assurance of selected environmental indicators for Monsanto’s Fiscal Year 2016 (September 1, 2015 to August 31, 2016) to be presented in Monsanto’s 2016 Sustainability Report. This Assurance Statement applies to the environmental indicators listed within the scope of work described below. The determination of the environmental indicators and other information presented in Monsanto’s 2016 Sustainability Report is the sole responsibility of the management of Monsanto. BVNA was not involved in the determination of environmental indicators included in the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent verification of the accuracy of selected information as described below. Scope of work Monsanto requested BVNA to verify the accuracy of the following environmental metrics associated with GRI G4 Environmental Indicators for the Fiscal Year 2016 reporting period: G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN4: Energy consumption outside of the organization associated with business travel and logistics G4-EN5: Energy Intensity G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN10: Total volume of water reused and recycled G4-EN15: Direct (Scope 1) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN16: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions G4-EN17: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions associated with business travel and logistics G4-EN18: GHG emissions intensity ratio G4-EN21: Other air emissions – NOx, SOx and VOCs G4-EN22: Total process water discharged by destination G4-EN22: Process waste water quality for direct surface water discharges G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by weight and disposal method G4-EN24: Total number and volume of significant spills G4-EN25: Weight of transported, imported, exported , or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN29: Significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 123 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto Assurance Statement Page 2 Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of information relating to:  Other information (e.g., text and data) associated with Monsanto’s 2016 Environmental Sustainability Report that is outside the scope of work described above  Activities outside the defined verification period of Fiscal Year 2016 Methodology As part of its independent verification, BVNA undertook the following activities: 1. Interviews with relevant personnel of Monsanto regarding data collection and reporting systems; 2. Review of Monsanto’s data and information systems and methodology for collection, aggregation, analysis and internal audit of information used to determine the environmental data; 3. Review of documentary evidence produced by Monsanto; 4. Audit of environmental and energy data traced back to the source for Monsanto facilities located in Illiopolis, Illinois; Luling, Louisiana; St. Louis Creve Coeur, Missouri; Waterman, Illinois; and Woodland, California, USA during site visits; 5. Audit of select environmental and energy data traced back to the source for Monsanto facilities located in Bergschenhoek, Netherlands; Camacari, Brazil; Jerseyville, Illinois; and Kunia, Hawaii, based on information provided remotely and through telephone interviews; and 6. Review of the centralized data, methods for consolidation of site data and site data available in the centralized data management system during a visit to Monsanto’s headquarters location in St. Louis, Missouri, USA. Our assurance work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and ISO Standard 14064-3 Greenhouse Gases Part 3: Specification with Guidance for the Validation and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Assertions. In accordance with our internal procedures for limited assurance, we use these as our reference standards. The work was planned and carried out to provide data verification to a limited assurance level using a materiality threshold of ±5% and we believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions. Our findings On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above:  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information within the scope of our verification as detailed above is not materially correct.  Nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the reviewed information is not a fair representation of the actual environmental and energy data for Fiscal Year 2016. Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 124 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto Assurance Statement Page 3  It is our opinion that Monsanto has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of quantitative data within the scope of work specified herein. A summary of data within the scope of assurance for Fiscal Year 2016 is attached. Statement of independence, impartiality and competence BVNA is part of The Bureau Veritas Group, an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with almost 180 years of history in providing independent assurance services, and an annual 2015 revenue of 4.6 Billion Euros. No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Monsanto, its Directors or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We have conducted this verification independently, and there has been no conflict of interest. BVNA has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day to day business activities. Attestation: John Rohde, Lead Verifier Trevor Donaghu, Project Reviewer Senior Project Manager Senior Project Manager Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Denver, Colorado February 13, 2017 Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 125 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto Assurance Statement Page 4 Environmental Metric Description Value G4-EN3: Energy Consumption within the organization (1000 GJ) 24,900 G4-EN4: Energy Consumption outside of the organization associated with business travel and logistics (1000 GJ) 5,070 G4-EN5 Energy Intensity Ratio (GJ per $1,000 Revenue) 1.85 G4--EN8: Total water withdrawal by source (1000 M3) 667,000 G4EN10: Total volume of water reused and recycled (1000 M3) 339,000 G4-EN15: Total Direct GHG Emissions Source (1000 MT of CO2e) 1,590 G4--EN16: Energy indirect GHG emissions (1000 MT of CO2e) Scope 2 – location-based 1,070 Scope 2 – market-based 1,090 G4-EN17: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions associated with logistics and business travel (1000 MT of CO2e) 379 G4-EN18: Scope 1 and Scope 2 (location-based) GHG emissions intensity ratio (MT CO2e per $1,000 revenue) 0.197 G4-EN18: Scope 1 and Scope 2 (market-based) GHG emissions intensity ratio (MT CO2e per $1,000 revenue) 0.198 G4-EN21: Other air emissions (MT) Sulfur Oxide (SOx) Emissions, combustion and process 1,450 Nitrous Oxide (NOx) Emissions, combustion and process 3,600 Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) Emissions 89.5 G4EN22: Total process water discharged by destination (1000 M3) Discharged to Off-site Treatment (e.g., POTW) 995 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Subsurface (e.g., deep well injection, leach field) 2,150 Permitted Discharges to the Environment Surface Water (e.g., river) 14,900 G4-EN22: Process waste water quality for direct surface water discharges (MT) BOD 60 Nitrate (as N) 65.9 Phosphates (as PO4) 364 Total Suspended Solids (TSS) 92 G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by weight and disposal method (MT) Energy Recovery 28,600 Incineration 16,100 Landfill 25,100 Reuse/Recycling/Composting (excluding used material (i.e. cardboard, metal) for which Monsanto received 157,000 payment) G4-EN24: Total number and volume of significant spills (agency reportable releases) 1 (70 kg) G4-EN25: Weight of transported, imported, exported , or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of Basel 0 Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN29: Significant fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (fines >$100,000) 0 GJ = gigajoule,MT = metric ton, M3 = cubic meters, CO2e = carbon dioxide equivalent Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 126 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 127 WE ARE PEOPLE PL ANET COMPANY MONSANTO Monsanto 2016 Sustainability Report | 128 Trademarks and service marks owned by Monsanto Company and its subsidiaries are indicated throughout this report. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. © 2017 Monsanto Company For more information regarding Monsanto’s sustainability efforts, please contact fiona.l.woody@monsanto.com.
