GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2016 SCOTT BADER d.o.o. Zagreb, March 2017 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Content Level of the report: C G3 profile index: Profile 1 – Strategy and Analysis 1.1. Letter from the President of the Management Board p. 3 Profile 2 – Organisational profile Social Responsibility in Business Performance p.4 The founding of the SCOTT BADER Company and Group p.4 The Commonwealth p.4 Where does Scott Bader operate today? p.5 From Scott Bader customers p.6,7 What is expected of Scott Bader people? p.9 The arrival of Scott Bader to Croatia p.13 2.1. -2.10. p. 13-17 Quality and environmental management p. 18-21 Profile 3. – Report Parameters 3.1 – 3.13. p. 22,23 Profile 4 – Structure and Systems of Management 4.1 p. 23 4.14 – 4.15 p. 23-25 Main acts of Company politics Mission p. 27 Vision p. 28 Code of ethics and business conduct p. 29,30 Quality policy and environmental p. 31 Code of practice for Commonwealth members p. 32,33 The founding principles of Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 – Principle 2 p. 35 Labour standards Principle 3 – Principle 6 p. 35,36 Environment Principle 7 – Principle 8 p. 36-39 REACH Statement p. 40 Principle 9 p. 40 Anti corruption Principle 10 p. 41 GRI G3 Content index: Economic dimension EC1 p. 43-45 Donations p. 46-57 Social dimension SO1 p. 59 Environmental dimension EN3 Direct power consumption p. 62 EN4 Indirect power consumption p. 63 EN8 Water p. 63 EN16 Greenhouse gas emission p. 64 EN20 SO2 and NOx emission p. 64 EN21 Waste water release p. 65 EN22 Total waste p. 65 EN26 Initiatives for reducing the impact on environment p. 66 EN30 Total ecological investments, material cost & services p. 66 Making a positive Difference 2/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Profile 1 – Strategy and Analysis Global Compact Report Chairman of the Board's Report on Supporting Global Compact The importance of Global Compact initiative, for both the international business community and the community at large is recognized by our company, but also the value of the initiative for the company itself, through a chance of daily revision and improvement of its business performance. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. joined Global Compact in 2007. Our business continued with successful recovery and growth in last several years, after business conditions and profitability on global market were strongly effected during the crisis started by the end of the previous decade, which forced the most of companies on significant reduction of costs and previously defined plans. However our business principles and practice were not changed in times of crises and recovery, strengthening our opinion that in difficult times everyone should even stronger apply fairness and other right principles in own business environment. We believe that a business is successful only if the profit is gained from socially responsible business activities, not to be sacrificed for (usually short-term) financial goals only and that Global Compact principles keep their importance no matter of changes we witness on the global market. We continuously improve our market position with the goal of achieving the best possible results, but also we are aiming to be involved in positive development of business environment, by conducting our business in such a manner as to respect human rights, protect our environment and respect all of the principles comprehensively summarized by Global Compact into the ten most important principles of responsible business conduct. On behalf of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. I can confirm that we continue to apply and promote the concept of socially responsible business conduct and every single principle of Global Compact. March 2017 President of the Management Board Andrej Potežica Making a positive Difference 3/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Profile 2 – Organisational profile Social Responsibility in Business Performance Social responsibility is one of the founding principles of our Company, as a general idea representing the commitment of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. to perform its activities in a fair, responsible manner and with consideration towards its business partners, employees and owners. This is also the founding principle of the founder of Scott Bader, expressed through the Commonwealth organisation (employee unity), based on the decisions and acts of Ernest Bader, the founder and owner of Scott Bader in England, a large multinational company today with companies on five continents. The founding of the SCOTT BADER Company and Group Scott Bader Company Limited was established in 1923. Ernest Bader was a Swiss emigrant who set up a merchandising venture in London in 1920 with the sole agency for Swiss celluloid in the UK. By 1932 Scott Bader had moved into manufacturing in the East End of London and in wartime 1940 evacuated to Wollaston, Northamptonshire. The factory built at Wollaston was to manufacture phenolic pastes, reclaim rubber emulsions and produce resins for paints. In 1946 Scott Bader became the first unsaturated polyester resin manufacturer in Europe with licences from America. The Commonwealth The Founders, having experienced industrial strikes and two world wars wanted to create better and peaceful human relationships by moving forward from the usual shareholder/capitalist structures in industry. So in 1951 all the share capital and therefore the ownership of the Company was transferred, free of charge, to Scott Bader Commonwealth Limited, an organisation created for that purpose with charitable status. This highly generous and imaginative act established a common trusteeship business. This means that we have no external Shareholders. All the shares are held in trust and this makes us totally independent. Making a positive Difference 4/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. The intention of the Founders was to create a different company, its well-being entrusted to those who work in it with democratic involvement. As a result of our organisation the employees enjoy many of the benefits (and responsibilities) of ownership without the right to sell the business. Our main responsibility is that each generation of employees must ensure the ongoing success of the organisation so that future generations can benefit from its continued existence. In April 2011 Scott Bader Group celebrated important jubilee – 60 years of Commonwealth, i.e. 60 years since the former Ernest Bader gave his company to employees for common management and trusteeship. Where does Scott Bader operate today? When Scott Bader became a Common Trusteeship Company it operated only in the UK. Over the last 50 years the company has expanded geographically and today has manufacturing companies not only in United Kingdom, but also in France, Croatia, South Africa, Middle East, Canada, India and South America. It also has distribution companies or research centres in Ireland, Czech Republic, Sweden, Germany, Spain, USA and China. It employs over 630 people worldwide. Main markets and industries where Scott Bader companies deliver their products are: marine industry transport chemical containment building industry coatings wind industry graphic arts textiles and furnishes Making a positive Difference 5/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. From Scott Bader customers… The contemporary new BBVA Digital Bank Headquarters in Madrid saves energy using composite sun panels made from Crestapol® Infusion Resin and Crystic® FIREGUARD Intumescent In-Mould Gelcoat. The new BBVA headquarters building in Madrid is kept cooler using composite sun panels which are an integral part of the building’s new contemporary façade. Summer temperatures in Madrid can reach over 30oC by midday, so having innovative, environmentally friendly ways to minimise air-conditioning energy usage inside its new head office was high on the agenda for BBVA. This is in addition to its strong commitment to using renewable energy and buildings with the highest environmental certification. The 1600 sun panels, produced by Innova Composite, range in sizes from 1.5 metres up to 4 metres and were supplied and fitted to complete the stylish façade of the new head office building. To meet the required UNE-EN 13501-1 fire standard for the building, the composite panels were vacuum infused using Scott Bader’s matched fire retardant laminate system, comprising of Crestapol® 1212 high performance urethane acrylate resin with intumescent in-mould spray Crystic® FIREGUARD 75PA (IMS) EXCEL fire protection gelcoat. New Shanghai Disneyland Futuristic Tomorrowland Built Using Crestapol® Resin and Crystic® FR Gelcoat The new Shanghai Disneyland resort opened on 16th June 2016. The spectacular new Disney resort in China has six themed lands including ‘Tomorrowland’ with future world Disney characters. Extensive sections of both the interior and exterior of the buildings and rides in Tomorrowland, covering an area of over 2,300 m2, were constructed from fire retardant (FR) gelcoated FRP composite moulded parts. All FRP components needed for Tomorrowland were hand lay-up and manufactured by E-Grow, a specialist composites fabricator. Several hundred different sized and shaped gelcoated FRP parts were produced by E-Grow for Tomorrowland using a unique, patented wax mould process that permits wax waste to be recycled. This enables large custom shaped FRP parts to be produced with very little waste at highly competitive prices. The production process is also more environmentally friendly since it includes material recycling. Making a positive Difference 6/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. E-Grow used a fire approved laminate system comprising of Scott Bader’s Crestapol® 1212 high performance ATH filled urethane acrylate resin, with the fire retardant preaccelerated Iso-NPG polyester gelcoat Crystic® 967 FR. The gelcoats were supplied in eight custom colours. E-Grow was founded in 1997 and specialises in advanced building materials and providing solutions to creative, challenging architectural projects. Cladding Project of Kiev Church Completed Using Only Scott Bader Products! Our Ukrainian distributor UMS-Polyester LLC worked with our sales team in France to win this amazing church cladding project. The cladding project for a church in Kiev has been under discussion since the beginning of 2016. The project was successfully completed using only Scott Bader products. This was due to the high fire-retardant properties of our FST System Crystic FG72PA and Crystic 1355PA, along with the Ukrainian fire-retardant certificate received by UMS. Cladding panels were produced by hand lay-up. Topcoats made from Crystic FR 72PA and Crystic Solution MW were used on the back side of the laminate. Moulds were made following extensive and successful trials with our rapid mould system. To bond the panels together Crystic BP 90-80PA was used. Altogether, we have supplied 70 tons of Fire-Retardant Resin and 5 tons of white fire-retardant gelcoat for this project. The end result is a very impressive looking church. The University of Valencia’s new Business School building is a composite masterpiece! Founded in 1499, the University of Valencia, is a thriving institution with 3 campuses offering a mix of the modern with 15th century architecture. As part of a major expansion of the EDEM Business School, 3 former harbour buildings were combined, redesigned and refurbished inside and out – now with a new modern façade manufactured from a fire rated composite system. The production of all the moulded components for the new façade was carried out by Miraplas S.L, a company with a track record in fabricating complex shape FRP parts for Spanish building projects. This particular project involved producing panels using Crestapol® 1212 with a UV resistant marine quality ISO gelcoat, and Crestabond® M105 and M1-20 for bonding them. The end result being a very impressive façade. “The main reason for using Crestapol ®1212 was because after testing other competitor resins, we realised that only Scott Bader’s resin could be used in all application methods (RTM, hand laminate, infusion and pultrusion). Making a positive Difference 7/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Additionally, Crestapol ® 1212 achieves Cs2d0, is lightweight, has excellent corrosion resistance and will enable the production of 3D shapes.” Mr. Antonio Miraplas General & Sales Manager SCOTT BADER GROUP SHOWS IN YEAR 2015 and 2016 2015 Japanese Automotive Show an automotive trade show Compotec Show a composites show held in Italy Ecobuild UK based sustainable design, construction and energy event JEC the world’s largest composites event held in France European Coatings Show held in Germany FAST (Fastening & Assembly Solutions and Technology) a fastening and bonding show held in the UK US Truck Show FAST Exhibition held in the UK China Adhesives Exhibition held in Shanghai The International Boatbuilders Exhibition & Conference (IBEX) held in the US Composites Europe show held in Germany 2016 CAMX – North America FEIPLAR – South America JEC – France EXPERIENCE COMPOSITES – Germany INNOTRANS – Germany METS – Holland CHINA COMPOSITES – China ADVANCED ENGINEERING SHOW – U.K SHIPWRIGHT LECTURES – U.K COMPOSITES EUROPE – Germany MIDEST – France CHINACOAT – China Kompozyt Expo – Poland The exhibition season highlights Scott Bader’s global reach. With customers across the globe, it’s vitally import we attend exhibitions to not only enhance current relationships but also build new ones! As a business we are striving to make a positive difference across the globe. Making a positive Difference 8/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. What is expected of Scott Bader people? The international business structure brings with it distinct challenges in operating as a common trusteeship. All Scott Bader companies wherever their location must work to a common set of principles: Care Equality (of opportunity) Ethics Involvement No discrimination Respect (human dignity) Service Following development, organisation and very dynamic changes in business and global world in general, Scott Bader Group continuously monitor and review own policies, not moving further from main principles, those are universal and with no time limits. During year 2011, after large consultation and opinions collected all around the Group, it was agreed existing principles, respecting the past and shaping the future, to cumulate into four main values, those define all principles we apply in achieving our goals, as well as values that should be applied in the activity of each of us in the Group. Those values are (each equally important, no matter of its place when written): Commitment Responsibility Team working Fairness We believe that these principles and values would enable that in the future we also stay Partner for Excellence and Successful, Profitable and Sustainable Organisation. Employees of Scott Bader Group and members of Scott Bader Commonwealth are aware of the values that the Group nurtures and develops, those are visible in the organisation and functioning of each of Group companies, enabling a positive working environment and helping to each team in achieving their targets. Making a positive Difference 9/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. C ommitment Team working We’re committed to the We work principles of common co-operatively and in trusteeship and making collaboration with Scott Bader a successful colleagues, customers and sustainable and suppliers to deliver organisation. excellence. Responsibility Fairness We each take personal We are fair, honest and responsibility in how we ethical in how we work with work to do the best for others and how we are Scott Bader. treated at Scott Bader. In all our activities we should consider our three pillars: Ecology, Humanity, Business. Our Purpose Statement Making a Positive Difference... As of 6 July 2016 Scott Bader Group has a new company purpose statement: We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. As a company, we intend to fulfil this purpose statement by;  Taking decisions with care balancing ecology, humanity and business  Using our chemistry expertise to innovate responsible solutions for the world today, and tomorrow  Exceeding our customers’ expectations  Using our resources sustainably to minimise the impact on the environment  Unleashing the diverse potential and goodwill of our people Making a positive Difference 10/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch.  Sharing our profits and use our talents to develop a more inclusive and harmonious society During the reported period SCOTT BADER was awarded with The Gandhi Foundation International Peace Award 2014 The Gandhi Foundation International Peace Award 2014 has been jointly awarded to Godric Bader, Life President of Scott Bader, and to the Scott Bader Commonwealth for the better business model created by him and his family, which continues today as a cornerstone of the Scott Bader Group globally. The award was presented during a special ceremony in London at the House of Lords on Thursday 30th October 2014. The event was attended by over 100 guests comprising members of the Bader family, friends, colleagues and associates of Scott Bader, as well as members of the Ghandi Foundation. The award was received by Godric Bader, for his personal lifetime achievements and in recognition of the Scott Bader Commonwealth. Scott Bader wins innovation award Scott Bader’s joint submission with customer Far-UK won the Composites UK 2015 'Innovation in Design' Award for the innovative Intrado car which was manufactured by Far-UK Ltd using our Crestapol® 1250LV Resin. Making a positive Difference 11/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Scott Bader Wins 2016 'Most Innovative Supplier’ Award from LM Wind Power Scott Bader was presented with ‘Most innovative supplier 2016’ award for it’s new, ‘zero styrene’ spray gelcoat technology. The prestigious supplier award certificate was presented by Marc de Jong, CEO of LM Wind Power to Malcolm Forsyth, Director, Global Strategy for Scott Bader, who has overall strategic partnership responsibility for LM Wind Power. LM Wind Power is a long standing key global customer, whose factories use Scott Bader gelcoat and structural adhesive in the production of FRP wind turbine blades around the world. Making a positive Difference 12/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. The arrival of Scott Bader to Croatia Our company, named Chromos Tvornica Smola stock company at the time, started cooperating closely with the Scott Bader Group in 1999, when Scott Bader has invested its financial resources through a financial support through a loan as well as its own guarantees into helping the company recover and return onto the international market. It was at that time during our highly intensive cooperation that Scott Bader recognized the possibility of a complete and successful integration of the Croatian company into the Group and gained full ownership over Chromos Tvornica Smola share holding company in 2006. With certainty and belief in the sustainability of production in Zagreb, during the same year employees were given the opportunity to apply to become members of the Commonwealth, along with the possibility of having full reports on all issues of relevance for the Group, of participating in decisions regarding profit and its distribution, electing their own Local council and including their representatives into the activities of the Commonwealth Assembly. Even prior to having become the owner of the Croatian company, Scott Bader worked on improving the processes, products, organisation and financial stability of the Company and provided access to all of its resources and expertise. In spring 2007 the Company changed its name into SCOTT BADER d.o.o. Business activities and company organization 2.1. Name: SCOTT BADER d.o.o. 2.2. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. manufactures polyester, vinyl ester, alkyd and acrylic resins and similar products. 2.3. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. has no subsidiaries and does not own any other company. 2.4. The Company operates at a single location, in Zagreb's Industrial zone. The Company's headquarters are located at Radnička cesta 173 i, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia. 2.5. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. delivers products mostly in Central and Eastern Europe, but in other markets too, through direct sales or using the local or Group distribution network. Our trademarks is known in chemical industries after years of presence on the markets of Germany, Austria, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, BosniaHerzegovina, Serbia, Macedonia, Romania, Bulgaria, Russia, Ukraine, UK, France etc. Making a positive Difference 13/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. 2.6. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is owned solely by Boldhelp Limited, a member of Scott Bader Group with the headquarters in the UK. 2.7. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. manufactures synthetic resins, namely: Polyester and vinyl ester (Crystic, Chromoplast) with the application in the production of yachts, sailboats and boats; wind power; the production and reparation of pipes and pipelines; the production of decorative artificial marble , the production of sanitary equipment, primarily bathtubs etc., sales in about 20 countries across Europe. Alkyd and acrylic resins (Crestakyd, Crestacryl, formerly known as Chromosal and Chromoacryl), with the application in the production of alkyd and acrylic-based paints, primarily paints for metal, wood, concrete and road marking. Making a positive Difference 14/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. During the reported period SCOTT BADER d.o.o. was awarded with 2nd sales achievement in growing margin, 2015 For an astounding performance in 2015 PLAQUE FROM CUSTOMER Expressing deep gratitude for fruitful cooperation and full professionalism. Making a positive Difference 15/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. 2.8. The Company currently employs 61 people, 16 of which are women and 45 men. A higher number of men are employed in Operations/Technical sector – there are men employed in the plant, warehouse and maintenance, while both men and women are employed in other organisational units. Employee structure by gender at year end Gender 2013 2014 2015 2016 men 40 44 47 45 women 15 15 16 16 TOTAL 55 59 63 61 Employee structure by education at year end EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY EDUCATION 2013 2014 2015 2016 Master degree 1 2 3 3 Unversity degree 10 11 10 10 High-school degree 26 28 34 38 High skilled workers 0 0 0 0 Skilled workers 11 11 10 7 Semi-skilled workers 1 0 0 0 Unskilled workers 6 7 6 3 TOTAL 55 59 63 61 Making a positive Difference 16/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Employee structure by age at year end EMPLOYEE STRUCTURE BY AGE 2013 2014 2015 2016 unde r 18 ye ars of age 0 0 0 0 18 20 0 0 0 0 21 30 7 10 11 12 31 40 10 12 17 21 41 50 9 9 9 10 51 55 8 8 8 7 ove r 55 21 20 18 11 TOTAL 55 59 63 61 There was a generation change in our company, as visible from the table with age structure. In these couple years over 15 employees left the company for retirement and new employment is enabling smooth takeover from experienced colleagues to younger/new employees. Making a positive Difference 17/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS An Integrated Management System (IMS) has been established in SCOTT BADER d.o.o. in accordance to ISO 9001:2008 (quality), ISO 14001:2004 (environment) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety) standards. Quality management system is applicable for a long time (since 1996) and it is operational too in the daily company business. Quality management system effectiveness is confirmed through the results in customer satisfaction, the minimum number of customer complaints and internal problems of quality, as well as in achieving given goals. Environmental Management System was introduced in December 2010 as well as Occupational Health and Safety Management System in January 2014. The effectiveness of environment and occupational health and safety management systems are demonstrated by achieving environment and health and safety objectives, constantly striving to achieve the goal of zero incidents, with no lost time or reportable injuries, internal audit, Management review, compliance with legislation and good cooperation with interested parties. Quality, environment and occupational health and safety management are defined through documented system, through Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Rules, defined Processes, Procedures, Work Instructions and Recordings. Essential goal of our company is customer satisfaction and the fulfilment and anticipation of customer needs with high awareness of environmental protection and health and safety. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is one of the 250 company in Croatia which are obligated to have Environmental Permit according to IPPC regulation and on 5th May 2014 we received Environmental Permit from Croatian Ministry of environmental protection. Making a positive Difference 18/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Making a positive Difference 19/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Making a positive Difference 20/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Making a positive Difference 21/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Profile 3. The Report Parameters 3.1. The Global Compact Report encompasses the period partly covered already in previous Report, and continues to period from 1st of January 2016 to 31st December 2016, with reflection to previous period with the goal of achieving better understanding of certain trends. 3.2. This is the ninth SCOTT BADER d.o.o.'s COP. The previous one was submitted on 11th March 2016. 3.3. Report submission is on annual basis. 3.4. Regarding the Report, the contact person is Mrs. Ružica Geceg, Member of the Board and Director of Finance, Administration and Human Resources in SCOTT BADER d.o.o. The Report was delivered by: 1. Ružica Geceg, Member of the Management Board, Director of Finance, Administration and Human Resources 2. Andrej Potežica, President of the Management Board, Operations, Sales 3. Damir Brdarić, Engineering Manager 4. Ružica Tomić Kezunović, REACH 5. Ivana Radovanović Horvat, Environment 5. Željka Grabner, Administration and IT 6. Ankica Sertić, Human Resources 3.5 The Report was formed and defined in accordance to the Global Compact Principles and GRI G3 guidelines. 3.6 All data pertain solely to SCOTT BADER d.o.o., Croatia. 3.7 The Report is based on level C application of GRI Framework for Sustainability Reporting. The complete COP Report shall be published on UN Global Compact web-site www.unglobalcompact.org, and SCOTT BADER web site www.scottbader.com. 3.10 Information and data from previous report are not changed. 3.11 There are currently no significant changes in relation to a previous report. Making a positive Difference 22/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. 3.12. Table/Content with all points by GRI is presented on the second page of the Report. 3.13 This Report (as a whole) has not been verified by an external assessors, since verification is not obligatory. Financial data for 2016 were verified through the audit of annual financial reports and activities of internal control, expressed a positive opinion. The audit was performed by iAudit d.o.o., Rijeka, Croatia, which is working with the Group’s auditor Moore Stephens, UK. Certain parts of the Report refer to the functioning of the quality system according to ISO 9001:2008 standard, environmental system according to ISO 14001:2004 as well as OHSAS 18001:2007 for the system of occupational health and safety, and for all of them regular audits confirm positive results. Profile 4. – Management, obligations and participation 4.1. Supervisory Board and Management Board Supervisory Board: Mr. Jean Marc Bain, President Mr. Jean-Claude, Member Mr. Andrew John Forrester, Member Management Board: Mr. Andrej Potežica, President of the Board Mrs. Ružica Geceg, Member of the Board 4.14./4.15. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. stakeholders The report of stakeholders, communication and improvement Customers We provide our customers with the supply of high-quality products with expert support of a very high quality. We work continually on improving the cooperation with our customers through not only offering them high-quality products but also complete technical assistance in the application of our products. We are ready to cooperate with our customers at their product development stage and by adjusting our product range to their innovative solutions. We perform customer satisfaction survey that give us a solid basis for future improvements Making a positive Difference 23/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Suppliers We treat our suppliers as our partners in achieving our desired quality. We inform our suppliers of annual quality ratings of their supply of products and services and our cooperation as a whole . We expect our suppliers to operate in accordance with basic principles of business correctness, sustainable development and positive impact on the community in which they operate. Owners As Scott Bader does not have a standard ownership, but the ownership is defined as a Trustee-sheep, with the employees as stakeholders, they are continually involved and informed of the Company's business performance and other important events in both the company and its environment through pre-defined reporting forms and through an on-going communication within the Group. Employees The employees are included in the business performance info system of both the Company and the entire SCOTT BADER Group by means of a set info system: monthly and periodical reports on business performance of the local Company and other companies within the Group, through the reports of local management, General Manager of the Group or financial reports. Monthly and Quarterly Bulletins of the Group are available to all employees. All employees may place their questions and comments after having received the reports. The Group Board informs the employees of the most important issues and decisions after having held their sessions. The Company provides for on-going training of its employees in accordance with the regulations pertaining to chemical production, as well as other forms of education through training courses, seminars or education courses required for continual improvement which the Company wishes to achieve, as well as for the personal development of the employees. our employees are also informed through the Members Assembly, a body that include representatives of employees – stakeholders for each Group company. There are surveys organised in the Group on employees satisfaction with the work in Scott Bader (how they happy with informing around the Group, with treatment by their managers, with health and safety conditions in the company they work, about their opinion on values and principles of the Group etc.) Trade Union and Commonwealth Members There is no limitation to the freedom of association, establishing and activities of Trade Unions in the Company. Trade Union is involved in reaching decisions by the Board that are related to the application of Labour Law regulations, in accordance with the law and internal acts. Along with a Trade Union there is also a Local, workers' council, in accordance with the principles of the Group's Commonwealth that also provides for the member employees to be well informed, for the opinions expressed by the members to be presented at the Group level; it brings decisions regarding donations etc. Making a positive Difference 24/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. An appointed representative of the Company represents the employees – members of the Commonwealth at quarterly sessions of the Members Assembly at the Group level. Local and wider community The Company grants donations to charitable organizations from the Scott Bader Commonwealth Fund The Company and its employees, in accordance with the principles of Commonwealth, strives to be a useful member of local community Employees are encouraged to work in their local communities with a day off for such activities during the year Business and other associations The company and its representatives participate actively in the Croatian Exporters Association as well in other business associations those found to be valuable with the purpose of achieving an improved business environment, providing support and aid as well as receiving them with the purpose of achieving better business results. Company’s representatives also participate in different initiatives during the year, mostly related to actual business situation as well as those related to environment and health and safety protection. These activities of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. are aimed at contributing to the improvement of the overall business climate in Croatia, especially in the area of industry and export. Making a positive Difference 25/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. MAIN COMPANY AIMS AND POLICES Making a positive Difference 26/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. MISSION The limited liability company SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is the sole Croatian manufacturer of resins. Its mission is to supply high-quality products to customers (largely paint and varnish manufacturers, shipyards/yacht production, the piping industry, the artificial stone and marble industry and the sanitary equipment industry) in the wider region of Central, Eastern and South Eastern Europe, and to collaborate with them in the development and production of their products and to share in the satisfaction of their success. The mission of Scott Bader, as a company under the full ownership of the Scott Bader Group, is to participate in all of the Group’s activities as a respectable partner in compliance with its operating policies, and to assist other members of the Group by making its knowledge and expertise available . Making a positive Difference 27/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. VISION In order to fulfil its mission, Scott Bader must be able to supply high-quality products to its customers at acceptable prices within specified deadlines with maximum technical support and assistance while meeting planned performance goals, with the long-term objective of profitable operations and continuous investment in further product development, technological improvement and environmental protection and occupational health and safety. Due to limited production capacity (both locally and at the Group level), the Company shall invest maximum research-and-development and marketing/commercial effort to improve its product structure with the objective of increasing the share of sales and production of products with higher added value. As a member of the Scott Bader Group, the company shall take advantage of the Group’s marketing/commercial and research-and-development potential but also make maximum contributions to the Group through its own activities. Current improvements to organization and work processes that are components of the introduction of ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, the complete integration into the Scott Bader Group, computer-guided manufacturing and continual improvements to work practices, and care for employees, the workplace and the environment, shall enable Scott Bader to retain and enhance its status as a major supplier of resins to its customers and bolster its reputation of a company in which all employees see their long-term prospects. Making a positive Difference 28/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. CODE OF ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT 1. INTRODUCTION This Code constitutes a set of postulates and guidelines to which all employees of the company SCOTT BADER d.o.o. adhere and to which they aspire, and of provisions on responsibility for their implementation. The term ‘employee’ encompasses all persons employed by the company full-time, part-time or under contract. 2. POSTULATES AND GUIDELINES The employees of Scott Bader hereby assent and warrant that the right to work is a fundamental human right and that it serves general progress only if it is based on morality, law and freedom of thought. This right is exercised by means of joint and individual activity, although accountability is always individual. Activities must be based on respect for others and mutual esteem. Management is the highest form of this activity, and its success is not possible without unity and firm personal integrity. Pursuant to these postulates, all employees of Scott Bader knowingly and consistently accept the following guidelines: 1) Adherence to all company by-laws and laws and legal regulations. 2) Maintenance of the highest standards of ethics and morality regardless of pressure exerted by individuals or groups inside or outside of the company. Each employee is entitled and duty-bound to refuse to comply with orders which include the violation of this Code with no legal nor moral consequences whatsoever for such refusal. 3) Adherence to technological and labour discipline and conscientious execution of all contracts and agreements. In this regard, verbal orders, agreements and pledges have the same ethical force as their written counterparts. 4) A continuous aspiration to a high level of individual achievement and professional, intellectual and mental betterment, and selfless assistance to others for this purpose. 5) Orientation of one’s activity toward the preservation and enhancement of the company’s intellectual and physical assets, and its reputation and status in society, with particular emphasis on protection of all employees during work processes and protection of the environment as a whole. Within the framework of this guideline, all of the innovations and technical and operational improvements accomplished by an employee during the regular performance of his/her duties shall be deemed the intellectual property of the company. Making a positive Difference 29/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. 6) Readiness to cooperate and unselfish sharing of one’s knowledge with all employees of Scott Bader, and with its business partners, unless such knowledge constitutes one of the company’s trade secrets. 3. RESPONSIBILITY The management, managers and all employees shall be obliged to adhere to this Code and foster the conditions where under each employee is able to adhere to its standards. Any violation of this Code represents unprofessional conduct, especially where it involves endangering the well-being of the Company and its employees, endangering its natural environment, proven malice, a serious lack of expertise, ill judgement, distorting facts, forgery, bribery, revealing business secrets, and the abuse of assigned authorizations with the intent of making an employee violate the Code or for personal gain. Any such violation of the Code is considered a serious breach of job responsibility and may result in a withdrawal of previously assigned authorizations or one's position in the organization, suspension, while, in more serious cases, may provide a basis for termination of employment. Any violation of this Code which at the same time represents a violation of legal regulations shall result in legal action being taken as well as sanctions stipulated by law. Repetitious violation of the Code shall be sanctioned as an extremely dishonourable act. The provisions of this Code shall be interpreted and implemented by the Board of SCOTT BADER d.o.o., with participation of the representative(s) of the employees' trade union and the Commonwealth. Making a positive Difference 30/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. QUALITY, ENVIRONMENT AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY The fundamental commitment of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is customer satisfaction and the fulfilment and anticipation of customer needs with high awareness of environmental protection and occupational health and safety In this regard, SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is committed to:  Deliver resins which comply with commissioned quality standards while ensuring a proper level of services  Continually seek out and introduce improvements in all areas of activity with the goal of achieving the satisfaction of customers and other business partners, which will encourage full cooperation  Systematically educate and train employees to promote awareness of quality with emphasis on activities directly influencing quality  Manage quality, environment and occupational health and safety in compliance with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards under the constant supervision of the company’s IMS representative who shall have the full support and cooperation of the Management  Continually observe and implement improvements to the Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Management System  Systematically follow and coordinate our activities with legislation and other mandatory requirements  Implement measures aimed at ongoing improvements to workplace safety and environmental protection  All employees of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. shall demonstrate their attitude to the job and their co-workers by adhering to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. In the interest of achieving the objectives and commitments specified in this Policy, the Management shall adopt its Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Objectives each year, in which it will define and quantify individual objectives and commitments for the subsequent planning period and ensure the resources for their achievement. Each verification of the Objectives shall simultaneously constitute a verification of fulfillment of the basic postulates of this Policy. The results of operations shall be simultaneously compared to those of other members of the Scott Bader Group and the most successful competitors. The results shall be utilized for the continual adjustment of this Policy to the circumstances under which SCOTT BADER d.o.o. operates. All employees of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. have been duly informed of this Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Policy, and the Management is charged with the interpretation of its provisions. Quality, Environment and Occupational Health and Safety Policy is available to all interested parties. Making a positive Difference 31/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. CODE OF PRACTICE FOR COMMONWEALTH MEMBERS A We are a business community and it is our basic attitude and approach to our work and fellow workers that gives life and purpose to the Commonwealth B As a worldwide community we realise the long term health of Scott Bader requires attention to four aspects of the business (i) active democratic involvement (ii) social cohesion (iii) strong research and development (iv) financial growth The practical working out of a balance between the four tasks is a continuing responsibility for the membership as a whole C It is our common responsibility to work together, locally and internationally in such a way that;  We show respect and dignity to each other  Working for Scott Bader has meaning and is fulfilling and we feel valued for our contribution D Being in a position of authority Managers must:  Manage and be accountable to members for their actions  Manage in a style that is participative and consultative  Facilitate change and improvement and encourage others to do the same E Our company manages through mutual collaboration; therefore as members we must accept responsibility for our actions through:  A willingness to learn, develop and grow as individuals  Improved communication between each other and between groups and departments  Being understanding and patient towards problems encountered  Recognising and encouraging contributions made by others, both locally and internationally  A willingness to attend meetings and to participate in the affairs of our local and international community F We must:  Be open, honest and frank in our relationships with each other  Face difficulties directly rather avoid them  Solve problems by discussion and agreement rather than through a mediator G In the event of a downturn in trade we will consider whether circumstance make it desirable or practical to share all remaining work rather than expect any of our fellow members to be deprived of employment, even if this requires Making a positive Difference 32/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. a reduction in earnings. However should a study of our business reveal that it would be in its best interest to reduce or eliminate certain jobs, we will do this in the fairest and most objective way. In particular we will wherever possible offer alternative work. H We have agreed not to hold second jobs without having first sought the approval from the company. I The foundation/creation of our Commonwealth abolished the existence of Scott Bader shareholders and with it the power of share ownership. For this reason we will not acquire other companies, without offering their staff Commonwealth membership as quickly as possible. J We have a responsibility to the society in which we live and believe that should we have a special talent or interest, it would be right to offer this to the wider community. Members are encouraged to engage in some to form of social or public service, however small. K Our social responsibility also extends to 1. Limiting the use of our products to applications beneficial to the community, in particular excluding specific applications used in manufacturing weapons of war 2. Reducing any harmful effects our work has on the natural environment, e.g. by rigorously avoiding the negligent discharge of pollutants 3. Constantly working towards reducing activities that waste the earth’s natural resources L As members of the Commonwealth we support and commit to the principles of the Commonwealth and will do our best to live these out in both our working and private lives Making a positive Difference 33/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. THE FOUNDING PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT Making a positive Difference 34/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. The founding principles of Global Compact The principles which we accept in full and act in accordance with: Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights SCOTT BADER d.o.o. operates on international market, cooperates with business partners for which we believe that within their business activities in no manner participate in violating human rights or contribute to minimizing them in any of their other activities in a broader community. In the event that we discovered otherwise, our company would terminate its business relationship with such a company. Principle 2: Ensure that the company itself is not complicit in human rights abuses The founding principles of the Scott Bader Group include an explicit principle of respecting human rights, without which the Companies of the Group would not fulfil the most important precondition of their existence. Our Company has internal acts which were enacted in accordance with legal provisions and with the consent of its employees through their Council. A person has been authorised to which all remarks regarding any form of human rights violation, dignity or the endangerment of an employee. We are a small company in which most of our employees have been working for us for many years now and thereby fostering a mutual respect represents a foundation for good cooperation among employees and for including new employees into our labour processes. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Every employee of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. has the opportunity to exercise their right to freedom of association. 18% of employees are members of the Trade Union of Chemical Industry Workers and 95% are members of the Commonwealth, a union of employees within the Group, through which they exercise their right to participate in reaching decisions regarding the most important issues related to the Company's business and other issues related to the Statute of the Company. Making a positive Difference 35/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. The Local Council of employees members of the Commonwealth, is based on the same foundations and, alongside with Trade Union representatives, represents an additional form of representing employees and exercising their rights. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Scott Bader opposes any form of forced and compulsory labour which is contrary to the principles of conducting business. The same is requested from all business partners and members of the greater community to which it belongs. The choice and change of one's job position is a basic human right. Each new employee is fully informed of his/her rights and obligations through all internal acts of the Company, and is enabled to and expected to be an equal member of the team which he/she joins, because this is the only manner in which a company can function well. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour SCOTT BADER d.o.o. fully supports the abolition of child labour which is not a humane or permissible way of making a profit but rather an activity with long-term consequences in the future. The principle is clearly stated in our internal acts. Below is age structure per main departments in the company: Administration Operations Years 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 below 18 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 18-20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 21-30 1 3 3 2 6 7 8 10 31-40 3 3 3 4 7 9 15 17 41-50 2 1 1 1 7 8 8 9 51-55 4 5 3 2 4 3 4 5 above 55 years 1 0 2 3 20 20 16 8 Total 11 12 12 12 44 47 51 49 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our Company does everything in its power, by respecting the founding provisions of legislation, by enacting the Company's internal acts and by acting in a fair and nondiscriminating manner with respect to employment and in relations with its employed co-workers, to ensure that there is no discrimination in any segment of our activities. In recruiting process of new employees there are clearly set criteria which eliminate discrimination with respect to employment. No discrimination may be applied related to sex, race, religion, political affiliation or nationality, family status or personal beliefs. The same criterion is applied to the salaries of our employees. Making a positive Difference 36/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Our internal acts include a description of a mechanism which is at the disposal of our employees for protection from any form of discrimination, as well as procedures set and appointed persons responsible for resolving any situation in which an employee might feel discriminated in any way. Group’s policies like Dignity at Work Policy, Whistle-blowing Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy as well as a number of policies to be applied for new employment as well as on daily procedures, ensure that a good practise and treatment of our people is constant and continuous. Principle 7: Environment SCOTT BADER d.o.o., being a responsible company operating in the field of the chemical industry, pays special attention to environmental protection. Scott Bader Group in own activities consider applying these three pillars: Ecology, Humanity, Business. In conformance with its own principles of sustainable development and business operations and guided by the principles of the Group's operations, including explicitly high standards in environmental protection measures, employee health care and improving work conditions in general, the Company meets and increases the high standards in these fields of industry. As a member of the Scott Bader Group, SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is further obliged to fulfil all the necessary conditions of operations and activities that lead towards the protection of the environment. Monitoring the performance in the field on a regular basis ensures that all employees, as well as interested partners, are well informed about this segment of our operations and, even more importantly, sets new goals for improvement on the basis of former experiences. Basic issues of environmental protection and business operations are regulated by the Company's internal acts with the purpose of eliminating any adverse impact to environment: Rules on waste management from the technological process of wastewater treatment; Rules on operation and pre-treatment of waste and sewage water; an Operating plan of activities in case of sudden pollution; a Waste management plan; an Operating plan of activities in environmental protection; Rules on the disposal of waste oils; Fire safety and Environmental Permit according to IPPC regulation. By fulfilling legal obligations in enacting the required rules and plans, the Company utilizes such a manner of defining the obligations as an additional opportunity for an on-going review of its achievements in the field. The Company makes continuous investments in the protection of the environment, the improvement of production conditions, safety at work, and improving working conditions in the Company in general. Below are some of the large-scale spendings and investments made during the period from year 2011 to year 2016: Making a positive Difference 37/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. technological improvement of the production process by introducing Molten PA charging system reconstruction and implementation, by which the production process was made shorter, safety was improved, working conditions were made significantly easier and safety in the protection of the ecological system was improved. improvement in the sewage system of the entire site. This large-scale intervention is carried out over a three-year period and it was completed 2011. It includes a complete reconstruction of the technological water sewage system and the reconstruction of the catchments, precipitation and waste water system, all in compliance with a project approved by Hrvatske vode (Croatian Waters). reconstruction of the flooring in production plants. Its aim is to match the latest environmental and production standards. Reconstruction of the pools in which hazardous substances are stored new pumps and pipes (to prevent leakage) old level indicators on all monomer underground tanks was replaced with new ones new waterproof floor in peroxide warehouse replacement of insulation system (sheet and wool) on all tanks and Pthalic Anhydride storage tank The section Environmental impacts contains indicators of the application of this principle in more detail. Due to our legal obligations to get environmental licence (IPPC directive) most of our investments in 2012 was related with ecological and energy savings improvement: nitrogen in house production. Nitrogen generator was installed and now we are producing nitrogen from compressed air. steam heating of buildings replaced 2012 and 2013 with new more efficient central hot water heating system (steam losses are reduced) 150 meter of old underground water pipelines was replaced with new one (water losses are reduced) investment in central dust collector system (dust emissions are reduced to minimum) two new underground double walls tanks for solvent and monomer storage was bought and old single walls tanks are replaced we invested last few years in new chemical resistent and watertight floors in monomer and solvents warehouse, oils and alcohols warehouse, solid row materials warehouse and in production plant building in order to prevent soil and underground water pollution in September 2013 we finished and connected in a new sewage system DN800 to municipal sewage system Making a positive Difference 38/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. in 2014 we got construction permit for 1st stage of VOC treatment plant for waste air from SCOTT BADER d.o.o. process plant. We also finished 1st stage (connecting all process waste air outlets to collecting and measuring line) in 2015 in 2014 we start DCS migration project. Replacing old control system with new one Honeywell is in progress and it will be finished during 2017. in 2014 adaptations are finished in production plant control room, bathrooms, rest room and workers wardrobes in 2014 and 2015 we changed all windows in the building with the plant and production offices (decreasing heat loss factor) and renewed production offices roofing with 100 mm thicker heat insulation in 2016 we did new waterproof floors in additives preparing and measuring storage in 2016 we changed all windows and doors, in order to decrease heat loss factor, in oils and alcohols warehouse. in 2016 we have ordered and installed VOC pollution control system: RTO (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer) from Relox Technik Germany and first official TOC, NOx and CO measurement are very promising. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Being a manufacturer of chemical products, our environmental responsibility is exceptionally important in our everyday activities. We support any action which leads towards improving environmental protection and to that end undertake all measures available within our Company. Through cooperation with our business partners, and primarily our customers, we strive to share all of our knowledge regarding the proper application of our products, which we achieve by providing high-quality comprehensive documentation on our products, obtaining all required certificates, subcontracting transport companies with a high quality of service, providing instructions pertaining to managing packaging, packaging disposal etc. Large-scale changes are being introduced to the chemical industry with the implementation of the REACH regulation. We have been participating in the activities related to implementing the regulation from the very beginning and we try to set an example in the fulfilment of all of the REACH requirements in order to help and motivate others to do the same. Making a positive Difference 39/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. STATEMENT REGARDING REACH SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is a manufacturer of polymeric products, which are themselves exempt from REACH Registration requirements. However, the raw material substances must be registered. For all supplied raw materials and for those traded products that are not exempt from the REACH Regulations, SCOTT BADER d.o.o. relies on the supply chain to also have completed PreRegistrations, and to complete Registrations according to the applicable deadlines (December 2010, June 2013 or June 2018). To this end, we are continuing to work in close contact with our suppliers, including those located outside the EU, to ensure that all REACH obligations are met without interrupting supply. Because SCOTT BADER d.o.o. products are mixtures of several substances, the responsibility for REACH Registration of each of these substances lies not with SCOTT BADER d.o.o. but with the original manufacturer or importer of the substance. Each substance will have its own REACH Registration deadlines, depending mostly upon the manufacturer/importer's tonnages. As and when SCOTT BADER d.o.o. has any information from suppliers that any substances present in our products have been registered, we will pass it along to any affected customers by means of updated material safety data sheets for the affected products. Each substance placed on the market that SCOTT BADER d.o.o. either manufactures or imports has been or will be notified to the Classification and Labelling Inventory, as required by the CLP Regulations. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. relies on its suppliers to Notify substances that they either manufacture or import. All SDS for our products (mixtures) are in accordance with Annex II of Regulation (EC) No. 1907/2006 (REACH). Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies SCOTT BADER d.o.o, as well as the sector for development of the Scott Bader Group, works intensively on the development of products, developed and enhanced in a manner in which by no means endanger the environment. It is our goal to place an increasing number of resins on the market with a lower content of volatile compounds, solvents and styrene. To that end we developed a new generation of alkyd “high solid” resins with a drastically reduced content of solvents. Furthermore, a solvent-less resin was developed, which represents the latest generation of environmentally acceptable alkyd resins on a global level. Polyester resins with a low content and low emission of styrene are also being developed along those lines. Making a positive Difference 40/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Furthermore, new acrylic resins with environmentally acceptable solvents (butyl acetate instead of toluene etc.) are also being developed. In alkyd emulsion project we intend to leave solvent based alkyd resins, now we pass lab and pilot plant step. Next phase will be verification of paint formulations and after that scale-up to Plant. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery SCOTT BADER d.o.o. decidedly condemns acts of corruption, extortion or bribery committed in order to achieve business goals. We have never been, nor shall we ever let ourselves become involved in a situation that may lead towards any corruptive activity. We are improving our business operations on both the international market and our local market and achieve our results only by operating in a competitive and fair manner. As a member of Scott Bader Group and as a company with business activities in a number of countries around the globe, we are applying Bribery Act. Related to this, our Group managers worldwide, as well as some other employees involved in purchasing and sales are obliged to have the training at Bribery Act and pass the test. Making a positive Difference 41/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. ECONOMIC DIMENSION Making a positive Difference 42/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. EC1 SCOTT BADER d.o.o. remains the only manufacturer of composite resins and specialty polymers in Croatia, the leader on the regional market, but also, together with other producers of the Scott Bader Group, recognised on the European and larger market. The company keeps its years-long tradition of supplying high-quality products to its customers, who are industrial producers as well, by introducing product brand and ranges of Scott Bader. The vision and the strategy of our Company and the Group depend on investments into product development and new technologies, as well as the ability to understand needs of our customers, offer new solutions and develop together with our business partner, in order to respond in a fast and proper manner to all quality requirements in each business segment. SCOTT BADER d.o.o., as an exporter and also manufacturer of chemical products, is exposed to oscillations on both the raw-materials market and on the final products market. We operate on a very complex market, subject to extremely fast and non-predictable changes. The Company therefore tries and succeeds to utilise its capacities to a maximum level through continuous improvements of the organisation, technology, quality, cost management and human part (personnel) of the business. A significant part of our successful business is due to internal solutions and actions in the plant and other area, with different technical improvements and cost savings. SCOTT BADER is an important exporter and with a large share of its product range it is an important regional producer. In the last several years export presents 85% of total sales. Year 2016 was another very successful year for our company, with the record profit for the year in recent company's history. Volume of product sold increased in 2016 to 2015 (15.973t to 15870t) and was in line with the budgeted. Achieved sales results were year on year on a very good level, due to combination of market position, improved product mix/larger sales of higher value products as well as further internal savings, especially of energy and improvements in overall efficency. Total turnover of the company was 171 m HRK (2015: 187m) and profit before tax was 8,25 m HRK (2014: 1,963m, 2015: 7,89 m). Net profit after tax was 6,6 mil (2015: 7,1 m HRK). Financial situation of the company is stabil, all liabilities are settled on time. Further applying of the policy of strict risk monitoring resulted with minimal uncollected debts at year end. In 2016 our company invested more than 6 m HRK, on which the larger part was related to further environmental protection improvements, as well in manufacturing process automatisation. We are also investing in our people – having larger generation change, as a number of our colleagues are leaving for pension, we are employing more people than it was the case for longer period, organising all needed trainings, education and smooth full involvement in our Making a positive Difference 43/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. team and preparation to respond to all needed requirements of our specific production and organisation. Sales structure Sales structure HRK 000s 2013. % 2014. % 2015. % 2016. % Domestic sales 29.188 14,4 27.606 15,29 29.182 15,63 25.905 15,17 Export sales 173.537 85,6 152.970 84,71 157.562 84,37 144.885 84,83 TOTAL 202.725 180.576 186.744 170.790 200.000 180.000 160.000 140.000 120.000 100.000 Domestic sales 80.000 Export sales 60.000 40.000 20.000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Our products are delivered directly from our location in Zagreb in over 20 countries, and through our distributors wider market is supplied. The next table shows turnover (in HRK) per customers’ countries year on year: Invoice amount by country, 2008-2016 60.000.000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 50.000.000 40.000.000 30.000.000 20.000.000 10.000.000 0 Making a positive Difference 44/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Direct, achieved and distributed economic value Direct, achieved and distributed economic value 2013 2014 2015 2016 Direct economic value a) Income 204.161 181.853 187.417 171.866 Distributed economic value b) Business expanditures 181.767 159.147 157.889 141.545 c) Employee's salaries and benefits*** 9.511 10.027 10.885 10.784 d) Payments to capital providers 270 159 0 0 e) Payments to the State 787 2.052 2.419 2.785 f) Investments into Community* The Company's income consists of trade and other income. Trade income is income from sales of our products on domestic and foreign markets and a small share of income from selling services and merchandise. Other income includes interest, forex, sales from fixed and other long-term assets and other smaller income positions those could appear. The main portion of business expenditures comprises raw-material costs for the production and they define the increase in all expenditures, following the increase in sales / production and the changes in the prices on the world raw-material market. Furthermore, there are also transportation costs, energy and other costs related to production and production plant maintenance. Other business expenditures include royalties, forex, property and employee protection, insurance, bank fees etc. Employees' salaries and benefits include wages, taxes, transportation costs and other costs for the employees as well as paid benefits (bonuses, jubilee awards etc.). Paid interest includes the interest paid for a loan granted by a Scott Bader Group company. The intercompany credit decreases the Company's exposure towards third parties and enables a more favourable financial arrangement than it would have been should a loan be granted by a third party (e.g. domestic banks). A nominally paid interest amount is decreasing and does not represent a significant financial burden to the Company. Payments to the State include all mandatory payments regarding taxes, contributions and other payments. * Investments into the Community: this segment shows the specific characteristics of the organization and functioning of the basic principles in the Scott Bader Group and the existence of Commonwealth. The Scott Bader Group is expressively turned towards its local and wider community, and its financial participation is performed through donations, voted on Assembly by all members of the Commonwealth and paid from a joint fund on the Group level. Therefore the amounts of donations are not shown in the Making a positive Difference 45/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. table above, as no expense for local company occurred, although the donations were made to Croatian charities, following the proposal of SCOTT BADER d.o.o. employees. Donations SCOTT BADER d.o.o. has been proposing over the years to the joined fund the charities that the donations might be granted to, mostly those providing aid for children, young and ill people. The Scott Bader Commonwealth Limited is a registered charity which owns the shares of Scott Bader Company Limited. It receives all of its income from the company. The amount to be donated is either an amount equal to the amount payable as Group Staff Bonus or 1 per cent of the Scott Bader Group Staff Salary Cost, whichever is the greater Local fund is designated to each of the subsidiaries or small operations of SBCL located around the world and is shared out based upon the number of people employed at each of the locations. It is then for the Commonwealth Members at each location to decide collectively either via a charity committee or similar, which charities they would like to propose to the Trustees In the year 2016 SCOTT BADER d.o.o. has got from Scott Bader Commonwealth Limited amounts of 7.500 GBP to be donated. Over several years funds were donated to charity organisation we knew for years and we recognized their need for addition financial help. We wanted to keep continuity and of several years and give some kind of additional security to those organisation that, if they fullfil known conditions from Commonwealth, they could rely on help from Scott Bader for some time. During 2014 and 2015 we added few more charity associations to be donated where we recognize the need for help. With this we continued in 2016 also so we donated few new associations. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. employees are involved in charity and voluntary work. Charity / year 2013 2014 2015 2016 SNAGA 1.500 1.000 1.140 1.000 SOS village, Lekenik 1.500 1.000 1.000 1.000 Krijesnica 1.500 500 1.000 0 Croatian Association of the Blind 1.580 1.000 0 0 Put u život 1.500 1.000 1.000 1.000 Debra 0 1.000 1.000 1.000 MIPZ 0 500 700 500 Rehabilitation center Stančić 0 980 980 1.000 Rehabilitation center SILVER 0 1.000 0 0 Hummingbirds 0 0 0 500 Choose life 0 0 680 500 Women’s House 0 0 0 500 Association of blood donors 0 0 0 500 Total 7.580 7.980 7.500 7.500 (In GBP, since the donation was made directly from the Commonwealth's joined fund at the Scott Bader Group level) Making a positive Difference 46/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Second year in a row SCOTT BADER’s employees participated at the charity run held on Zagreb’s Jarun Lake on 25 September 2016. Some were running, others were walking or riding a bike. The only important thing was to participate! The Terry Fox Run is an annual non-competitive charity event held in commemoration of Terry Fox, a young man whose leg was amputated due to cancer. In 1980 he embarked on a cross-Canada run called the Marathon of Hope to raise money for cancer research. As many as 1/3 of SCOTT BADER’s employees were participating. We can proudly say that the event was successful. Each of the participants/employees purchased a T-shirt, thus contributing to the 850,00 kn fund raised for charity. Thanks to SCOTT BADER Group Matched Funding Scheme, the entire amount raised by SCOTT BADER’s employees will be matched and the amount of 1.700 kn will be donated to the Ruđer Bošković Institute for the research of cytostatics or antitumor drugs for clinical application. The funds collected during the run also contributed to the construction of the Klaićeva Hospital bone marrow transplantation center. As part of volunteering day one of our employee helped with refugee reception at the border when refugee crisis started and thousands of refugees were coming to Croatia. During year 2016 SCOTT BADER employees were collecting plastic bottle caps for Rijeka Multiple Sclerosis (MS) society. More than 80 kg were collected and donated to society in Rijeka. Plastic caps were donated 26the September, the MS day. Also several SCOTT BADER employees participated in action held by Blood Donors Association . Making a positive Difference 47/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. For the first time in 2016 SCOTT BADER d.o.o. organized Team building for our employees SCOTT BADER d.o.o. donated 20 used safety helmets to KOSSP Club for education of working and sport dogs “Zagreb” for their regular dogs training. Also in year 2016 SCOTT BADER d.o.o. donated several PCs, monitors, scanner and printer to school in Gorski Kotar county for their project “Knowledge without limits”. The SNAGA (STRENGTH) Association of persons with cerebral palsy NGO ”SNAGA” is providing information for cerebral palsy sufferers considering innovative therapeutic options for their invalidity thus converting them from hopeless to treatable patients with hope for recovery and gaining full life and work capability as well as providing funding for required medical services. Charity was founded in 2004 by parents of cerebral palsied children seeking innovative methods of rehabilitation based on new insights in neuroscience. Neuroplasticity is a phenomenon which gives possibilities of treatment so far non treatable neurological patients and was recognized about 20-15 years ago. Since institutions of medical system are slow in implementing new ideas in everyday practice they wanted to make an out of institutional medical project complying with their aim. So they found medical doctors willing to work in a new paradigm thus providing users with project of integral neuro rehabilitation. Making a positive Difference 48/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Main achievement consists in reduction of invalidity degree in their members who are cerebral palsy sufferers, submitted to integral neuro rehabilitation program. The progress is documented by video footage “before and after” as well as with GMFM 66 and 88 questionnaire scoring. The project ”INTEGRAL NEUROREHABILITATION OF CEREBRAL PALSY” is based on new ideas in neuroscience which claim regenerative capacity of injured brain based on ideas of neuroplasticity (www.dr-roje.com). Thus previously hopeless patients (invalids) with cerebral palsy (especially children) have new hope for their recovery. So far results of project are excellent. The need for this project is huge, because it helps children with severe disability to reduce the disability and regain neurologic health. Children treated with integral neurorehabilitation without it will stay disabled. Using it they will have a normal life. Project of integral neuro-rehabilitation benefits the public because if implemented correctly, it reduces the number of disabled individuals in the community. SOS Children Village SOS Children's Villages look after children without parents or parental care, regardless of their race, nationality or faith, providing them with love and security in the family environment, as well as a permanent home and education needed for happy and peaceful childhood. Association SOS Children's Village Croatia has been active since February 25, 1992, as a full member of SOS Kinderdorf International, the world’s largest NGO in the field of child and youth care. SOS-KDI is seated in Innsbruck, Austria. SOS Children’s Village Croatia provides home for 250 children in two SOS villages, one in the village of Lekenik, close to Zagreb, and one in the village of Ladimirevci, in eastern part of Croatia. Children who arrive to SOS Children’s Village Croatia (SOS CVC) sometimes need special expert assistance that cannot be provided by SOS CVC staff. One of those special needs refers to the special learning and reading impediments and SOS CVC has to engage external experts. Cost of such experts assistance per one village for the first two most critical months of the school year amounts to 10.000 Kuna, or approximately 1.000,00 GBP. In year 2015/2016 they will have at least 20 children who will need the assistance in relation to their learning and reading impediments. The remainder of the group – 12 children with learning disability caused by different conditions (ADHD, dyslexia, dysgraphia, emotional difficulties) who attend primary school will need ongoing expert assistance of the defectologist who will help them to follow the school curriculum. Priority is that the children who are in care of SOS CVC Making a positive Difference 49/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. get all the possible assistance that will enable them to successfully complete primary school education on their way to getting a degree which will lead them to independent life once they are released from our care. The funds applied for were used for expert assistance in the SOS Children’s Village Ladimirevci at the beginning of the school year 2016/2017. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. also donated SOS selo Ladimirevci in kind. Action was taken in June and July 2014. Making a positive Difference 50/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. DEBRA DEBRA Croatia was founded in 1996 with the goal of getting families with EB member together and organizing help and support for children affected by EB. Debra’s activities are aimed towards improvement of health and social security. Epidermolysis bullosa (EB) is a very rare severe genetic disease that apart from skin problems makes complications and causes many side effects on other organs (eyes, digestion system, locomotion system etc.). EB requires a multidisciplinary approach and systematic monitoring of the patients. Most of the EB sufferers are 80-100 % disabled only after few years of life. Epidermolysis Bullosa* means fragile and sensitive skin like butterfly wings. Everyday life with EB means new injuries, new dressings, pain and surgical interventions. EB in its most severe forms means constant dependence, help, care and support for the sufferers and those caring for them. The main current activities are providing services in the Croatia to improve the quality of life of people with EB via team of specialist and social care managers. Debra also tries its best to provide maximal assistance and support in procurement of health care products and overcoming of everyday difficulties (nurse/social worker) for whole family. In order to provide better and adequate daily assistance to people with EB Debra Centre is organized. Centre is behind Children’s Hospital, and consists of office facilities (as education center and distribution center) and accommodation (two-bedroom apartment) for families while visiting Hospital or just for various workshops and socialization. Patients with Epidermolysis bullosa sometimes need to do check-ups and medical treatments that may last for several weeks in Zagreb and for that time they need accommodation. To help EB patients and their families to overcome financially high costs we provide them free accommodation. EB is very rare condition, so, for parent to stay with child in hospital is absolute necessity. Unfortunately hospitals usually don’t have such possibilities, so they are trying to support families to be as long as possible in hospital with child, and have assured accommodation very near. 24 hour service and daily care as well as the rent of the apartment are financially very demanding. Financial support from SCOTT BADER would contribute to make efforts of lasting Debra Centre sustainable in order to provide better care for EB sufferers and their families. Making a positive Difference 51/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. PUŽ (SNAIL) Put u Život (A Way into Life) – Association of parents of children with special needs was founded to improve the quality of life, medical and social protection of children with special developmental needs and their families through education, various therapeutic treatments etc. Regular activities are divided into programs for children, parents and public, as well as programs for wider social community. Programs for children consist of group activities (such as art workshop, Orff music workshop, computer workshop, playroom and similar) as well as individual programs (different rehabilitation programs such as Montessori, Marte Meo, DIR/Floortime, Sensory integration and speech therapy. DIR/Floortime therapy is a specific technique to both follow the child’s natural emotional interests (lead) and at the same time challenge the child towards greater and greater mastery of the social, emotional, and intellectual capacities. In this therapy is critical role of parents and other family members because of the importance of their emotional relationships with the child. DIR/Floortime therapy is a comprehensive framework which enables to construct a program tailored to the child’s unique challenges and strengths. The role of the child’s natural emotions and interests are in focus, because has been shown to be essential for learning interactions that enable the different parts of the mind and brain to work together and build successively higher levels of social, emotional, and intellectual capacities. DIR/Floortime includes sensory integration too. Floortime ensures the basic developmental steps are strong and gives tools to improve thinking and communicating. A diagnosis does not and should not decide the limits of what child can achieve developmentally. It challenges them to go further and to develop who they are rather than what their diagnosis says. DIR/Floortime approach is new in our country, only several educated therapists work with children. Two of them are our employees. This model gives opportunity for number of children with developmental problems to develop skills and improve general condition of them. Making a positive Difference 52/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. MIPZ International Association of Natural Health International Association of Natural Health is a non-profit organization aimed at furthering and improving the quality of life and health of citizens, children and young people with special needs, including persons with disabilities. The main activity of the Association is to provide adequate educational-rehabilitation programs aimed at improving health, overcoming disability and damage. In program we’re using natural methods: education, relaxation, specific exercises, acupressure and massage reflexotherapy whose presenters and therapists were trained by expert doctors of Traditional Chinese Medicine. In 2015 they continued with the program Healthy-Happy that was started in 2014, with new children and with children that started this program at the very beginning in 2014. Continuation of this program is needed so that results and positive changes could become stabile and children could progress further. Program Healthy-Happy is for children and teenager-adolescent young people from 3 to 19 years of age with psycho-physical disabilities such as: ADHD, hyperactivity, concentration and motoric disorders, depression, anxiety, bed wetting, asthma, bronchitis, allergies, speech/articulation disorders, dyslexia, dysgraphia and many others. In program we’re using natural methods: education, relaxation, specific exercises, acupressure and massage reflexotherapy whose presenters and therapists were trained by expert doctors of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Program is conducted every day for 1 hour and it consist education, relaxation, specific exercises, acupressure, reflexotherapy massages. Monthly costs for 5 children are 23433.00 HRK (2446.29 £) This is a highly efficient natural method, without pain, drugs and operations that gives fast and great health results. Doctors approve and support our program after seeing results of examinations that confirm improvement and progress of health status of users of our program. Hyperactivity, sudden mood changes and aggressiveness has become often and highly significant social problem that leads to violence and bullying among children and adolescent. Violence and bullying leaves physical and psychical marks on victims for life, it changes them from the inside and it leads to difficulties when they are adults. Treatments diminish hyperactivity, aggression, violence because children are more relax, peaceful; treatments direct children to peaceful solving of problems and conflicts, understanding, tolerance, agreements and dialogue. All that decrease violent and hostile forms of behavior in our society. This program also prevents appearance of hyperactive and aggressive behavior in children and adolescents. Making a positive Difference 53/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Today the number of children and adolescent with allergies, asthma, bed wetting, depression, anxiety, mood swings is increasing and statistics show further increasing in upcoming years. This program allows them to solve these problems entirely, from the root, on natural way, without drugs (corticosteroids and anti-depressive) and their serious side-effects. Children and adolescent with psycho-physical disabilities have problems in social integration, communication with other children and adults. They can’t express themselves or show their true potential because people don’t understand them. That leads to alienation, dissatisfaction, anxiety, depression and unhappiness. Project Health-Happy diminishes and prevents hyperactivity, bullying, violent forms of behavior and violence among children, adolescent and later among adult people. It stimulates communication, tolerance, peace, understanding, agreements, patience, tranquility, peaceful solving problems and conflicts. Children won’t fight or bully each other. Society will be healthier, without unwanted incidences like fighting on streets, shooting in schools or on streets, drug using. Improving of communication and understanding among each other and with people that are surround by, increase of concentration, attention, creativity and intelligence leads to better results in school and later in college/university and better jobs. Children grow up in quality, conscious, capable, advanced adults that contribute to society with their knowledge, ideas and creativity. Children attending this program have more interests in school, sport, languages learning, dance and other afterschool activities. Less children hangout in bad society and streets because they have work to do, they have interests, goals and want to do something with their lives. This program helps parents because it shows them how to help their children, how to work with them at home, how to understand more and encourage more their children. Parents can go to work (don’t have to be at home with children 24/7), be more successful at work or be promoted, can earn money and don’t have to depend on social help because they don’t have to worry about their children in the way like they did before, they aren’t under so much stress and pressure like before, they are more relax, calm, peaceful, they have more patience and better communication with their children. Family becomes a quality family because of communication, respect and trust. Program works from individual, over family to society and this is the importance of this program and the reason why it has to be conducted. A healthy individual a healthy society Making a positive Difference 54/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. REHABILITATION CENTER STANČIĆ Center is social welfare institution which organizes the care of people with intellectual disabilities. Rehabilitation centre stančić provides service at several location in local comunity. At headquarters of the centre stančić is organised accomodation and care for 213 people with intellectual dissabilities. And also community living for 80 people in two location. Center offers services for 55 children and adults through daily centres in two towns, Dugo selo and Vrbovec. The donation from SCOTT BADER will be directed to increasing quality of services for children in Daily centre Vrbovec. Daily centre Vrbovec includes 25 children with intellectual dissabilities from 2 to 16 years old. These are children who came from their families and they are included in rehabilitation programs. Working with children conducted by different professionals: rehabilitator, speech therapist, occupational therapist, physical therapist and educator. Donation in 2016 was used for 2 feeding chairs and organizing one day excursion for children. Autonomous Women's House Zagreb (AWHZ) Autonomous Women's House Zagreb (AWHZ) is a non-governmental and non-profit organization organized around the principle of women’s solidarity with an aim to enable women to live their lives free of violence and enjoy all the human rights in a gender equal society. AWHZ was founded on December 14th, 1990, with the opening of the first shelter for women and their children in Croatia and Eastern Europe. AWHZ continuously provides free shelter and free counselling centre (including telephone and personal counselling) for women survivors of intimate partner violence and their children. In the past 26 years we have directly helped over 40,000 women and children. In the Counselling centre we provide personal, psychological and legal counselling for women. In the shelter we provide free accommodation at a secret address, personal, psychological and legal counselling, therapy and legal representation for women and their children. In order to improve the realization of all the main objectives and programs of AWHZ, it is necessary to increase the visibility of their work, programs and services and to raise awareness about intimate partner violence against women in order to prevent further violence. The project anticipates that the services of counselling and the shelter are not used only by women from the Republic of Croatia and the Western Balkan region, but Making a positive Difference 55/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. also from the European Union and worldwide. The same applies to the supporters of their work. Accordingly, there is a need for updating the content of the existing website, translating the website into English, and better integrating the website with wider internet space and social media and that is where SCOTT BADER participated in 2016. Choose life New organization registered in 2013 in Zagreb. Their aim is to provide different ways of help for women and children who are in crisis. By doing that they want to be a part of making a better society which would be moral, with less deliquency, depression,with the strong accent on education. They are helping their clients not only through material things, finance, but with counseling, education, by organizing seminars and panel discussion. At the moment they are making thei web site so their work will be more visible to public sphere and more available to their clients. Apart from office space in house they use there is a flat in which women in crisis stay. They also have place for their humanitarian aid, clothes for women in crisis , baby equipment. As the y wanted to open counseling center in September SCOTT BADER donation were aimed to be spend on computer equipment like multifunctional laser printer, projector and PC, monitor. In 2016 SCOTT BADER donation was used for buying 20 chairs and projector screen. This is needed for education and training for volunteers so they can multiply work and help even more young people and mothers. Making a positive Difference 56/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Association of blood donors Association of blood donors were recently established with the support of Croatia Institiute of Transfusion Medicine and Croatian Red Cross Zagreb with the aim to promote the development of blood donation and protection of blood donors rights. Their work is supported by many institutions: WHO, Croatian Medical Chamber, Croatian Caritas, Croatian Institute of Transfusion Medicine, Red Cross Zagreb, many Clinical hospitals across Croatia and so on. They started with educational program as they want to raise awarness, to inform, to educate and to prome importance of voluntary blood donations. Beside their mission they also give a great attention to humanitarian work so they asked SCOTT BADER for donation for arranging playground for Vukovar Mitnica 1 kindergarten. Plaground was ruined and dangerous for children to play. In year 2016 first stage is finiched and biggest play device is on its place. Making a positive Difference 57/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. SOCIAL DIMENSION Making a positive Difference 58/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. SOCIAL DIMENSION Aspect: Community SO1. Nature, range and efficiency of a program or general practice by which the impact of business activities on community is assessed and managed, including the stages of input, activity and output. 1. Importance SCOTT BADER d.o.o., being a participant in a social community, both local and wider, by its sheer existence, through employing people and the level of respecting labour relations, has a social impact. Furthermore, as a producer in chemical industry it is highly interested in performing its business activities without having an adverse effect on the environment in which it exists, and that through its financial activities and timely payment of all its duties towards the state and local community contributes to its development and respect all the principles of proper business performance. The Company operates within the industry for half a century, at the same location, so in that sense its involvement with the community is not expressed, but rather it is a continuous adjustment of operations in the community and continual improvement in conduct standards (business and social conduct) in all conditions. We have not encountered corruption and we do not believe that there is a high corruption risk. We are not in any way involved in public politics and we do not use any type of lobbying. We have also never had, neither we ever shall make a donation to or support any political party or a similar institution. No proceedings were ever launched against us regarding a (dis)respect of free competition. In our recent history we were never fined or financially sanctioned for not respecting law and regulations. 2. Compiling data There were no specific programs related only to monitoring social impact, but the basic principles of the functioning of SCOTT BADER and documents related to the system of values in business activities show the goal that the Company wishes to achieve. Making a positive Difference 59/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. 3. Definitions Individual activities, internal acts and indicators are presented in other sections of this Report. 4. Documentation All feedback that the Company gets from its stakeholders is used as documentation of its social impact: customer satisfaction information; information obtained from other business partners, e.g. suppliers; certificates and permissions from the Company's owner; approvals by the Trade Union and Local Council of decisions reached, documents related to participation in business associations (like Croatian Employers Association); participation in business polls with the purpose of gathering complete information that shall help improving business environment and labour terms; reports presented by charities regarding the utilization of donations. Making a positive Difference 60/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION Making a positive Difference 61/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Environmental dimension We systematically monitor the impact of our activities and products on the environment and take preventive measures to prevent and reduce unwanted effects. We have a certified environmental management system according to ISO 14001, which ensures that all issues of environmental management are under constant supervision. Taking care about effects on environments is visible through energy utilisation and emission to air and water, as well as cumulating dangerous and non-dangerous waste. There is a continuous request from all responsible sectors (R&D, manufacturing, maintenance) to decrease energy consumption at total, but also per product item. Emission to air is measured on 4 locations in the plant and all results are below defined minimal values, so the periodical measurement is repeated according to Environmental permit. Emission in the air from burnings in our own hot oil boiler is measured, according to the law, every two years. Every year we submit requested reports of air emission to the Register ROO. SCOTT BADER d.o.o. is one of the 250 company in Croatia which are obligated to have Environmental Permit according to IPPC regulation and on 5th May 2014 we received Environmental Permit from Croatian Ministry of environmental protection. Surveillance done each year by inspections of different area (fire protection, health and safety, sanitary, vessel under pressure...) showed that in our company there is a high compliance with law regulations, thus ensures minimal effects on environment and people's health, and enables prevention of any accidents with risk for people and environment. Great attention is paid to the organization and regulation of the workplace both in indoor and in outdoor areas of our company. With good organization and clarity we ensure there are no incidents which could lead to environmental pollution and injury at work. EN3 Direct power consumption In our resin manufacturing for heating of production reactors during we are using 2,5 MW thermal oil heater with natural gas fired burner installed 1999. Since May 2013 we are connected to the thermal oil heater also heating new central hot water system for buildings and storage tanks. With an increase in production, rationalisations, introduction of new technologies and better production planning, gas consumption per product unit is decreasing. Problems in gas supply results in investment in gas burner with possibility to use gas and diesel fuel. In 2010 we have made the reconstruction of the gas burner, which we further reduce gas consumption in 2011. As in the period from November 2012 to May 2013 we have replaced steam heating of buildings (production plant, production offices and oil warehouse) and some technology Making a positive Difference 62/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. heating systems (homogenizers, molten AMK storage tank) with hot water central heating (heat is produced by our natural gas fired Heater), consumption of natural gas per ton of production was increased in 2013 comparing 2011 for 18,8%, but, on the other hand, we had a huge decrease of steam consumption in 2013 for 41% and decrease of steam consumption in 2014 for 59% comparing to 2012. EN4 Indirect power consumption The electric power and steam needed for production, heating and cooling of premises and plants are obtained from different sources. Electric power is mostly used in production. In 2012 we installed two nitrogen generator lines and we produce nitrogen for our needs from compressed air. We have higher consumption of electricity but we reduced nitrogen expenses for 50%. Steam consumption is mostly related to heating the plants, working premises and offices and depends on weather conditions. In 2010 we further reduced the consumption of steam with improved temperature control inside heated buildings. In 2011 we made new insulation on outside storage tanks for final products (14 pcs) heated with steam and with that investment we manage reduce steam losses in 2012. From October 2012 until May 2013 we replaced steam heating of buildings and production storage tanks with new more efficient central hot water heating system (we replaced also steam utilisation with more favourable power source natural gas). In August 2013 we have changed thermal insulation on all production vessels (reactors, tanks, columns). Result was steam consumption of 3.357 tonnes (-41%) less in 2013 comparing to 2012 and 4.767 tonnes (-59%) less in 2014 comparing to 2012. EN8 and EN10 Water All water used in the Company is purchased from local water supply system. The usage is under very strict control. For a number of years now the usage is checked on a daily basis, with the purpose of providing a timely reaction in the case of a leakage or an error in manufacturing process. A separate cooling water system with two cooling towers has been in use since 1972, and only the amount lost through evaporation on cooling towers is replaced. We also have new vacuum pumps system installed in 2010, with sealling water closed loop, that additionally decreased water consumption. Previously system used sealing water only in one direction, not in circulation. To prevent the accumulation of sediments on cooling planes, till 2012 the water was chemically treated, thus ensuring maximum cooling effect at minimum power consumption. In 2012 we made water treatment reconstruction. Instead of using chemicals, we use ion exchanging treatment. Benefits are that we using less chemicals and water treatment is more efficient. In August 2012 we changed 150 meter of old underground water pipelines with new one and we will decrease water consumption in 2013 for more than 30%. Making a positive Difference 63/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. The reconstruction of water supply system and regular control of water consumption, water losses, and hence consumption has been continuously decreasing. In August 2015 we changed the old cooling water system pumps with new 20% efficient and we had lower total electricity consumption in 2016. EN16 Greenhouse gas emission Burning gas in hot oil boiler for heating the plants results in CO 2 which is the most often mentioned greenhouse gas. We mentioned before when we have started to use our hot oil Heater for heating of buildings and storage tanks 2012/2013 we increased natural gas consumption (and also CO2 and NOx emission generated by our Heater) but total CO2 Scott Bader footprint decreased (see below). Total CO2 emission for Scott Bader doo According new ecology standards and EU IPPC Regulative we are taking care for total CO2 emission of our site (CO2 footprint of hot oil Heater, steam heating and electricity consumption is included): Year Total CO2 / production kg/tonne 2013 163,3 2014 155,5 2015 129,8 2016 128,3 After finished heating system reconstruction in 2013, total our site’s energy consumption and CO2 emission was decreased to 128,3 kg CO2/tonne of product in 2016. EN20 SO2 and NOx emission When using earth gas for fuel, there is no SO2 emission. Emission of NOx increases with increasing production. Anyway with small reconstruction of hot oil burner in 2012 we decreased NOx emission under regulatory obligated limit 200 mg/mn3 (2015 =169,2 mg/mn3). To achieve bigger reduction in NOx emission it is necessary to change the burner on the hot oil boiler for heating the plant. Making a positive Difference 64/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. Year NOx / production kg/tonne 2013 0,0739 2014 0,0647 2015 0,0630 2016 0,0612 Dust emissions in air from production In production we are using also solid raw materials and charge them through hoppers into reactors. In 2012 we have invested in Central dust collector and filter system. It is the best solution for reducing organic dust emission during our solid raw material charging. We measured dust emissions before and after installation of central filter. With new filter system installation we decreased dust emission to air from 102 to 3,1 mg/m3. EN21 Waste water release A positive trend of reducing waste water disposal has been observed in a number of years. The decrease in disposed waters is connected with strict technological discipline and regular daily monitoring of consumption, followed by a quick reaction to possible variations. With the purpose of reducing waste, a new closed cooling system was installed in the Laboratory as a replacement for the continuous flow system, which was unnecessary loss of clean cooling water. A new positive step forward was installation of new vacuum station with closed water sealing and cooling system in 2011. So we managed to decrease water consumption and waste water quantity from 0,94 m3/tonne of product in 2012 to 0,55 m3/tonne of product in 2016. EN22 Total waste Non dangerous waste (paper, plastic, metal) is collected and recycled by authorised companies. With better sorting for non-dangerous waste we have more useful waste for collection and for recycle, and less waste ends up in municipal waste. Dangerous waste, due to its specifics, could currently be disposed only by thermal processing. Only waste oils are recycled in Croatia, while all other dangerous waste is exported by certified companies to waste incinerators. Making a positive Difference 65/66 Global Compact Report 2016 SCOTT BADER We pioneer the future of chemistry, making a positive difference to all businesses we serve and each life we touch. We are continuously working on reducing the quantity of hazardous waste generated in production: we use liquid instead of solid raw materials wherever possible, thus reducing the amount of hazardous waste packaging new pumps and pipes are installed, that also helps in preventing leakage of raw materials and finished products substandard resins are prepared to be re-used in finished products etc. Additional waste reduction was done in 2016. by separate collection of waste resin from pipeline, and sale of it as a resin mixture instead of disposal as dangerous waste. EN26 Initiatives for reducing the impact on environment According to the legal regulations, a producer is obliged, at his expense and at the requests by customers in proscribed procedures, to dispose of dangerous substances packaging. A very efficient system has been introduced 7 years ago in SCOTT BADER d.o.o., enabling that packaging from our customers is disposed in Croatia. The amount of packaging collected and disposed of is related to the sales on the domestic market, so in the year 2007, in the light of record sales on the domestic market, the quantity of disposed packaging was the highest ever. All regular requests made by the customers for the return of packaging were met. EN30 Total ecological investments, material cost & services Infrastructure for VOC treatment plant was finished in 2015, while implementation of the device and start of work was finalised at the end of 2016 (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer installation). For last two years, many actions and projects were done in order to decrease energy consumption overall, and we managed to decrease it in total for 25%. In order to act environmentally responsible and fulfill IPPC requirements, recovery of the abounded water savage was finished in 2016. Making a positive Difference 66/66 Global Compact Report 2016
