No poverty Universal healthcare Good jobs Pe Peace Geender n r equality ua Sustainable cities infras rastructure Quality Better education Climate protection SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Our achievements in 2016 –61% accidents per million hours worked compared to 2007 15.4% female executives –30.6% CO2 emissions (relative to value added) compared to 2007 614 –1.5% environmental and occupational waste (relative to value added) safety audits of suppliers conducted compared to the previous year since 2010 –3.9% water consumed (relative to value added) compared to the previous year Targets CO2 emissions 35 percent reduction (relative to value added) by 2020 compared to the 2007 reference year Waste 6 percent reduction (relative to value added) between 2016 and 2018 Water consumption 6 percent reduction (relative to value added) between 2016 and 2018 Environmental and occupational safety audits 1,000 by 2020 Accidents 1.7 per million hours worked by 2020 Female executives 20 percent by 2020 Foreword 4 About us 6 Our responsibility 7 Our areas of action 8 Activities 10 2016 in review 22 Progress report 24 Legal notice 27 Contents Sustainability report 2016 Bosch Group Both in terms of contents and structure, Bosch observes current standards of sustainability reporting as defined by the UN Global Compact, the German Council for Sustainable Development (RNE), and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This publication serves as a progress report within the framework of the Bosch membership in the UN Global Compact. An overview of non-financial information based on the GRI standards (of 2016) can be found online at sustainability-report.bosch.com 4 Sustainability report 2016 Foreword Dear readers, The United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals comprise a broad range of global targets, among them no poverty, quality education, and universal healthcare. The SDGs were introduced in 2016 and are to be achieved by 2030. The aims of enabling the entire global population to lead a life of dignity, of promoting progress, and of protecting the environment are central points of orientation for politics and business, as well as for Bosch. Since 2004, we have been a member of the UN Global Compact, and are thus committed to observing the UN’s international guidelines with regard to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. This report describes the progress we have made in each of these areas. The SDGs have provided us with a frame of reference for our activities. They allow us to assess the ways in which our solutions contribute to lasting social change. We strongly believe that with innovative products and services that are “Invented for life,” we can make an important contribution to society while at the same time securing our company’s future. We see major opportunities in the areas of connectivity, electrification, and energy efficiency. Moreover, thanks to our systematic sustainability management, we can tackle the risks that climate change and resource scarcity have brought forth. Our core business determines which of the global sustainability goals Bosch supports first and foremost. In particular, our activities focus on health and safety (SDG 3), sustainable cities and communities (SDG 11), and reducing CO2 emissions (SDG 13). In addition to this, our commitment to social well-being includes improving access to education (SDG 4) and promoting peace and justice (SDG 16). The structure of this year’s sustainability report is based on the UN targets, and our activities are described accordingly. For instance, Dr. Volkmar Denner 5 Foreword “I STRONGLY BELIEVE THAT THE WORLD OF BUSINESS CAN MAKE A MAJOR CONTRIBUTION TO SOLVING THE CHALLENGES SOCIETY FACES.” in order to promote sustainability through innovation, last year we Ultimately, innovation also means consistently reassessing our spent 55 percent of our research and development budget on our own positions, viewing all issues from a broad range of environmental and safety portfolio. We continued to focus on perspectives, and being willing to forge new paths. If the world of further improving the efficiency of the internal combustion engine. business adopts this understanding of innovation, I strongly At the same time, we kept up our commitment of spending 400 believe that we can make a major contribution to mastering the million euros each year to drive electromobility forward. We also challenges society faces. This report provides a detailed overview worked on technologies that will help make cities more of what Bosch is doing in this regard. sustainable. This included developing solutions for automated driving and connected parking. According to a recent Bosch study, Sincerely, connected functions in vehicles could reduce annual CO2 emissions by 400,000 tons a year in Germany, the U.S., and China alone. And in cooperation with Robert Bosch Stiftung and Robert Bosch Hospital, we recently founded the new Robert Bosch Tumor Dr. Volkmar Denner Center with the aim of fighting cancer. Chairman of the board of management of Robert Bosch GmbH In 2016, Bosch activities mainly supported the following eleven UN targets: Source: United Nations 6 Sustainability report 2016 BOSCH.COM About us The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. It employs about 390,000 associates worldwide. Bosch offers connected products and services that help improve quality of life around the world. The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its approximately 440 subsidiaries and regional companies in some 60 countries. Including sales and service partners, Bosch’s global manufacturing, engineering, and sales network covers nearly every country in the world. Its operations are divided into four business sectors: Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, Sales by business sector and Energy and Building Technology. In 2016, the Bosch Group’s sales grew by 3.6 percent over the previous year to 73.1 billion euros. 60.1% MOBILITY SOLUTIONS Ninety-two percent of the share capital of Robert Bosch GmbH is 24.2% CONSUMER GOODS held by Robert Bosch Stiftung GmbH, a charitable foundation. The 8.6% INDUSTRIAL majority of voting rights are held by Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand TECHNOLOGY KG, an industrial trust. The entrepreneurial ownership functions are carried out by the trust. The remaining shares are held by the Bosch 7.1% ENERGY & BUILDING family and by Robert Bosch GmbH. This special ownership structure TECHNOLOGY guarantees the entrepreneurial freedom of the Bosch Group, enabling the company to plan over the long term and to undertake 109.1 MILLION EUROS: significant up-front investments in the safeguarding of its future. The Robert Bosch Stiftung budget in 2016, which was spent What is more, the Bosch Group’s profit-oriented approach shapes on 683 projects. the foundation of the company’s charitable activities, as well as those of Robert Bosch Stiftung. Strategy The Bosch Group’s strategic objective is to create solutions that are “Invented for life”. These include products that spark enthusiasm, improve quality of life, and help conserve resources. To achieve this aim, we drive change and seize opportunities in the areas of connectivity, electrification, and energy efficiency. Today, we are a leading provider for the Internet of Things (IoT). Thanks to our expertise in the realms of sensor technology, software, and services, we offer innovative technologies in the areas of smart homes, smart cities, connected mobility, and Industry 4.0. Here, we benefit from our global research and development network, which counts some 59,000 associates around the world. In 2016, Bosch spent a total of seven billion euros or 9.5 percent of its sales on its research and development activities. 7 Strategic approach SUSTAINABILITY.BOSCH.COM Our responsibility For the Bosch Group, sustainability means securing the company’s long-term success while at the same time protecting the natural environment for future generations. Our “Invented for life” ethos not only applies to our core business, but social cohesion in Germany and Europe; and sustainable living spaces. also to the subject of sustainability. We aim to make renewable sources In its efforts to strike a sustainable balance between economic, ecoof energy more efficient, mobility even safer, cleaner, and more ecological, and social concerns, Bosch focuses on four main areas of nomical, and to develop eco-friendly products across the board. We action: environment, products, associates, and society. Within these see ecology as an engine of innovation and a pillar of our company’s four areas, the company pursues the following five sustainability tarsuccess. gets around the world: Our definition of sustainability also includes social well-being. In the 1. Observing binding CO2 reduction targets regions close to Bosch locations, we are especially committed to 35 percent reduction in CO₂ emissions (relative to value promoting good quality education. In addition to this, our dividends added) by 2020 compared with 2007 fund the activities of Robert Bosch Stiftung, which is also our share2. Actively conserving resources holder. The foundation uses the money to fund non-profit social proj6 percent less waste and water consumption (relative to value ects in the following areas: migration, integration, and participation; added) between 2016 and 2018 3. Consistent environmental and social audits 1,000 environmental and occupational safety audits of our suppliers by 2020 4. Reducing the number of accidents in the workplace 1.7 accidents per million hours worked by 2020 5. Increasing the number of female executives 20 percent female executives by 2020 In addition to these five quantitative targets, Bosch also pursues a broad range of qualitative sustainability goals. These include further expanding our environmental/safety portfolio, as well as promoting diversity, strengthening our commitment to education and associate development, and protecting the environment with innovative solutions. In our annual sustainability report, we describe our progress and the ways in which we pursue the principles of the UN Global Compact, the world’s largest initiative for corporate responsibility of which Bosch is a member. In 2017, we are striving to integrate the UN’s Sustainability Development Goals in our materiality analysis. The aim here is to put a greater focus on solving current social challenges. Bosch conducts this analysis on a regular basis to assess, the sustainability-related issues of which are relevant for its target groups. 8 Sustainability report 2016 SUSTAINABILITY.BOSCH.COM Our areas of action Environment What are we doing? How are we doing it? We contribute to protecting the environment with our products and 1. We are committed to sustainable mobility: In the Mobility our own business activities. Each year, we set targets with regard to Solutions business sector, we are pursuing the vision of our use of resources, and apply a systematic environmental sustainable, low-carbon forms of mobility that will not be management system to reduce our energy consumption and waste dependent on fossil fuels in the long term. To this end, we have at our locations around the world. We focus on protecting the come up with a seven-point program that will assist automotive climate through energy efficiency, sustainable production, and manufacturers in reducing the CO2 emissions of new vehicles resource conservation. We also consider an eco-friendly infrato an average of 95 grams per kilometer by 2021. At the same structure as an important aspect, and contribute to this target by time, we spend some 400 million euros each year on powertrain rehabilitating contaminated sites, for instance. Within the framework electrification. of the Bosch Code of Conduct, we also call on our suppliers to comply with sustainability standards. 2. Program for energy efficiency: In order to reduce energy costs and emissions, and to increase energy efficiency, we have How are we doing it? created programs such as “Rexroth for Energy Efficiency (4EE)”. In order to reduce our carbon footprint, we have introduced the ISO Bosch Rexroth industrial manufacturing facilities are system14001 environmental management system at all of our manuatically analyzed and optimized, as are those of its customers. facturing locations around the world, as well as at our larger development locations. So far, 257 locations have been certified, which 3. Design for environment: In the development departments represents 87 percent of Bosch locations worldwide. of our business units, our “design for environment” approach puts emphasis on a consistent improvement of the environmenWhich SDGs did our activities support in 2016? tal performance of our products since 2000. The process begins in the early product development stages and aims to reduce the use of hazardous materials, improve the resource efficiency of our products, and decrease the environbosch.com > Sustainability > Environment mental impact of our products throughout their life cycle. Which SDGs did our activities support in 2016? Products What are we doing? At Bosch, we consider the protection of the environment as an engine of innovation. In line with our “Invented for life” ethos, we bosch.com > Sustainability > Products develop energy-efficient and safe products that conserve resources and improve quality of life. We focus mainly on the areas of energy efficiency, electromobility, and automated driving. In 2016, 55 percent of our research and development budget went toward our environmental and safety portfolio, which accounted for 43 percent of Bosch sales.* * excluding BSH Hausgeräte 9 Areas of action Associates What are we doing? One of the main targets of our human resources policy is to offer our associates continuous training that meets their needs, build loyalty among our workforce, and help our associates stay in good health. Good working conditions and a corporate culture that promotes diversity are decisive elements of an HR strategy that enables our associates to reach their full potential. How are we doing it? Our “We are Bosch” mission statement describes our values. With them, the Bosch board of management and associate representatives confirm their continued commitment to protecting human rights and promoting equal opportunities, as well as to ensuring fair working conditions and complying with global labor and occupational health standards. Bosch ensures the latter with an occupational safety management system that is based on the globally accepted OHSAS 18001 standard. At present, 130 Bosch locations have external certifications, which represents 44 percent of all locations. Another important pillar of our HR policy is our diversity initiative. It focuses on equal opportunity, generational diversity, internationality, and flexible working conditions that put results ahead of presence. In addition to this, the Bosch Code of Conduct provides associates with a point of orientation with regard to ethical issues. Which SDGs did our activities support in 2016? How are we doing it? We finance corporate foundations in India, Brazil, China, and the bosch.com > Sustainability > Associates United States. This allows targeted, long-term local support, for instance in the form of education and social projects. Local networks thus make it possible for young people, among others, to have a Society successful start in the working world. Moreover, we encourage our associates to volunteer for social initiatives and promote social wellWhat are we doing? being at almost every Bosch location around the world. In accordance with our understanding of sustainability, we are active in the regions close to our locations, mainly in the area of education. Which SDGs did our activities support in 2016? This includes supporting both up-and-coming scientists and longterm education projects in deprived regions or neighborhoods. We also support disaster relief initiatives quickly and without much bureaucracy. Our local associates volunteer their time to help rebuild, while the company provides donations-in-kind and funding available. bosch.com > Sustainability > Society 10 Sustainability report 2016 Creating structures About 10 percent of the world’s people have to survive on less than 1.90 US dollars a day, and thus live in extreme poverty. Rural populations are especially affected, and Bosch has set out to do something about it: regional foundations such as the Bosch India Foundation and the Bosch China Charity Center are making targeted efforts to promote the economic development of rural areas. Moreover, Bosch associates around the world support non-profit organizations in the fight against poverty. About three quarters of India’s population live in rural areas, often Committed to fighting poverty in deprived conditions. Since it was founded in 2008, the Bosch India In 2016, Bosch locations around the world contributed to the fight Foundation has supported some 250 villages. The foundation’s work against poverty. In Australia, almost every Bosch associate actively includes improving sanitation, access to healthcare, and education, supported the St. Vincent de Paul Society in its efforts to help the as well as protecting the environment and improving economic homeless in Melbourne. With fundraising activities such as the conditions. Achieving improvements in all of these areas is decisive auctioning off of household items, donations totaling 45,000 for improving the quality of life of rural populations in a lasting manAustralian dollars (about 32,000 euros) were collected. This by far ner. In 2016, the foundation offered training to 17,800 women, exceeded the initial fundraising target of 30,000 dollars. The money farmers, and children. And their efforts paid off: some 2,000 women was used to distribute 29,000 warm meals. A “sleep out” also now have jobs, 2,500 farmers have achieved better yields than the comprised part of the initiative: for one night, 35 Bosch associates national average, and 500 young people are earning more than 5,000 slept on the street, among them Gavin Smith, the president of Bosch rupees (more than 70 euros) each month. All of this demonstrates Australia. The aim was to raise awareness of homelessness and the effectiveness of the foundation’s programs. attract more supporters to the cause. Promoting individual strength In the Ukraine, associates at all Bosch locations collected a total of In China, too, Bosch is committed to sustainable rural development. 10,000 euros for the “Hoverla” project. The money went toward In July 2016, the Bosch China Charity Center established the “807 renovating the Zaluchchia orphanage with the active support of Social Innovation Center” charitable initiative, which has set itself Bosch associates. In France, too, Bosch associates lent a helping the target of supporting Hongqi, a village in Yunnan Province. Educahand by rounding off their salaries to the nearest euro. Some 1,100 tional resources are scarce in the community, which comprises some associates at twelve locations took part, and raised a total of 3,600 2,500 people. Often, the rural population cannot afford school fees. euros for children’s charities. Last year, the initiative provided some 220,000 Yuan (about 30,000 euros) to spark the village’s economic development and improve education in the community. The idea focused on bringing modern expertise to the village while at the same time making the best posRegional foundations in numbers (2016) sible use of the population’s age-old know-how. For instance, the “Crafts New Program” uses traditional trades as a resource. At workBosch Community Fund (Farmington Hills, USA) shops, external designers are taught the skills of villagers, which they EUR 3.3m can then use in their own work. In 2016, the initiative resulted in the Bosch China Charity Center (Shanghai, China) “Full of magic Shangri-La” exhibit at the local museum. The exhibit attracted 20,000 visitors and provided an important platform for local EUR 2.4m art. In addition to this, the designers went to local schools and Instituto Robert Bosch (Campinas, Brazil) cooperated with children and young people to create works of art. EUR 1.0m Bosch India Foundation (Bangalore, India) EUR 0.9m 11 Activities For a world without hunger According to the FAO, the world population will grow to 9.6 billion people by 2050. Today, one in every nine people on the planet does not have enough to eat. In order to improve access to food for all, enhancing agricultural yields will be decisive. In this regard, Bosch supports with innovative solutions that also promote sustainable agriculture. Sensors, software, and robotics are a central focus of research and assess soil temperatures at various depths and transmit the data to development at Bosch, which aims to improve the quality of food the Bosch IoT Cloud, which then sends it to the farmer’s app. and help make agricultural processes more eco-friendly. In 2014, Depending on how the temperature develops, farmers can respond Bosch founded Deepfield Robotics, a start-up that seeks to digitize quickly and optimize growth conditions in their fields. The solution agriculture and create the Internet of fields and plants. In 2016, the has already been awarded a silver technology medal at the Agritechcompany further developed its BoniRob agricultural robot. By way nica trade show in Hannover, as well as the Innovation Prize at the of automatic image processing and a satellite control system, the expoSE in Karlsruhe. machine can be maneuvered precisely across the field, moving to exactly where it needs to go, down to the last centimeter. The robot High-tech for green patients serves to remove weeds mechanically, thus eliminating the need for The Bosch “Marta” project, which was launched in the fall of 2016 in pesticides. The Deepfield Connect solution is already being used for cooperation with the University of Hohenheim and Cubert, focuses strawberry and asparagus fields in Germany. Sensors are used to on developing ways of detecting leaf diseases at an early stage and making plant protection more resource efficient. Marta stands for smart spraying: in the future, once a leaf disease is detected, it will be treated locally and in a targeted manner. The aim is to maintain plant health while reducing the use of pesticides. To this end, Bosch and its partners are using spectral cameras that illuminate the leaves. Depending on the leaf disease, the light is reflected to different degrees. Researchers hope the method will make it possible to treat plants individually – and this will benefit both the environment and farmers. In India, too, Bosch technology is making agricultural processes more resource efficient. The interplay of three systems enables farmers to monitor their fields more precisely in real time, and this in turn allows for better soil and water management. Using sensors, “AgriSense” collects and “Sankhya” analyzes data from the fields, and then makes recommendations. And “AquaZen” waters plants automatically if desired – providing the exact amount of water needed. Bosch China: Food for the needy In a number of European countries, charitable organizations pass out surplus food to eligible needy persons. Bosch has now also introduced this successful model in China. In cooperation with the “Shanghai Green Oasis Ecological Conservation and Communication Center,” the Bosch China Charity Center began supporting a food program for the needy in the middle of 2016. Last year, the aid organization distributed 85 tons of food to 5,000 families. 12 Sustainability report 2016 Healthier lives, healthier work Serious illness, inadequate sanitary conditions, and traffic accidents are just three examples of threats to human health around the world. With its commitment to charitable initiatives, innovations that make road traffic safer, and its focus on occupational safety, Bosch promotes health in a number of ways. The number of people suffering from cancer is on the rise. Accord2020. The funding is being used to build a study center, expand the ing to World Health Organization estimates, by 2025 some 20 medical management team, and finance two endowed professormillion people will be diagnosed with cancer each year. In coships. Moreover, Robert Bosch GmbH is providing support for operation with Robert Bosch Krankenhaus (RBK), Bosch has been associates with cancer, initially in Germany. With the “OncoCure“ tackling this challenge since the summer of 2016. Together, they program, which receives one million euros in funding each year, the have launched several initiatives, the cornerstone of which is the patients receive access to diagnostics at RBK and DKFZ. newly founded Robert Bosch Tumor Center (RBCT) in Stuttgart, which is run in cooperation with the German Cancer Research In addition to this, on May 22, 200 Bosch associates in Bari, Italy, Center (DKFZ). RBCT is set to become part of RBK, thus strenglaced up their sneakers to support the fight against cancer: they ran thening the hospital’s cancer research activities. The aim is to allow in “Race for the Cure” a marathon for Susan G. Komen, a nonpatients the best possible individual treatment. Robert Bosch profit organization that supports cancer patients. Stiftung will provide a total of 24 million euros for the project until 13 Activities Making mobility safer By 2020, the United Nations want to reduce the number of road should be shared with colleagues. Locations were free to implement traffic deaths by half compared to 2013, when 1.25 million people the “Safety Basics,” which they considered appropriate and in some around the world died as a result of traffic accidents. To support this instances even came up with creative approaches. The Bosch plant aim, Bosch has focused on prevention. At the ITS World Congress in Moulins, France, shot a video to illustrate each principle in practice. 2016 in Melbourne, Bosch Australia’s Chassis Systems Control At the Jaipur location in India, an info day on the subject of safety division presented a fully automated test vehicle, which makes driving was held at the end of March: machines at the site were turned off, not only more relaxed, but also safer. A modern Human Machine and safety measures were demonstrated not only to associates, but Interface (HMI) system is one of the technologies the car is equipped also to their families. Associates at the Automotive Electronics diviwith. Part of this system is an on-board camera that prevents drivers sion in Germany supported the initiative with a tongue-in-cheek from falling asleep at the wheel. The system is able to do so by poster campaign that featured images of animals. And the Chassis detecting the drivers’ eye movement and sounding a warning when Systems Control division in China took a 360-degree approach: the eyes are closed for too long. In addition to this, when it is in fully steering committees were established at all locations that focus automated mode, the system constantly monitors traffic with its exclusively on occupational safety. At seminars, supervisors learned 360-degree sensors. The vehicle’s sensors and information systems how to be role models and spark their associates’ enthusiasm for the also work when the driver is operating the car manually. Thanks to subject of safety in the workplace. Moreover, safety is now at the top wireless communication, the sensors detect the activities of other of the agenda at every meeting and is part of every inspection. users at a very early stage. This is especially important for motorcycles, which are often overlooked in traffic. This project has attracted Development occupational safety the attention of policymakers, as 90 percent of all road accidents in Bosch Group 2007, 2014–2016 Australia are the result of human error. The Transport Accident ACCIDENTS Commission (TAC) and the state of Victoria have made additional per million hours worked funding available to bring automated vehicles to the roads quickly and turn the vision of accident-free driving in Victoria into reality. 6.8 3.1 3.2* 2.7* In Germany, Bosch is testing local clouds in cooperation with Nokia and Deutsche Telekom that will enable fast car-to-car communication. Thanks to improved connectivity, information on traffic conditions beyond the driver’s and the vehicle’s field of vision can be made available in time. Bosch has also developed a solution, which 2007** 2014 2015 2016 assists in the event of an accident: in Hungary, Bosch has provided software for emergency call centers and training for 600 firefighters. * From 2015 onward, including BSH Hausgeräte and Automotive Steering (AS) ** Base year Within seconds, specialists receive the vehicle’s technical details and valuable information on the state of the car’s battery. Locating the battery and protecting passengers from being electrocuted is Bosch also passes on its expertise in the area of occupational safeone of the first and most important tasks that emergency crews ty. In the United States, 175 students at South Carolina’s Vocational carry out. Career Technology Center completed safety training. In cooperation with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), Making work safer Bosch associates at the Anderson location provided insights into the In 2016, Bosch launched the global “Safety Basics” initiative. Safety company’s internal safety standards. Safety experts also taught experts developed six easy-to-remember principles (see right) that students to recognize and assess hazards, which is decisive in aim to help supervisors further reduce the number of workplace reducing risks to associate safety. accidents. For instance, the first principle, “in everything we do, safety considerations are essential,“ underlines that the topic needs The Bosch Safety Basics to be at the center of all processes. The fourth principle, “we look out for one another’s safety,” shows that the safety of all team members 1. In everything we do, safety considerations are essential. is just as important as personal safety. The six rules have been made 2. As supervisors, we care about your safety. an integral part of Bosch’s occupational safety standards. The aim is 3. We ensure a safe working environment for all. for safety to become a part of everyday management culture and of 4. We look out for one another’s safety. standard processes. At the same time, accidents that have been 5. We speak openly about safety. narrowly avoided should be carefully analyzed, and lessons learned 6. When it comes to safety, we have a zero-tolerance policy. 14 Sustainability report 2016 Universal education Limited resources prevent young people from attending schools and universities. To remedy the situation, the United Nations aim to significantly increase the number of young people with technical knowledge and marketable skills by 2030. The following three examples illustrate how Bosch is contributing to preparing young people for their working lives. The Instituto Robert Bosch in Curitiba, Brazil, demonstrates how then produced in cooperation with a mineral water company, and long-term cooperation between companies and local authorities may proceeds from the bottles sold were donated to a charitable organifunction efficiently. Since 2004, the corporate foundation has been zation. In total, 4,500 schools took part in the competition. investing in programs that have benefited the needy at four Bosch locations in Brazil. The foundation not only mobilizes funding and Supporting the “Makers of Tomorrow” personnel, but it also coordinates the activities of Bosch associates Bosch Laos and the National University of Laos launched the “Makers who have volunteered their time. Moreover, the foundation develops of Tomorrow” program in September 2016. The aim is to promote the apprenticeship and training programs, including classes in electrical creativity and practical skills of up-and-coming engineers, architects, engineering, mathematics, and sales. These classes are always and designers. Their first challenge was to find new application posdeveloped in close cooperation with the municipal authorities. In sibilities for an old water tank that had been standing idle on the 2016, the Instituto Robert Bosch was honored with the “SESI ODS campus for decades. The winning concept planned to turn the tank Award” for its commitment to social well-being. The prize is awarded into an open classroom that is powered with solar energy and has a by the Social Service of Industry (SESI), a national non-profit organatural ventilation system. Bosch supported the teams with specialist nization that focuses on the education and health of the workforce. knowledge and the tools they needed for their projects. The winning concept is currently being realized. Following the positive response to the joint initiative, the partners are planning to strengthen their With 16 PROJECTS, Instituto Robert Bosch reached cooperation by establishing a “Makers of Tomorrow” academy. The training center will offer students the opportunity to improve their 3,200 YOUNG PEOPLE over the course of its practical skills in a targeted manner. “PEÇA POR PEÇA“ initiative in 2016. Additional education projects in Bosch countries A mission for diversity Long-term educational partnerships are a central focus of Bosch’s +++++ The Science Tunnel, a mobile technology exhibit by the German Max Planck Society, has been traveling the world for 16 years. In September 2016, sustainability activities in Italy. In 2016 and for the eighth time, the Bosch and other companies sponsored the exhibit in Argentina. With the help company invited elementary schools to take part in the “Missione of interactive modules, the tunnel shows the ways in which technology contributes to solving the challenges society faces – from resource scarcity to Ambiente” project, which complements the curriculum with susthe fight against poverty, hunger, and disease. The exhibit attracted 20,000 tainability-related learning materials that Bosch developed. In 2016, visitors. +++++ For the past four years, the Bosch location in Hatvan, Hungary, has supported the nearby Szent István elementary school. At this year’s diversity and the co-existence of different cultures were the central theme day, Bosch associates introduced pupils to technical knowledge – infocus. Participating schools were given the task of developing a bottle cluding how to build a robot using recycled material. +++++ label that promoted cultural diversity. The three best designs were 15 Activities Diversity calls for equal opportunity While half of the global population is female, women in many countries around the world are prevented from the same access to education as their male counterparts, and this puts them at a disadvantage when it comes to entering the workforce. Moreover, even in areas where the share of female graduates is growing, the number of women in management positions has yet to increase accordingly. With its diversity initiative, Bosch supports a culture of diversity and appreciation, which facilitate advancement regardless of gender, age, or background. “Diversity is our advantage”: since 2011, Bosch has clearly expressed kindergarten in February 2016. The “Kinderhaus” offers 100 daycare its commitment to promoting cooperation between people of spots for children aged six months to five years. The kindergarten different backgrounds, experiences, and perspectives. This includes also perceives itself as an institution of early childhood education. attracting more women to technical and management jobs. In doing Even the smallest children are offered educational activities, among so, Bosch has declared its commitment to wage equality and offers them playful English lessons. special mentoring programs. Moreover, the company takes part in events such as Girls'Day or Girls’ Campus regularly. Its corporate Job sharing – with the JobConnector target is to increase the share of female executives to 20 percent by With the JobConnector, Bosch in Germany has created an online 2020. platform that supports flexible working time models. The search engine unites associates seeking to share their job with a colleague. Promoting networks Six months after the platform was launched, 250 associates had Against this backdrop, two events were held specifically for women registered and were connected to one another. In December, the at the Bosch locations in Istanbul and Bursa, Turkey. At the “Women initiative received the “Human Resources Excellence Award 2016” in Build the Future” events, 20 female engineering students were inthe “Best Use of Technology” category. The prize is awarded by Quavited to take an exclusive look behind the scenes of the technology driga Media Berlin, an HR service provider, and the “Human Recompany, and to work on case studies. Female executives were on sources Manager” trade journal. hand to act as mentors and provide information on career opportunities at Bosch. The company also promotes internal knowledge sharing on diversity-related issues, and supports female associates through its associate networks, among them women@bosch, family@bosch, and the Bosch Turkish forum. Flexible working conditions In addition to this, Bosch places a great deal of importance on offering working models that make a good work-life balance possible. In its “Guidelines for a flexible and family-friendly working culture,” the company expresses its commitment to promoting telecommuting and to establishing a management culture that places greater value on results than on presence. Many Bosch countries have now either fully implemented the standards that were first introduced in Germany, or adapted them to meet local needs. With the aim of creating flexible working conditions for mothers and fathers, the Bosch location in Curitiba, Brazil, opened Latin America’s first company 16 Sustainability report 2016 Striving for continuous improvement Sustainable economic growth, lower natural resource consumption, and social prosperity depend largely on the innovative strength of business. At Bosch, the quest for continuous improvement has a name: CIP. At Bosch, questioning the status quo, ensuring the transparency of proposal then passes through a process that ends with a suggestion one’s own actions, listening attentively, and accepting and learning for implementation within a maximum of 30 days. In Charleston, the from feedback are integral parts of the “Continuous Improvement transparency and the corresponding bonus system for new ideas Process” (CIP). The process is based on the idea of continuous have raised awareness among all associates for the need for conimprovement and is decisive for forward-looking activities. At the tinuous improvement. “CIP Global Improvement Conference” that was held on the occasion of CIP’s 25th anniversary last September, it became clear that Thanks to associates’ ideas for improvement, Bosch saved a willingness to change has become indispensable in a society that some 150 MILLION EUROS in 2016. is moving more quickly and unpredictably than ever. The flow of ideas Learning networks The Bosch production site in Charleston, South Carolina, has The CIP network in Latin America also aims to improve results in a demonstrated how CIP works in practice. In order to develop as many lasting manner. Twenty-two CIP coordinators from seven Bosch ideas as possible, associates are invited to pin suggestions on how countries have joined forces to drive forward a culture of constant products, processes, or working conditions can be improved to the change and agility in the organization. The network informs about central team board. Following the Japanese “Kaizen” method, the best practices and thus ensures systematic knowledge sharing between individual divisions and locations. In addition, the network has examined various work methods such as the scrum method that is common in software development, and offers associates training This is how Bosch promotes improvements and ideas: workshops. CIP will thus gradually evolve into a knowledge platform Cleverle Award: The internal Bosch prize honors the locations where of sorts, whose members can network with one another and share the greatest number of ideas have been submitted. Locations are evaluated based on the share of associates who submit ideas, the knowledge independently. number of ideas, and the financial benefit that these ideas have achieved. In 2016, the Bosch plants in Ansbach, Arnstadt, and Salzgitter won prizes, as did the Bethlehem, Anderson, and A similar platform was established on the company intranet to mark Charleston locations in the United States. CIP’s 25th anniversary. For 25 weeks, the international CIP commuDisruption Discovery Teams: For a period of two months, nity shared in Skype interviews with managers best practices from international teams of six associates each worked on ideas that go various divisions and regions. Associates actively exchanged ideas beyond traditional Bosch business models and build the company’s innovative strength. on the ways in which CIP is being practiced at the company, and provided an outlook about how to shape CIP practices in the future. Improvement Day: The Schwieberdingen location in Germany invited all associates from Schwieberdingen and the surrounding locations to an intensive day of CIP training, which included workshops and a number of opportunities to discuss ways of making production more flexible and efficient. 17 Activities Smart cities More than half of the world’s population now lives in cities. According to UN forecasts, the figure will rise to 70 percent by 2050. Urbanization brings forth numerous challenges for road traffic, including congestion, a lack of parking spots, and high levels of pollutant emissions. Together with its partners, Bosch develops solutions that aim to make urban traffic cleaner, safer, and more comfortable. The world’s cities are growing rapidly, with serious consequences Connected for the future in some respects. For instance, in Shanghai, limits for particulate A closer look at global CO2 targets shows that powertrain electrifimatter are exceeded every day. In London, Paris, and Brussels, rushcation will become an integral part for the future of mobility. For this hour traffic comes to a standstill on almost 40 percent of all streets. reason, Bosch spends some 400 million euros each year to drive New strategies are needed to ease the burden on urban infrastructure e-mobility forward. This not only includes further developing and the environment. Renewable energies, eco-friendly construction, battery technology, but also infrastructure. In order for e-mobility to and alternative mobility concepts are considered important building achieve a breakthrough, solutions must be developed that make blocks for the sustainable city. E-mobility, better public transport, battery charging easy. In cooperation with different carmakers, and sharing principles are gaining support from a growing number among them Mercedes-Benz and smart, the Bosch Software Innoof people. The key to sustainable cities could also lie in digitization: vations subsidiary has developed charging apps that connect the apps, smart navigation systems, and connected parking make life charging stations of different providers to one another. App users easier for city dwellers while at the same time reducing emissions. can thus find out at a glance where the next free charging station is located and make direct payments. With 3,700 stations, 80 percent Using rather than owning of public charging stations in Germany are already connected to one A growing number of city dwellers do not want their own car. With another. the Coup e-scooter sharing service, Bosch has offered Berliners a flexible and low-carbon alternative to owning a vehicle since August 2016. Using an app, customers can locate, reserve, and pay for an e-scooter rental – and then start their ride immediately. Together with fleet users, Bosch is now further developing its offer based on a “test and learn” method. In cooperation with Bosch Vietnam, three Vietnamese universities have also offered a similar service since November 2016. As part of the “Green Challenge” competition in 2015, students also developed a free e-scooter sharing system for university students. In addition to congested roads, the limited number of parking spots poses a problem in many cities. One solution could be the flexible use of different forms of transport, a service that Bosch has been testing in the Stuttgart region since the start of 2017. The company Speeding through the city has installed 2,500 sensors at 15 Park & Ride parking spots. Via an Since 2016, Bosch technicians in Brussels have app that provides real-time information, commuters can now drive been using e-cargo bikes to get to their customers. The electric bicycles are equipped with a to free parking spots close to train stations and continue their jourdrive designed by Bosch and further on comneys on public transit. mand a Nyon navigation system, which Bosch developed especially for e-bikes. This allows the technicians to travel through the city and get to their appointments with customers quickly and safely. Once they have arrived, there is no need to waste valuable time looking for a parking spot. They can simply leave their e-bikes outside the building. 18 Sustainability report 2016 City life 2.0 The Shipyard Community in San Francisco has shown what the helped develop. The app can be used to access community-related neighborhoods of the future could look like, with clean, locally proinformation in real time. For example, the service informs users of duced energy, city dwellers running their errands with e-scooters, special offers at local businesses, the shuttle bus’s current and people looking for parking spots with an app. 12,000 homes are location, and the subway schedule. This encourages people to use being built there, in addition to 500 hectares of commercial space public transit, and thus helps reduce CO2. Bosch is currently also and 3.5 hectares of green space. Not only is the San Francisco working on modifying car travel to make it more comfortable and Shipyard the biggest building project in the history of the city, it fuel-efficient for app users. In the future, a connected parking will also be the first smart urban community in which people can live guidance system will display the route to the next available parking and work sustainably in a connected environment. In this neighborspot. The community’s energy supply also plays a key role in reduchood, technology is much more than an add-on: it holds everything ing CO2 emissions: the DC micro-grid storage system, which Bosch together. It can be found in cars, houses, and on the street, and already installed at a Honda plant in California in 2015, could also connects individual components to one another so they can interact be introduced at varied locations. The power generated with solar in real time. cells on the roofs of parking garages is fed directly into the grid and used for lighting and ventilation. The SF Shipyard is a project of Five Point, which is a subsidiary of Lennar Corporation, a real estate development company. Bosch has provided many of the technical products and services. Not only does the company offer solutions in the areas of smart homes and connected driving, it has the technical expertise required to develop the smart community of the future. For instance, where customers used to simply install a security camera, they now demand full security solutions – and both partners are striving to deliver these. The city of the future How good is the neighborhood’s air quality? From the very beginning of the SF Shipyard building project, the microclimate monitoring system overlooked the air quality in the area. Via wireless sensors, the system measures the toxin content in the air. In the future, the system will make the lives of Shipyard inhabitants easier, for instance with the help of the Smart Community App that Bosch 19 Activities Products of the future People must consume and produce in such a way that the burden on the environment is kept to a minimum for future generations. This is the aim of the United Nations. Bosch strives to achieve this objective with resource-efficient product development and corresponding manufacturing processes. Product development: eco-friendly materials A second life for car parts Bosch plans to continue reducing the carbon footprint of its products. Another resource-conserving method of manufacturing is practiced To this end, the company also relies on a broad range of external by the Automotive Aftermarket division in line with the circular expertise, including the innovative solutions of its suppliers. With economy principle. the “GENESIS” program (Generate with Externals Synergies & Innovative Solutions), the company has intensified cooperation with This is how Bosch remanufactures used parts: partners and suppliers in the product development phase. This 3. Retail involves two approaches, namely routing and scouting. With routing, external parties can submit suggestions for innovation via an online 2. Workshop 4. Core management portal (www.bosch.com/idea). Bosch experts then assess whether these ideas are beneficial and feasible, and whether they should cooperate with partners to develop them. With scouting, Bosch Back-in-box Pick-up Sorting plant Credit identifies the need for innovation in specific product or service areas 1. Retail and then goes in search of specific external expertise. 5. Remanufacturing This process starts with the initial idea, and helps inspire the Bosch development team to come up with more eco-friendly designs: can The used parts from vehicles are removed from the market, identified, a material be replaced with another, more eco-friendly or lighter and sorted in a structured manner. Provided that they meet technical version? How can developers extend a product’s life cycle? How can requirements, they are then sent to production and remanufacturing. material be reduced or replaced? And can the material be recycled? In order to ensure a seamless return process, in 2016 Bosch founded In addition to product innovations, Bosch also comes up with ideas the Circular Economy Solutions subsidiary. Under the CoremanNet on process improvements and resource-efficient production methbrand name, the company removed 2.5 million parts from the market ods. In 2016, some 450 suggestions for innovation were submitted. in 2016. Current cost of environmental protection Investments in environmental protection Bosch Group locations 2007, 2014–2016 Bosch Group locations 2007, 2014–2016 COSTS INVESTMENTS in millions of euros in millions of euros 105.8 104.9 132.9* 139.8* 21.1 36.5 49.6* 46.5* 2007** 2014 2015 2016 2007** 2014 2015 2016 * From 2015 onward, including Automotive Steering (AS) and BSH Hausgeräte ** Base year 20 Sustainability report 2016 All for one Since 1990, global CO2 emissions have increased by almost 50 percent. To reverse this trend and limit global warming to a maximum of two degrees Celsius over pre-industrial times, technical innovation is just as decisive as fundamental behavioral change. Bosch supports the targets of the Paris climate agreement in a number of ways, for instance by consistently improving the environmental performance of the company’s locations around the world. The Bosch Group’s environmental management system is based on poses. This had a positive effect on gas and electricity consumption, the following targets: to reduce CO2 emissions by 35 percent until and has led to a CO2 reduction of 50 tons per year. At the Bosch 2020 relative to value added over the 2007 reference year, as well as plant in Mississauga, Canada, heating costs were reduced by 12 to achieve a 6 percent reduction in volume of waste and water percent after air barriers were installed at the site gates. consumption between 2016 and 2018, also relative to value added. To achieve these targets, the company has introduced the Key environmental figures ISO 14001 environmental management system at all 296 Bosch manufacturing sites, just like at the larger development locations. Development of CO2 emissions So far, 87 percent have received external certification. At many Bosch Group 2007, 2014–2016 plants, energy officers cooperate with the CO2 coordinators of each CO2 EMISSIONS division to develop emission reduction measures. Via the Bosch absolute, in millions of metric tons Connect internal communication platform, the environmental improvement relative to value added, in percent experts share ideas and ensure that successful approaches are implemented across the company. 2.6 0 2.5 –19.9 3.0* –29.8 3.1* –30.6 Reducing energy consumption with load management In 2016, the Bosch plant in Nuremberg was one example of this. The production site successfully reduced expensive peak loads, thus saving 700,000 euros in energy costs in their first year. First, experts at the plant conducted a systematic analysis of energy consump2007** 2014 2015 2016 tion using 360 electricity meters that were read several times each day. The experts used the results to come up with a range of measures: they replaced energy-intensive components and installed solar Development of energy needs panels on the plant roof. In addition to this, the site rescheduled Bosch Group 2007, 2014–2016 energy-intensive processes to night and weekend shifts with the aim of achieving more constant levels of energy utilization. Since ENERGY NEEDS in terawatt hours then, cooling systems have been used at times when energy use is improvement relative to value added, in percent lower, while a newly installed cooling reservoir ensures that the required cooling process is available at all times. In 2016, the 6.7 0 6.1 –25.5 7.5* –33.7 7.6* –35.1 plant received the automotive supplier industry’s “Partslife Umweltpreis” (Partslife Environmental Prize) for its progressive energy management system. At other locations, too, analyses of energy use help achieve the energy and CO2 reduction targets that Bosch has set itself. At the 2007** 2014 2015 2016 Bosch plant in Nonantola (Italy), one of the most important projects implemented in 2016 regards the heat recovery wasted from the * From 2015 onward, including BSH Hausgeräte and Automotive Steering (AS) cooling system of the compressors in production for heating pur** Base year 21 Activities At the Nanjing and Chuzhou production sites in China, lighting was Waste volume development identified as a major driver of costs. Within a year, the plants Bosch Group 2007, 2014–2016 replaced thousands of lights with energy-efficient LED lighting. As WASTE a result, they saved about 2.6 million kilowatt hours of power and in thousands of metric tons cut their electricity bills in half. improvement relative to value added, in percent 520.1 0 471.6 –25.7 675.2* –22.5 692.5* –23.7 A concept for less waste With the aim of seizing all opportunities to reduce waste, the Bosch plant in Naganathapura, India, developed the “3R concept,” which is based on the idea that waste can be systematically reduced, 2007** 2014 2015 2016 reused, or recycled. Take oil filters, for instance: following a costbenefit analysis, the location purchased an oil centrifuge, which is Development of water consumption necessary to clean oil filters. As a result, the volume of hazardous Bosch Group 2007, 2014–2016 waste at the location was decreased by 25 percent over the previous WATER year. Within the first year, the savings generated with regard to waste in millions of cubic meters disposal paid for the new equipment. improvement relative to value added, in percent 17.3 0 17.2 –18.7 19.3* –33.3 19.4* –35.9 2007** 2014 2015 2016 * From 2015 onward, including BSH Hausgeräte and Automotive Steering (AS) ** Base year Promoting integration Last year, war, persecution, and poverty forced more people than ever to leave their home countries. According to the United Nations, there are currently 65 million refugees around the world. Once they have arrived in their host countries, the need to learn a new language and understand a different culture often poses special challenges. Bosch encourages peaceful and secure coexistence and helps refugees get off to a good start in their new environment. In accordance with the wishes of its company founder Robert Bosch, and two others have found jobs at other companies. Primavera e.V., Bosch has always striven to strike a balance between its business an aid organization that was founded by Bosch associates, can also interests and its commitment to social well-being. The company’s look back on a successful year: the organization received 620,000 efforts with regard to the integration of refugees are one example of euros in donations, the highest amount ever. Among other things, this: in 2015, associates donated 410,000 euros to the cause, which Primavera used the money to support refugee aid projects and Bosch then doubled to 820,000 euros. In 2016 the money was used enable children close to Bosch locations around the world to look to fund 113 projects. Bosch also created 400 supplemental apprenforward to a positive future. ticeship spots for refugees. And at the Vienna location, associates have volunteered as sponsors for 26 refugees from Syria and Afghanistan. The project is called “Support vor Ort: Bosch MitarbeiterInnen helfen” (Local support: Bosch associates help) and is run in cooperation with “Interface Vienna” and “connecting people”. The volunteers help refugees and their families navigate officialdom, and also support them with everyday challenges. In addition to this, there are barbecues, soccer tournaments, and other activities on a regular basis. The aim is to enable newcomers to lead independent lives in Austria. Today, five refugees work at the Vienna and Ternitz locations, 22 Sustainability report 2016 2016 in review MARCH JANUARY Encouraging disadvantaged children and young adults JUNE Engineer for a day Creating something with one’s own hands helps build self-confidence, as Fresh air 4.0 in Czech At the “IET Faraday Challenge Days,” disadvantaged children and young adults production halls British school children learned about in two countries were able to discover the work of engineers. Bosch experts with the help of committed Bosch assoThe moment the machines are turned helped find solutions to everyday ciated in spring and summer of 2016. In off, the ventilation system that supproblems and developed real protocooperation with Chiang Mai University plies fresh air turns itself off autotypes. Among other things, the school and the regional “Skills for Life” foundamatically as well. This energy-saving children created a scanning app that tion in Thailand, the company taught measure is the result of a project in assists in tracking down misplaced practical skills to young people from the production halls of the Jihlava household items. The workshops remote areas and poor families. Using location in the Czech Republic. The were organized by the Institution of Bosch power tools, they learned how to project is based on the principle that Engineering and Technology (IET). put together handicrafts that tourists in the operating systems required for the region are likely to buy. In order to manufacturing should be connected keep the project going long term, Bosch to the supply engineering systems, donated tools and trained students to and that the amount of electricity pass on their acquired expertise in the required for production should also future. Bosch Power Tools in Moscow be a control parameter for ventilainvited children with disabilities who are tion. As a result of this approach, the supported by the Galchonok Foundation plant already saves 3,950 megawatt to build wooden toys. Working with a hours of energy and thus also 1,000 team helped them improve their fine tons of CO2 each year. In production motor skills and provided them with a halls where a great deal of ventilation sense of belonging and acceptance. is needed, this means a reduction of about 50 percent. The project’s energy efficiency was honored with a prize from the International Facility Management Association. The system is now also being used at the Wuxi plant in China, and will later be installed at other Bosch locations. 23 Review Settlement agreement for diesel vehicles in the United States Bosch has entered into a settlement agreement with claimants in the U.S. in order to settle the most substantial part of the civil law proceedings pending in connection with Volkswagen, Audi, and Porsche diesel vehicles. The corresponding documents were filed with the competent U.S. court in California on February 1, 2017. It has been proposed that the court consider final approval of the settlement agreement in early May. The DECEMBER agreement was concluded with the plaintiffs’ steering committee on behalf of proposed settlement classes. Bosch will pay a total amount of USD 327.5 million (approx. EUR Donating a smile 304 million). By entering into the settlement, Bosch neither acknowledges the facts as alleged by the plaintiffs nor does Bosch “Donate a smile” is the slogan for the accept any liability. The settlement agreement project of the same name, over the concerns only civil law claims. As it has done since allegations have first been made public, course of which more than 150 RomaBosch will continue to defend its interests in nian and Bulgarian Bosch associates all other civil and criminal law proceedings and to cooperate comprehensively with the organized events in cooperation with investigating authorities in Germany and in non-profit organizations. The compaother countries. SEPTEMBER ny spent more than 44,000 euros for cash donations, equipment, childcare Teacher training for the and crafts workshops. During an technicians of the future environmentally-themed week, 3,500 trees were planted. In addition, volunThe Bosch brand Junkers stands for teers restored a 500-meter segment energy-efficient modern heating technology. For the third time, the of the historical Sibiu-Agnita railway. Finally, at the end of the year, Bosch  Thermotechnology associates at the associates dressed up as Mother and Bosch honored as an employer Bosch location in Warsaw, Poland, Father Christmas and invited disadshared their expert knowledge at the vantaged children to a party highlightThe British BSH Bosch Home Appli“Junkers educates” event. Teachers ing the festivity season. With all these ances Ltd, a regional Bosch company, from 19 schools were invited to oneactivities, Bosch associates not only received the Top Employer Award 2016. day training sessions, where they donated their time, they also donated The following reason was given for the learned about heat pumps, condensasmiles. honor: “The company has proven to be tion and solar technology, and how to a pioneer in the area of human reteach the newly acquired knowledge sources. It has shown forward-looking in their classrooms. After completing thinking with regard to its associates. their training, 277 students took an The company has made continuous online test, with the best among them improvements to the work environment winning access to further training and consistently invested in associate courses. development.” PROGRESS REPORT Activities – an overview Robert Bosch GmbH has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2004, and is committed to this initiative’s ten global principles in the areas of human rights, working standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The following table provides an overview of the progress made in the 2016 reporting period in relation to these ten principles of responsible corporate governance. PRINCIPLES BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Human rights Corporate objectives Supply chain-related 614 audits conducted since 2010 activities Principle 1: Support and 1,000 supplier audits respect human rights by the end of 2020 Environmental and occupational safety audits of the Principle 2: No complicity Code of Business supplier portfolio in human rights abuses Conduct Basic principles of Purchasing guidelines Potential for improvement is discussed with suppliers social responsibility at and improvements are introduced Bosch Sanctioning suppliers If suppliers fail to make improvements, they are Bosch purchasing sanctioned (removed) guidelines Working standards Corporate target Female Executives Share of female executives in 2016: 15.4 percent Principle 3: Uphold Women to fill Increase of the share of freedom of association 20 percent of women in management management positions Principle 4: Elimination positions by 2020 of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Bosch Human “Chefsache” initiative Last year, 15,000 participants at 50 events helped Resources System shape the “Chefsache” project. Initiatives included Principle 5: Abolition of In cooperation with other mamentoring programs specifically designed for women, (BHS) jor German companies, Bosch child labor networks, seminars, and training programs. In Guidelines for a flexible founded the “Chefsache” seminars for executives, awareness is being raised on Principle 6: Elimination of and family-friendly (Matter for the boss) initiative, the ways in which stereotypes can affect communicadiscrimination working culture which aims to encourage tion. Participants learn techniques that help recognize women to take on manageand counteract sexist communication patterns “We are Bosch” ment positions corporate guidelines Diversity management In 2016, more than 200 locations took part in the third annual “Bosch Diversity Day” Corporate diversity programs and initiatives to attract the Moreover, Bosch received the “Gender Diversity” best talent to Bosch were trendence Employer Branding Award from Germany’s continued and expanded trendence Institute RBg associate network Today, it counts 290 members in 10 countries. The network’s aim is to make the LGBT community more visible The Bosch lesbian, gay, at the company, and to promote greater acceptance bisexual, and transgender network (LGBT) celebrated its As a sponsor of this year’s Christopher Street Day tenth anniversary celebrations in Stuttgart, Bosch demonstrated its commitment to diversity women@Bosch Today, it counts more than 3,000 members in 30 countries For 20 years, the network has been committed to promoting Together with RBg, the associate network is one of the interests of women at more than ten different initiatives that provide associBosch around the world ates with platforms to share ideas and network with one another. Each of these groups has representatives on the Diversity Network Board Cultural consultants There are currently 200 active cultural consultants at Bosch Bosch associates act as experts for intercultural cooperation and advisors for colleagues who are going abroad GRI-Tabelle PRINCIPLES BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Working standards Corporate objectives Associate aid organization The initiative counts 1,040 members, who support aid projects around the world Principle 3: Uphold 20 percent share of Bosch associates founded the freedom of association female executives by “Primavera e.V.” aid In 2016, Primavera collected more than 620,000 euros 2020 organization in 1990, which in donations. Since its foundation, the organization has Principle 4: Elimination helps disadvantaged children donated more than 9.5 million euros of all forms of forced and Bosch Human in the world’s poor regions compulsory labor Resources System access education and training (BHS) Principle 5: Abolition of child labor Guidelines for a flexible Refugee integration In 2015, Bosch associates raised 410,000 euros for and family-friendly refugee aid; the company doubled the sum to Principle 6: Elimination of working culture Bosch is committed to inte820,000 euros discrimination grating refugees and shows “We are Bosch” its commitment through In 2016, the donated amount was spent toward 113 mission statement the support of a number of projects, which were selected by a committee initiatives comprising representatives of Primavera e.V., the Group Advisory Board, the Group Committee of Executive Representatives, refugee aid coordinators, and the Corporate Citizenship department The projects aim to help people who fled war and poverty become part of German society, for instance through language lessons, sports, leisure activities, and support with German bureaucracy New apprenticeships Bosch upheld its commitment to invest in the future of young people in southern Europe, for instance with the Bosch in the fight against “Train for the future” project, which gives school pupils youth unemployment in insights into the working world. After a successful Europe launch in Italy, the project was carried out in Spain for the first time in 2016 In 2016, Bosch expanded its occupational training initiative with an additional 75 apprenticeship spots International foundations In 2016, the Bosch Group donated a total of 17.9 million euros to charitable initiatives. The foundations Regional Bosch Group founspent an additional 7.6 million euros on different dations in Brazil, China, India, projects and the United States Cooperative education Bosch is training approx. 7,350 people around the world of which some 2,450 are outside of Germany Bosch apprenticeship model in more than 20 countries around the world Flexible and mobile The company offers more than 100 working-time working culture models across hierarchical levels, among them part-time models, telecommuting, and job sharing Bosch strives to promote a corporate culture that places With the JobConnector, Bosch offers its associates greater importance on results a platform that allows them to find the right partners than on presence, and to for job sharing or part-time work. The platform earned offer flexible working models. Bosch an HR Excellence Award in the “Best Use of This not only helps families Technology” category. The award is presented by the with young children or elderly German Human Resources Manager magazine and dependents, but also associQuadriga University of Applied Sciences Berlin ates who would like to pursue leisure activities or volunteer in their free time Occupational safety Occupational safety management systems based on OHSAS 18001 have been introduced at all manufacturIntroduction of an occupaing sites, as well as at the larger development locations. tional safety management Until now, 130 locations have received external certifisystem based on the globally cation, which equivalents to a 44 percent share recognized OHSAS 18001 standard In 2016, the number of reportable workplace accidents per million hours worked was reduced by 2.7 percent (–61 percent since 2007) Encouraging girls Annual Girls’Days, which provides some 1,000 schoolgirls with insights into possible fields of work at Sparking girls’ and young a technology company women’s interest in technology Participation in some 300 educational cooperation projects within the framework of the Wissensfabrik initiative Supporting specialists 750 associates have completed this program since 1999 Bosch trains associates without university degrees to The program lasts two years and comprises 50 training take on technical and comdays mercial tasks at the company. This enables them to take In addition to this, Bosch spent some 260 million euros over some tasks from their on further training initiatives in 2016 college-educated colleagues PRINCIPLES BASIS/GOALS ACTIONS RESULTS Working standards Corporate objectives Promoting innovative spirit For 25 years, Bosch has used the “Continuous Improvement Process”(CIP) to continuously enhance the comPrinciple 3: Uphold 20 percent share of Bosch offers a platform for pany’s efficiency and innovative strength freedom of association female executives by innovative ideas, both 2020 internally with the corporate In total, some 22,000 associates submitted suggesPrinciple 4: Elimination suggestion scheme, and of all forms of forced and Bosch Human tions for improvement in 2016 for which Bosch paid a externally with the total of 7.7 million euros in cash bonuses compulsory labor Resources System organization of annual (BHS) events such as the “Jugend Some 130 girls and boys took part in the “Jugend Principle 5: Abolition of child labor Guidelines for a flexible forscht” state competition in forscht” state competition in Fellbach, Germany. Of 65 and family-friendly Baden-Württemberg projects, 9 qualified for the finals Principle 6: Elimination of working culture discrimination “We are Bosch” corporate guidelines Environmental Corporate targets CO2reduction 30.6 percent reduction of CO2 emissions relative to value protection added over 2007 levels 35 percent reduction of Worldwide reduction of CO2 Principle 7: Precautionary CO₂ emissions (relative emissions at all manufacturCDP reporting on greenhouse gas emissions environmental protection to value added) by 2020 ing and larger development over 2007 levels locations Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environSix percent reduction mental responsibility of waste volume and Waste volume and water Reduced relative volumes of waste by 1.5 percent and water consumption consumption water consumption by 3.9 percent over the previous Principle 9: Develop(relative to value year ment and distribution of Reduced waste volume and added) at Bosch locaenvironmentally-friendly water consumption at Bosch CDP reporting on water consumption tions between 2016 technologies locations and 2018 Guidelines for occupational safety and enSustainable products 5,340 patents filed worldwide vironmental protection Investments in the further 55 percent of total R&D expenditure went toward Bosch Product Engidevelopment of sustainable developing sustainable products* neering System (BES) products Environmental/Safety portfolio accounted for approx. Bosch Production 43 percent of total sales* System (BPS) The “GENESIS” purchasing initiative (Generate with Design for Environment Externals Synergies & Inno­vative Solutions) aims to (DfE) promote early and targeted cooperation between product development and suppliers. In 2016, over 450 “We are Bosch” suggestions for innovation were submitted and can mission statement potentially be put into practice with Bosch applications Green controlling prize The prize is awarded by the Péter Horváth Foundation in cooperation with the International Association of Award for the best practical Controllers (ICV) solution in the effective management of ecological Bosch donated the prize money of 10,000 euros to the programs, projects, and Primavera e.V. associate organization, which helps measures children in need ISO 14001 All manufacturing and larger development locations introduced the management system. So far, 257 Bosch locations certified in locations have received external certification, a share accordance with the of 87 percent international standard Climate-friendly locations At the Koramangala location in India, 155 tons of CO2 were saved owing to the installation of a PV system Progress made with regard to climate protection due to In May and June, the ISO-50001-certified Eisenach energy-efficient technology at location in Germany covered 90 percent of its energy a number of locations needs with renewable sources of energy The fight against Member of Whistleblower portal Associates (including interns and doctoral students), corruption Transparency external parties (including temps and employees of International e. V. Breaches of compliance external service providers), business partners Principle 10: Work against (since 1995) (observing legal and internal (including suppliers, customers, or cooperation corruption regulations in business activpartners), and other third parties can report breaches Member of the Forum ities) can occur anywhere of compliance for Compliance & Integrity (since 2007) Code of Business Conduct Compliance training Mandatory compliance training includes lessons on business ethics, product liability, anti-trust laws, and Actively promoting knowledge export controls * excluding BSH Hausgeräte Further key principles for sustainable activities in the Bosch Group In 2010, an office, expert and steering committee were founded. Since then, these bodies have been responsible for the effective implementation of all of the Group’s sustainability-related activities. Scope of reporting The scope of the information is indicated in the texts, key figures, and targets. This report presents a summary of the Bosch Group’s current sustainability-related activities across sectors and divisions. It therefore serves as a progress report as part of the group’s membership of the UN Global Compact. The reporting period covers January 2016 to spring 2017. The cut-off date for key figures is December 31, 2016. The editorial deadline was March 1, 2017. Memberships (examples) B.A.U.M. (1990), Transparency International (1995), econsense (2000, founding member), United Nations Global Compact (2004), Global Reporting Initiative (2006, GOLD Community member), Forum Compliance & Integrity (2007) Other sustainability reports WIN-Charta Baden-Württemberg (2015), German Sustainability Code (2014), orientation to GRI standards (2016) Legal notice Published by: Senior Vice President: Project team: Additional information on Robert Bosch GmbH Dr. Christoph Zemelka Sylvia Aßmann Bosch and its commitment to Corporate Communications, Annkathrin Kienle sustainability is available here: Brand Management, and Contact: Bernhard Schwager bosch.com Sustainability (C/CC) Head of the Sustainability Office sustainability.bosch.com Postfach 10 60 50 Bernhard Schwager Realization: sustainabilityblog.bosch.com 70049 Stuttgart bernhard.schwager@de.bosch.com Ketchum Pleon GmbH sustainability-report.bosch.com Germany Phone +49 711 811-6402 Düsseldorf Phone +49 711 811-0 Robert Bosch GmbH Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany www.bosch.com Print compensated Id-No. 1764102 www.bvdm-online.de
