United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 FOUNDER’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Euromonitor International has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since May 2012 and we remain fully committed to supporting and upholding all of the 10 principles. We take our responsibilities towards society and the environment seriously and we are pleased to be able to demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement in this Communication on Progress. During 2016 we have developed a new strategy for our corporate social responsibility programme which aligns a large part of our community giving with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We look forward to working with many new charitable partners in the forthcoming year and reporting on their impact in our Communication on Progress next year. We’ve also been looking at how we can strengthen and reinforce the culture of success within our sales division and have introduced a new strategy to help staff build a career which is both challenging and rewarding. More information on this and other projects can be found later in the report. On behalf of Euromonitor’s Chief Executive, Board of Directors and employees around the world, I am delighted to present this report which we will be sharing with all of our stakeholders over the coming months. Robert Senior Founder May 2017 © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 2 ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL Euromonitor International is the world’s leading provider of global business intelligence and strategic market analysis. We have more than 40 years’ experience publishing international market reports, business reference books and online databases on consumer markets. We deliver market research solutions to support strategic planning for today’s increasingly international business environment. Our research offers in-depth market analysis on consumer goods and service industries worldwide, as well as economic, demographic and socio-economic data and insight on countries and consumers. Euromonitor International is headquartered in London, with regional offices in Chicago, Singapore, Shanghai, Vilnius, Santiago, Dubai, Cape Town, Tokyo, Sydney, Bangalore and São Paulo. We have a network of over 800 analysts worldwide. “We are entering exciting times with new initiatives being rolled out across research and sales, product and technology innovation ongoing, new offices opening and a major CSR investment phase about to kick off.” Tim Kitchin Chief Executive EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL LEADERSHIP ROBERT SENIOR TREVOR FENWICK TIM KITCHIN Founder Executive Chairman Chief Executive Leadership Team ANDY CARTER ANTHONY IRWIN EMMA BLANEY VP Sales VP Research Global HR Director BRAD BORGMAN SARH HUNTER LINDA WAKE Chief Operating Officer CSR Director Chief Financial Officer LISA TOMLINSON HELENA NIMMO VP Sales Chief Technology Officer SOCIAL MEDIA Euromonitor maintains a range of Social Media accounts as part of the company’s commitment to dialogue and transparency. You are welcome to follow Euromonitor on: © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Euromonitor International supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. The scope is broad but includes:  non-discrimination against, and behaviour towards, vulnerable groups  civil and political rights  economic, social and cultural rights  fundamental principles and rights at work We recognise there are global differences in accepted practices with regards to standards in safe working environments, child protection and other aspects of human rights. However, we ensure we work to the highest standards across all regions rather than just meeting local requirements. We are committed to the well-being of our employees, in-country analysts and contractors, creating safe, positive and professional work places. Implementation We have extensive global policies regarding equal opportunities, flexible working, parental leave, work-life balance and anti-harassment and bullying amongst others. All employees are briefed at induction and every policy is available on the company’s intranet. With a growing global workforce and an expanding CSR programme the need for dedicated leadership in both HR and CSR was identified in 2016. Our existing HR and CSR Director has taken sole responsibility for CSR and a new Global HR Director has been appointed. The new Director will continue to build on existing work around secondments, mentoring, career progression and coaching and people development ensuring Euromonitor is an outstanding place to work. Mental health in the workplace is becoming a key focus for businesses. In all countries where Euromonitor International has offices, mental health continues to often have a negative stigma with many people feeling embarrassed about seeking therapy to cope. In the workplace most employees are uncomfortable divulging any concerns to their employer, and instead try to carry on as usual. At Euromonitor we want our employees to be healthy in mind and body and this year we participated in the UK’s Mental Health Awareness Week, hosting a range of activities to help people manage their mental health at work. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 4 A key activity during the week was a special workshop for managers. Delivered by a leading UK mental health charity MIND, the session covered:  Spotting the signs of stress/mental health issues  What is a manager’s role in supporting staff members?  Managing sensitive conversations  What do we mean by ‘reasonable adjustments’? and;  Managing a return to work In November 2016 our Dubai office was awarded the Taqdeer Award, receiving a 5 star rating. As part of the process staff members in the office worked with independent assessors to evaluate our HR practices, labour p0licies, office setup and work environment. The team in Dubai receiving the Taqdeer Award We believe that an important part of upholding and promoting human rights is the commitment a business makes to its local communities. From April 2017 we are committing 1% of our turnover to our corporate social responsibility spend, an amount which will equate to roughly £1 million. As signatories of the UN Global Compact we have chosen to align a major part of our community investment programme with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Over the next year we shall be supporting organisations working to address:  Empowerment of women – education, training and professional development for women  Economic development – employment projects, social enterprises in development regions © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 5  Sustainability and the environment – reducing the negative impact of individuals and organisations on the environment, sustainable food and agricultural systems, conservation projects  Children’s Rights – elimination of child labour, access to education, clean water  Health – ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all ages, reduce child mortality, combat diseases. As part of the new strategy we are delighted to announce the first of a number of new partnerships which will benefit from our funding this year. We will be working with the Karam Foundation to support the education of Syrian girls living in refugee communities in Turkey; the Walkabout Foundation to distribute wheelchairs to those with spinal cord injuries and paralysis in developing countries; and with Spark Ventures to establish revenue generating projects to support wider community initiatives in Mexico. Karam Foundation Walkabout Foundation Spark Ventures Measurement Management of Euromonitor offices is regularly reviewed by the Leadership Board to ensure all policies are being implemented correctly. Euromonitor is compliant with all legal employment requirements in every respect, and in many cases, exceeds minimum requirements. In the past year Euromonitor International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. The CSR Manager works with all community partners to evaluate the impact of our support. Reports are published on the Corporate Social Responsibility blog on our global website. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 6 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment At Euromonitor we respect and value the individuality and diversity that all our employees bring to the company. It is our policy to provide employment, training, promotion, pay, benefits and other conditions of employment without regard to race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, marital status, age and/or disability. We place the highest priority on the health and safety of our employees and we actively encourage and support them in the development of relevant skills to progress their careers. Euromonitor International complies fully with all aspects of labour law in all countries in which it operates. Where our standards exceed those of local legislation, we apply our own policies. Implementation Euromonitor International has written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits. It is company policy to ensure that decisions concerning hiring, wages, promotion, training, discipline, retirement and termination are based only on unbiased criteria, and are not linked to any discriminatory characteristics. Staff members are encouraged to share any matters of concern with us without fear, in the knowledge that they will be taken seriously and that the matters will be investigated properly. The procedure for raising such concerns is outlined in our Whistleblowing Policy. We remain a member of Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) sharing information with our clients on four key areas: labour standards, health & safety, the environment and business ethics. A core value of Euromonitor is that the business must empower people as much as possible. We aim to foster a culture where is it normal for people to push beyond their comfort zones to be the best they can be. In order for this to happen we must ensure as a business that we have the necessary support and systems in place. In the last year we have provided people with the opportunity to try other roles in the company via secondments, we have improved our internal © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 7 mentoring programme, provided training to managers on coaching and people development and have provided clear guidelines for career progression. We have developed a new career strategy for our sales division encouraging staff members to develop additional areas of focus and responsibility. Reinforcing a culture that creates more successful, motivated long serving staff is good for our staff members, our company and our clients. In November 2011 we celebrated Diversity across our offices. To mark the launch of the initiative we shared a ‘Diversity and Inclusion at Euromonitor’ video. https://euromonitorintl.wistia.com/medias/ssz2z67lpa Other activities during the month included:  Diversity survey and questionnaire, completely anonymous the responses helped us to understand the mix of people we employ and informed future activities on this topic  A managers workshop on unconscious bias  A workshop in London on the implications of the Equality Act and;  A “bring and share” lunch to celebrate the national cuisines of our employees home countries Access to employment continues to be a core focus of much of our corporate social responsibility work across the globe. In our Chicago office staff members have been working with Upwardly Global a non-profit dedicated to helping eliminate employment barriers for skilled immigrants, refugees and asylum seekers. Today, there are more than 1.8 million immigrants in the U.S who are college-educated but are unemployed or significantly underemployed. In their home countries they were engineers, doctors, scientists, accountants, and non-profit professionals. In the U.S. they become cashiers, nannies, and cab drivers. Euromonitor hosted a networking afternoon where job seekers were given the opportunity to have practice interviews, gain advice on their CVs, ask questions relating to recruitment practices in America and develop their professional network. Upwardly Global job seekers and Euromonitor employees © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 8 Euromonitor’s Singapore office hosted a group of fifty-nine final year undergraduate students from the department of Economics at Mae Fah Luang University Thailand in August 2016. The students were interested in learning more about market research and career prospects in the region. The students heard from colleagues in sales, research, IT, administration, finance and communications as well as being set a challenge to find key information about different consumer areas using our core product Passport. The students work in teams to research consumer markets via Passport In London we have continued to work with The Parent House, a small Islington based organisation providing training and mentoring to parents seeking to return to the workplace after a prolonged period of absence. Parents join us for a day in the office, attending a CV and interview workshop followed by a practice interview. “All the information about how to build a good CV was very useful, as was the face to face interview. The interview workshop was an amazing opportunity to prepare ourselves for future interviews. A Big Thank You” Workshop attendee Measurement Euromonitor International’s HR team reviews the company’s responsibilities towards labour rights in relation to compliance with national and international law. We continue to monitor all health and safety incidents, recruitment statistics and sickness records to ensure compliance with our policies. The CSR Manager works with all community partners to evaluate the impact of our support. Reports are published on the Corporate Social Responsibility blog on our global website. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 9 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Although Euromonitor International’s direct impact on the environment is relatively small we are keen to ensure continued commitment to our internal policies and controls. We take our responsibility in supporting initiatives that prevent and manage environmental risk very seriously. Specifically, we are committed to:  Conserve natural resources and reduce the environmental burden of waste generation  Reduce the consumption of energy through building assessment and control, and by encouraging employee awareness, individual action and proactive involvement  Reduce the level of air travel and balance the impact of unavoidable flights Implementation Staff engagement continues to be key to our work around environmental responsibility. In April 2017 staff members in each of our global offices came together to celebrate the company’s annual green week. A range of activities took place including:  Green volunteering e.g. cleaning up a community park  Green photo competition  Hosting a swap shop  Recycled craft activities  Growing plants in the office This year we also hosted a global fundraising event, senior managers in each office were “sponsored” by employees to wear a green wig for the day. Not only did this bring an element of fun to the week but all funds raised were donated to the Disasters Emergency Committee’s famine relief fund for South Sudan. Our waste and recycling systems globally are continually reviewed and in February we introduced a new dry waste management system in our Bangalore office. Working with an organisation called Samarthanam Parisara the office is now able to recycle newspapers, magazines, carton boxes, e-waste and plastics. Operating as a social enterprise the income generated by Samarthanam Parisara is used to fund the work of the Samarthanam Trust for the © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 10 Disabled, an organisation providing a free residential education programme for children with disabilities. We continue to balance the impact of all global flights through partnerships with the World Land Trust and Save the Orangutan. During 2016 we contributed £10,206 to the World Land Trust by offsetting 680.3999 tonnes of CO2 emissions. This enabled the Trust to protect as estimated 57,153 m2 of threatened rainforest in the Nangaritza Valley in Ecuador. By the start of December 19,555 seedlings had been grown in the community nurseries in Mangkatip village as part of Save the Organutan’s reforestation project in Borneo. An additional 12,220 seedlings were purchased from nearby nurseries. With such a large number of seedlings to be planted the project staff arranged a planting training workshop for 35 community group members from the village. The training included selection of seedlings, land preparation, planting techniques, survival monitoring and the safety and environmental aspects of planting. Community members prepare and plant our the new seedlings Energy reduction is a key element of our environmental management programme, with a particular focus on employee behaviour and building efficiency. However, over the last year we have gone through a period of considerable growth as a company, the expansion in employee numbers and office space has in turn led to high energy consumption in a number of offices. To better understand the use of energy we have broken down overall consumption to an average consumption per employee which paints a much brighter picture with just two offices London and Santiago showing an increase in usage per employee. During the reported period both of these offices underwent building works which we feel explains the increase in usage and we’d hope the next evaluation to show a considerable reduction in the average consumption per employee. Measurement Euromonitor International’s leadership team is committed to reducing our environmental impact. The CR Manager, working with the Director of Operations and Office Managers has day to day responsibility for our environmental programmes and activities. Euromonitor International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and recycling and approved carbon balanced programmes. Reports are regularly reviewed to ensure our systems are effective with the majority of refuse produced being recycled. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 11 Euromonitor International has not been involved in any environmental incidents, nor has it been the subject of any investigations or legal proceedings by any regulating authority. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment As a world leader in our field, Euromonitor International recognises that we have a duty to set the very highest standards for ethical business practice. Employees of Euromonitor International are made aware that bribery, corruption and extortion in any form is not tolerated within our company under any circumstances. Implementation Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption policy sets out our responsibilities, and those working for us, in observing and upholding our position on bribery and corruption. It also provides information and guidance to those working for us on how to recognise and deal with bribery and corruption issues. The policy is supported by a web-based learning module available via Euromonitor University as well as employee briefings and complementary policies for example our Whistleblowing Policy. We continue to work with our clients adopting and signing up to Codes of Conducts and Supplier Agreements through which we are able to demonstrate our commitment to responsible business practices. Measurement All new staff members are issued with a copy of the Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy and asked to sign an acknowledgement slips, all acknowledgements are kept in the employee’s file by HR. Any suspicions, concerns or queries are reported in the first instance to the Operations Director and subsequently shared with the CR Manager for the purpose of monitoring and identifying any areas where additional support or training may be required. During the last 12 months Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. “Euromonitor International’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption must be communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter.” Euromonitor International: Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 13 © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2017 14 CONTACT DETAILS Catherine Hodgson Corporate Responsibility Manager Euromonitor International 60-61 Britton Street London UK EC1M 5UX www.euromonitor.com © Euromonitor International
