Corporate Social Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2016 CONTENTS PART I ABOUT TRADECORP Letter of commitment from the CEO.............................................................................................. 04 Description of the company........................................................................................................... 05 Tradecorp............................................................................................................................ 05 Our history.......................................................................................................................... 05 Tradecorp’s strategy........................................................................................................... 06 Our catalogue of products.................................................................................................. 08 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Scope of the report........................................................................................................................ 10 Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility........................................................................ 10 Our groups of interest.................................................................................................................... 10 Corporate Social Responsibility actions in 2016 New Code of Conduct and Whistle Blowing Channel..................................................................... 12 Global Compact-friendly Purchasing Policy................................................................................... 13 Donations to NGOs and institutions............................................................................................... 14 Participation in the project “Seeds to Feed Ethiopia”......................................................... 16 Analysis of the company’s diversity indicators............................................................................. 18 Human Resources Training Plan.................................................................................................... 20 UNICEF talk on the “Multiply for Children” program........................................................... 20 Human Resources Program and Ghrowing.................................................................................... 22 “Live healthy” Program....................................................................................................... 22 Everyone is safe at Tradecorp............................................................................................. 22 Study of wages and sector benchmarking.................................................................................... 24 Occupational risk analysis............................................................................................................. 26 Tradecorp Fitness Challenge............................................................................................... 26 Analysis of risk factors in relation to discrimination..................................................................... 28 Development and sales of products for Organic Agriculture......................................................... 30 REACH............................................................................................................................................ 33 Classification of products based on hazardousness..................................................................... 34 Safety data sheets......................................................................................................................... 37 Water use and recycling................................................................................................................ 38 Actions for the optimisation of energy and reduction of emissions.............................................. 40 JOIN IN campaign............................................................................................................... 41 Ener-culturalize yourself..................................................................................................... 41 Reconcycle.......................................................................................................................... 41 Appropriate Waste management................................................................................................... 44 Container recycling............................................................................................................. 44 Protection and restoration of habitats........................................................................................... 46 Rhino Charge...................................................................................................................... 46 Anti-corruption policy.................................................................................................................... 48 PART III MEASUREMENTS, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS LETTER OF COMMITMENT FROM THE CEO DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY Dear stakeholders, Tradecorp Tradecorp is a Spanish company, which, since it was founded in 1985, has been developing its activities in the agricultural sector. Thanks to our long history, Once again, this year we comply with the commitment that we we have gained broad experience in the field of crop nutrition, particularly in the segment of micronutrients and specialty fertilizers. made when joining the Global Compact. Here, we present our Communication on Progress 2016, which explains the main Our history actions carried out in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility during this year. This year, I am once again pleased to express our 2000-2016: interest and our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the 10 principles of which it is comprised. In the year 2000, Tradecorp integrated into the Sapec group, a company established in 1926 in the chemical and mining sector. Since its foundation, the group has been expanding its activities into various industrial and services sectors within the Iberian Peninsula. During the year 2016, a series of actions have been implemented The incorporation into this Belgian group broadened Tradecorp’s perspective even more by combining the enterprising spirit of the group with our know-how which have allowed us to increase the scope that the principles within the agricultural sector. of the Global Compact have within the company and in its area of influence. By the end of this stage, Tradecorp was integrated in Sapec Agro-Business, the holding company comprising Crop Nutrition and Crop Protection within the Sapec Group. Four pillars constitute the basis of the corporate strategy of this holding: The most noticeable of these actions has been the revision of the International and highly qualified personnel Code of Conduct, which is internationally applicable throughout Priority of R&D, innovation and registrations Distinct, high quality products and services Tradecorp and all the companies within the Sapec Agro Business. International expansion In addition, we set up a whistle blowing channel where employees can formulate doubts, make suggestions and report any violation Service and proximity to the market are key elements of the company’s strategy. The group is present worldwide through subsidiaries, offices, factories and, of the Code of Conduct. in particular, through its experienced personnel adapted to local markets. Following the path we started in 2006, we continue to put a lot 2017-… of effort into the development of products that are suitable for Bridgepoint, the international private equity investor, acquired Sapec Agro Business at the end of 2016, pursuing the goal of accelerating the growth of the Organic Agriculture. Due to our great efforts, we have been able to business by creating opportunities in new markets and launching new developments and agricultural solutions. increase the number of trademarks that are suitable for Organic Agriculture by Ecocert, both under European and NOP standards. Sapec Agrobusiness continues today its work of boosting innovation and service in agriculture, both in crop nutrition and crop protection with the full backing of Bridgepoint. 2016 was a year full of challenges to overcome in our factories as well, where we have implemented new technologies and improvements to optimize the use of energy and natural resources, which you can find thoroughly described in this report. Finally, we have already started doing our part to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Thus, our Communication on Progress is already focused towards the achievement of these goals. Following the acquisition of Sapec Agro Business by Bridgepoint at the end of 2016, I believe 2017 will be a year full of positive challenges for Tradecorp on a worldwide scale, and I am confident that the Tradecorp team will continue to put all of its effort into maintaining a successful and responsible company. Yours faithfully, Nicolas Lindemann Executive Director 04 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 05 TRADECORP’S STRATEGY To comply with our mission and our vision, we have developed a work model which is based on 5 different cornerstones to help us become a point of reference regarding quality and professionalism within our sector and to ensure we offer an excellent service. Our team One of the main values and one of the most differentiating elements about Tradecorp is its team. Consisting of more than 350 professionals from different countries and cultures, the technical and local teams in each area offer farmers and distributors a close, professional and customised service. Our R&D policy The development of sustainable and effective products permitting an increase in yield and quality of harvests is one of Tradecorp’s top priorities. Therefore, research and development of new products has always been one of Tradecorp’s strongest features. Our continuous work for quality & efficacy We strive to offer the highest quality in our products and services. To do this, we implemented a Quality & Environmental Management System, certified according to ISO 9001and ISO 14001 by DNV. Versatility and technology of our factories In our line of continuous technological improvement, we implement ever more efficient technologies which respect the environment and have allowed us to increase our production capacity. Our focus on sustainability We are concerned with complying with human and labour rights, the conservation of the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. Therefore, among our maximum priorities is compliance with REACH. We respect and promote the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we are ISO 14001:2004 certified, many of our main products have been approved for Organic Agriculture and we are members of Globalgap. 06 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 07 OUR CATALOGUE OF PRODUCTS Our catalogue consists of products of the highest quality with formulas for all kinds of crop and adapted to local agricultural conditions. As a result of our commitment to sustainability, many of these have been approved for Organic Agriculture. Our solutions are grouped in the following ranges: chelates humic bio foliar NPK & special acids stimulants fertilizers starters correctors The most efficient solution Integral improvement Stimulation of the plant’s Differentiated formulas State-of-the-art NPK Innovative solutions to prevent and correct of soil fertility natural processes for foliar application to correct specific problems micronutrient deficiencies Range formulated with an optimum The products in this range stimulate the Range of differentiated formulas, NPK Innovative and differentiated solutions for Tradecorp’s chelates guarantee balance between humic and fulvic acids. plant’s natural processes to improve highly concentrated in micro and Range of formulas adapted to the specific needs such as problems: proper absorption and assimilation of It provides a complete improvement of the absorption of nutrients and their macronutrients. It is developed to nutritional requirements of crops in related with salinity and sodicity in soils micronutrients by crops, thus avoiding soil fertility. effectiveness, favouring the plant’s meet specific needs of crops which different stages of development for any pH regulation for the correct possible precipitation or forming of tolerance to abiotic stress. influence quality and yield, such as the fertigation system or foliar application. conditioning of spray solutions and insoluble products that could decrease their effectiveness. Positive effect on its physical protein content, sugar level, fruit size, irrigation water characteristics (structure); chemical Its specific mode of action encourages photosynthetic activity, etc. Sources of high purity characteristics (greater availability of the physiological processes in plants Exclusive production processes Protection of the element from nutrients) and biological characteristics in critical periods of crop development, Foliar application benefits: High solubility interactions with other charges from soil (increase in microbial life) such as budding, rooting, flowering or Foliar is sometimes an alternative but it Free of chloride and sodium or water Improved root development maturing. is always an ideal complement Acid pH, Low electrical conductivity (EC) Maximum level of chelation Greater availability of nutrients Optimize the supply of each nutrient and low salt index (IS) Micronutrients richness guaranteed Increased nutrients’ uptake This range includes biostimulants based correcting and preventing deficiencies Balanced concentration of Easily assimilated by the plant Maximum quality of raw material: on Gentle Extraction of seaweeds and/ Ready to use and to spray macronutrients, enriched with micro Greater versatility in application and American Leonardite, to mantain always or L-α free amino acids enriched with Quick penetration into leaves nutrients chelated by EDTA compatibility Greater efficiency and maximum the same guaranteed contents essential nutrients. High translocation of nutrients Small split specific and special Starters security application on target organs High quality raw materials with the No problems of phytotoxicity, nor burns highest concentration of phosphorus and or damage potassium 100% available for crops Optimum stability in a wide range of pH Application at sowing or transplanting Easy to use: soluble microgranules (WG) Phosphorus: to boost root growth Rapid and instantaneous solubility in improving the potential final yield any kind of water without forming lumps Potassium: to increase resistance to or sediments water and cold stress and to enhance Possibility of developing and plant strength manufacturing custom made solutions Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: Some of our trademarks: ultraferro humistar-humifirst range delfan range final K-fainal K nutricomplex range saltrad tradecorp range humical aton range folur pumma range lower 7 tradecorp AZ range turbo root turbo root WG ruter AA tradebor range turbo seed Zn spray plus boramin Ca calitech seed sprint phylgreen range magnitech twintech Zn+Mn phostrade range trafos range 08 PART I ABOUT TRADECORP PART I ABOUT TRADECORP 09 SCOPE OF THE REPORT This report includes the main actions carried out during the year 2016, with special emphasis on those carried out at headquarters and at the factories. In the latter, due to our work related to chemicals and manufacturing of products, we have paid special attention to environmental issues. The actions in the following part are identified with the principle and area of the Global Compact of which they represent. In this year’s Communication on Progress, we have also included how our actions contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals, by identifying the SDG each of the actions as well. € $ Human rights Labor rights The Environment Anti-corruption OUR PERCEPTION OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility in Tradecorp can be seen in all we do and in the day-to-day running of the company as it is an essential part of the company’s strategy. We comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate, together with international norms such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Human and Labor Rights established by the International Labor Organization. Furthermore, we analyze and carry out actions that allow us to improve the safety and quality of life within the company, and we comply with our commitments to the communities where we operate and with society as a whole. The establishment of a Code of Conduct has likewise allowed us to organize and regulate our ethical principles, converting them into obligatory standards within the company. OUR GROUPS OF INTEREST In order to select Tradecorp’s groups of interest, we have chosen those groups where the company’s activity has the greatest repercussions. The following groups of interest have been defined: Suppliers and partners Employees Client Society in general 10 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 NEW CODE OF CONDUCT AND WHISTLE BLOWING CHANNEL GLOBAL COMPACT-FRIENDLY PURCHASING POLICY € $ APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: All APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 2 SDG: 5, 8, 10 SDG: All Diagnosis Diagnosis Although Tradecorp has had a Code of Conduct since 2012, which was updated on several occasions, in 2015 the need for a more specific Code of Conduct Tradecorp is committed to the highest standards of business and ethical behavior, including compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as was revealed. Also, Tradecorp’s management urged the improvement of the mechanisms for the compliance of ethical standards within the company. company policies, practices and procedures. Furthermore, our efforts include ongoing engagement with our business and major partners to mitigate potential Therefore, the work to establish a solid and functional Whistle Blowing channel and the modifications of the Code of Conduct were started in 2015, but it was human rights impacts beyond our direct control. not until 2016 that both the Whistle Blowing channel and the new Code of Conduct were launched. Policy Policy This action is based on Tradecorp’s labor policy which is established in the Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is mainly based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, on the Declaration of the International Labour Organisation concerning Principles and Fundamental Rights at Work, on the United Nations Global Compact and on the mission and vision of the company itself. Actions Actions In 2016, we reviewed the contents of the contracts that Tradecorp has with suppliers and customers. In order not to be complicit in the violation of human rights and labor rights as well as to promote environmental protection and anti-corruption practices within our sphere of influence, we have decided to add a We have reviewed our Code of Conduct and have also established one in common with all the companies within the group. new clause, both in the base contract with our clients and in the basic contract for our suppliers. Through this new clause, our customers and suppliers are The most relevant changes in the new Code of Conduct are: committed to respecting the internal and external policies of Tradecorp, including the commitment to Global Compact. Common framework for all companies in the Agro-Business Whistle Blowing channel Availability of the new Code of Conduct through the employee portal Monitoring All employees are required to comply with applicable laws, regulations and also with the Code of Conduct. To guarantee that employees are well informed of the applicable rules, they must accept the Code when accessing the employee portal. This new clause was defined and launched in 2016, but will be applied in new contracts starting in 2017. Monitoring In 2016, a Whistle Blowing channel was set up in order to guarantee that employees can formulate doubts that may arise in the interpretation and/or application of the Code of Conduct, to make suggestions or proposals, and to report any violation of the applicable laws, regulations or rules included in the company’s Code of Conduct. All communications received are treated confidentially through a group of professionals, impartial and external to the company. Appropriate measures are taken to ensure that there are no reprisals against the employee who, acting in good faith, contacts management to settle any doubt or to report any infringement of the Code of Conduct. No irregularities or breaches of Tradecorp’s Code of Conduct were detected in 2016. 12 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 DONATIONS TO NGOS AND INSTITUTIONS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 SDG: 2, 3, 4, 15 Diagnosis K’anchay: Tradecorp Europe continued sponsoring the educational project in Bolivia through the NGO K’anchay, which works to give access to a comprehensive education to children of farmers of the Highlands. In Tradecorp, Corporate Social Responsibility is linked to all the activities we develop. We comply with the laws of the countries in which we are present, as well as international standards, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Labor Rights established by the International Labor Organization. Donation to UNICEF: Tradecorp launched the campaign “Tradecorp wants to help less fortunate children grow” in December 2015 in time for the However, we also try to extend this responsibility within our field of influence, so we have developed actions with suppliers and with the community in general. Christmas and New Year. The campaign invited users to join in the fight against severe malnutrition. For every person who signed up, Tradecorp pledged to donate €2 to UNICEF. Translated into six languages, the campaign involved people from 13 countries. Policy UNICEF’s initiative “Multiply for Children”: In 2016, Tradecorp signed a cooperation agreement with UNICEF, whereby we join the “Multiply for Children” program. Through this commitment, Tradecorp contributes to Schools for Africa, a project founded in 2004 by UNICEF together with Actions related to donations to NGOs and institutions are based on the values transmitted in our Code of Conduct. the Nelson Mandela Foundation and the Peter Krämer Foundation to create Friendly Schools for Children that give underprivileged children a safe environment where they can learn and play. Actions Donation to UNHCR, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees: UNHCR, the United Nations Agency that directs and coordinates international action for the protection of refugees worldwide, was the most voted option by the different winning groups of the “Tradecorp Fitness Challenge.” In addition to our internal actions to respect the principles of the Global Compact, we have developed actions that allow us to convey these principles among This internal sports competition fulfills two objectives: on one hand, it serves to motivate the team to exercise and follow a healthy lifestyle, and, on our groups of interest. In this sense, Tradecorp has opted to support institutions that look after human rights, labor rights and the protection of the environment. the other hand, it helps to raise money for charity. For every kilometer covered by the participants, Tradecorp pledges to donate €1 to the NGO or institution chosen by the members of the winning teams. Kilo initiative: Tradecorp launched, as it does every year its Kilo initiative in Spain, a food collection in the offices of Madrid, factories and laboratories. The food collected during the campaign was donated to Cáritas, the official confederation of charitable and social organizations of the Catholic Church Donation to Black Forest Ecological Foundation: Tradecorp Mexico donated 16,184 kg of Tradecorp products to Black Forest Ecological Foundation, in Spain. In the campaign, the company’s employees donate non-perishable food and for every kilo contributed by the team, Tradecorp donates one a nonprofit organization founded by the members of music group Maná, which has been working on different tasks for the preservation of species, kilo more. conservation of the Environment, environmental awareness and social development. Donation to Pyfano: Tradecorp collaborated in the charity run “Kids get cancer too” which was organized by the athletics section of the Arévalo C.F. Donation to Ancianos Desamparados (Helpless Elderly): Tradecorp Mexico team managed to raise internally MXN 4,200 that were donated to Sports Club and the PYFANO Association (Association of Parents, Relations and Friends of Children with Cancer in Castilla y León, Spain). Ancianos Desamparados, an institution that works to provide a better quality of life for elderly people who have been abandoned by their families. 14 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 DONATIONS TO NGOS AND INSTITUTIONS Monitoring Kilo initiative: This year, the donation of 1,380 kg of food has been directed to the following parishes: Cáritas of the parish of Nuestra Señora de las Angustias in Albacete: 300 kg donated in total Cáritas of the parish of Santa María Josefa del Corazón de Jesús at the Ensanche de Vallecas in Madrid: 240 kg donated in total Cáritas of the parish of El Salvador in Arévalo: 840 kg donated in total Pyfano: Tradecorp’s donation for the charity run “Kids get cancer too” worth €300. Kanchay: Tradecorp donated €4,000 to sponsor an educational project of the NGO K’anchay in Bolivia. Donation to UNICEF: Tradecorp’s donation to UNICEF was valued in €2,500 (€1,500 donated in December, 2015, and €1,000 donated at the beginning of 2016). This donation helped to treat more than 1,500 severely malnourished children for a day. UNICEF’s initiative “Multiply for Children”: When joining this initiative, Tradecorp donated €1,500 to UNICEF. With this donation, Tradecorp contributes to the Schools for Africa project. UNHCR, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees: Tradecorp donated €2,916 to the Spanish Comittee for UNHCR. Donation to Black Forest Ecological Foundation: Tradecorp Mexico donated 16,184 kg of Tradecorp products. Donation to Ancianos Desamparados (Helpless Elderly): Tradecorp Mexico team raised and donated MXN 4,200 to this institution. More good practices Participation in the project “Seeds to feed Ethiopia” Tradecorp Europe is a partner in the project “Seeds to Feed Ethiopia”, organized by the Netherlands Enterprise Agency. This program aims to improve productivity and food security in Ethiopia by introducing seed technologies and enhancing crop establishment. A consortium of companies and institutions, led by Tradecorp’s partner Incotec (www.incotec. com), has been formed in order to demonstrate their products synergy in Ethiopia. They believe their technology can deliver quality and increase productivity. The project consists of a large scale promotion and demonstration program to be carried out over seven years that will be developed in close collaboration with Ethiopian farmers, research institutes and organizations. The project will organize 1,000 full crop cycle demonstrations and will reach at least 200,000 farmers throughout the country. 16 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 ANALYSIS OF THE COMPANY’S DIVERSITY INDICATORS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 6 SDG: 5, 8, 10 According to gender According to age 18% under 30 Diagnosis 70% Males 55% between 30-39 Brazil 30% Females 21% between 40-49 In the processes of recruiting personnel in Tradecorp, objective criteria such as training and experience are used. However, to ensure our compliance with Principle 6 of the Global Compact, each year we analyze the diversity indicators of the company. 3% between 50-59 3% over 60 Policy According to gender According to age This action is based on Principle 6 of the Global Compact and on the policy set forth in our Code of Conduct, which clearly states that “discrimination shall not 30% under 30 be tolerated in any case, whether by race, sex, religion, national origin, age, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, family situation, political opinion 70% Males or any other question that may lead to discrimination”. Latin America 20% between 30-39 30% Females 40% between 40-49 0% between 50-59 Actions 10% over 60 In our study of diversity indicators, two factors are studied: gender and age. According to gender According to age 25% under 30 Monitoring 75% Males Middle East and 13% between 30-39 For this analysis we have taken the entire staff of Tradecorp in all its offices worldwide. The result of this analysis is that Tradecorp in 2016 was composed by: North Africa 25% Females 50% between 40-49 By gender: 24.6% women and 75.4% men which represents a 2.4% increase in the number of women compared to the figure in 2015. 13% between 50-59 By age: 20.4% employees under 30; 35.6% between 30 and 39; 28.7% between 40 and 49; 12.9% between 50 and 59; and, 2.4% over 60. 0% over 60 According to gender According to age According to gender According to age 20.4% under 30 23% under 30 75.4% Males 35.6% between 30-39 78% Males 31% between 30-39 Global result Spain 24.6% Females 28.7% between 40-49 22% Females 29% between 40-49 12.9% between 50-59 15% between 50-59 2.4% over 60 2% over 60 According to gender According to age According to gender According to age 10% under 30 12% under 30 70% Males 80% Males 28% between 30-39 Europe, Sub25% between 30-39 South-East Europe Saharan Africa 30% Females 35% between 40-49 20% Females 36% between 40-49 30% between 50-59 12% between 50-59 0% over 60 12% over 60 According to gender According to age According to gender According to age 0% under 30 16% under 30 75% Males 25% between 30-39 70% Males 65% between 30-39 Asia Pacific Mexico 25% Females 50% between 40-49 30% Females 14% between 40-49 25% between 50-59 5% between 50-59 0% over 60 0% over 60 18 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 HUMAN RESOURCES TRAINING PLAN APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 6 SDG: 5, 8, 10 Diagnosis Building Credibility Global vision In addition to being a company committed to respect for human and labor rights, Tradecorp goes a step further by fostering a safe and healthy work Orientation to results environment, which at the same time promotes the professional development of the team and encourages motivation. Among the actions carried out to Communication achieve these objectives is the development of a training plan for the company’s human resources. In 2017, the announcement for courses will be launched internally so that the team can sign up for those courses related to the competencies of the company that are of interest to them. In addition, employees will also have the possibility to request other courses that are not within the official announcement. Policy These actions are based on the company’s Road book HR Management Program. Monitoring In 2016, 23 courses were developed, with an average of 16 hours each. In total, 368 hours were allocated to training and 60% of the employees of the Madrid office took advantage of them. Actions In 2016, some courses were developed, but, in addition, a structured training system was defined that will be implemented during 2017. Initially, it will be launched in the Madrid office, although the objective is to export this training plan to all the countries in which Tradecorp has offices. The courses that will be launched during 2017 are related to the key competencies that were defined in the first phases of the Human Resources Program (Ghrowing), begun in 2012. The competencies defined are: Flexibility Leadership Customer orientation Innovation More good practices The Tradecorp team attends a UNICEF talk on the “Multiply for Children” program Part of the Madrid, Labs and Factories teams celebrated its Different and Responsible Day. In addition to team building and cohabitation for the team in a friendly environment, this year’s event included a talk given by José María Palazuelos, Secretary of Madrid Committee for UNICEF. UNICEF’s presentation to the team had the purpose of explaining first-hand the activities that the organization is carrying out within the “Multiply for Children” Program, which Tradecorp joined in early 2016. More than 70 people attended the event, including adults and children. 20 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 HUMAN RESOURCES PROGRAM AND GHROWING APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 3, 4, 5, 6 SDG: 8 Diagnosis How it will help employees? Recognition of good work or correction of weak points In our search to fulfill our Mission and achieve our strategic goals, we know that people are the drivers of this achievement. Thus, we need to align people Providing a development plan: identification and implementation of training and improvement actions for the employee and functions to reach objectives. Ghrowing is the essential tool to develop the required personal abilities and skills for the good and sustainable growth of Differentiation and promotion of “high potential” and key employees the company. Fair compensation based on the performance of the employee Help in planning and orientation of professional growth Ghrowing is the system we have created to translate the company’s mission and vision into people’s objectives, providing personal goals that will build the Openness to dialogue, facilitating for the manager the achievement of the objectives by his/her team company of tomorrow. Each person, depending on his/her function, will then have clear perspective of his/her action on the company’s growth, thereby improving workplace environment. Monitoring Policy An online tool was launched in 2016 in order to better monitor the progress. The objective in 2017 is that this program is accessible to 100% of employees, regardless of their location. These actions are based on company’s Code of Conduct. Actions It brings the tools to value both the qualitative performance and the quantitative objectives and enables a clear conversation between all personnel on the targets and objectives. Why do we do this? Increase communication between manager and employee, Orient and guide the contribution of each employee to the Business Plan, so that the employee knows what is expected of him /her, Enhance trust between employees Reinforce Tradecorp’s values Align objectives Provide objective information about each employee to manage the talent More good practices Learning to nourish my body: This action Active Pauses: Through this program, exercises attempts to promote healthy eating habits in are carried out in a biweekly manner, which allow the team, whereby each member has access to for the reduction of physical and mental fatigue, “Live Healthy” Program nutritional advice at an affordable cost within the while taking care of the health and well-being of work day. the worker. These activities also bring a benefit in In 2016, Tradecorp Mexico continued with the the work environment by favoring integration and campaign “Vive Sano” (Live Healthy) through Psychovitamins: Through this program, topics teamwork. which the team is offered four different programs are dealt with and tools are provided to help for health care. meet the day-to-day challenges, whether in the Everyone is safe at Tradecorp personal or work environment. Among the topics Prevenimss: With this action, the program of discussed are the following: The main objective of this program launched the Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS) Self-responsibility in 2015 is to raise awareness about the approaches the facilities of Tradecorp Mexico. Stress Management importance of road safety. In 2016, Tradecorp This program consists of a review of the team’s Organization of Time México continues the work within this initiative health, including vaccines, weight and triglyceride Emotional Intelligence and provides training on road safety to 100% of checks, as well as general sexual and oral health Human development employees. training. 22 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF WAGES WITHIN THE SECTOR APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 6 SDG: 5, 8 Diagnosis In line with our commitment to respect for human and labor rights, Tradecorp carries out internal audit actions that allow us to analyze that we do not violate these rights. Therefore, we have decided to carry out a study of salaries in comparison with similar profiles in the sector on a biannual basis in order to ensure that the salaries in the company are aligned with the laws and with the sector to ensure that there is no wage discrimination. Policy This study is based on the Labor principles established in the Global Compact and in our Code of Conduct. Actions As a part of the Global Human Resources Management Program, Tradecorp has requested an internal equity diagnosis and an external competitive analysis. Besides the analysis, this report includes recommendations and conclusions, so that Tradecorp is aligned in terms of wages with labor legislation and the sector. The internal equity diagnosis is based on the following analysis: Fixed salary and total target cash compensation by reporting level Consistency of pay elements The external competitive analysis is based on the comparison between Tradecorp’s compensation data and market data. Monitoring In general, Tradecorp is aligned in wages with the market. 95% of salary levels are consistent with the different reporting levels and areas. The remaining 5% responds to special situations in the company, such as relocations. 24 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 OCCUPATIONAL RISK ANALYSIS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 4 SDG: 3, 8 Diagnosis Monitoring Tradecorp is aware that its staff is its most important asset. It therefore guarantees the respect for human rights and pays special attention to the working To avoid any risk situation, the preventive measures relating to health and safety at work will always be complied with, using the resources available to the conditions of its employees, as well as the health and safety conditions in their professional activities. This risk is mainly related to industrial activities, storage organisation and to ensure that everyone performs their activities in safe conditions. of products and transport of chemical products exposed to personnel, contractors and the general public to the negative effects of Tradecorp’s activities and products. Tradecorp considers that the safety and health of all of these people is a key element in the management of its operations. Our production units in Spain, Sanchidrián and Albacete, are certified with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Thus, they are inspected once a year by internal and external audits. The study concerning occupational risks covered 100% of employees at our production plants in Spain. Policy This figure reveals the evolution of accidents compared with previous years: This action is in line with our “Labor and Safety Conditions in the Workplace” in our Code of Conduct. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Minor accidents (%) 16.3 5.8 8.94 4.8 7.7 13.3 Actions Major accidents (%) 2.9 0 2.44 0 1.4 0 Risk control objectives apply to all businesses through training sessions and internal audits to prevent risk to people. The company will minimize any risk to health and promote the continuous improvement of the safety of its offices and in both its factories and laboratories. More good practices meaningful. Thus, a dedicated website has been created, which allows participants to record their activities and results. Tradecorp Fitness Challenge In 2016, 20 groups and 53 participants from In addition to providing a safe and healthy work 7 different nationalities enrolled the program, environment, Tradecorp seeks to take a step further representing a 10% increase in the number of and encourage activities that promote a better participants compared to 2015. quality of life, favoring a familial environment, reducing stress and a healthy lifestyle. In this line, Tradecorp holds an annual Tradecorp Fitness Challenge. This program, in addition to being a sports challenge, includes a wellness program, which offers tips for acquiring healthy habits such as: Postural higiene De-stress Meditation Rest and sleep Nutrition Positiveness Tradecorp considers monitoring is essential to keep the activity on track and to make it 26 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 INTERNAL AUDITS TO AVOID DISCRIMINATION APPLICABLE PRINCIPLE: 6 SDG: 5 Diagnosis Monitoring As an international company, Tradecorp must continuously address issues of diversity and multiculturalism. Every member of the company is expected to engage in action that leads towards the development of proactive efforts towards increasing diversity and the elimination of discrimination. Although Tradecorp’s policies do not allow for discrimination, Tradecorp has different mechanisms in place to identify and manage these violations. On one hand, the internal audit that includes aspects of discrimination will be carried out with an annual frequency and, on the other hand, Tradecorp has a Whistle Blowing channel, where all the people of the team can report any violation of the Code of Conduct or law, including violations related to discrimination issues. Policy In 2016, no discriminatory actions were detected in Tradecorp through these audits, nor were there related complaints in the complaints channel. This action is developed in line with the principles of elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation information included in the Code of Conduct. Actions The Human Resources department conducts periodic audits of the selection, training and promotion processes, to ensure that there are no discriminatory actions, whether by race, sex, religion, nationality, age, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, family situation, political beliefs or any other factor. 28 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 DEVELOPMENT AND SALES OF PRODUCTS FOR ORGANIC AGRICULTURE APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7, 8, 9 SDG: 9, 12 Diagnosis products are suitable for organic agriculture not only globally but also locally, the number of organizations we work with and which have approved our products for organic agriculture is increasing year by year. Tradecorp is a company that is committed to the conservation of the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. Therefore, we work on products that permit us to achieve the greatest potential in quality and crop yield whilst always keeping sustainability as a priority, allowing us to develop In 2016, many of our main products were authorised for Organic Agriculture by Ecocert Ibérica, an organic certification organization that conducts inspections in over 80 countries, making it one of the largest organic certification organizations in the world. Ecocert Ibérica performed a technical verification of our products that respect the environment. products, a complete audit of our production plants and a comprehensive and on site analysis of our production processes. We also have organic products registered in accordance with local legislation in Italy and Korea, and have obtained approval for Organic Agriculture products Policy issued by such other entities, as the OMRI (Organic Materials Review Institute), BFA (Biological Farmers of Australia) and IOFGA (Irish Organic Farmers & Growers Association). This initiative corresponds to the guidelines laid down in our Code of Conduct and is consistent with the principles of the Global Compact connected with environmental protection. Monitoring Actions In 2016, 133 brands have been approved for Organic Agriculture under European standards (EC Regulations No 834/2007 and 889/2008) and 34 brands comply with NOP (National Organic Programme). In 2006, Tradecorp began to work to achieve the approval of products suitable for organic agriculture by recognised entities. This recognition would provide farmers with the additional guarantee that the products they use comply with the requirements for usage in Organic Agriculture. So as to ensure that our The importance of our portfolio of products for Organic Agriculture can also be seen in our sales. In 2016, 52.09% of our sales corresponded to brands authorised for Organic Agriculture. 30 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 REACH APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 8 SDG: 3, 12 Diagnosis The REACH regulation governs the usage of chemical products in Europe, with the aim of guaranteeing a high level of human health and environmental protection. The presentation of registration dossiers is the main REACH implementation task, for which 3 milestone dates have been established: 2010, 2013 and 2018 in accordance with the tonnage of goods manufactured and imported: 2010 ( >1000 Tons/year) 2013 ( >100 Tons/year) 2018 ( >1 Tons/year) Those products affected by this Regulation, and which have not been duly registered, may no longer be manufactured or marketed in Europe. Policy The Tradecorp Code of Conduct establishes our commitment to comply with all regulations and laws applicable in the different countries. Meanwhile, as signatories to the Global Compact, we are committed to performing actions to support environmental protection. As a result, compliance with REACH is one of Tradecorp’s main priorities. Actions Work connected with REACH at Tradecorp has been conducted in various stages: In 2008 an analysis was performed of the entire Tradecorp product portfolio, so as to define which products would be affected by REACH. This information and the number of tonnes manufactured served to define the date of registration for each product affected. In 2010 those affected products manufactured in quantities greater than 1,000 tonnes per year were registered. In 2013, registration was then performed of products manufactured in quantities of more than 100 tonnes per year. In the first quarter of 2016, two years before the deadline, Tradecorp completed the latest pending registration dossiers to cover the entire range of solid chelates. In our commitment to the protection of human health and the environment, we continue working to comply with the registration of substances that are due 31st of May 2018. Monitoring Following successful compliance with the 2010 and 2013 deadlines, we are currently working on compliance with the next deadline, set for 2018, along with the registrations that occasionally arise through new products of which we market more than 100 tonnes per year. 32 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 CLASSIFICATION OF PRODUCTS BASED ON HAZARDOUSNESS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 8 SDG: 3, 12 Diagnosis Product information is no longer simply based on recommendations for usage, efficacy or composition. Today, product safety information has acquired vital importance. In order to standardize the general criteria and also the way to communicate the hazardousness of chemical products, in 2002 the United Nations set up the Globally Harmonized System (GHS) of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals. Implementation of the GHS in all member states of the United Nations is being performed over various phases. Policy The Tradecorp Code of Conduct establishes our commitment to comply with all regulations and laws governing chemical products that apply in the different countries. In this same document, Tradecorp declares its commitment to work with clients, suppliers and colleagues to foster safe and efficient use of its products. We likewise undertake the responsibility of providing effective and transparent notification of any possible risks associated with the use of our products. Actions For the toxicological classification of products, Tradecorp has been developing different actions: Creation of our own toxicological database according to CLP regulation (European regulation that collects the GHS in the EU) and that contains many of the substances present in our products. This database is fed mainly from the official and public inventory of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) as well as from the supplier’s safety data sheets or from other official public databases of scientific recognition. Periodic monitoring of the inventory of ECHA substances and official public sources for updating our database. Toxicological evaluation of the complete portfolio thanks to the use of our own database to determine the hazards associated with each of the products. In cases where it is not possible to establish the hazard through the standard process, a specific study is carried out on a case-by-case basis. In order to ensure the hazard analysis of all products, in addition, this process is included within the process of developing new products. Monitoring After the inventory analysis and its incorporation into our new product development process, throughout 2016 a large part of the portfolio was evaluated and the hazard information was updated in cases where it was necessary. Due to Tradecorp’s wide range of products and also the continuous update of the ECHA substances’ database, this work will continue throughout 2017. Tradecorp has begun working on the next step, studying other legislation, in addition to the European Regulation CLP EC No 1272/2008, for the implementation of the Global Harmonized System (GHS) with the purpose of adapting information on the hazardousness of products to their destination countries. The implementation of this second stage is planned according to the needs and legal deadlines, having begun this phase of the project in 2016 with continuation in the coming years. 34 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 SAFETY DATA SHEETS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 1, 8 SDG: 3, 12 Diagnosis Safety data Sheets (SDS) have become one of the most dynamic and significant documents in terms of compliance with the chemical safety standards in force worldwide. The SDS is a true reflection of the level of commitment by companies to environmental and occupational safety laws. Following the work begun with product hazardousness classification, Tradecorp, complying with its commitment to transparency, embarked on a project to develop safety data sheets for its entire product portfolio, not only those required by law. Policy This action is based on the guidelines laid out in the company’s Code of Conduct, establishing an undertaking to work towards safe and efficient usage of products, and to provide effective and transparent notification of any possible risks associated with their usage. Actions In order to protect human and environmental health, Tradecorp has implemented procedures that ensure the protection of both our own workers and our customers. These procedures include: Evaluation of the data sheets based off of safety data we receive from our suppliers Elaboration of safety data sheets according to the results of our previous stage of toxicological classification of products in catalog as well as new products In addition to the physical distribution of the safety data sheets, Tradecorp makes available to our customers a downloadable online version of these documents through an IT platform. SDS are available in all languages of the EU countries we supply to. Monitoring At present, all products marketed by Tradecorp, including dangerous and non-hazardous products, have their corresponding safety data sheets. In addition, a series of actions carried out on a continuous basis allow this information to be kept up to date: The incorporation of the analysis and the development of SDS within the process of new products guarantees that, in addition, all products launched in the future have their SDS. To ensure the accuracy of the information, continuous monitoring of applicable laws on safety data sheets is carried out. In addition to having adapted the SDS to the markets in which we are present, we work in the generation of versions in different languages for the new markets in which we are becoming present. 36 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 WATER USE AND RECYCLING APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7, 9 SDG: 6, 9, 13 Diagnosis Analysis of consumption, reuse and recycling of water is of vital importance for Tradecorp, when analysing our impact on the environment. Due to the nature of our activity, the highest water consumption occurs at our factories, where we work to optimise the use of this natural resource and guarantee that discharges of water are not harmful to the environment. Policy This action is performed in accordance with our Code of Conduct, our Environmental Management System, certified under ISO 14001:2004, and the principles related to environmental protection in the Global Compact. Actions In 2016, the results obtained after the installation of the new purification system, which was put into operation during 2014, were consolidated. Thanks to this water treatment plant, we can guarantee that the water is completely purified and clean, and free of manufacturing residues. In addition, the concentrate resulting from the purification process is used as fertilizer, taking advantage of its agronomic value and reducing the amount of waste generated. In line with this action, the industrial division began to develop an exhaustive analysis in 2016 to identify new areas for improvement in this process that would allow us not only to take advantage of the resulting concentrate, but also to optimize the use of purified water for other processes in the factory. Currently, the first actions have already been carried out and approximately 15% of the water neutralized through the process of urea without biuret are already being reused in the production processes of other products, such as urea acid and humic acids, among others. Monitoring Water consumption in 2016 remains stable with respect to the previous year, which means a consolidation of the figures reached during 2015. Approximately 15% of the water neutralized through the process of urea without biuret are currently being reused in the production processes of acid urea and humic acids, among other products. 38 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 ACTIONS FOR THE OPTIMISATION OF ENERGY AND REDUCTION OF EMISSIONS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7 SDG: 7, 9, 13 Diagnosis Authorization, the resolution that regulates the industrial installations in Spain for the protection of the environment and the health of the people. Commitment to the protection of the environment is a priority objective in Tradecorp. Thus, each year, Tradecorp performs periodic internal studies and audits In addition, in 2016, energy efficiency audits were contracted externally at both plants. The conclusions and recommendations are being studied by connected with energy optimisation and emissions reduction. The conclusions drawn from these studies allow us to implement constant improvements which the Industrial Division, so that they can be translated into new actions that maximize the energy efficiency of our factories. help to protect the environment. Investments in factories: In both factories, proper maintenance has been carried out to prevent the emission of particles from our atomization towers. It is worth mentioning Policy in particular the replacement of filters and sleeves. The actions described in this section are in line with our ISO 14001 certification and the environmental principles set out in our Code of Conduct. In 2016, a complete replacement of the roofs of the factories of Sanchidrián and Albacete was carried out, using a transparent material with double insulation, which provides double the advantage by optimizing the air conditioning and the use of sunlight. In addition, for maximum energy optimization, all lighting was replaced with LEDs. Actions In 2016, a new packaging line was installed in the Sanchidrián factory, which improves our packaging versatility, as well as the quality and appearance of our packaging. The new packaging system also allows us to optimize the quantity per pallet and reduce the amount of carboard we New policies: use for the packaging of our products, since only shipping boxes are used and the boxes of individual packages disappear. A new corporate policy has been created in relation to company cars, which states that only vehicles with emissions below 200 gr/km of CO2 can In order to guarantee no emissions of particles, Tradecorp installs in Albacete factory a particle measurement system. This new system continuously be purchased. Diesel cars must be fitted with a particulate filter. and accurately measures the size of particles and, if they are above 0, the process is stopped to avoid any emission of particles into the atmosphere. Controls and audits: Through annual environmental controls in the factories of Sanchidrián and Albacete, we measure the emission of gases from all emission sources (boilers, atomization towers and synthesis plant), in order to ensure that our emissions are below the limits of the Integrated Environmental More good practices Reconcycle JOIN IN campaign In 2016, the action launched in 2014 for the reduction, reuse and recycling of waste was continued. Thanks to this action, in 2016 In 2016, Tradecorp Mexico carries out new Tradecorp Mexico managed to recycle: awareness initiatives in line with the JOIN IN 1835 kg paper and cardboard campaign. 1720 kg of plastic Ener-culturalize yourself The objective of this campaign is to raise awareness about the optimization of energy use. To this end, different practices were carried out, such as the reduction of unnecessary lighting, the decrease in the use of microwaves, as well as an awareness campaign on the use of air conditioning and lighting. 40 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 ACTIONS FOR THE OPTIMISATION OF ENERGY AND REDUCTION OF EMISSIONS Monitoring New policies: Regarding the corporate policy for company cars, in 2016 100% of new purchased cars comply with the requirement. Furthermore, Backoffice department, following this policy, will not approve any new requests of cars that do not comply with this requirement. Controls and audits: The gas measurements carried out in the environmental controls of both factories are below the limits defined by the Integrated Environmental Authorization. The conclusions and recommendations of the external audits commissioned in 2016 are being reviewed by the Industrial Division in order to translate them into appropriate actions to optimize the use of energy and the reduction of emissions for the future. Investments in factories: The implementation of the new packaging line allows us to optimize the quantity served per pallet, which increases by up to +14% in the case of 1 kg packaging and by up to +25% in the case of 5 kg packaging. This implies an optimization in the transport of the merchandise and a consequent reduction of emissions during the transport. On the other hand, the disappearance of the individual boxes allows us to decrease the consumption of cardboard. Thus, in the packaging of 1 kg we reduced the amount of cardboard used by -64% and in the case of 5 kg by -30%. Thanks to the installation of the new particle meter, we can guarantee that our plant does not produce particle emission. 42 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 APPROPRIATE WASTE MANAGEMENT APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 7 SDG: 12, 14, 15 Diagnosis Monitoring Thanks to the conclusions drawn from the various internal studies and audits we conduct each year, we can improve control and management of the waste Regarding the waste management figures, the following were processed in 2016: generated at our production plants. The identification of different areas for improvement has allowed us to reduce the waste we generate at both factories, 115,124 kg of harzardous waste and provide a new use for concentrates that were previously managed as waste. 157,663 kg of non-hazardous waste Thanks to the corrective action carried out in 2016, Tradecorp was able to reduce its non-hazardous waste by more than 20% with respect to 2015. However, Policy due to the classification of more raw materials as hazardous and the increase in production, there has been a slight increase in the management of hazardous waste. The control and management of waste is undertaken in accordance with our ISO 14001 certification, and is aligned with our Code of Conduct. Actions 2014 For proper management of the waste generated at our production plants, we work with outside companies specializing in the treatment of this type of waste. Management of 2015 The marked growth of Tradecorp has led to an increase in production and, consequently, an increase in the waste generated by our production plants. hazardous waste However, the Tradecorp Industrial Division regularly carries out internal audits and analyses that allow us to find areas of improvement, so that we can optimize 2016 resources and reduce the waste generated in our production plants. Thus, in 2016, a corrective action was launched, consisting of optimizing the use of boxes. Thanks to this measure, it has been possible to reduce the nonhazardous waste generated in our factories by more than 20% compared to the previous year. 2014 Management of 2015 non-hazardous waste 2016 More good practices Container recycling to facilitate recycling of packaging by end users. To facilitate recycling, the boxes containing our In Mexico, Tradecorp renewed its affiliation to solid products, and also our shipment boxes, are Campo Limpio association and committed to 100% recyclable, as indicated on our packaging. transport 100% of Tradecorp’s empty containers They also indicate the percentage of recycled for their proper management. fibres used to produce the box. Tradecorp continued collaborating in 2016 with recycling programs in various European countries, including Germany (Pamira), France (Adivalor), Belgium (Agrirecover) and Romania (Scapa). The labelling of our products in these countries includes the logo of the recycling program so as 44 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 PROTECTION AND RESTORATION OF HABITATS APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 8 SDG: 15 Diagnosis Although Tradecorp aims to maintain a preventive focus to support the environment, it is likewise committed to initiatives that help to protect and restore habitats that have been damaged in the past, and to raise environmental awareness. Policy This action is aligned with our Code of Conduct. Actions The Tradecorp Mexico team, in collaboration with partners, friends, relatives and local residents at the Huentitán Nature Park, undertook the initiative “Transforming a Space”. Through this program more than 160 participants worked together to restore the park, reforesting 100 trees. At the event, the participants also had the opportunity to participate in 3 workshops about: Vermiculture From the desert to your house – cacti workshop Quality of life – health and wellness Monitoring The reforestation undertaken in Mexico involved more than 160 people, including the team of Tradecorp Mexico, partners, friends, relatives and local residents at the Huentitán Nature Park. The initiative concluded with the planting of 100 trees, with an investment of MXN 51,000. More good practices Rhino Charge In 2016, Tradecorp Europe & Subsaharan Africa sponsored for the 3rd time the team “The Charging Hippos” at the Rhino Charge, the fundraising event for the conservation of Kenya’s Aberdare ecosystem. The fundraising is directed by Rhino Ark, a charitable trust founded in 1988 for the building of a fence that encircles nearly 400 km of the Aberdare ecosystem to ensure its long-term integrity. The fundraising was a big success in 2016, since the Rhino Ark broke all records and managed to raise $1.4 million to conserve Kenya’s heritage. 46 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY € € $ $ APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES: 10 SDG: 8 Diagnosis Actions Ethical business conduct is about values and integrity as well as compliance and risk mitigation. Taking a proactive approach also presents opportunities such As we do every year, we have conducted a survey among all department manager and commercial areas as well as Executive Director as an internal audit as enhanced trust in the company and improved relationships with key stakeholders. related to: Money contribution to political parties, politicians or related institutions The broad scope of business ethics in Tradecorp covers anti-corruption, fraud, bribery and transparency regarding payments that apply to all employees, Legal actions resulting from behavior in violation of competition laws and/or monopolistic practices including the Board of Directors. Fines or non-monetary penalty imposed as a result of a breach of laws and regulations Policy Monitoring This action was carried out in line with our commitment to the Global Compact and our Code of Conduct. The internal audit was held by 100% of managers in the company and all of them guarantee respect for anti-corruption. 48 PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES RELATED TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDICATORS, TRADECORP INDICATORS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GC TRADECORP MEASUREMENT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE GC TRADECORP MEASUREMENT TRADECORP INTERNAL INDICATOR TRADECORP INTERNAL INDICATOR INDICATOR PRINC. INDICATOR PRINC. 2015 2016 2015 2016 Rate of minor accidents in the factories EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance LA7 7.7% 13.3% 0 0 (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) Monetary value of significant fines with environmental laws and regulations Rates of injury, occupational diseases, and total number of non-monetary 8 lost days, and absenteeism, and total 1 Non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance sanctions for non compliance with 0 0 number of work-related fatalities, by Rate of major accidents in the factories with environmental laws and regulations 1.4% 0% environmental laws and regulations. region and by gender. (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) € invested in habitats protection 2,196€ 2,537€ % of men in the company 78% 75.4% € invested in the correct management of hazardous (total of employees in the company 102,000€ 105,000€ waste % of women in the company LA13 22% 24.6% € invested in the correct management of non hazardous (total of employees in the company) 32,000€ 21,500€ Composition of governance bodies and EN30 waste 7,8 breakdown of employees per employee % of employees under 30 Total environmental protection 1, 6 10% 20.4% € invested in the optimization of natural resources 20,000€ 12,000€ category according to gender, age (total of employees in the company) expenditures and investments by type. group, minority group membership, and € invested in control of spills 10,000€ 10,000€ % of employees between 30 and 50 35.6% between 30-39 other indicators of diversity. 79% € invested in control and decrease of emissions 34,000€ 25,500€ (total of employees in the company 28.7% between 40-49 % of employees over 50 12.9% between 50-59 € invested in controlling noise pollution 3,000€ 1,500€ 11% (total of employees in the company) 2.4% over 60 SO6 S*: S*: Total value of financial and in-kind Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to EN6 3.04 kg/kwh1 3.53 kg/kwh contributions to political 10 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by 0 0 Electric energy kg/kwh y l/kwh parties, politicians, and related country Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or A*: A*: renewable energy based products and 18.16 L-kg/kwh1 14.37 L-kg/kwh institutions by country. 8, 9 services, and reductions in energy S*: S*: SO7 requirements as a result of these 0.28 kg/kwh1 0.29 kg/kwh Total number of legal actions for Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive initiatives. Natural gas kg/kwh y l/kwh anticompetitive behavior, 10 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their 0 0 A*: A*: 0.18 kg/kwh1 0.24 kg/kwh anti-trust, and monopoly practices and outcomes their outcomes. Sanchidrián: 100% Sanchidrián: 100% EN10 % of water that is reused SO7 Albacete: 25% Albacete: 30% Monetary value of significant fines for Percentage and total volume of water 8, 9 Monetary value of significant fines 0 0 non-compliance with laws and regulations recycled and reused. % of water that is recycled Albacete: 100% Albacete: 100% and total 10 number of non-monetary sanctions for Total number of non-monetary sanctions for No. of reforested trees 110 100 non-compliance 0 0 EN13 non-compliance with laws and regulations 8 with laws and regulations. Protected or restored habitats. No. of people involved in the restoration or 192 160 protection of habitats EN16 S*: 5,366,669 S*: 4,196,671.7 Total direct and indirect greenhouse 8 CO2 emissions in kg A*: 756,900 A*: 561,428 gas emissions by weight. EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 8, 9 2 4 emissions emissions and reductions achieved. EN23 Total number and volume of significant 8 Total number of significant spills 0 0 spills. Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for 19 34 Organic Agriculture under NOP standards EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Number of Tradecorp brands that are approved for 7, 8, 9 95 133 impacts of products and services, and Organic Agriculture under European standards extent of impact mitigation. % of total sales that are sales of brands approved for 53.41% 52.09% Organic Agriculture S*: Factory in Sanchidrián, Ávila (Spain) A*: Factory in Albacete (Spain) S*: Factory in Sanchidrián, Ávila (Spain) 1 Measurements in 2015 in this report may vary with respect to the figures published in Communication on Progress 2015 due to different calculation methods. A*: Factory in Albacete (Spain) 50 PART III MEASUREMENTS, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS PART III MEASUREMENTS, GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS 51 I-18-04-17-V1 TRADE CORPORATION INTERNATIONAL S.A.U. C/ Alcalá, 498. 2ª Planta 28027 Madrid (Spain) Tel.: +34 913273200 Fax: +34 913047172 www.tradecorp.com.es
