UNITED GLOBAL NATIONS COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (CoP) 2017 1 Content STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT P. 03 E.R. SCHIFFAHRT OVERVIEW P. 04 01 HUMAN RIGHTS P. 05 02 LABOUR P. 08 03 ENVIRONMENT P. 11 04 ANTI CORRUPTION P. 15 2 Statement of continued support of the UN Global Compact E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board confirm Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. It also and renew their commitment to continuously describes aims in this regard for the upcoming support the United Nations Global Compact and reporting period. The report will be made its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, accessible to all stakeholders of the company. Labour Standards, Environmental Protection and Anti-Corruption. E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board are committed to further incorporate the Ten Within the entire international commodity Principles into its business strategy and to trade the biggest proportion of transportation continuously develop and enhance respective is seaborne. Therefore shipping is an important objectives and measures. participant in globalization processes and also a beneficiary of the same. As a consequence E.R. Schiffahrt recognizes and appreciates its economic, ecological and social responsibility at both national and international level. This fifth annual Communication on Progress documents the measures and results of E.R. Nils Aden Schiffahrt in the aforementioned four areas of the Chief Executive Officer 3 E.R. Schiffahrt – Overview E.R. Schiffahrt is a ship management company the-art standards for the operation of container with more than 80 container and bulk vessels in and bulk vessels. service as of today. The diversified fleet makes E.R. Schiffahrt a strategic partner of the world’s Another milestone during the reporting period leading liner companies and bulk operators. was the compilation and reassessment of the company’s requirements regarding the The company’s founder, Erck Rickmers, compliance with all relevant rules and regulations. established E.R. Schiffahrt in 1998. The Rickmers As a result of this review E.R. Schiffahrt has family has been active in the shipping business released its first consolidated version of a Code for five generations. of Conduct which is obligatory for all employees on board and ashore. It ensures a continuous About 3.300 employees on shore and at sea improvement of the company’s social, economic are committed to provide safe, environmental and environmental performance and enforces the friendly and reliable ship management operations efforts against corruption. to its clients. In addition to mandatory certification according to the International Safety Management Code (ISM-Code), the Maritime Labour Convention (MLC) and to the International Shipboard and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS-Code) E.R. Schiffahrt developed an integrated management system certified to the following standards: • ISO 9001:2008 (quality management), • ISO 14001:2009 (environmental management), • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and safety management), • ISO 50001:2011 (energy management) The company’s Code of Conduct clearly refers to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. It is This management system is established and available to all stakeholders of the company. maintained both on board of the operated fleet and ashore. It will be audited by an external The implementation of the Code of Conduct independent third party on an annual basis. has been supported by workshops and trainings for the responsible staff. Questions and open Within the reporting period E.R. Schiffahrt passed topics are embraced by a Frequently Asked successfully the annual audits for the ISOand Question form. BS OHSAS certifications. A separate compliance e-mail address and Maintaining the ISO certification is an essential compliance phone number has been set up to part of the “DNV GL Excellence 5 Star” award enable all employees to either address further which is held by the company. It confirms that questions, proposals of improvement or to report E.R. Schiffahrt complies with the highest state-ofany violations or non-conformities. 4 01 HUMAN RIGHTS 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 following activities within the reporting period of Businesses should support and respect the 2016 in this regard: protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and The seafarers on board of our vessels are away from their families and homes for several months. PRINCIPLE 2 During their time limited port stays it is therefore make sure they are not complicit in human all the more important for them to be able to visit rights abuses. places where they feel welcome and somehow also at home. E.R. Schiffahrt and its management board are committed to support and to protect the International Bill of Human Rights within their sphere of influence and throughout their business activities. It is further the declared company’s policy neither to permit nor to tolerate but to prevent any kind of discrimination and/or harassment of its employees on board or ashore on the grounds of race or the ethnic origin, gender, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. Within its management system E.R. Schiffahrt has established a reporting procedure that enables and encourages all employees to report any non-conformity or complaint with regard to the With the Seaman’s Club “Duckdalben” the Maritime Labour Convention and other applicable German Seaman’s Mission has established such a national, international or internal rules and place in the middle of the Port of Hamburg. This regulations. The latter also includes the declared Club offers seafarers a welcome change from company’s policy statements available on the their everyday life on board e.g. by providing the website of E.R. Schiffahrt. At the beginning of each opportunity to use telephones and the internet, year the Management Board of E.R. Schiffahrt is to do some small shopping or to find a quiet carrying out a thorough review of the company’s moment in a so called Room of Silence where the policy statement. The evaluation is based on seven world’s religions coexist peacefully. For the the yearly Management Review. Necessary fifth year in a row E.R. Schiffahrt has supported adjustments of the policy will be instructed as the “Duckdalben” with an amount of 10,000 Euros deemed necessary. per year. Beside the Company Policy E.R. Schiffahrt As it is crucial for seafarers to be able to provides further guidance regarding Human Rights communicate with their family and friends while to all stakeholders through its Code of Conduct. at sea, all vessels in E.R. Schiffahrt’s fleet are It has to be seen as supplement to the Code of providing all crew members with internet access. Conduct for Suppliers which was introduced in 2015 and is an essential part of the company’s Cooperating with scientific institutions has a procurement process. long tradition at E.R. Schiffahrt. In 2015 the company endowed a junior professorship in Already in 2015 it was planned to appoint a women’s “Maritime Management”. In April 2015 HSH representative within the shore organization to Nordbank established the “Foundation for encourage and simplify the reporting from female Maritime Research” that will focus on business seafarers to the company. Due to personnel administration, technology and market analysis. changes within the shore organization this plan E.R. Schiffahrt and other shipping companies was put on hold during the reporting period but with headquarters in Hamburg, Germany, donate will be followed up within 2017. a five-digit figure per year to establish the junior E.R. Schiffahrt recognizes and appreciates its professorship in “Maritime Management” at social responsibility and is or was engaged in the the Faculty of Business Administration at the 6 01 HUMAN RIGHTS University of Hamburg. The objective is to enhance close collaboration between science and industry and to support the maritime sector by means of academic research. E.R. Schiffahrt will support the professorship for at least three years. employees participated in “HSH-Nordbank Run”, a charity run in the City of Hamburg. By their As a gesture of solidarity with its home city of participation all runners supported the charity Hamburg, every year the E.R. Group supports a organization “children help children”. different local social institution with a donation of 5,000 Euros. The employees of the company Dealing with refugees is an important topic in send in their suggestions and can subsequently Germany. The country hosts more than one vote for their preferred institution via intranet. million refugees. In December 2016 E.R. Schiffahrt The donation goes to the project with the highest donated for the second time a five-digit figure to number of votes. In 2016 “Day-care hospital North” “Children for Tomorrow”, a foundation established benefited from the employees vote. Since 2011 the by former tennis professional Stefanie Graf. day-care Hospital North has provided professional It supports children and adolescents who psychiatric care to children and teenagers aged have become victims of war, persecution and between six and 18. Treatments for psychological organized violence. In Hamburg, Germany, problems such as disturbed social behaviour, where E.R. Schiffahrt’s is located, “Children depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive for Tomorrow” funds the Outpatient Clinic disorders, psychoses and AHDS are offered by a for Refugee Children and Adolescents at the team of psychologists, therapists, special-needs University clinic of Hamburg-Eppendorf. All teachers, an art therapist and a cook, who care treatments are aimed at promoting psychological for the patients during their three-month course recovery to enable refugee children to participate of therapy. in societal reconciliation processes. The program can include psychological treatments, behaviour Social commitment also led to physical action psychological treatments and art therapy. Today, amongst the staff of E.R. Schiffahrt: As in the the multi-professional team of ten treats about previous years, in summer 2016 numerous 250 patients a year. 7 02 LABOUR 02 LABOUR Principle 3 The aforementioned MLC 2006 governs the Businesses should uphold the freedom of minimum requirements for seafarers to work on association and the effective recognition of the a ship and the conditions of employment, the right to collective bargaining; accommodation and recreational facilities as well as food and catering on board, the health Principle 4 protection, medical care, welfare and social the elimination of all forms of forced and security protection of seafarers. The effectiveness compulsory labour; of the system is continuously monitored through annual internal audits on board of each vessel Principle 5 since then. Furthermore the company fully the effective abolition of child labour; and complies with the requirements of the Maritime Labour Convention amendments 2014 which are Principle 6 providing additional financial security for the the elimination of discrimination in respect of seagoing personnel in case of repatriation or employment and occupation. abandoning of a ship. It is the declared policy of E.R. Schiffahrt that External crewing agencies are also audited by E.R. all employees both on board and ashore shall Schiffahrt on a yearly basis. These audits include be treated in a fair, just and correct manner the verification of their compliance with the MLC based on relevant international and national rules 2006 as well. and regulations and applicable working terms and conditions. E.R. Schiffahrt’s internal and external recruiting process ensures that underaged seafarers The company has established a grievance are not employed on board of E.R. Schiffahrt procedure which clearly defines the right of any managed vessels. Personnel documents are being seafarer to file a complaint arising from an alleged reviewed during various steps of the initiation violation of his contractual or any other rights. of employment and also by the Master as a The company has recorded two complaints in the representative of the company on board. year of 2016. With regard to a safe working environment E.R. The employment conditions of seafarers Schiffahrt is committed that all identified risks to employment agreements of the crew members its personnel are being assessed and appropriate on board of E.R. Schiffahrt managed vessels are safeguards are established in order to ensure that based on collective bargain agreements and are in no unacceptable or avoidable risks are taken. accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention To fulfill this commitment procedures to identify of 2006 (MLC 2006), its amendments from 2014 critical shipboard operations and to control and other applicable rules and regulations. substances hazardous to the health of employees 9 02 LABOUR are established within the management system and in Manila, Philippines. The FOM focuses on of the company. Proper implementation of leadership, intercultural communication and these procedures is being reviewed during improvement of reporting processes between internal and external audits on board and in the ship and shore. With a view to 2017, E.R. Schiffahrt office ashore as part of the verification process has taken up a health conscious behavior lecture related to companies Occupational Health and as a standing agenda item of the FOM to further Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) certification. enhance health aspects for its seafarers. The verification in the office was carried out successfully during the reporting period of this The Performance Support Programme (PSP) was Communication on Progress. Further positive launched in 2016, with a very clear focus on feedback and impact on the safety system was the personnel development of all seafarers on given by clients who carried out their own office board vessels managed by E.R. Schiffahrt. A team and shipboard audits according to their own or to of ex Masters and Chief Engineers has been industry standards. trained and educated to carry out coachings and trainings with seafarers on board. With a wide For 2017 it is planned to review the safety range of company related subjects the team procedures for the office staff, especially for carried out PSPs on 67% of the E.R. Schiffahrt their attendance on board during routine visits, managed vessels. inspections or audits. In order to support and promote risk based assessments of relevant procedural changes on board and ashore the company continues to strengthen its own Risk Assessmentand As a founding member of the Container Ship Safety Management of Change procedure by ongoing Forum (CSSF) the company still holds a seat in the trainings and workshops. Furthermore a campaign Steering Committee. During the reporting period has started to promote the identification of the CCSF managed to attract further members. unsafe conditions and unsafe acts. The goal of Now it consists of 15 members, all of them are the campaign is to promote a near miss reporting major container shipping liner companies and in order to proactively identify hazards before ship owning and / or ship managing companies. they will lead to incidents and accidents. These 15 companies represent about 34 percent of the world wide TEU (Twenty Foot Equivalent In 2016 E.R. Schiffahrt has continued to train its Unit) container capacity. Their common objective seagoing personnel in occupational health and is to create a container shipping industry with safety procedures on various occasions during the high safety standards, ensuring no harm is caused well implemented Fleet Officer Meetings (FOM) to people, ships, cargo, and the environment. and officers’ briefings prior to their embarkation. To achieve this, CSSF members collaborate to The company has trained some 60 Masters advance the continuous improvement of safety and Chief Engineers to use a semi-automatic culture and performance in the container shipping defibrillator which we have installed on board. industry through measurement, reporting and benchmarking, sharing best practices, and About 90 senior and junior officers attended engaging with key stakeholders to develop FOM in 2016 which took place in Odessa, Ukraine durable solutions. 10 03 ENVIRONMENT 03 environment PRINCIPLE 7 The company has issued instructions and Businesses should support a precautionary procedures which ensure the safe operation of all approach to environmental challenges; vessels in regard to environmental protection, in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations PRINCIPLE 8 and in line with the requirement of the ISO undertake initiatives to promote greater 14001:2009 standard. The annual audit for the environmental responsibility; and certification took place during this reporting period in the company’s office and has been PRINCIPLE 9 successfully completed. Further internal and encourage the development and diffusion of external verification audits were carried out on environmentally friendly technologies. board of several vessels of the fleet. E.R. Schiffahrt is clearly committed to protect the Also during the reporting period covered by this environment. This is a broader view compared CoP the ISO standard 50001 “Energy Management with the previous approach to prevent any kind of Systems” has been confirmed as well after the pollution. Therefore E.R. Schiffahrt is reviewing its successful completion of the relevant audit. The company policy, its relevant procedures and KPIs. energy management system of E.R. Schiffahrt Consequently it is the company’s goal to renew aims at locating fuel saving potentials and the ISO 14001 certification according to the latest managing energy efficiency effectively on board standard (2015) to ensure that all activities are in the vessels of the company. line with these requirements. In order to support the seagoing and office staff in Meanwhile the company continues to assess all charge, the company has developed a handbook identified environmental risks that may emerge on energy efficient vessel operation. It shall within its sphere of influence or through its give guidance for shipboard operations with business activities. regard to propulsion, energy efficiency and fuel balance management. In addition E.R. Schiffahrt continues to improve its employees’ skills and abilities not only but Within the recent reporting period E.R. Schiffahrt also with regard to environmental protection by has continued the successful co-operation carrying out additional trainings and workshops between the office and ship staff on the one hand with other stakeholders. and with classification societies, naval architects, 12 03 environment shipyards, research institutes, engine makers Since January 2015, all vessels operating in and charterers on the other hand in order to Emission Control Areas (ECAs) also referred to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of as Sulphur Emission Control Areas (SECA), have all vessels under management. to ensure that their emissions are reduced. Important measures are: E.R. Schiffahrt started already in early 2014 to implement measures and modifications in • Operational: order to meet these regulations well before the Slow and super slow steaming E.R. Schiffahrt’s due date. Currently all E.R. Schiffahrt managed vessels were continuing to reduce their normal vessels calling SECAs / ECAs are fully compliant voyage speeds wherever and whenever trading with the relevant MARPOL Annex VI regulations. pattern allowed this measure. Most other vessels managed by E.R. Schiffahrt which are not sailing in those areas are being • Training: modified proactively. 17 Masters and 8 Chief Engineers were invited into the office of E.R. Schiffahrt in order to participate An 18-month test period of an intelligent cylinder in specific training courses for fuel efficiency lubricating system was started in 2016. The system awareness and fuel consumption reduction. blends cylinder oil on board on demand by using a Computer Based Training (CBT) was carried out base number (BN) 100 cylinder oil and used main as an alternative training measure. The benefit of engine system oil. The test was interrupted when using the company’s own E-Learning Tool “Energy the test vessel left the company’s management Efficiency on Board” is reaching more crew last year. The test equipment was transferred and members all over the world without additional installed on another ship in the fleet and the test travelling and thus improving the individual will be carried on. carbon footprint. In 2016 29 Masters and 38 Chief Engineers were using this tool in order In addition another blending-on-board system to improve and deepen their knowledge about will be tested which utilizes additives BN 320 in energy efficiency on board. Energy Efficiency is combination with used system oil. Test data are also one major subject which is included into the presently under review. Performance Support Programme. The advantage of both systems is to always have • Redesign: the cylinder oil with the correct BN available on Within 2016 eleven Post-Panamax vessels of the demand. The vessel doesn’t need to carry cylinder fleet were modified by installing new bulbous oils with varying base numbers for different sulfur bows and propellers (with five blades instead contents. The fuel thus has the optimized sulfur of six) – both designed for slower speed. content which leads to an optimized cylinder oil Supplementary, a device called Boss-Cap-Fin feed rate and all times’ clean lubrication oil. (ESCAP) was installed. It improved the flow around the propeller boss. Associated with that As an alternative solution E.R. Schiffahrt has the main engine of these vessels were de-rated reviewed the implementation of a high pressure from the nominal power output of more than cylinder lubricating system, which allows another 65,000kW (resp. 61,000kW) to less than 45,000kW reduction of the cylinder oil feed rate at a reduced (resp. 39,000kW). wear rate of cylinder units. The system has been installed on one of the large Post-Panamax On two more vessels the company has vessels and is successfully saving lube oil since implemented the equipment for the so called November 2016. Saving of cylinder oil reached an “cold ironing”. In total there are now three vessels amount of approx. 28%. in the E.R. Schiffahrt fleet which can be supplied by shore power when safely moored at their On three additional vessels (following seven berth. It prevents the vessels from producing vessels in 2015) the company has carried out a the required power by their own generators on modification of propeller shaft sealing. Previously board which helps to reduce fuel consumption, there was a potential risk of a direct oil and sea emission of CO2 and greenhouse gases as well as water contact. During the dry docking of these the sound immission during the time in port. vessels the sealing has been converted into an air 13 03 environment sealed shaft sealing. Even in case the function of the sealing fails there will be no more hazards to contaminate sea water by oil. Therefore an important part of the newly issued At locations on board where it was not possible Code of Conduct for all employees is covering to conduct such modification the mineral oil the environmental aspects of E.R. Schiffahrt’s filling of the sealing has been exchanged by business. It confirms that the protection of environmental friendly oil. the environment as well as the conservation of natural resources have a high priority. Monitoring and Reporting: A greater environmental responsibility is also During the reporting period, E.R. Schiffahrt expected from all suppliers and subcontractors continued to use FuelSafe, an integrated tool of all over the world. Already in 2015 the company the company´s own Vessel Performance Center, has implemented a company’s Code of Conduct that enables optimal efficiency with regard to fuel for Suppliers for its worldwide supply chains. To consumption and asset protection. The system monitor the supplier’s performance a software retrieves up to 300 measured values. It not only based supplier rating system is in use and allows delivers analytical data but is also indispensable both, the office and the ship’s side, to rate the for successful monitoring: It checks the ship’s quality of a product and its packaging. The use operation continuously, gathering data on energy of the tool has increased by 46% in 2016. The output, fuel consumption and sailing conditions average supplier rating (from 1=poor to 5=very on a day-by-day basis. Its reporting features reveal good) within the reporting period was 4.13. where steps may be taken to increase efficiency, This figure reflects the high standard of the giving the crew specific recommendations for supplier performance. performance improvement. In addition, for more than a year E.R. Schiffahrt provides an environmental Whistle Blower Hotline The effectiveness of E.R. Schiffahrt’s fuel efficiency to its employees and stakeholders. The Hotline system is backed by benchmark systems of its provides a possibility to report any incompliance customers. These systems collect and monitor with environmental rules and regulations in an data with regard to vessel performance as well. anonymous way. Regular tests ensure a reporting The fuel efficiency benchmark system of the via e-mail or telephone. market leader showed that vessels managed by E.R. Schiffahrt saved more fuel than any Office: other competitor. In 2015 the entire E.R. Group underwent a shore side energy audit in compliance with the latest In total all vessels managed by E.R. Schiffahrt EU environmental rules and regulations. The final have reduced their consumption of fuel oil by 13% audit report was presented in April 2016. in 2016. The result confirmed that the company building E.R. Schiffahrt supports and uses the Shipping can be classified as a modern and energy efficient Efficiency initiative which was launched by the location. Owing to – among other factors – the Carbon War Room program. Within Shipping use of green electricity for years, the general CO2 Efficiency E.R. Schiffahrt maintains an up-to-date balance is very positive. record of its ships in order to get an external energy efficiency rating of its measures and to After receiving the final report, the company share such rating of its fleet in a transparent way carefully evaluated the potential of further with the public. recommendations to improve energy efficiency and began to put them into practice, for example Company Policy: successively replacing halogen spots by LED. The Management Board of E.R. Schiffahrt reviews the environmental company’s policy in The company continues to offer subsidized regular intervals and confirms its validity. monthly passes for public transport within As mentioned earlier it has been agreed to broaden the metropolitan area of Hamburg, in order to the company’s environmental approach in 2017 encourage employees to use environmental as it is planned to undergo the ISO14001:2015 friendly transportation for commuting between renewal audit. home and work. 14 04 ANTI CORRUPTION 04 ANTI cORRUpTION PRINCIPLE 10 offered to them by third parties that uphold or Businesses should work against corruption in all are about to enter into business relations with its forms, including extortion and bribery. E.R. Schiffahrt or its related companies. Any secondary employment or additional business of E.R. Schiffahrt is committed to counteract employees of E.R. Schiffahrt must be reported to fraud, extortion and bribery or any other form of the company and is subject to approval in order to corruption within its sphere of influence and to reduce possibilities of contradictions of interest. act in line with all relevant rules and regulations. Salaries paid by E.R. Schiffahrt are ensuring that employees are able to support themselves In order to give a detailed guidance to all without the need of an additional income. employees onboard and ashore the company has addressed the following topics within the recently These measures will be supported by E.R. issued Code of Conduct: Schiffahrt’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers and • Attitude towards business partners and third Subcontractors which has been implemented at parties the end of 2015. • Antitrust and fair competition • Anti-Corruption and improper advantages At the same time, E.R. Schiffahrt exchanges best • Anti-Money Laundering practice experience with its business partners • Trade Control Regulations and encourages them to issue their own Code of Conduct as well as to implement worldwide antiFurther contractual rules and regulations are corruption campaigns and strategies. governing the acceptance and granting of presents, corporate hospitality and other invitations and In addition, the company maintains an internal stipulating in which cases employees have control system to ensure that business activities to report to the company if such benefits are are checked on a regular base. 16
