UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Contents 01 Statement 02 Introduction 03 Human rights and labour 06 Environment 08 Anti-corruption 10 Further information Statement I am delighted to present our first Communication on Progress (CoP) report. We became a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in October 2016 and committed to incorporating the UNGC principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our business. As one of the world's leading professional services firms, with 26 offices across the globe, we have an embedded commitment to responsible business. This is evidenced in this report through all aspects of our business – from the advice we provide to our clients and our leadership in the market, through to the operations of the business and our pro bono and community work. The CoP is aligned with our ethos and values. We have enjoyed building on our existing commitments to the sustainability of our firm and the environments in which it operates through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In collaboration, governments, businesses and non-profits can address the world's most pressing issues and we are very fortunate to be able to play our part. We commit to continuing to incorporate the UNGC principles and SDGs into our business. Our CoP describes the detailed commitments we have made. I hope you enjoy finding out more about our work. James Palmer Senior Partner Herbert Smith Freehills LLP HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Introduction Operating from 26 offices across Asia Pacific, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and North America, Herbert Smith Freehills is at the heart of the new global business landscape. We provide many of the world’s most important organisations with market-leading dispute resolution, projects and transactional legal advice. We combine this advice with expertise in a number of global industry sectors, spanning banking, consumer products, energy, financial buyers, infrastructure and Principles transport, mining, pharmaceuticals and healthcare, real estate and telecoms, media and technology. Human Rights Some of the ways we have implemented the UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and principles into our operations include: respect the protection of internationally ••introducing internal business and human rights proclaimed human rights; and training and communications across our firm to Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit ensure that our lawyers understand and demonstrate in human rights abuses. our commitment to human rights in all client work and our internal operations teams are aware of the issues and associated risks; Labour ••setting a series of challenging environmental goals Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the aimed at reducing our energy and paper consumption freedom of association and the effective and our overall carbon footprint; recognition of the right to collective bargaining; ••issuing our Procurement Compliance Standards to Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced suppliers to ensure that they uphold the same values and compulsory labour; as us; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; ••advising our clients in the area of business and human and rights, environment, and corporate crime and investigations; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in ••committing our expertise, resources and leadership respect of employment and occupation. to delivering social impact through our global pro bono work, providing over 67,000 hours of legal Environment support to pro bono clients in 2017. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Human rights and labour We recognise that we have a responsibility to respect internationally recognised human rights. We seek to conduct our activities in a manner that respects and supports the protection of human rights. Our firm Our suppliers We have begun internal business and human rights As a professional services business, we are training and communications across our offices and office-based. Our supply chain predominantly consists divisions to ensure lawyers across our global practice of goods and services purchased to enable our people understand and demonstrate our commitment to to deliver our services. human rights in all client work. So far, this has taken place in our London, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing The key categories we procure are property, facilities offices. In addition, we facilitated a session at our global management, HR, professional services and partners conference in September 2017, and have been information technology. Our global procurement team working with our operational staff to train them in these based in London and Melbourne supports the sourcing issues and associated risks. and purchasing of goods and services across the firm. Diversity and inclusion is at the core of our culture. We We continue to consider that the risk of human rights recognise and value the differences that make each of violations being in our supply chain is low. Our us unique. Upholding a culture of inclusion that fosters evaluation of risk is based on the following: diversity is imperative for our business and the diverse ••We emphasise value rather than price alone in our clients and communities in which we live and work. We procurement decisions. have a range of initiatives encompassing gender, race, age, religion and belief, sexual orientation, gender ••We do not typically have a policy of outsourcing. identity, disability and social mobility. Where we buy outsourced services, the delivery locations are rated as low-risk, examples being Aligned to our strategic business objectives for people, London, Sydney, Melbourne and New York. performance and leadership, we aim to have a diverse, ••Most of our offices are in low-risk locations. innovative culture where high performance, client focus and highly engaged people are our differentiators. ••We have communicated our expectations to key Celebrating the differences of our staff further embeds suppliers through our Procurement Compliance a culture of inclusion and respect where all staff can Standards. perform at their best, find balance between work and ••Our global procurement team is trained in human life, and achieve their career objectives. rights and has excellent knowledge of the global supply markets for each category of spend. Our global diversity and inclusion strategy supports the business strategy in the following areas: During the last 12 months, we have updated the analysis ••Talent – to attract and retain top talent from diverse of our annual spend with global suppliers so that we can: pools and enable people to perform to their full ••understand the full extent of our global supply chain; potential. ••enrich our risk assessment approach with updated, ••Clients – to engage with our clients via our diversity accurate information; and and inclusion programmes and be best placed to meet the needs of a diverse client base. ••identify potential risks outside our “core” offices and engage further with our suppliers outside the UK ••Innovation – to create innovation for our clients and regarding modern slavery and human trafficking risks. our business through the contribution of diverse perspectives. We issue our Procurement Compliance Standards, ••Values – to enable all our people to connect, which set out our expectations of suppliers, directly to collaborate, excel and lead to create a global many of our key suppliers. We send them to the balance one-firm culture. of suppliers by working with our colleagues across our global network. Should we discover a case of modern slavery within our supply chain, we will work with the supplier to implement corrective action. //03 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Our clients Our cross-disciplinary and global Business and Human The team also engages in internal training, knowledge Rights team has several years of experience advising sharing, communication and support across our clients in this field. It includes both lawyers exclusively practice areas and regions to help all of our lawyers specialised in business and human rights and lawyers encourage clients to respect human rights and labour specialised in disputes, energy and infrastructure, rights in their activities and supply chains and identify, mergers and acquisitions, crisis management, land prevent and mitigate potential risks and impacts with rights and native title. We advise and encourage our which our work may be associated. clients to: We have developed significant expertise in the field of business and human rights and operate at the forefront of ongoing dialogue in developing best practice. We actively supported the development of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and regularly contribute to working groups and industry-led initiatives, including: PREVENT ••participating in the International Bar Association (IBA) Business and Human Rights Working Group (contributors to the IBA Practical Guide on Business and Human Rights for Business Lawyers and the IBA Business and Human Rights Guidance for Bar Associations); MITIGATE COMMUNICATE AND REMEDY AND MONITOR ••participating at an international and institutional level in debates and developments shaping the future direction of the field (through our involvement in OECD working groups and sectorial working groups, For example, we have helped our clients: especially on banks and human rights, and mega-sporting events and human rights); ••establish human rights policies and codes of conduct to ensure respect for human rights and ••raising the awareness of lawyers on business and labour rights in their activities and supply chains; human rights through active collaboration and conferences with local bar associations; and ••structure transactions and documentation to minimise human rights and labour rights risks ••teaching on the theory and practice of business and and enable compliance with recognised human rights in universities in several jurisdictions. standards (eg the International Finance We also recognise the necessity to reach the SDGs and Corporation’s Performance Standards, the will play our role in this when it falls within the scope of Equator Principles); our assistance. ••perform due diligence on projects and target companies regarding potential human rights and labour rights impacts and their implications; ••understand and comply with best practices in supply chain management in relation to human rights and labour rights, as well as comply with related reporting obligations (eg UK Modern Slavery Act, French Vigilance Law, California Transparency in Supply Chains Act and EU “Internationally non-financial reporting); recognised force in the ••resolve disputes over alleged human rights and labour rights impacts through arbitration, developing business and litigation and non-judicial proceedings, human rights field” including complaints before OECD National Contact Points; and CHAMBERS GLOBAL 2017 ••build knowledge among their executives, in-house lawyers and other employees. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Pro bono We are committed to using our expertise, resources we provided over 67,000 hours of legal support to our and leadership to deliver social impact through our pro bono clients globally. All pro bono legal work is global pro bono practice. We focus on key areas such as undertaken with the same degree of competency, access to justice, protecting human rights and expertise and professionalism as any other legal work. international development. In the financial year 2017, Human rights Access to justice ••We advised on a discrimination matter involving a ••We have supported the Asylum Seekers Appeals private school’s refusal to relax its uniform code to Project from the UK since 2011 by providing legal accommodate religious practices. representation to asylum seekers appealing decisions to refuse or withdraw their entitlement ••We have had a rolling programme of UK to food or shelter. secondments with the human rights charity Liberty for more than 12 years. ••For over 24 years, The Shopfront Youth Legal Centre – a joint project of Herbert Smith Freehills, Mission Australia and the Salvation Army – has provided free legal services to homeless and disadvantaged young people aged 25 and under. Anti-trafficking anti-slavery Labour rights ••We advised Anti-Slavery International regarding ••We helped pro bono client Justice Without the potential impacts of Brexit on the UK's ability Borders to prepare practical guides, training and to fight modern slavery. research papers to support advocates for migrant workers. ••We advised the European Banks Alliance on the development of a practical toolkit to help ••For 17 years, our London office has provided European banks fight human trafficking using end-to-end case work through our Whitechapel financial data. Legal Advice Clinic project for individuals with employment law problems, including representation at employment tribunal hearings. Our communities We support our communities locally to where Commitment: we operate. An example of which is our We will continue to: Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). In May 2015 ••roll out internal business and human rights we became the first and only law firm to date training and communications across our to receive “Elevate” status for its RAP, the offices; highest possible level of endorsement from peak body Reconciliation Australia. It ••exercise care to avoid adverse impacts on documents a range of significant commitments human rights and, where appropriate, on supplier diversity, access to educational and encourage our business partners to observe employment opportunities for Indigenous similar standards to our own; people, and the provision of up to AU$5 million ••if we identify that we have caused or of pro bono legal support for Indigenous clients contributed to adverse impacts on the human and businesses over a three-year period. rights of others, take responsibility for or cooperate in the remediation of such impacts through legitimate and proportionate processes; and ••continue to engage further with our suppliers outside the UK with respect to human rights and labour standards. //05 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environment At Herbert Smith Freehills, we recognise that we all have a part to play in balancing our growth as a business with reducing our impact on the environment. As a leading global law firm, we have a responsibility to align our approach to sustainability across all of our offices. We aspire to engage all offices across our network and respond to the SDGs on a global scale, amplifying our positive impact. We wish to create a business community that operates in an environmentally sustainable, economically feasible and socially responsible way. Our firm Along with our Environment Policy, we have put in place As energy usage gives rise to most of our global carbon a Global Environmental Sustainability strategy, which emissions, in 2015 we announced an Energy Policy comprises four main areas of focus. which applies to our UK offices. We are determined to develop energy-saving behaviours, implement energy-saving projects and identify energy-efficient products across the network. Following the example of the Belfast and Brussels offices, one of our offices in London is supplied completely with electricity from renewable sources. In the UK, electricity usage is responsible for more than 40% of our carbon footprint. In November 2015, we received the Energy Management Accreditation, ISO 50001, for our energy management system. Raising awareness, engaging with our people and We operate in a consistent and uniform way across our changing behaviours is a necessary three-step process network through two Sustainability Action Groups, one that can help us improve our environmental covering North America, Europe, the Middle East and performance. We celebrate Earth Hour, UK Cycle to Africa and the other covering Asia Pacific and Australia. Work Day and the UN World Environment Day, also Members of the groups are partners, senior holding a series of events and campaigns during management and office managers. Environment Week. To ensure that our interactions with the environment The legal sector has changed significantly in the past are carefully managed and that we minimise and few years and technological advancements allow us mitigate any negative impacts from our activities, we to conduct many aspects of our operations far more have developed an action plan and established some efficiently, which translates to a smaller challenging global goals for 2020. environmental impact. We are committed to: For example, a centralised online global travel ••reducing our carbon footprint by 15%; management tool helps us monitor our travel and identify areas where we can achieve reductions. New ••reducing energy usage by 10%; videoconferencing technologies enable a more personal ••reducing paper consumption by 30%; and approach with our clients and reduce emissions ••increasing our pro bono advice with an associated with travel for client meetings when possible. environmental focus. For internal meetings, we have implemented Skype for We understand that there is always some business Business, which reduces non-essential inter-office travel with a substantial impact on our carbon footprint. business travel. We also encourage collaboration In this case, we offset the carbon emissions associated between different departments. For instance, our with specific activities, supporting projects not only document production team works very closely with the with environmental but also with socioeconomic IT department to identify ways to digitalise paper-based impacts on local communities. processes and reduce paper and ink consumption. Our Gold Standard-certified carbon-offset project is Reducing our paper consumption is a key goal and we installing 1 million biogas digesters and smoke-free cook rely heavily on new technologies to meet it. We have stoves in low-income households in rural Sichuan, implemented a Follow-me printing regime to control China, providing households with clean, convenient and copying and printing and minimise unnecessary printing free biogas for cooking, heating and lighting. and waste. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Leadership As a founding member of the Legal Sustainability We have a leading financing practice in the energy Alliance, we report and publish our carbon emissions sector, particularly in renewable energy, where we have annually for the London and Belfast offices and advised on a number of ground-breaking project through AUS Legal Sustainability Alliance for our financings across the globe, including hydropower offices in Australia. generation projects in Nepal. We also advise on nuclear power projects with the potential to generate large In the UK, since 2014 we have reduced our carbon amounts of low-carbon electricity and offset the need footprint by 10% and 24% per capita, which takes into for fossil fuel generation. consideration our growth as a business. Pro bono We are regular contributors to thought leadership in the area. Our lawyers speak and write on topics such as air Our flagship project in environmental pro bono work is quality, corporate governance responsibilities regarding the award-winning Legal Response Initiative (LRI). The environmental impacts and environmental class LRI provides free legal advice on a rapid-response basis actions. We bring together our clients and contacts for to delegations from less developed countries and NGOs influential seminars, including recently on the subject of on negotiations under the United Nations Framework low-carbon vehicles. We are also members of the UK Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Environmental Lawyers Association and relevant In the renewable energy area, we have provided pro committees of the City of London Law Society in the bono advice to the Government of Sierra Leone UK. Some of our senior lawyers are also visiting regarding a number of solar power projects and the university lecturers on matters such as energy Bumbuna Hydroelectric Plant, designed to raise access regulation and climate change. to electricity on a national scale. Our suppliers Environmental peacebuilding is a new area for us. At Herbert Smith Freehills, we also take into This approach integrates natural resource management consideration the environmental impact of our supply within conflict prevention, mitigation, resolution and chain and work with suppliers to ensure that we do recovery to build resilience in communities affected by everything feasible to minimise it. Our global conflict. In particular, we are working with EcoPeace Responsible Procurement Policy addresses potential Middle East, a unique organisation that brings together environmental risks in the purchasing process and Jordanian, Palestinian and Israeli environmentalists encourages pro-environmental behaviour. We engage with these aims. with our suppliers to appraise the sustainability of goods and services received. We have developed strong relationships with our suppliers and work with them to minimise our environmental footprint. Commitment: Our clients By 2020, we will reduce We respond to climate change in various ways and one our global carbon 15% of these is through our legal advice to clients. footprint Environmental law practice by Our global environmental team acts in the environmental aspects of corporate transactions in all sectors, in environmental litigation and in high-profile, high-risk projects and schemes spanning energy, % in energy infrastructure, mining, urban development and urban use by regeneration, as well as in remediation of contamination as part of the redevelopment of brownfield land. We 2020 also advise clients generally on their obligations to REDUCTION comply with environmental law, requirements for transparency and permits, and the potential for liability as a result of non-compliance. By 2020, we will reduce our Renewables paper 30% Many of the projects in which we are involved have intrinsic positive environmental benefits, such as consumption biomass, sustainable feedstock, tidal energy power generation, and solar and wind projects. by //07 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Anti-corruption Our firm We are a firm of lawyers and legal advisers, and our We employ a number of controls to monitor and restrict partners and employees are regulated as such. Each of risks regarding bribery and corruption. These include our offices is subject to regulations relevant to lawyers restrictions on external payments and requirements to operating in that jurisdiction. Each lawyer will also be register certain gifts and hospitality given or received subject to individual regulation by the relevant Bar or to certain higher-risk persons (for example, public Court for their qualifications, which may be in a officials). different jurisdiction. Although professional regulations vary between jurisdictions, our lawyers have in New business Intake common various duties to the public or to the court, When on-boarding a new client, the New Business and a duty to act honestly. Intake team will undertake due diligence in line with the regulatory requirements of that specific office. Policies In doing so, the team seeks to obtain a comprehensive All partners and employees of Herbert Smith Freehills overview of the client's main business activities, globally are required to comply with the firm's ownership structure and sources of wealth, which International Standards of Conduct. These set out enables the team to identify whether the client poses the standards required of all individuals and include any reputational risk to the firm and mitigate any fundamental tenets on anti-bribery and corruption. bribery or corruption risks. These tenets are elaborated in the firm's Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and supplemented by the Gifts We then use Client Due Diligence to formulate a risk and Hospitality Policy. assessment for each new client, which is presented to the firm's senior management to decide if the client can The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out, be on-boarded. The risk assessment and collation of among other things, our policy obligations on all Client Due Diligence material help us comply with persons, including specific guidelines on high-risk regulatory requirements to implement effective recipients, facilitation payments and compliance by anti-money laundering systems. This is also a key risk suppliers. It also lists red flag situations of which management control of our firm. It is only upon we are to be aware. completion of these checks that we are permitted to receive funds from the client. Our Gifts and Hospitality Policy requires all partners and employees to comply with any applicable client or Our associations supplier policies when offering or accepting gifts and We have associations and affiliations with law firms in hospitality. It also requires them to comply with our own certain countries. These associated and affiliated firms policy, which prohibits gifts and hospitality offered or have similar stances on anti-bribery and corruption to accepted to induce someone to act improperly, or Herbert Smith Freehills and we work closely with them which may be perceived as related to same. The policy in this regard. provides helpful guidelines to determine what is (or may seem) inappropriate. Our suppliers Prevention We provide key suppliers with our Procurement Compliance Standards, which set out, among other Partners and employees are educated on and reminded things, our expectations regarding anti bribery and about anti-bribery and corruption issues during the corruption commitments for our suppliers. Further, our induction process and with follow-up training seminars standard terms for engaging suppliers include a and firm-wide bulletins. Lawyers in our offices must requirement that suppliers comply with applicable annually declare that they comply with a variety of anti-bribery laws, including the extra-territorial UK legal and professional obligations, including anti Bribery Act 2010. bribery legislation. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Our clients Our Corporate Crime and Investigations (CC&I) team provides clients with dedicated advice on international law enforcement and corporate crime issues and conducts investigations around the world. Highlights include representing a global financial institution in a large, high-profile investigation, providing advice across eight jurisdictions and involving multiple regulators, and advising Standard Bank in its ground-breaking entry into the UK's first deferred prosecution agreement. The team also hosts annual CC&I conferences across our network offices. Speakers include representatives from regulators, law makers, enforcement agencies and our international partners, providing insight into topics including global developments in anti-bribery and corruption. We have also produced and maintain the Overseas Corruption Project, a database of anti-corruption laws in approximately 125 jurisdictions, particularly with respect to gifts and entertainment for public officials. The CC&I team regularly inputs to government consultations on new offences, and team members advise trade associations and industry bodies on the implications of legal developments. Commitment: ••Over the last year, we have reworked our anti-corruption policies to ensure greater global application. We intend to work to ensure these are adopted by our associated firms. ••We have recently rolled out a targeted awareness programme, which highlights to lawyers and business services the different risks most applicable to them and provides tips for identifying improper behaviour or benefits “The Anti-Bribery and (including gifts and hospitality). Corruption Policy sets out, among other things, our policy obligations on all persons, including specific guidelines on high-risk recipients, facilitation payments and compliance by suppliers” //09 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Further information Diversity and Inclusion Business and Human Rights Practice Group Pro Bono and Citizenship (including sustainability & responsible procurement) Modern Slavery Act Statement UNGC key contact: Emma Cooke Head of Citizenship emma.cooke@hsf.com Herbert Smith Freehills No part of this publication may be used for any purpose, in any format, without the specific permission of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP. The contents of this publication, current at the date of publication set out in this document, are for reference purposes only. They do not constitute legal advice and should not be relied upon as such. Specific legal advice about your specific circumstances should always be sought separately before taking any action based on this publication. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its affiliated and subsidiary businesses and firms and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills. © Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 2017 HERBERTSMITHFREEHILLS.COM BANGKOK JAKARTA PERTH Herbert Smith Freehills (Thailand) Ltd Hiswara Bunjamin and Tandjung Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills LLP associated firm BEIJING RIYADH Herbert Smith Freehills LLP JOHANNESBURG The Law Office of Nasser Al-Hamdan Beijing Representative Office (UK) Herbert Smith Freehills South Africa LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP associated firm BELFAST KUALA LUMPUR SEOUL Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP LLP0010119-FGN Foreign Legal Consultant Office BERLIN Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP LONDON SHANGHAI Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP BRISBANE Shanghai Representative Office (UK) Herbert Smith Freehills MADRID Herbert Smith Freehills Spain LLP SINGAPORE BRUSSELS Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP MELBOURNE Herbert Smith Freehills SYDNEY DUBAI Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills LLP MOSCOW Herbert Smith Freehills CIS LLP TOKYO DÜSSELDORF Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP NEW YORK Herbert Smith Freehills New York LLP FRANKFURT Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP PARIS Herbert Smith Freehills Paris LLP HONG KONG Herbert Smith Freehills © Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 2017 2839O /251017 UN Global Compact Co
