Communication on Progress (COP) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Iknow LLC August 29, 2017 Statement of continued support by the CEO I am pleased to confirm that Iknow LLC reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this document, our second annual Communication on Progress (COP), we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders. Yours sincerely, Dr. Bernard L. Palowitch, Jr. President Iknow LLC Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Human Rights Principles Iknow’s goal is to influence our employees and our business partners to respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Implementation Iknow has taken the following steps to prevent human rights violations in its work environment: • New employees receive training on human rights during the onboarding process. • The job descriptions of the Company’s head of human resources and head of administration have been updated to include the responsibility of human rights stewardship. • We have added language to our Code of Conduct to support human rights principles. Our Code of Conduct complies with the ISO 26000 standards. • We ask potential partners about their performance on human rights during our evaluation process. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Measurement of Outcomes • No human rights issues or violations have occurred. • No human rights issues or violations have been reported. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Labour Principles Iknow’s goal is to support the ILO’s Core Conventions, including the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour, and employment discrimination. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Implementation Iknow has taken the following steps to ensure employee rights and to prevent discrimination of all kinds in its work environment: • New employees receive training on labour rights and policies during the onboarding process. • The job description of the company’s head of human resources has been updated to include the responsibility of labour rights stewardship. • We have revised our employee handbook to incorporate labour principles. • All employees are eligible to receive company-paid medical benefits. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Measurement of Outcomes • No labour rights issues or violations have occurred. • No labour rights issues or violations have been reported. • No work-related injuries have been reported during the COP reporting period. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Environmental Principles Iknow’s goal is to promote environmental responsibility across our Company’s operations. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Implementation Iknow has taken the following steps to promote environmental responsibility in its work environment: • Iknow is a member company of 1% for the Planet, a nonprofit alliance of businesses financially committed to creating a healthy planet. Iknow contributes one percent of its total revenues to environmentally-focused nonprofits each year. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Measurement of Outcomes • The nonprofits we support through the 1% for the Planet Program are creating a variety of positive environmental benefits around the globe. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Anti-Corruption Principles Iknow’s goal is to uphold the Company’s policy of zero-tolerance of corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery, across all types of business transactions. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Implementation Iknow has taken the following steps to promote anti-corruption principles in its work environment: • Iknow has anti-corruption policies and practices documented in its handbook. • Iknow has implemented internal checks and balances to ensure financial honesty and responsibility. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018 Measurement of Outcomes • No issues related to corruption or bribery have occurred. • No issues related to corruption or bribery have been reported. • No work-related injuries have been reported during the COP reporting period. Iknow LLC, USA, COP for 2017-2018
