COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for the UN Global Compact Roland Berger GmbH Reporting period: October 2016 to September 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 About Roland Berger Roland Berger, founded in 1967, is the only leading global consultancy of German heritage and European origin. With 2,400 employees working from 34 countries, we have successful operations in all major international markets. Our 50 offices are located in the key global business hubs. The consultancy is an independent partnership owned exclusively by 220 Partners serving around 1,000 international clients. We consider corporate responsibility to be a strategic business approach. From our consulting experience we see that corporate responsibility has gained relevance for international companies in recent years, as it reconciles economic, social and environmental success. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we are also part of a community – namely, the society in which we work. About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger GmbH, as the German pillar of our group of companies, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is the fifth report since Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH became a member of the UN Global Compact. In September 2015, we changed our name to Roland Berger GmbH. The following report describes the current status, past development and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. PAGE 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 CONTENTS P.5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P.10 LABOR STANDARDS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P.19 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P.23 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P.4 OUR CEO’S DECLARATION P.26 THE ORIGIN OF OUR GOALS PAGE 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Our CEO’s declaration of continued support Since 2012, Roland Berger has been committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company's efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities. In 2016, we launched two new initiatives for professional gender equality. Diversity – of all sorts – has always been an important element of the success of Roland Berger, and I am proud to report that we are moving forward in this area, even if our industry still has a long way to go. Notable progress was also made last year in the area of the environment, with the implementation of our new Energy Management System, which will help us to gain an even better overview of our energy usage and energy consumers. Our understanding of ethical behavior towards our stakeholders is reflected in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct, which was developed to provide clear guidelines for our work and the way we interact with clients, business partners, colleagues, communities and the environment. The fact that a separate section with anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules was added this year illustrates our zero-tolerance commitment in this particular area. I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We will continue and further increase our efforts to move forward in the four areas of the Global Compact over the next 12 months. Charles-Edouard Bouée CEO, Roland Berger Group PAGE 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Human rights COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 1 | Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 | Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PAGE 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 OUR COMMITMENT Roland Berger explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS The Code of Conduct is a compulsory contract annex for all employees, freelancers and subcontractors. Additionally, an e-training session with a compliance test is compulsory for all permanent employees. Designed as an introductory course, this training session aims to foster awareness of the issue of ethical behavior. Any failure to complete this course is reported to the Compliance Officer, who acts accordingly. If employees suspect a human rights violation, they can communicate their information to the Compliance Officer through a number of channels. We are proud to say that to date no human rights violations have occurred at Roland Berger. In order to encourage our people to report irregularities, abuses and risks, we set up a totally anonymous internet–based whistle-blowing platform in 2014. A substantial number of our employees have read our intranet information on the whistleblowing system, but no incident has been reported via this platform since its introduction. HEALTH & SAFETY We care about the well-being of all our employees, so we have a comprehensive network of health and safety measures in place to address issues such as stress resilience. Roland Berger employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual vacation days. A trust-based vacation policy has been implemented for our managers, to ensure sufficient down time. PAGE 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 The Office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local offices instead of with the client. In addition, to deal with potential situations of high pressure, a series of two stress management seminars is offered as part of the regular seminar curriculum. In 2016, we held eight seminars for experienced consultants and service staff and three stress-management refresher seminars. We also introduced the Team Barometer tool six years ago to monitor team atmospheres and situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. We perform annual workplace inspections to ensure the health and safety of our employees. On these occasions we make sure that the rooms and office equipment meet the highest ergonomic standards. Should any employee ever have a concern or special needs, we promise to take action to meet their requirements. Since travelling is necessary for all our employees, we have control mechanisms to ensure their safety. To offer optimal care and coverage, Roland Berger has engaged a globally acting service provider to help us with medical, health, insurance and security matters. The services it provides include a 24/7 hotline for all colleagues, emergency services worldwide (for health or security problems) and pre-travel advice on security situations, medical standards and visa information. We provide our employees with an e-training session about the services provided within our travel community. All employees are encouraged to download an app ensuring immediate alerts in their travel country about unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters. We also track whether any colleagues are in the country or city concerned. Affected colleagues are contacted directly to arrange a safe trip home or hotel bookings and to offer general care. In the event of insecure situations over protracted periods, Roland Berger tries to arrange long-term solutions. SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is not usually confronted with human rights issues. Our employees all work for us of their own accord and are all of legal age. The prevention of forced or compulsory and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guidelines thus far, mainly because German legislation addresses and enforces a respective corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any situation regarding human rights at Roland Berger. PAGE 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS In the last Communication on Progress, we defined some objectives that we wanted to achieve in order to continuously improve and expand our actions in the field of human rights protection. GOALS COMMENT We want to keep the rate of successfully We fully achieved this goal. completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. In the next period we want to maintain the We fully achieved this goal. During the last same number of stress management seminars year we carried out eight stress management and refresher seminars. seminars and offered three refresher seminars. We aim to change the performance We fully achieved this goal. In 2016 we piloted management system to track each consultant's a new performance management process in workload and establish follow-up calls with Germany, which included acquisition support HR to define actions such as personal stress as new category for Internal Contributions management coaching where necessary. (IC), thus creating full transparency regarding a consultant's contributions and workload. Follow-up calls are conducted with consultants who show high utilization on client projects as well as a high number of IC. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the future we will of course remain committed to the protection of human rights within our sphere of influence. Particularly, we will strive to reach the following goals: • We want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. • We plan to improve the visibility of our compliance portal and want to increase awareness about compliance topics, e.g. through regular newsletters, compliance refresher trainings, etc. • In the next period we want to increase the sustainability of the stress management seminars by introducing a new learning app. • Within the next two years we want to roll out the new performance process for all consultants worldwide, to track each consultant's workload and to be able to take action to reduce the individual stress level where necessary. PAGE 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact addresses are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a German company, Roland Berger GmbH does CODE OF CONDUCT so too. But we go further, proactively Living up to our values taking steps in line with the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, RoIt covers issues such as data security, anti-bribland Berger established general rules for ethical ery and anti-corruption rules, intellectual properbehavior in our business dealings. That document ty rights, insider information, respectful conduct, is a formal element of every employment contract recruitment standards, health and safety at work, we offer, and we expect our employees to comhuman rights and environmental protection. ply with it. Additionally, all Roland Berger Partners have to confirm their compliance with the Code of To emphasize the importance of anti-bribery and Conduct on a yearly basis. anti-corruption rules we have summarized and supplemented the existing rules in a separate anOur compliance management system encomti-bribery and anti-corruption policy. passes all tools and mechanisms that define and implement the principles and values of our orgaOur Code of Conduct is a living core document of nization, including the guidelines of the Code of our firm that undergoes constant amendment. Conduct. Thus, it allows us to uphold them in our Thus, it now even more explicitly covers the four strategic and operational business. areas that the Global Compact addresses. The code was designed to meet the specific deRoland Berger takes many actions that build on mands faced by Roland Berger. It provides guidthe ten principles set out by the Global Compact, ance for behavior in our dealings with clients, as described in this report. colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Our Code of Conduct is built on the pillars of corporate reFIND THE LATEST VERSION sponsibility, professional integrity, confidentiality, OF OUR CODE OF CONDUCT HERE: safety and personal conduct. https://www.rolandberger.com/en/Publications/ pub_code_of_conduct.html PAGE 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Labor Standards COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 3 | Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 | The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 | The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 | The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PAGE 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Everyone at Roland Berger is dedicated to our three corporate values: entrepreneurship, excellence and empathy. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we undertake continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND DEVELOPMENT To provide our clients with the best possible consulting services, we offer our employees a broad educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills and individual coaching. Currently, consultants attend 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staff typically have 2-3 days of training per year. Relevance of the topics and the quality of the training measures are guaranteed by a carefully arranged selection and quality-management process. We enable our employees to pursue their academic interests by sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs. We also offer a sabbatical to enable employees to pursue interests beyond Roland Berger's daily operations. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. We have extensive evaluation mechanisms installed: regular project assessments (both topdown and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2015, we introduced a new evaluation process to further improve the feedback quality, to make assessment more objective and give even better career and personal development advice. The international participation rate of consultants in these bottom-up assessments this year was 60% and the service staff participation rate 48%. PAGE 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above all, they are strong and creative personalities from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity and non-discrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and are thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. Germany's Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz or AGG) is part of every employee's contract in Germany. To underscore its importance, all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course on this subject. Also, several processes have been installed to ensure equal treatment of all employees. To create a space where lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender colleagues feel welcome, we launched an internal LGBT platform last year. This platform creates a global network to facilitate professional and personal discussion. In order to further increase our LGBT activities, we hosted a gay/lesbian consulting dinner in 2017 and participated in the Sticks & Stones career fair. Another step towards more diversity is the formation of a Diversity Committee at Roland Berger. The goal of this committee is to launch initiatives for a diverse workforce, including topics such as LGBT, women and multiculturalism. In October 2016, Roland Berger launched an online survey together with French startup accelerator NUMA and the organizers of the annual Digital Women's Day providing an international perspective on how digital transformation is changing women's working lives. The study aimed to understand how digital – both as a tool and an industry – is transforming the role of women in the workplace across the various stages of their professional lives. The results of the Digital equality? study confirm that digital is a lever for professional equality of women and men. In addition, Roland Berger supports Women in Africa , an initiative launched in 2016 by the French businesswoman Aude de Thuin, whose goal is to create the first global network of women executives and leaders in Africa and to promote their economic, social and political influence in Africa and beyond. PAGE 12 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 RECRUITING PRACTICES Roland Berger is a strategic partner of several international business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. These partnerships further strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. We apply state-of-the-art methods to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly to their rank within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance, so the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program is also designed to foster diversity at the workplace. In 2016, 117 employees participated in the exchange program and 24 different countries were involved. At the same time we increased the amount of regular cross-border staffing. Cross-border networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced by events like our international kick-off meetings and our development program for high performers: the Challenge Club. This program – which includes the most promising high potentials within the firm – aims to contribute to the individual development of the consultants. The members – up to 51 consultants from 23 countries – meet twice a year for a few days to further develop their personal and business skills and network across borders. The diversity of our employees is also reflected in the array of nationalities represented in our offices. Currently, Roland Berger in Germany has employees from 25 countries. At the end of 2016, 24% of Roland Berger employees in Germany were female. 18% of consultants and 9% of consultants in management positions are now women. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we have implemented measures to improve the work and family life balance and we have a special mentoring program for female consultants in place. To better attract and retain female consultants and to strengthen the role and number of female leaders, Roland Berger recently launched the Women in Consulting@ RB initiative. Within this initiative we have introduced special recruiting events and new recruiting formats focused on female consultants (i.e. web chat and university marketing formats). Roland Berger also took part in some international events such as Top Women and Women in Business in order to strengthen our employer brand among female talent. To further foster diversity, Roland Berger participated in the Sticks & Stones career fair in the last two years, the first career fair in Germany directed mainly at the LGBT community. Through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt (Diversity Charta) we express how much we value diversity. PAGE 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 WORK-LIFE BALANCE The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men and women alike – is expressed by the berufundfamilie certification. Also, in October 2015 Roland Berger launched a new study on the opportunities and challenges that digitalization harbors for work-life balance. For instance, in the last year 40% of our employees on parental leave were men. The share of male colleagues who entered into parental leave even rose from 50% to 70%. To foster the opportunity to combine sports and work, we launched an internal task force in Germany in 2016 with the goal of pushing all kinds of joint physical exercise, and local sports ambassadors were elected. Supported by the firm, two services teams took part in a 3-month team fitness challenge in 2016. In addition, local sports ambassadors organized and coordinated several sporting events during the year at all German office locations, such as beach volleyball, canoeing or just going for a run together, and for a limited time even personal trainers for small groups of employees. In the company's intranet it is possible to follow the #rbsports community, and stay informed about the events and activities worldwide. We are proud to be ranked among the top three employers in our industry in our European core markets. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. PAGE 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS As expressed in the previous report, we aim to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and to build the diversity of our employees by setting the following goals. GOALS COMMENT Increasing the number of female colleagues With 18% of our consultants female at remains one of our main objectives. We present, we have fully accomplished this expect to reach our initial goal for 2014 of 15% goal. female consultants by end of 2017. Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% We have revised our goals for 2020 as follows: female applicants in all regions; 25% women 35% female applicants in all regions; 25% among Senior Consultants and Project women among Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 20 Managers (first management level) and 15 new female Partners. new female Partners. In addition, one female Partner has to be elected into one of our formal governance bodies, to be represented in local HR committees and to be in a leadership position (country leadership team or CC head). Regarding the seminar program, we want to In 2016 we extended the global kick-off maintain the current level of training days training course to include new entries per employee, while increasing the number in Asia, and launched a new mandatory of mandatory global trainings to ensure equal Senior Consultant Bootcamp (5 days) for all training standards for all our employees. Consultants/Senior Consultants worldwide. Concerning the leadership assessment, for We continue to put our efforts into getting 2016/17 we plan to achieve at least the same as many assessments as possible but the participation rates as in 2015. participation rate of consultants and services this year was not as high as in 2015. We want to maintain or even increase the This goal was fully met. The number of number of participants in the International participants this year was 117 (last year 110) Staff Exchange Program. and the countries involved 24 (last year 19). We aim to further increase international This goal was fully met for example by means cooperation on topics such as staffing, of a gradual internationalization of processes evaluation processes, graphics, research like employee evaluation. and IT. PAGE 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 GOALS COMMENT We want to launch an initiative to foster We haven't launched any initiatives, but multiculturalism at Roland Berger. have become more active in fostering multiculturalism at our company and the issue remains a major priority for us. We will increase our LGBT activities, e.g. This goal was fully met. A gay/lesbian hosting the gay/lesbian consulting dinner consulting dinner was organized during the as part of our participation in the Sticks & year and we participated in the Sticks & Stones career fair. Stones career fair 2017. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In the months to come, we will continue our efforts to reach the goals regarding our work force. • We want to maintain or even increase the number of female colleagues. • Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% female applicants in all regions; 25% women among Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 15 new female Partners. Plus one female Partner to be elected to one of our formal governance bodies, one to be represented in local HR committees and one to be in a leadership position (country leadership team or CC head). • Regarding the seminar program, we want to maintain the current level of training days per employee, while increasing the number of mandatory global trainings to ensure equal training standards for all our employees, e.g. by introducing a new Senior Project Manager boot camp. • For 2017/18 we plan to achieve at least the same participation rates in the leadership assessment as in 2016. • We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants in the International Staff Exchange Program and provide more transparency about program conditions by introducing a mobility policy. • We aim to further increase international cooperation on topics such as staffing, evaluation processes, graphics, research and IT. PAGE 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Gender equality The results of the Digital equality? study were presented by Roland Berger Partner Anne Bioulac Digital offers extensive during the 5th edition of Digital Woman's Day in Paris in March 2017 and confirm that digital helps opportunities specifically for women advance professionally and is a lever for women in their professional lives. professional equality of women and men. But it is not the magic potion for gender equality. The topic must also mobilize the full attention of companies' top management. Anne Bioulac, Senior Partner, Roland Berger – 2017 DIGITAL EQUALITY Digital technologies have profoundly transformed our relationship with work over the past 15 years. This change is not only technical – it is above all social. In October 2016, Roland Berger, together with French startup accelerator NUMA and the organizers of the annual La Journée de La Femme Digitale (Digital Women's Day), launched an online survey providing an unprecedented international perspective on how digital – both as WOMEN IN AFRICA a tool and an industry – is transforming the role of women in the workplace. The survey covered the key stages of women's professional life: women's entry into professional life, the evolution of female career paths, and female access to leadership positions. When the survey was closed on January 2017, A lot of the potential for economic growth, inno3,000 people from 60 countries had participated, vation, health and education in Africa lies in the including many Roland Berger employees. hands of women. PAGE 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Being attentive to the signals that shape the coming world is at the heart of Roland Berger's business, and the empowerment of African women is a major issue, which our company is currently supporting in cooperation with the Women in Africa (WIA) initiative. Roland Berger will accompany the first WIA Club summit in Morocco in September 2017. The ambition is to create the first global network of women executives and leaders in Africa, to promote their role and their economic, social and political influence in Africa and beyond. To support this unprecedented initiative, Roland Berger will publish a series of 6 papers throughout the year to show the reflections of the Forum and identify a road map for the empowerment of women in Africa, giving immediate next steps that must be taken to help Africans have a better life. PAGE 18 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Environment COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 7 | Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 | Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 | Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PAGE 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 OUR COMMITMENT As a professional services company, Roland Berger is certainly less exposed to environmental issues than many other companies, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we strive to minimize our negative ecological influence, even though environmental protection is not as central for us as other elements of the Global Compact. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION We believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling done by our consultants. However, we aim to keep our carbon footprint small. Our travel guidelines are intended to encourage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel. Our employees can choose between plane, train, leased car, rental car, car-sharing options or public transport as possible modes of transportation. We encourage our employees to always select the most cost-effective, time-efficient and environmentally friendly transportation. As an example: 80 employees recently moved from a car-leasing option to a more environmentally friendly mobility concept (car-sharing, rental car or public transport). For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In 2016, around 6,000,000 kilometers of our German travel with the train were realized using environmentally friendly electricity (2015: 4,001,600 km and 2014: 3,063,976 km). In addition, we encourage telephone and video conferencing in lieu of travel. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices, and our consultants can request an individual equipment set for their laptops. For instance, again from 2015 to 2016 we significantly increased our time spent (+15%) in video conferences in Germany. PAGE 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 And we will further improve our equipment in the next year so that our employees use video conferencing even more frequently. To help our employees be as environmentally conscious in their individual behavior as possible, we provide them with Eco Tips on our intranet. A new sustainability community was set up on the intranet at the beginning of the year by a group of consultants versed in sustainability projects. The goal of the initiative is to push the topic at Roland Berger and provide a space for colleagues to effectively share and receive information about the topic. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices a number of processes have been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Furthermore, we separate trash, such as paper, batteries and other electronic waste to facilitate the recycling process. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. When moving our head office in Munich in 2015, we were able to reduce our energy consumption by about 75%. The new building has a high standard of energy conservation, using shade, lighting, etc. in a way that wastes as little and stores as much energy in the building as possible. We only have customary air-conditioning installed in technical rooms, and instead use heating/cooling ceilings in the offices. A surface analysis showed that we do not need as much space as in 2014. We have open space areas and a clean desk policy, so our utilization of working space is close to 90%. This concept will be assigned to all German offices in future. We want to save as much energy as we can in our office buildings and with our equipment and travel policy, etc. As shown in the table below, we have constantly reduced our energy consumption in our German offices in the past. As a matter of fact, the decrease amounts to 62% since 2011. Office 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 buildings [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 78,370 33,738 30,560 42,054 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 110,167 141,378 176,000 172,632 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 106,266 87,693 109,136 103,182 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 53,210 66,004 52,306 49,900 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 1,062,841 937,872 249,060 232,822 Stuttgart 45,524 50,000* 43,000* 38,558 41,400 43,442 Total 1,673,255 1,586,540 1,453,854 1,305,243 658,462 644,032 consumption REDUCTION -5.18% -8.36% -10.22% -49.55% -2.19% -13.11% -21.99% -60.65% -61.51% * Estimate We use environmentally friendly electricity at all our sites and we seek to rent energy efficient offices. Our building in Frankfurt, for example, is certified with the LEED® Gold standard. PAGE 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 With the implementation of our new Energy Management System (DIN ISO EN 50001) we have now a better overview of our energy usage and energy consumers in the offices. With this new knowledge we can replace wasters with new equipment with better energy figures. During the last year, we changed printers and other materials to reduce our energy consumption to the lowest rate ever. As the audit takes place every year, we can review and question our consumption figures annually. We also want to implement a new water system in the offices, by which staff can use their own water, so we don't need to order bottles of water and juice and inevitably pour a lot of it away. This may not mean a reduction of energy consumption in our offices, but it does reduce the energy needed to make and transport bottles. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS With the goals set in our previous report, we wanted to have a greater positive impact on our environment. GOALS COMMENT With the implementation of our new Energy With the new Energy Management System Management System (DIN ISO EN 50001) we have achieved a better overview of old and we will gain a better overview of our energy wasteful systems and items. usage and energy consumers. So in the next years we will be able to reduce our energy usage even more. When relocating an office, we inspect the In 2016 and 2017 we didn't move any offices, energy status of the new building as we did but we traced the market and have a scope on in Munich, with a view to saving energy on new low energy buildings. heating and cooling. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE We will continue our efforts to reduce our ecological footprint by setting the following environmental goals: • With the German railway's new high-speed lines, we will have more employees on trains and reduce our flight frequency. • With an expansion of our mobility concept we will inspire more colleagues to get an e-bike or other means of transportation than the car. PAGE 22 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Anticorruption COMMITMENT | IMPLEMENTATION | GOALS Principle 10 | Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAGE 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 OUR COMMITMENT As a leading consultancy, Roland Berger is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. We confirm our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within and outside our company. CURRENT STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. TRANSPARENT CONTRACTS To prevent abuse, all payments to freelancers or senior advisors are made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers and senior advisors have been standardized and their payment is controlled using proApproval , a tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit, the contracts for senior advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid potential conflicts of interest amongst client teams, a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly monitored in our German offices. E-learning courses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Like our employees, freelancers must also adhere to our Code of Conduct. All Partners sign a formal declaration every year that they have adhered to the Code of Conduct. DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information with strict confidentiality and keep proprietary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in all our electronic communications, our information and communication equipment – PAGE 24 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 IT infrastructure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technology standards. We operate our own IT infrastructure for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure mobile devices that allow e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy, which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also the subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT-equipment, using e-mail and the internet, mobile working and protecting against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo! or Google, for our business communication. Data exchange between companies of the Roland Berger group is governed by compliant contractual regulations. ACHIEVEMENT OF GOALS To demonstrate that the prevention of corruption is very important to us, we set a number of shortand mediumterm goals one year ago. GOALS COMMENT We will further tighten our compliance For high risk countries we implemented a regulations for high risk countries with business partner screening process and additional declarations and compliance include specific contractual regulations in our procedures and know your customer/ freelancer/subcontractor contracts. In addisupplier checks. tion, we have summarized and enhanced our already existing anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules in a separate policy document. GOALS FOR THE FUTURE In order to prevent corruption, we aim to realize the following: • We will include anti-corruption information in our compliance portal, and heighten awareness by means of a newsletter to employees. PAGE 25 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 The origin of our goals Summarizing the implementation status and the achievement of the goals set in the last Communication on Progress, we at Roland Berger GmbH still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to the four areas of the UN Global Compact Thus, our future objectives are as follows: Global Compact Goal Deadline Page area / issue Human Rights We want to keep the rate of successfully completed e-trainings Sep. 2018 p. 8 on the Code of Conduct at least at the same level. Human Rights We plan to improve the visibility of our compliance portal and Sep. 2018 p. 8 want to increase awareness about compliance topics, e.g. through regular newsletters, compliance refresher trainings, etc. Human Rights In the next period we want to increase the sustainability of the Sep. 2018 p. 8 stress management seminars by introducing a new learning app. Human Rights Within the next two years we want to roll out the new Sep. 2019 p. 8 performance process for all consultants worldwide, to track each consultant's workload and to be able to take action to reduce the individual stress level where necessary. Labor Standards We want to maintain or even increase the number of female Sep. 2018 p. 16 colleagues. Labor Standards Our targets for 2020 are as follows: 35% female applicants Dec. 2020 p. 16 in all regions; 25% women among Senior Consultants and Project Managers (first management level) and 15 new female Partners. Plus one female Partner to be elected to one of our formal governance bodies, one to be represented in local HR committees and one to be in a leadership position (country leadership team or CC head). Labor Standards Regarding the seminar program, we want to maintain the current Sep. 2018 p. 16 level of training days per employee, while increasing the number of mandatory global trainings to ensure equal training standards for all our employees, e.g. by introducing a new Senior Project Manager boot camp. Labor Standards For 2017/18 we plan to achieve at least the same participation Sep. 2018 p. 16 rates in the leadership assessment as in 2016. Labor Standards We want to maintain or even increase the number of participants Sep. 2018 p. 16 in the International Staff Exchange Program and provide more transparency about program conditions by introducing a mobility policy. Labor Standards We aim to further increase international cooperation on topics Sep. 2018 p. 16 such as staffing, evaluation processes, graphics, research and IT. Environment With the German railway's new high-speed lines, we will have Sep. 2018 p. 22 more employees on trains and reduce our flight frequency. Environment With an expansion of our mobility concept we will inspire more Sep. 2018 p. 22 colleagues to get an e-bike or other means of transportation than the car. Anti-corruption We will include anti-corruption information in our compliance Sep. 2018 p. 25 portal, and heighten awareness by means of a newsletter to employees. PAGE 26 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT October 2016 to September 2017 Contact: Peter Hochstrasser E-mail: Peter.Hochstrasser@rolandberger.com Tel.: +49 30 39927-3454 © Roland Berger 2017 www.rolandberger.com
