1 Giving More Contents Foreword ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. Page 2 Principals of the UN Global Compact …………………………………………………………………………………… Page 3 Implementing the UNGC Principals ………………………………………………………………………………………Page 4 2 Foreword The LOLC Group is the largest non-banking financial institution and one of the biggest diversified conglomerates in Sri Lanka. A diversified portfolio means that we have a diverse network of stakeholders in a multitude of locations. Social integration is thus integral to our business model. In line with our unwavering commitment to our triple bottom line, we are creating and sharing holistic value, positively impacting many people, communities and our environment. Our People LOLC Group’s meteoric rise to become Sri Lanka’s most profitable listed entity and one of the largest conglomerates, in just a span of 37 years is a result of the talents, commitment and dynamism of its people. Given the highly competitive nature of the financial services industry we believe that our people have been the key differentiator. Our Society A diverse portfolio means that we have a diverse network of stakeholders in a multitude of locations. They range from farmers and budding entrepreneurs in the rural hinterlands across the country, to the urban and semi urban consumers, travellers from across the seas and entrepreneurs overseas to international funding agencies and investors who continue to partner us. Sustaining our natural capital Our efforts to enhance the value of our natural capital is two pronged. We strive to minimise our environmental footprint on the one hand, while we also proactively seek ways in which we can contribute to the sustainability of natural capital. Two of the proactive initiatives which we have taken on to espouse and implement for the next few years ahead is Reforestation and the development of Renewable Energy. 3 PRINCIPALS OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT The LOLC Group is a signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact (UNGC’s) established code of principles. The Group is thus guided by the 10 principles concerning human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption promulgated by the UNGC, and the solid framework they provide is espoused by LOLC and its subsidiaries in every facet of their many activities. Some of the ways in which we practice these principles are communicated in this Sustainability Review as well as elsewhere in the Annual Report of 2016/2017 such as the Governance Report. The Ten Principles of UNGC: Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4 IMPLEMENTING THE UNGC PRINCIPALS LOLC’s commitment to the established 10 principles of the UNGC initiative can be found rooted into the functions of all its business operations which are demonstrated in their Annual Reports, Press Releases and Websites. Our commitment to Sustainability is outlined in the LOLC Group Annual Report for the Financial Year 2016/17 which is submitted together with this review.  Commitment to Sustainability – Page 73  Statement of continued support: Deputy Chairman – Page 24  Statement of continued support: Group Managing Director / CEO Page 26  Enterprise Risk Management Report Page 110 All above mentioned material can be accessed via www.lolc.com
