GROWING SUSTAINABLY JSC NC “KAZMUNAYGAS” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KazMunayGas >200 subsidiaries 2 subsidiaries have held an IPO Group OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION GROUP’S INDICATORS 29% 16% 448 20,2 СО2 emissions intensity of oil and gas condensate of natural and associated gas thousand barrels of oil million m 3 of gas per day 115 EMPLOYEES PROFIT in Kazakhstan in Kazakhstan per day tons per 305.8 1000 tons 91,121 of hydrocarbons billion KZT $894.9 mln REFINING AND MARKETING people 79% PROCUREMENT NATIONAL 1 871 billion KZT 33.6 hours of education per person $5,475.3 OIL AND GAS 82% 16% 55 СО2 emissions “Choice of the Year mln COMPANY of the Kazakhstan share of oil thousand intensity 219 №1 65.9% employees market products retail vehicles a day in Kazakhstan” 21% 76% market tons per “KazMunayGas” are members local Refining of 1000 tons brand of Labor content 236 of refined oil proportion IN KAZAKHSTAN thousand barrels of oil per day 102-1 NUMBER OF FATAL INCIDENTS 102-2 OIL AND GAS TRANSPORTATION 102-3 Our target – 0 RESERVES KEY ENERGY 785.8 102-4 fatal incidents mln tons of A, B and C1 oil and PRODUCER 102-6 102-7 gas condensate Group’s main oil pipelines transport 1,156 240 Oil transportation by sea 102-8 65% 7,082 480.1 of oil thousand barrels billion m 3 102-9 2016 7 people and of oil per day of gas per day 2015 4 people billion m3 of natural 95% of gas in Kazakhstan thousand tons in 2016 or OG-1 77% 404-1 gas 405-1 SERVICE ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 77.8 203.3 1.5 mln m3 thousand tons 1.5 mln Gj entotal water prevented СО2 ergy resources more than drilling land and air support of production of mechanical construction withdrawal emissions saving 10.5 services transport offshore drilling fluids engineering of facilities 6.5 108 86% operations thousand vehicles mln tons mln Gj total energy level are used daily at our СО2 consumption = 3% of energy of gas production facilities emissions resources of Kazakhstan utilization content JSC NC “KAZMUNAYGAS” 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT стр. p . 12 p. Our people 26-40 27-41 p. 4 p. 27 Introduction Our approach to Our people Sustainability p. Occupational safety 30-32 Our economic Occupational Health p. input 33-34 p. Care for our people 35 стр. p. 26-40 68-70 p. 42 p. 62 p. 6 6 p. 102-44 Employees investment 36-40 Our evironmental Our communities Marketing and labeling impact 102-47 p. Human rights 41 p. MATERIAL 66-67 TOPICS p. Our communities 62-65 p. 6 8 p. 71 p . 79 Marketing and labeling Our economic GRI Standards Appendices Impuct Content Index p. стр. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. p. 42-61 60-63 43 44-47 48-49 50-51 52-54 55-56 57-58 59-60 Our Policies and Climate change Energy use and Use of water Biodiversity Prevention of oil spills Industrial safety and integrity Waste environmental Management and air quality Energy saving resources conservation and and preparedness management. Emergency response management impact environmental preparedness. monitoring INTRODUCTION 5 ABOUT OUR REPORT The “National Company “KazMunayGas” employees across the country, being one of the The Sustainability Report of KMG is approved (hereafter – KMG, Group) Sustainability largest employer of the country. We understand by the Board of Directors and brought to the Report presents the performance data of our role as a key player in the economic and attention of Stakeholders through different 2016 Company’s non-financial impacts and social development of Kazakhstan. Therefore, we channels of communication, such as publishing on demonstrates our commitment to transparent report our performance covering all dimensions a company web-site and distribution of printed information disclosure. of sustainable development for greater editions. This report has not undergone external transparency and accountability. In this report, verification but the report was submitted for This report has been prepared in accordance we have also presented our challenges that we the GRI Materiality Disclosures Service, and GRI GROWING with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option SUSTAINABLY face on a daily basis and our future plans. confirmed the correctness of the locations of the and the Oil and Gas Sector Disclosures. JSC NC “KAZMUNAYGAS” materiality disclosures GRI 102-40 to 102-49. 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The structure of the report follows the We regard our sustainability report to be our sustainability strategic areas of KMG: Communication of Progress report to the United • our people and the workplace, with a high Nations Global Compact. In our opinion, we meet focus on safety culture; the requirements for the Global Compact Active • environmental performance, including reporting level. information on our success for the case KMG is one of the largest state companies studies and projects we conduct with our that provides jobs for approximately 90,000 strategic partners. 102-1 102-5 102-54 102-32 102-56 6 MESSAGE FROM JSC NC “KAZMUNAYGAS” CHAIRMAN & CEO At the same time, the Group’s work on improving 2016 for the previous period took 3rd place in DEAR PARTNERS AND STAKEHOLDERS! the production efficiency and products quality “Best Sustainability Report” category by RAEX I am pleased to bring to your attention the 2016 is continuing. For example, as part of the agency among 137 other Kazakhstani companies. Sustainability Report of the Group of Companies modernization program for oil refineries, the This report has been prepared in accordance of JSC NC KazMunayGas . Sustainable Atyrau Refinery in 2016 commissioned facilities with the latest GRI Standards. development in our Company is one of the for benzene and paraxylene production, the In 2017, we will continue to develop in accordance strategic goals along with the growth of longbasic products for petrochemicals. In July, the with our strategic priorities, in order to ensure term value. first industrial benzene batch was exported. Kazakhstan’s energy security while posing new, KazMunayGaz is a vertically integrated oil The Pavlodar petrochemical refinery increasingly ambitious goals. and gas company and the national operator modernization is aimed primarily at improving for the exploration, production, refining and the environmental indicators of the fuel by Faithfully, transportation of hydrocarbons and one of the producing European quality standards petroleum country’s largest employers. products. Started in 2016, the reconstruction of Chairman of the Board the existing hydrocleaning plant of diesel fuel will Despite the fact that last year was not easy for JSC NC “ KazMunayGas“ allow the plant to obtain diesel fuel of ecological Sauat Mynbayev us, as for many other companies in the oil and gas class K-5 in the nearest future. industry, we were able to achieve all the 2016 goals and become stronger and more effective Significant work was done by KazMunayGaz in the during the crisis. The volume of hydrocarbon sphere of social and labor relations. The Council production in 2016 amounted to 23 million tons. for the Development of Social Partnership and the Settlement of Labor Disputes and Conflicts 102-14 Also, 2016 was a year of safety culture is working, a unified labor remuneration system strengthening. The commitment of the Group’s 103-2 has been introduced in the “Exploration and leadership to safety culture has never been more Production” business unit and the project of robust. Over the past 2 years, the overall efforts “Monitoring Social Climate” has been launched. of all employees of the Group have achieved excellent results in reporting on accidents and We also strive to improve our sustainability incidents, in determining system causes and reporting, we try to make our report more taking corrective actions. For the first time in the transparent, intelligible, complete and thorough Chairman of the Board JSC NC KazMunayGas history of the Company, all General Directors of for readers among our stakeholders and partners Sauat Mynbayev the Group signed personal HSE plans. around the world. Thus, the report published in 7 INTERVIEW WITH UZAKBAY KARABALIN, A MEMBER KMG NC BOARD OF DIRECTORS COULD YOU PLEASE DESCRIBE WHAT us in 2016. This model envisages the joining of the ten principles of the Treaty in the fields of SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MEANS FOR the National Company’s subholdings to reduce environment, human rights, anti-corruption and KMG? the administrative burden, the number of labor relations. Sustainable development is what guides us in management levels, accelerate decision-making, Throughout the year, we have been very active forming our company’s policies and long-term to concentrate resources on the core business in the global initiative of the World Bank Zero goals. Even under crisis conditions, as we faced and increase the manageability of the Group. Routine Flaring by 2030 , and this is our way of in the past few years, we have not changed our The issues of sustainable development were showing a sustainable approach to conducting commitment to the principles of sustainability in also included in the competence list of the production operations. Associated petroleum business. After all, the environmental care, the Management Board, the Board of Directors, gas can be either a pollutant or a valuable raw value of human life and the pursuit of economic the Strategy and Investments Committee of the material; KMG’s gas processing plants tackle benefits are more important than ever before for Board of Directors in 2016, hence, sustainability several problems simultaneously: minimizing the maintaining the company’s competitiveness in the issues are considered at the highest level in the negative impact on the environment, using gas world market. company. It is obvious for us that the integration for technological needs while providing the local The main principles of sustainable development of sustainable development into all processes is population with gas. implemented at all levels in KMG are openness, an important step to improving the corporate In 2016 KazTransGas built at its expense transparency, ethical behavior, respect for the management system of KMG. And that is why next Akyrtobe a booster compressor station which interests of all stakeholders, compliance, respect year we will focus on integrating sustainability opened the way for domestic gas exports for human rights, intolerance to corruption and into our operations in order to reduce our risks to China. Also, the construction of 300 conflict of interests, maintenance of social stability and increase the level of productivity. The results Aktyubinsk automated gas distribution station and ecological balance. of our efforts are being recognised. For example, was completed and put into operation, this in 2016 KazMunayGas Exploration Production HOW HAS SUSTAINABILITY CHANGED THE being a unique project in Central Asia and one JSC became one of the three leaders in terms CORPORATE STRATEGY OF KMG? of the most modern compressor stations of the of oil production in Kazakhstan, and by 2018 it main Kazakhstan – China gas pipeline. In various In 2016, under the leadership of the Samrukis planned to provide Kazakhstan’s market with regions of Kazakhstan intensive work was Kazyna Fund, the formation of a sustainable 100 % of oil products of KMG refineries’ own executed to increase gasification of cities and development management system at the national production. the transition of urban transportation to more level was initiated, and we were among the first WHAT WAS THE BIGGEST ACHIEVEMENT IN environmentally friendly solutions. of Samruk-Kazyna’s portfolio companies to enter SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT IN 2016? the transformation program. The introduction However, it is worth emphasizing that our people of a new model of corporate governance, which In 2016, we renewed our membership in the UN are always our top priority. The main principle of Member of the Board of Directors JSC NC KazMunayGas allows simplification of the management of Global Compact and thus showing our voluntary KMG in carrying out any production operations Uzakbay Karabalin production assets, was a great achievement for corporate commitments and our devotion to is the continuous pursuit of Zero : zero 102-14 8 INTERVIEW WITH UZAKBAY KARABALIN, A MEMBER KMG NC BOARD OF DIRECTORS fatalities, zero production injuries and zero oil spills . We are bound to acknowledge that we are not yet satisfied with the results of our work. In 2016, 7 of our employees lost their lives. These fatal accidents occurred despite our ongoing prevention efforts implemented through the work of our corporate center and the HSE services of our subsidiaries. Every person’s life is valuable and we want to assure the families of all our workers that we continue every day to tirelessly strive for the main goal: to have our people return home safely at the end of each working day. Each member of the Board of Directors, as well as every director of all subsidiaries, is personally responsible for the safety of work and the protection of life and health of the company’s workers. This is our current and future most important task in the field of sustainable development. 102-14 9 ABOUT KMG SAFETY RESPOSIBILITY Frank Kuijlaars. The Company strives to ensure a safe Independent Director, the Chairman The Company is acting with responsibility environment, having as a key priority of the Board of Directors in fulfilling all the obligations undertaken in the health and safety of our employees front of shareholders, partners, staff and the according to international standards. community at large. Yerlan U. Baimuratov Sauat M. Mynbayev Independent Director The Chairman of the Management Board CORPORATE VALUES In our daily work, we are guided by the following corporate values: Christopher Walton THE BOARD Peter Lane Independent Director OF DIRECTORS 102-16 Independent Director MEMBERS 102-22 102-23 405-1 Uzakbay S. Karabalin Berik T. Beisengaliyev The representative of our Shareholders The representative of our Shareholders EFFICIENCY Baljeet Kaur Grewal PROFESSIONALISM The company is committed to continuous The representative of our Shareholders, Managing Director The company is committed to proficiency improvement of financial and operational for Strategy and Portfolio Investment of Samruk-Kazyna enhancement of employees; provide proper performance, improvement of JSC – member of the Management Board working conditions and opportunities for the management practices and technological personal and professional development. solutions. 10 ABOUT KMG Our goal is to become one of the top 30 oil The BoD’s members are elected by the development of the national oil and gas industry. risk management system effectiveness in 2016 and gas companies in terms of operational, General Shareholder on the basis of clear and We also aim to increase the financial value amounted to 75 %. financial and HSE performance. transparent procedures, taking into account the and investment efficiency as well as to ensure In 2016, Policy on corporate risk management competencies, skills, achievements, business high quality products and services through system, risk map and register were approved reputation and professional experience of incorporation of sustainable practices in KMG. THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE by KMG BoD. The Group also has policies and candidates, gender (there is one woman on We aim to become an effective oil and natural procedures for various risks management. KMG consists of 213 organizations that shape the Board of Directors), independence (4 of 8 gas company with increased financial stability, the KMG Group, which was founded in 2002. members are independent directors). respecting the highest safety standards in our The founder of KMG is the Government of the The BoD Committees, where the Chairmen’s are production facilities and corporate governance Republic of Kazakhstan (RoK) represented by the exclusively independent directors, assist the BoD principles Committee for State Property and Privatization with the recommendations on the most complex of the Ministry of Finance. KMG shareholders THE APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT and significant economic, environmental and are JSC Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna social matters. The information on the activities The corporate risk management system is a (hereafter – Fund) (90 %) and the National Bank of of the KMG BoD Committees is published key component of the corporate governance the RoK (10 %). annually on the corporate website. system and is aimed at the timely identification, The corporate governance structure of the assessment, monitoring and reduction of potential To eliminate any conflict of interests, the 102-5 Group is under constant improvement. KMG risks that could adversely affect the achievement information on the cross-membership of the 102-7 Board of Directors (BoD) determines the priority of strategic and operational objectives. members of the BoD in other Boards, on its 102-19 directions of the KMG’s development and affiliated bodies and related-party transactions is The Board of Directors approves strategic, 102-20 governs the organization by setting the strategic publicly available. medium-term and short-term goals, the 102-26 objectives taking into account recommendations Company’s risk appetite, levels of tolerance 102-33 of the BoD Committees. The BoD entrust with a The assessment of the corporate governance for KMG’s risks, performance indicators of the 102-24 task the Management Board, the executive body structure is carried out on annual basis by system and provides an annual assessment of its 102-22 of the company. The Management Board, that external independent companies and KMG effectiveness. 405-1 overviews overall performance of the company. Internal Audit department. 102-18 Leaders of KMG, responsible for economic and The Board of Directors reviews quarterly reports Accordingly, the KMG BoD and its Committees 102-21 social issues, are members of the Management on the range of risks including financial, social manage a proper balance of skills, experience 102-25 Board. and HSE risks. KMG has a Risk Management and knowledge, ensuring the adoption of 102-28 Committee under the Management Board, an Education and significant experience of the independent, objective and effective decisions in 102-27 Audit Committee under the Board of Directors BoD in various structures, in companies with the interests of KMG considering the principles 102-15 and a separate structural division (department) of a developed system of corporate governance of SD and the interests of all shareholders. 102-29 risk management. and implemented principles of sustainable 102-30 MISSION, VISION, VALUES development make it possible to ensure that the The effectiveness of the risk management system 102-31 KMG BoD has the necessary competences in the The mission of KMG is ensuring maximum is verified by independent evaluations of internal field of sustainability. benefits for the RoK from participation in and external auditors. Collective estimate of the 11 ABOUT KMG Nomination and Remuneration Committee Strategy and Innovation Committee Covers issues on succession planning of the Management Reviews and gives recommendations on strategic development Board and BoD, providing with a constant assessment plans and investment policies to increase business of the employees, ensuring effective integration of HR attractiveness, on improvement of corporate governance policies on remuneration, social support, professional systems, and on planning of financial and economic activities development and training of employees. of KMG. Since 2016, the Strategy and Innovation committee has been also responsible for making recommendations for sustainable development, including strategic planning, the socio-economic and HSE development of the company. The list of duties of the Committee has been complemented Finance Committee with the matters on the approval of sustainable development policies, the KMG Sustainability Report and other corporate documents in the field of sustainable development. All COMMITTEES Provides recommendations on financial matters, recommendations are made in accordance with the best oversees financial policies, assesses the financial international practices and risk assessment reports. The stability and monitors the implementation of KMG Committee defines as well the main areas of the KMG Policy financial strategy. in the field of safety, environmental protection and considers initiatives aimed at improving the management system in these areas. Audit Committee 102-15 Overviews the issues of both internal and external 102-18 audits, makes recommendations related to 102-20 financial reporting and risk management. 403-1 102-29 102-34 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 13 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY WE RESPECT THE FOLLOWING As the largest state oil & gas company, we Also, a Working Group for managing the integration PRINCIPLES IN THE AREA OF recognize the importance of our impact on the of sustainable development at the top management SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: economy, environment and society. We incorlevel of the Company was created. We interact with porate sustainable development principles and stakeholders on sustainable development issues, engage in thoughtful and rational interactions hold regular meetings, as well as training courses with stakeholders to balance our common on sustainable development on a quarterly basis for Openness interests. enhancing the culture of sustainable development. In addition, the Reference Model for Sustainable The principles of sustainable development are Development for the Fund’s portfolio companies is enshrined in the Corporate Social Responsibility under development. Code and the KMG Sustainable Development Accountability We develop an annual Sustainable Development Concept. After the approval of the Code of Plan of work, taking into account international Corporate Governance of Samruk-Kazyna, declarations and standards (the OECD Principles sustainable development has been brought to the for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Guidelines level of one of the strategic goals, equally with the for Business and Human Rights, the ISO 26000 growth of the Group’s investment value. In 2016, Social Responsibility Guide, the United Nations under the leadership of the Fund, the formation Transparency Environment and development Declaration), as of sustainable development management system 102-16 well as agreements and conventions adopted has been established. The BoD, Strategy and 102-43 at international conferences on sustainable Innovation Committee, Management Board’s 102-15 development issues. competencies were extended with sustainable development responsibilities. Ethical behavior THE VALUES AND PRINCIPLES OF BUSINESS ETHICS: Competence and Environmentally Respect for the Reputation friendly professionalism human person Openness Security Team spirit Meritocracy 14 THE CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS The Code of Business Ethics sets ethical standards for In accordance with the best international practice, More detailed information is provided in KMG annual the Company’s activity and employees, regardless of including the standards and principles of the report 2016. their position, and reflects our core values and ethical Ombudsmen International Association, the KMG Appeals on non-compliance with the Code of principles of work. In addition, the Code establishes Ombudsman regularly reports to the Board of Business Ethics are considered with mandatory norms of behavior in interaction with colleagues, Directors of KMG and represents an independent participation of the Ombudsman and treated with government bodies, our shareholders, affiliates, high-level manager. The Ombudsman’s works ensure confidentiality. business partners, communities and the media. This compliance with international standards for dealing code was approved by KMG Board in 2016. with conflict resolution (ISO 10003), and work with Whenever any requests are received, the Group’s complaints (ISO 10002). management is informed. All received complaints Taking into account current changes and perspectives and proposals are registered, the management of the Group’s policy, we included the new business We intend to prevent any kind of conflicts in the decision on the results of consideration of the appeal ethics principles in the Code. Compliance with all Group of companies. The rights of appeal of any is brought to the applicant. employees of ethical norms and principles spelled person shall not be infringed. We have developed out in the Code will be reflected in the employee’s various mechanisms by which employees, business In 2016, 3 cases of worker references to the judiciary job descriptions, and will become part of the new HR partners and stakeholders can report any nonfor the resolution of individual labor disputes were methodologies and policies. compliance with corporate ethics, human rights, recorded because of the discrepancy between the labor practices, negative environmental or social labor process and the production environment with Familiarization with the Code of Business Ethics impacts: the requirements of safety and labor protection, is mandatory for all employees. The KMG Board of disagreement with the amount of compensation 102-16 Directors reviews the provisions of this Code every – Employees – by contacting direct line manager, or for harm caused to health during working process. 102-17 2 years, examines the extent of its application and, if next level manager; or by contacting Ombudsman; (identical number of references to the court were 102-26 necessary, introduces relevant changes. – Both from inside and outside the company – via registered in 2015). 103-2 The Code of Ethics is available to stakeholders on the phone 786,565, through KMG trust line email: 103-3 official website of the company in three languages – doverie@kmg.kz (information may be submitted Kazakh, English, and Russian. anonymously). In addition, within the framework of the Internal THE GRIEVANCES PROCEDURE Communications Unified System, there are in place Number of grievances against mechanisms such as: Every year the KMG BoD selects an Ombudsman the practice of labor relations responsible for compliance with the Code of Ethics, • meetings of managers with labor collectives and providing advice to employees, preventing potential the labor unions; 2014 52 violations of the Group’s internal regulations, for fair • reception of employees by the First Head on 2015 29 representation of employees’ interests and proper personal issues; 2016 25 understanding and application of our corporate • blog of the first leader; values and principles. • boxes for the collection of offers. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION We follow the Economic Security Policy of KMG, Any employee of KMG or any other person is entitled parties, representatives of the largest oil and gas approved by the Board of Directors in 2014. to inform the management of KMG, the direct companies. For example, in June 2016 an extended The document includes the core topics of KMG’s manager or the authorized unit in case of any doubt meeting was held on actual issues of providing activity in anti-corruption, fraud and other unlawful regarding the validity of actions of any employee, comprehensive protection of the oil and gas industry phenomena. The main approach of the – Mission contractor or other persons cooperating with KMG. against illegal encroachments. The dialogue of the of top-management (Tone at the Top). This Policy These reports can be communicated through email expert community of law enforcement and special has been placed on the KMG corporate website and trust lines, and treated with confidentiality. The bodies on the status and prospects of cooperation (KMG.kz) in Kazakh, English and Russian languages trust line number and the email address are placed was held. to ensure 100% access and awareness of all the on the corporate website. Analogous information is In 2016 the corporate security department workers employees and other co-interested parties. available on the sites of subsidiaries. involvement percentage in training policies and Informative amendments on anti-corruption topics We evaluate the risks concerning corruption in all specific procedures for organizing anticorruption have been introduced to the employment agreements subsidiaries and affiliated companies. In the past work, respect for human rights, and the requirements and internal documents, related to recruitment, three years, we communicated our anti-corruption of Code of Ethics reached 100%. Similar work has placement and onboarding of employees, also policies to 110 Group subsidiaries. been organized with partners and stakeholders of to procurement standard-form contract, works the Group, as well as business partners and investors, Also, we have organized trainings and seminars and services of the Group, and other documents about the existence of appropriate anti-corruption on anti-corruption with the participation of our establishing legal relations between the parties. policies in the group of companies. employees, representatives of the state and political 205-2 102-17 205-1 102-15 103-2 21,500 business partners, including 700 employees and candidates for Stakeholders which were informed about Group anti-corruption policies 103-3 410-1 suppliers of goods and services, KMG and subsidiaries vacancies as well as business partners, filling were checked for the investors were acquainted with corruption involvement and other our anti-corruption policies. offenses. 70% 85% 100% 100% of KMG and subsidiaries’ top> 100 internal documents have also 2014 2015 2016 management were acquainted undergone the analysis. with the anti-corruption policies. 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION In the future, we will continue to conduct training of employees on our anti-corruption policy. In 2016, more than 65 reports on violations of legislation and KMG internal regulations have been received and recorded through the information system of ‘trust’. All complaints have been reviewed and checked. Mitigations plans were communicated with affected bodies. In 2016, no criminal cases on corruption against the employees were registered. In order to create a system of values and ethical guidelines and an environment of intolerance to any corruption among employees, in 2017 we plan to introduce anti-corruption standards, as well as a number of other internal norms and rules. 205-2 Proportion of employees of the 205-3 Department of Corporate Security trained 103-3 in human rights and anti-corruption, % 410-1 100 79 61 2014 2015 2016 17 OUR OPERATIONS AND ASSETS KMG doesn’t sell litigious or banned products. OUR STRATEGY MEMBERSHIP AND PARTICIPATION The Group is one of the largest oil companies in the Our strategy is aimed at strengthening the As a key player in the Kazakhstan oil and gas market, world and represents state interests in the strategically company’s financial position, its role as a key player we are an active association member in forums, important oil and gas sector and has a share in almost of Kazakhstan oil and gas industry and the formation national and international conferences. every important Kazakhstani oil and gas field. of an optimal business model. The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the We are a vertically integrated oil and gas company, This strategy is supported by a massive amount of Republic of Kazakhstan “Atameken”: carrying out the full production cycle – from potential resources in RoK and the need to adapt to As a member of national chamber hydrocarbons exploration and production, to significant changes in the world around us. of entrepreneurs “Atameken” transportation and refining, to provision of specialized Historically, high growth rates of oil products KMG actively participates in services. consumed in Kazakhstan and neighboring country legislation changes activity. The Group’s business lines are divided into the markets have stimulated oil and gas demand for Chamber was established to provide more favorable following areas: exploration and production of oil decades while the world is shifting towards lowconditions for local and international companies, to and gas, transportation of oil and gas, oil refining and carbon energy making oil prices highly volatile. protect their rights and interests, and also to create marketing, and services. healthy investment conditions. KAZENERGY: 102-15 The oil and gas and energy 102-43 association in RoK KAZENERGY 102-7 is a nonprofit organization, 102-13 established in 2006 to 102-6 support the oil and gas industry and to regulate 103-2 relationships between government and industry. Since the foundation of the Association, KMG has played a significant role in the development and implementation of the programs and initiatives of the Association. KMG management participates in the Association’s many committees and working groups. Chairmanship in KAZENERGY Coordination Council for ecology social responsibility and transparency allows KMG to push sustainability development issues in the RoK oil and gas industry. 18 OUR OPERATIONS AND ASSETS International Association of Oil Transporters (IAOT) UN Global Agreement Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) Since 2015, KTO has been a Membership in UN Global Agreement It is a world standard that member of IAOT for improving demonstrates our commitment promotes transparency of international oil transportation towards principles of sustainable revenues (profits) from oil, systems. The association revises issues of tariffs development. gas and mining industries. We comply with the terms formation, pipeline diagnostics and operation, oil of the Memorandum of Understanding and provide World Bank Initiative – Zero Routine Flaring transportation and storage. As a member of IAOT, KTO reporting on taxes and other payments to the by 2030 also participates in energy efficiency working groups country’s budget. for information and experience sharing, and also for KMG joined this initiative The Project Network of The Global Methane Initiative the purposes of benchmarking with other members in 2015. It unites (GMI) (Transneft (Russia), Transpetrol (Slovakia), MEPO (Czech governments, oil companies Republic) and MOL Hungarial Oil & Gas (Hungary). and development organizations, agreeing to stop the is a growing community of privatepractice of routine flaring before 2030. sector entities, financial institutions, Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) and other governmental and nonInternational Organization for Standardization ISO KMG Systems and Services governmental organizations with is a member of the largest Since 2006, the management system an interest in methane abatement, recovery, and international association for oil in the field of quality, environmental methane use projects. Working with the countries spill response. Membership in OSRL guarantees best protection, health and safety at work who are GMI Partners, Project Network members 102-12 practices in the liquidation of oil spills anywhere in has been maintained in accordance can galvanize action, setting the stage for concrete 102-13 the world and for any level of spill. Also, it allows with the requirements of ISO 9001, methane projects. KMG intends to join the GMI 103-2 minimizing environmental and occupational safety ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. The subsidiaries Project Network in 2017 to continue our activities risks during offshore operations in the Kazakhstan with a significant level of energy consumption were on methane emissions reduction. sector of the Caspian Sea. certified by ISO 50001. The information on other ISO standards is provided in Sections 4, 4.2, 4.3 and 6 of this Report. 325 Gas Stations 8 combined Gas Stations Automatic Gas Refueling Stations 12 Automatic Gas Refueling Stations 80 bulk plants in 21,872 km Total KMG oil and gas pipelines in across Kazakhstan 1 CNG filling station Kazakhstan Kazakhstan LEDEND Upstream North Downstream Kazakhstan 25 Oil pipelines Region Gas pipelines Pavlodar Oil Water pipelines Chemistry Reﬁnery Gas station Kostanai Akmola Region Region 12 Pavlodar 8 19 West 16 Astana 19 Region Kazakhstan Region 21 East Kazakhstan Aktobe Region 23 Region Atyrau Region Atyrau Reﬁnery 25 44 Karaganda Region Mangistau 33 Region Zhambyl Almaty Kyzylorda Region Region CaspiBitum Region 8 Kazakh Gas Reﬁnery 10 15 21 102-2 23 102-3 102-4 Shymkent Reﬁnery (“PetroKazakhstan Oil Products”) 102-6 South 102-7 Kazakhstan Region 20 2016 – YEAR OF TRANSFORMATION The most important event in 2015–2016 is the ongoing process of implementing the Transformation Program INTERNAL OPINION initiated by the Head of State. The transformation program is aimed at increasing the Company’s value, increasing business We are moving from a holding company efficiency through changing business processes, introducing (investor role), managing many sub best management practices and technologies, improving the holdings, to an active operational asset manager role. quality of human resources management and the company’s portfolio of assets. The transformation initiatives aimed at improving efficiency include 30 Since June 2016, the transition to a new model of corporate projects in extractive and oilfield services structure has begun, which involves simplifying the organizations for the period 2016–2017. management of production assets. The model is designed The framework of transformation covers for the reduction of management levels by merging sub such important projects, as procurement holdings, simplification of the legal structure, abandoning optimization, Shared Service center and noncore and secondary businesses and reduction of the Data management office. number of companies. It is planned to develop an Industry Regulation on procurement management, The number of management levels will be reduced to two which will change the approach to the from the current six. The first management level will be 102-10 procedure for selecting suppliers, saving represented by a single national company having a centralized the Group 200 billion tenge over the next function of strategic management. The second level will be 5 years. It is also planned to introduce formed from the subsidiaries. Their goal will be to effectively a new approach in providing goods, implement the current production activities in accordance works and services based on best world practices. with the goals set by the first level, the corporate center. Part of the functions (IT services, The Group’s oil producing companies will concentrate on accounting and treasury) are to be the implementation of the production plan according to the transferred to the Shared Service Center, approved budget and HSE standards. which will allow the operating companies to focus exclusively on production The new model will reduce administrative procedures and and cost reduction. This approach will the number of management levels, accelerate decisionLUXEMBOURG Gleb, Vice President allow applying uniform standards and making, concentrate resources on core business and for Transformation of methodology, increasing the quality and improve the company’s manageability. Full centralization of JSC NC KazMunayGas speed of rendering these services. the functions of strategic management of all elements of the value chain will be ensured: from exploration and production of hydrocarbons to sales of oil products and gas. 21 OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have a wide range of stakeholders that are CASE STUDY influenced by our activities or can have an impact Annual HSE General Directors on our success. We keep them informed, whether Forum they are individuals or large-scale organizations. In 2016, considerable work was done to In 2016, we developed a new map of key increase the Group’s top management stakeholders, but there were no significant changes commitment and engagement to the in comparison with the map given in the report for safety process and to the implementation 2015. of industry best safety practices. 27 June 2016, the 2nd annual HSE In accordance with the Code of Corporate forum for General Directors on topic of Governance, the building of trusted relations Strengthening Safety Culture” took place. with our stakeholders is carried out through a transparent reporting mechanism. Taking into More than 70 top leaders attended. This event is a platform for leaders to account the variety of stakeholders, we have a discuss problem questions and possible number of mechanisms for continuous interaction/ solutions, develop a uniform strategy engagement with each of them. More detailed for safe working conditions, discuss the information about our interaction is presented in importance of improving safety culture the table. and the role of managers in this issue, and represented the possibility of sharing of 102-16 best safety practices. 102-42 The Group’s leaders made HSE 102-43 commitments for their involvement in occupational safety, as well as to raise Principles of the top management in workers’ awareness in the Occupational the area of HSE and Health safety field. These commitments were included in the Track HSE Provide the necessary general directors’ HSE personal plans, indicators resources which demonstrates to workers about first leaders’ involvement in HSE. Conduct Major Discuss safety questions incidents Investigations at least once a day MAKE SAFETY PERSONAL Sauat Mynbayev’s HSE personal plan Focus on main Conduct BBS HSE Indicators Be visible, set an example, know the HSE standards 22 STAKEHOLDERS MAP Our approach to stakeholders engagement * An Corporate Governance Code; en nua Code of Ethics; Policies and M viro l rep standards, reference models; ee nm or e tin e ts; or at Reporting; Reviews of pr Imp gs w nt im Pub o rp rds; financial and operational oje le ith p lic Pa ct me lo ac h C a rti s; c t a ea s; nd ch activities; Surveys and n co cip Adv tati al co sse ring hic ta ar f Et nd s rese n of ng; ; research, Newspapers; n ro fe tio so n a i o m s m sm o s o a a l de ies gic niti y R di o ati ts Methods of corporate se und renc n o ry c of so un ent n rv t f o i ti ; Co olic iolo defi bilit ; Au ch; governance ice ab s, e m a m c mi ial es; p oc he ta ng ar f le fo n tt S n t al S orti se on diagnostics. M or t s; O rum ager ees o oci ep e ti e h p r d r ma we dia, e p era s an s at ; e S ic an or o lin bsit offic pula ona ti d th riod eys l inf s. es e, h ia tio l l Pe Surv erna too ,m o l n; ng; porti t Inte Int ail . s; Re udit se; Mem o r mec nal Com nd a ns a l experti tanding ha skill nisms; unicati m Subsidiaries ectio ta rs ; мам comp Profes ons rs Insp onmen f Unde Forums o ан ; etiti sion ho lde com Loc Envir ndums ration; Branch Our approach to Our Sept Summe on Үзд al re m al ra Coo pe oup s; l Introduction III Y emb er 4 r Sp a rtak ік ha org pub uni and rking gr on Soc ia Sustainability people an lic e mee outh Co 6, 2016 iada Wo mission ip and S iza ting mm ; Com nersh l ocia s, safe ; Occu ittee o t p Part on of S ons Wor y comm ational ns lati Relati Occ king Gr ittees; Regu r d Ga s Emplo ment, Labo upa ti oup y vern and e Oil an . and onal H on Hyg e offici ees, Go state of th dustry 102-40 iene alth als es In . hori 102-42 aut Our Key Our evironmental Our Marketing 102-43 Stakeholders communities and labeling impact 102-44 ating evalu action; Clien C Ethic ode of s for Rule er satis the f plier s 103-2 om of s ts and s; Policie cust eviews product , So s tand s R a n d s, M e dia ; Su p part cially res ards; 102-21 ices serv y; Forumy’s webs ons; ite n to su ership; ponsible quali t mpa n s sta ti ; P Corp pport lo artners 413-1 ial C o at ga nter so c man orate co al cont ip h offic screens sales ce twice a s ns As h Touc -sens rveys or – mpla int cia  Partners, ni o with dato n ry a tracts a t; en 102-29 CRM ased su mers co ter, on ru the c Our economic GRI Standards rb usto all-cen book; s other La b o Gro quainta nd Appendices 102-15 Pape cial c ;C ts c o m p anie s and up’s Po nce impuct Content Index ; Offi ents men . M Rule licie year r comm nd com l council In As em s. s o ts a ustria Pa tern soc bers l s plain com egular in d rti ati iati hip na on fo cip on on er ati Int unic sms; R ru ati al s a in i wo M ms, on Initi nd mm han ve bli c r c an in emb onfe ind tive k in a Partnerships; Co mec llecti s; Pu g s o t . Ho d res gro ersh ren ustr ; Internships for C en gs t l ea up p ces y i em rin ine rch s; in , employees. re hea s, ; S ag po We urve st bs ys offi ite ce ; . * Our approach to interaction with stakeholders is based on an analysis of the feedback from our stakeholders. For a feedback from stakeholders table see page 83. 23 SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES IDENTIFIED AS MATERIAL FOR OUR REPORT The process of selecting the content for this report with KAZENERGY in 2016 to identify topics of KMG top management reviews and approves the was based on the guidance of the Global Reporting interest for RoK oil and gas industry. report’s content before publication. Initiative (GRI-4 version) and new GRI Standards, In the second step, we applied the Principle of The topics that were identified as material/significant ensuring interests/expectations of our stakeholders Materiality, the Principle of Stakeholder Engagement and their priorities are reflected in the materiality matrix and sustainability development context. and prioritized topics based on the results of the below. The full version of the report reveals topics that The Parts of this report cover the activities of the survey: have high or medium priority. Group according to the 10 principles of the United • the level of economic, environmental and social Our goal is to set priorities in accordance with their Nations Global Compact. impact; importance for the society and the Group, for the next • the level of impact on the assessments and planning of work direction. The fact that some of the PROCESS OF IDENTIFYING RELEVANT decisions of our key stakeholders. topics on sustainable development are not material SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS does not mean that they will be excluded from the During the survey, we asked the key leaders of the The first step included the identification of topics business strategy. KMG Group of companies and state bodies to assess from the perspective of a sustainability context. It the topics in terms of their importance and influence, The improved level of stakeholders’ engagement was based on reviewing topics identified as material and identify topics of personal interest for them that increased the number of social topics disclosed in this in the last year and analysis of feedback to the they would like to include in the report. report (compared to 2015) and significantly influenced previous report. the matrix of materiality and noted the emphasis of this Finally, we assessed the identified material topics from We made analysis of internal and external documents: report on the social impact of our activities. 102-43 the point of view of compliance with the Principle of audit reports, Corporate Governance Code of our 102-46 Completeness in order to ensure that the report will main stakeholder, corporate policies and procedures, 102-49 provide a reasonable and balanced view of our impact GRI-4 Guidance and GRI Standards. 103-1 and allow stakeholders to evaluate the results of our In addition, we have taken into consideration topics work. As a result, the lists of material topics were to be covered by the largest companies in the oil and updated (for example, the biodiversity and marketing gas sector and the topics discussed at the meetings communications are included). 24 МАTERIALITY MATRIX 6 21 14 7 4 25 12 10 LOW IMPORTANCE 26 27 27 MEDIUM IMPORTANCE 3 9 20 30 34 23 HIGH IMPORTANCE 28 8 19 33 22 24 16 29 1 Economic Performance 15 Employment 11 2 Market Presence 16 Labour/Management Relations 18 31 3 Indirect economic impacts 17 Occupational Health and Safety 15 32 4 Procurement practices 18 Training and Education 13 5 Anti-corruption 19 Equal remuneration for women and men 5 102-44 35 6 Anti-competitive behavior 20 Supplier assessment for impacts on society 102-47 17 2 21 Human rights assessment (Investment) 103-1 36 31 Volume and classification of estimated reserves 22 Non-discrimination 1 7 Efficient use of materials 23 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 8 Energy 24 Child & Forced/compulsory Labor 9 Water efficiency 25 Supplier human rights assessment 10 Biodiversity 26 Security practices 11 Emissions 27 Public policy 12 Waste management 28 Indirect socio-economic impacts 13 Compliance 35 Oil spill prevention & emergency prepareness 14 Supplier Environmental Assessment 36 Asset integrity & process safety 32 Volume of burned hydrocarbons and leaks 33 Drill mud 29 Local communities CORPORATE OPERATIONS STRATEGY INTERACTION WITH ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE AND ASSETS AND ANALYSIS STAKEHOLDERS CONSCIENTIOUSNESS 34 Produced water utilization 30 Marketing and Labeling 25 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES. FUTURE WORK DIRECTIONS Our long term goal is “zero” injuries, incidents and transparency, which was incorporated as a Corporate principles of sustainable development in the Group spills at the operational sites. This is not an easy task, Key performance indicator (KPI) for the Top managewill directly affect the corporate governance rating. but we are working to achieve it. We continue to ment teams of KMG and its subsidiaries in 2015 and Since 2017, the Top management Corporate KPI will make significant efforts to create a positive safety 2016. also include the level of the Corporate Governance culture based on an improved understanding of Rating; the weighting of the component of Starting from 2017, a new Corporate KPI will be the risks at all levels of the Group; this is the only sustainable development will be 20%. introduced – the Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR). way to achieve a long-term improvement in safety The KMG corporate governance plan for 2016– performance. Our goal is to achieve a proactive 2017 aims at further improvement of corporate safety culture by 2020 and we are on track to get THE DEVELOPMENT OF GROUP’S KPI governance issues and the implementation of this there. As a result of the Fund’s new approach to the plan is included in the performance indicators of the The HSE changes that took place in the last 2 years assessment of the Portfolio Companies’ Corporate top management. were enforced by the requirements for reporting Management rating, the implementation of the 102-15 Structure of KPI in the Group 102-28 Structure of corporate management rating Effectiveness of Management board and BoD 25% 16% Risk management, internal control 25% Safety and labor protection 5% 41% Sustainable Environmental protection 5% indicators 20% 43% Reporting 5% Production indicators Financial indicators Human resources management 5% Sustainable indicators Transparecy 15% Shareholders rights 15% 26 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES. FUTURE WORK DIRECTIONS THE DEVELOPMENT OF GROUP’S KPI Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Leaders Corporate KPI Leaders Personal KPI Leaders & Workers Personal KPI 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Assesment Reporting Transparency Behavior-Based Safety Program 103-3 Risk Observation 2016 GOALS ACHIEVEMENT AND PLANS FOR 2017 2016 goals achievements Reporting Transparency 90% reporting transparency has been Reduce LTIR by 15% Corporate KPI achieved Тo conduct >50,000 BBS management audits for the Group HSE awareness program Golden Rules, corporate-wide Transport and Incident investigation standards, Chronic Corporate management rating not less Unease video has been developed than B level OUR PEOPLE 28 OUR PEOPLE Our employees are our main value and asset. safety and develop motivational and development reduced by 15 %. We will try to provide support to programs. our employees during this transition period. The level of their professionalism and safety impacts In accordance with the new Group’s model, The minimum notice period about significant changes directly on the results of our overall performance KazMunayGaz JSC – Refining and Marketing JSC in the company’s activities is 4 weeks. and the value created for our investors. Therefore, will be liquidated in 2017; its personnel will be we are striving to attract the best experts from the Labor turnover (without data from KMG EP) in 2016 – transferred to the corporate center. The number labor market and educate employees based on the 13.8 %, against 11.13% in 2015. of supporting functions of KMG as a whole is to be principle of meritocracy; as well as to ensure their Age categories of employees, % Proportion of newly hired employees, % 5 19 102-8 103-2 401-1 18 23 23 4 402-1 405-1 23,9 20,7 54 15,3 12 2014 42 2015 2016 Employees under 30 years old Share of men Employees aged 31 to 50 years Employees over 51 years old Share of women 29 OUR PEOPLE CASE STUDY KazTransGas awarded the labor dynasty of gas workers “JSC Samruk-Kazyna Labor dynasty” solemn ceremony on behalf of the national gas operator and supplier “KazTransGas” gas workers dynasty of Eschanov family from Atyrau were awarded. Seven members of this family with a total work experience of 128 year are working in the field of natural gas pipelining. Dynasty head’s wife Mariash-apa, her eldest son Marat Pobedovich and granddaoughter Adiana arrived from Atyrau for the awards ceremony. Dynasty head Eschanov Pobeda Zhumagalievich was born in 1945. He started working in the gas industry in 1971 as an engineer. He worked as a maintenance shop supervisor all the way up to “Kazakhenergoremont” General Director, and contributed his soul and skills to the industry’s development. He was always willing to share his mastery, gladly trained young specialists, passing his experience since the gas industry began its development. Pobeda Zhumagalievich also was an active member of society where he was elected as a Makatskii region councilman. Together with his wife – Eschanova Mariyash – they raised 7 children, and helped to raise grandchildren, 19 in this wonderful family. Most of the Eschanov family continued the work of Pobeda Zhumagalievich and, directly or indirectly, connected their life with the gas industry. Inspired by the examples of their father and grandfather, they followed his footsteps, sharing the love for the gas profession through the generations. Bound by family ties, they tried not to let each other down in the professional sphere, always striving to be on top, maintaining the brand of the Eschanov family and by their hardwork contributed to the development of the gas industry in the RoK. 30 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH subsidiaries to the BoD of the Group was introduced 2016 was the second year of structural change 90 % of all injuries are as result of employee’s for each fatal work incident. in the area of HSE and the continuation of unsafe behaviors and sense of complacency cultural change in the Group. In 2016, matrix (or functional) reporting to the reflecting a poor safety culture. Corporate center has improved. We have proposed 2016 was a year of strengthening safety culture, Transportation is a significant risk in the Group. that the HSE function in each subsidiary should have increasing leadership engagement, empowering Everyday more than 10,500 KMG vehicles operate a solid line reporting relationship into the General workers to stop unsafe behaviors, root cause analysis throughout the KMG group oilfields and assets. Director and a dashed line back to the corporate HSE of incidents and implementation of industry best The intensive traffic and harsh road conditions Director in Astana. This functional link to Astana will safety programs. expose real threats to the lives and health of KMG provide improved bi-directional communication flow, employees and 3rd parties. The commitment of the Group’s leadership team to the improved support to the subsidiaries, the ability to safety process and implementation of industry best provide organizational capability development and A real success in 2015 & 2016 was the seat belt safety practices in 2016 has never been more robust. movement of HSE personnel. implementation program. Seat belts are now in all The leadership of KMG for the past three years has company vehicles. This reflects a 13 % improvement More than 1,000 line managers in KMG have taken remained resolute in its position to promote: over 2015 and 33 % improvement over 2014. part in safety forums and seminars. • The value of human life in relation to production Our “Total” Motor Vehicle Accident Rate at the end All HSE directors in all KMG subsidiaries have been activities; of 2016 was 0.41 accidents per 1 million km driven trained on root cause analysis. A system to distribute 102-15 • Leadership engagement, commitment and vs. 0.44 in 2015, or 10 % improvement. “lessons learned” has worked well. 102-33 training at all levels in the field of Health, Safety and Environment; 102-43 ACHIEVEMENTS 103-1 • Employees’ personal responsibility for OCCUPATIONAL & TRANSPORT SAFETY compliance with safety requirements; INDICATORS We have achieved a positive change in our corporate 103-2 • Creation of a positive safety culture focused on culture for occupational safety and labor protection 403-2 In 2016, we lost seven workers (4 in 2015), 85 had prevention of accidents and incidents; through increased reporting transparency of more work related injuries, (99 in 2015). Motor vehicle • Transparent and effective communication than 300 %. The next step of reporting transparency accidents remained flat – 64 and 65 respectively. between all stakeholders; improvement is KMG’s participation as a member • Promotion of safe behaviors and correction of Injuries by Activity illustrate that 78 % of all 85 injuries in the International Organization of Oil and Gas unsafe behaviors. in 2016 continue to fall into three groups: Drilling & Producers (IOGP) association, which will also help to Workover, Maintenance and Transportation. Analysis share experience and best practices. In 2016, HSE Leadership awareness training by Category shows that 57 % of all 85 injuries in 2016 continued with excellent participation and Incident prevention and root cause based also fall into three groups: Slips/Trips/Falls, Driving, commitment. Leaders attended safety trainings, investigations; training and sharing of lessons across and Struck by. reviewed safety performance monthly, asked the company were the focus of occupational safety in the right safety questions, and requested more The overall KMG Group ratio, 1 HSE employee to 2016 and have aided in the reduction of LTIR this year. information on safety as they recognize the value of subsidiary employees, has improved from 2015 to We continue to benchmark KMG against its industry safety in their respective businesses. The practice 2016 by 7 % from 1:94 to 1:87. peers, (IOGP), and seek continuous improvement in of personal reporting of the General Directors of 31 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH health and safety, decline in accidents, industrial Lost time injuries by Activity, % Dynamics of FAR incidents, and environmental protection. 5 4 7 In 2016, to improve safety culture and decrease FAR per 100 million man hours 7 3 6 occupational injuries we implemented the following: 4 3.81 26 3 5 24 • Seat belts installed in all company owned 3 4 2 vehicles; 3 2 • Behavioral Based Safety Program (BBS) 14 IOGP=1.4 2 1 developed; 26 1 1 • The corporate documents developed: 0 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Health, Safety, Environment Road Map 2016– Construction, comissioning 2020, including HSE strategic initiatives for 5 Drilling, workover Service Lifting, rigging years; Upstream Maintenance, inspection Behavioral Based Safety Rules; Transport-land Office Dynamics of LTIR 403-2 Lost time injuries by Category, % 103-3 HSE Ratio (Ratio of KMG group employees per 1 HSE employee) 5 4 7 LTIR per 1 million man hours 20 16 1:96 6 0.49 1:94 4 3 1:87 4 12 5 3 4 9 2 9 3 2 4 IOGP=0.24 1:60 4 2 22 1 1 1 0 0 0 Jan Falls, Feb Mar trips/slips Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May June July Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Falls from height Falling objects Struck by Electrical exposure 2014 2015 2016 Fires, explosions and burns Industry Leaders Caught between Cut MVA 32 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH • Safety audits conducted in subsidiaries with high A three-level HSE Committee System comprised of health and environmental performance with occupational injuries level; both operational and HSE leaders will be developed recommended HSE input and output targets. • HSE safety roadshows conducted to train in 2017. The main goal of the HSE Committee System • Provide leadership on the development of employees on risk analysis at workplace and top is to lead and direct the HSE transformation. The focused HSE programs and the necessary managers – new safety programs, the importance Committees will be developed to solve the following resources for the 5 year plan, and of their involvement in safety processes; tasks: • Advise on HSE risks and opportunities. • The first safety company-wide culture survey • Represent the views of senior management took place to evaluate and baseline the current rather than the views of only the HSE function. state of our safety culture; • Create a vision for the company in the matters of • A supervisor’s safety meeting manual was occupational and industrial safety, occupational developed and distributed to frontline supervisors to assist them with work instructions during safety meetings; • The second annual HSE forum for General Directors on strengthening safety culture took place; • HSE Academy created; • The 2nd annual Chairman’s Award for best 403-1 innovative ideas in the field of safety was held. FUTURE WORK DIRECTIONS The HSE plan for the next 5 years are reflected in the Roadmap. We are planning to implement a Behavioral Based Safety program in 2017 to engage both leadership (Business and operational) and field workers in meaningful safety discussions on safety at the field sites. This program is an industry best safety practice and will be beneficial to the Group’s safety culture. In 2017, a land transport program is planned with the application of a “Convincer”, for improved seat belt usage, targeted training on the 5 most common driver mistakes, for driving management and enhanced control over the implementation of the Transport Safety Standard. 33 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH services and first aid, controlling and monitoring Management of health and safety of our WELLNESS PROGRAM employees’ medical care, raising awareness and employees in the Group is carried out in In order to achieve KMG’s strategic goals in promotion of a healthy life style. accordance with the requirements of national occupational health and hygiene, a number of legislation and international standards. Every year we conduct professional training and initiatives were aimed and implemented for the skills development and provide personnel with There were collective agreements between the wellness of employees. “10 Steps to Wellness” have protective equipment. In order to identify possible Employers and the Labor Unions in the largest been developed for increasing physical activity, occupational diseases, we are conducting annual subsidiaries of the Group in 2016, which reflect promotion against bad habits (unhealthy eating medical examinations. In addition, professions health and safety issues. The Collective Employment habits, smoking, alcohol) and overall effective health related to harmful and dangerous influences and Agreements include measures on safe working improvement. hazardous and harmful production factors have conditions, social guarantees, compensations and Further work on implementation of adopted wellness been identified, and measures have been developed hardship allowances for improvement of workers’ initiatives in 2017 will be aimed at better working to reduce them. All Company’s personnel are insured health status (financial assistance for medical conditions and workplaces, enhancing medical against accidents at the workplace. treatment, organization of medical care, promotion of a healthy lifestyle, organization of sporting events). Disease distribution in the Group, % Sick days An agreement between the Ministry of Energy of RoK, representatives of the National Chamber 102-15 of Entrepreneurs, KAZENERGY Association and 362,591 103-2 4 6 representatives of labor unions was created as an 5 350,000 27 103-3 6 effective mechanism for regulating social and labor 403-3 relations, ensuring an optimal balance of interests of 8 403-2 employees and employers. 403-4 9 251,119 19 In 2016, we introduced the tracking of non-related 13 deaths that occurred at home, previously never tracked before. The main reasons of non-work Cardiovascular diseases related deaths are cardiovascular diseases (ischemic Respiratory diseases heart disease, insult). Nervous system diseases Gastrointestinal tract diseases Diseases of the genitourinary system Ocular diseases 2014 Diseases of the endocrine system 2015 Musculoskeletal system diseases 2016 Others 34 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH CASE STUDY In 2016, the leaders of the trade unions and labor collectives of the Group united under the single flag of KMG for the Spartakiada dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the Independence of the RoK. The two-stage Spartakiada was held in order to promote healthy lifestyles, engage employees in physical activities and sports and to establish networking between the Group’s employees. From March to July 2016 10 teams were formed from subsidiary employees. About 2,500 employees from 50 organizations of the Group took part. The winners of the competition were given permits to participate in the final stage. The final stage of the Spartakiada took place on the eve of the Day of workers of the oil and gas industry in the 6 sports complexes of the city of Astana. Within 3 days, more than 500 participants from 30 organizations of the Group competed in 9 sports: mini-football, basketball, volleyball, billiards, running and mixed relay, table tennis, chess, checkers and togyz kumalak in a competitive and friendly atmosphere. As a result of the competition, all winners were awarded medals and diplomas, as well as cash prizes. Spartakiada will be held on an annual basis. 35 CARE FOR OUR PEOPLE KMG is providing guaranteed social packages KMG also provides social guarantees for voluntary According to legislation citizen’s pensions are secured which include different types of social benefits and health insurance, arrangement of vacation of the with the Single Accumulative Pension Fund of RoK. compensation: paternity and bereavement leave, employees’ children at holiday camps in the RoK. The pension consists of a basic guaranteed pension, monthly payments to employees on maternity individual contributions (fixed 10 % from monthly Also employees are provided with historically leave up to 1.5 years of the child, compensation for income) and also regional additions. established types of social support. These types of termination of employment agreements if it is found social support are enshrined in collective agreements, In addition, the KMG Group of companies implements impossible to transfer to another job due to loss of or provided for by internal regulatory documents of a retirement program allowing the retired employees a general capacity for work, receipt of disablement the enterprise. These benefits include: milestone to receive material aid from the organization. benefit, one-time funeral cost payment for an birthday payments, marriage benefits, marriage employee’s death and one-time payment to victim’s In 2016, in 5 of the Group’s subsidiaries a pilot leave, paternity leave, bereavement leave, treatment family resulting from an occupational accident. project was implemented to provide employees at leave in case of treatment expenses exceeds the limit preretirement age to retire early with retirement We provide all the necessary conditions for established by the insurance program, to disabled benefits agreed with both parties and employees at maternity/paternity leave; hence we have a high employees, employees’ disabled children and many retirement age to retire with paid benefits. return from maternity leave (85–86 % for the last more. These benefits have not changed, despite the 3 years). crisis period. 401-3 416 mln KZT Employees on maternity / paternity leave, peoples 401-2 201-3 1,344 1,394 ($1.2 mln) 1,213 Personal retirement savings of corporate center employees 19 billion KZT 2014 13 ($55 mln) Men 2015 23 In 2016, expenses for social support of 2016 22 employees of the group of companies 2014 of KMG amounted including social Women 2015 assistance to non-working pensioners. 2016 36 EMPLOYEES INVESTMENT We are striving to develop human capital in the In 2016, 46 900 people were trained on HSE in 2016. Hence, 334 employees were trained as regions in which we operate. To achieve the set practices for 467.2 mln KZT ($1.4 mln). internal trainers in 2016. strategic goals and objectives, we provide training Root cause analysis training was provided for the Another priority area for the long-term development and development of personnel on an annual basis Group’s top management to increase awareness, of the Group is the formation and development of and conduct training of young specialists. improve monitoring and auditing functions, and a succession pool in order to train future leaders of In 2016, Group invested 4.5 billion KZT ($13.2 mln) to achieve high standards for inspecting and the company. During 2015–2016, 86 high-potential with an average training cost of 46 thousand KZT investigating HSE incidents. employees were enrolled in the candidate pool, which ($134.6) per employee (45 thousand KZT in 2015, passed an objective and transparent competitive We note that the training and development of $202). selection, during which their professional and employees is carried out regardless of gender and personal-business qualities were assessed. Considering the hazardous nature of our employees’ position. production activities, training in occupational safety According to special training programs for candidates Within the framework of Group’s new training is mandatory. in 2016, 11 seminars were held (24 people were model implementation (70 % on-the-job training, trained), and 6 candidates completed training on We believe that the timely and proper passage 20 % internal training and 10 % external training), the a two-diploma program Executive MBA. It was of training in occupational safety is a good risk project “Institute of Internal Trainers“ was launched decided to send an additional 9 people from the management practice. 102-15 Trained employees by category, 2016, % Number of employees trained, Employees who have completed training 103-1 thousand people 103-2 90 87.7 103-3 97.9 405-2 87,7% 80 86.0 404-2 Men 67.8 70 79.8 Women Men 60 50 40 30 13.5 12,3% from total: 20 12.3 Women operational personnel 3.9 5.8 89.4% 10 2.5 3.1 2.3 1 0 t E ia al administrative personnel en te n g i lis 2014 10.6% em ch n e ts To t ni er ci s 2015 ag ec an an an Sp P s d w ro d M or u k e c ti 2016 r s on 37 EMPLOYEES INVESTMENT succession pool to study under the Executive MBA employees underwent training at the subsidiaries of INDEPENDENT OPINION program, specially developed by the Kazakh-British PJSC NC RosNeft, in such areas as: Technical University and the Russian State University • HSE, Fire safety; Gubkin Russian of Oil and Gas named after Ivan Gubkin. • Geology и geological exploration; State University of In order to share and study best practices, acquire • Oil refining; Oil and Gas professional knowledge and skills, since 2016 a • Automation of production processes. project has been implemented to provide internships In addition, for the purpose of training, in 2016 a and JSC NC KazMunayGas have been for the Group’s employees in partner companies such memorandum on cooperation in the field of education successfully cooperating for more than 10 years as Rosneft, Nabors Industries Ltd, Schlumberger and training of personnel in the oil and gas industry in the field of additional professional education company, PJSC Gazprom, Royal Dutch Shell, PJSC for the preparation of highly qualified specialists was signed with JSC Center for International Tatneft, CNPC. in the energy sector. Programs . 18 employees of the Group underwent training at Within the framework of this mutually beneficial the Karamai Xinjiang field of the Chinese National cooperation, the International Business School ORGANIZATION OF DUAL TRAINING has been conducting trainings for personnel Oil and Gas Corporation (CNPC) in the drilling field, 8 reserve of oil and gas companies of the Republic In order to train young specialists in oil industry of Kazakhstan already since 2012 according to Directions and number of trained employees for implementation of pilot projects in a dual education the program of additional professional education the HSE for 2016, people was continued. The main principles of dual education 103-2 Master of Business Administration (MBA) 404-2 are 60 % of training time in the company and 40 % of Management of oil and gas business. Number HSE direction time in a college. of employees In the programs of additional vocational education implemented by the International Safety and Labor Protection 6,653 Hence, at the Pavlodar refinery 33 students of School of Business, much attention is paid to Industrial Safety 29,732 State Communal Enterprise Pavlodar Chemical and personnel policy and personnel management, Fire safety 9,057 Mechanical College received internship. As a result the improvement of social policy in the field of the internship, 26 students were em-ployed at the of labor relations and the implementation of Transport safety 757 Pavlodar refinery. programs on corporate social responsibility in Health protection 38 the regions of oil and gas companies presence. 39 students were trained at JSC Embamunaigas, Management System 132 We are pleased to underline high level of Environmental Protection 55 of which 34 students of the Atyrau Institute of Oil professionalism and the corresponding basic and Gas and 5 students of APEC Petrotechnic High knowledge among the employees of JSC NC Sustainable development 15 School LLP. As a result of the internship, 4 students KazMunayGas . Waste management 19 were employed. Director of the International Business School, Water resources management 2 Dean of the Faculty of International Energy Business, 26 students received internships in JSC ICA, Major Corresponding Member of the Russian Academy of Greenhouse gases 27 gas pipeline management unit Taraz : 25 students Sciences, Doctor of Economics, Civil defense and emergency Professor Telegina 15 of Zhambyl polytechnic and 1 student from South response Kazakhstan polytechnic college. Other 399 38 EMPLOYEES INVESTMENT Agreements with specialized universities for We have a competitive salary for all categories of INDEPENDENT OPINION students internship were concluded (KBTU, employees, regardless of gender. KazNTU named after Satpaev, Atyrau Institute of The ratio of entry-level wages in the Group to Oil and Gas, Aktau State University named after the minimum wage established by the national Shahmardan Essenov, KIMEP, ENU named after legislation is in the range from 5: 1 to 10: 1. Gumilev etc). The proportion of senior managers in the regions of presence hired from among the representatives of EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN the local population is 89 %. AND MEN LLP Oil and gas engineering & information For improving the system of labor compensation we technologies Kazakh British Technical Our approach to personnel motivation is based on implemented a new job assessment approach (from University (KBTU) the principles of ensuring appropriate compensation, the level of administrative employees at corporate cooperates with JSC NC KazMunayGas in the transparency and respect of the employees’ rights. field of training and professional development level to the subsidiaries top management level) All the changes to the compensation system are of KMG employees for over 5 years. using the international methodology in the field of done taking into account the opinions and proposals human resources management. In order to develop a corporate training system of the stakeholders. on an ongoing basis, JSC NC KazMunayGas The payroll system for the management body motivates employees to improve their Ubiquitous system of labor compensation (USLC) 402-1 and management team focuses on performance, professional skills, assigning to be trained and has been implemented in upstream companies; it is 405-2 motivation, productivity and efficiency, and includes improved professional skills and to graduate aimed to help achieve the strategic goals of KMG 202-1 from master’s programs. elements of short-term remuneration based on the by streamlining the wage system, ensuring a unified 202-2 achievement of KPI. In accordance with best world After each training course, the effectiveness wage system in all departments, and strengthening 102-35 practices, the performance indicators of managers of the completed training is assessed, by the employees’ interest in labor results. This system 102-36 questioning participants and getting feedback reflect the economic, environmental and social provides a number of conditions for employees 103-2 from trainers. objectives of the Group. to receive compensation payments, allowances 103-3 The results of the effectiveness evaluation and additional payments; one of these criteria is Project to assess the adequacy of senior revealed the high professionalism of KMG the Regional index – an indicator of the relative executives was implemented in 2016 within the employees, a conscious sense of responsibility increase in wages in order to compensate additional framework of the transformation (Job Matching). to their company. costs and increased labor costs associated with Recommendations for improving Group’s labor We wish JSC NC KazMunayGas new performing work in regions with severe climatic com-pensation system were developed based on achievements and financial success. conditions. This index is the biggest in Mangistau the results of this project. and Atyrau regions. At the same time, we have a The head of Corporate Training Center competitive salary for all categories of employees, К. Filimonova regardless of gender. 39 EMPLOYEES INVESTMENT CASE STUDY Professional skills contest Uzdik maman /Best by profession : Professional contest Uzdik maman was conducted within 20 professions in 2016. 126 best professionals, identified by qualification tours, participated in this contest. The contest was organized on 6 production sites with 24 Group’s subsidiaries participating. Hence, MMG production units held contests for oil and gas operators, reservoir pressure maintenance operators, well survey operator and technical equipment maintenance technicians. Oil Transport Corporation LLP held a contest for transport workers: drivers, crane operators and cementer engine mechanics. On the 7th of October official contest EMPLOYEE EVALUATION results were announced and awards Drilling teams, turners, well workover and ceremony was held in Aktau Culture palace The procedure for employee evaluation has been in force since wireline operations teams had a contest in named after Abay. Best of the best were 2004 in KMG and is aimed at determining the effectiveness Оil Services Company LLP. awarded with Uzdik maman medals, cash of performed work and aimed to stimulate adequate material KTO training facility had a contest for and valuable prizes. and non-material remuneration. loading operators, instrument repairman, . electric and gas welder, electricians and The procedure is governed by the “KMG Rules of Assessment chemistry lab technicians from different More information on Uzdik maman/ Best by profession can be found at: of the administrative staff” and is based on two types of subsidiaries of KMG. www.kmg.kz/thebestprofessional evaluation: evaluation of professional development and Atyrau refinery held a contest for 4 oil evaluation of performance. processing professions, in order to identify the best of 3 refineries (Pavlodar, Shymkent Evaluation of performance is carried out on a quarterly and Atyrau). basis, based on the goals set for the year, and has specific quantitative results from 1.5 to 0 of the official salary as a quarterly bonus payment. 40 EMPLOYEES INVESTMENT Evaluation of professional development is companies was approved. Within the model held annually and is aimed at non-financial 190 Group managers were evaluated. Individual INTERNAL OPINION incentives – The Evaluation Commission may development plans for every participant and The project saved me. The savior in the recommend enrollment in the succession succession plans for key positions in the company literal sense of the word. The routine in all-day life draws so much that you live like pool, promotion, rotation in the KMG group will be developed based on the evaluation results. in a world behind; you fall into a habit to of companies, individual training or other Performance evaluation was carried out for live without inspiration, on autopilot solving professional development opportunities. every-day household issues. So when I saw 23,466 employees on a quarter basis throughout the announcement about recruitment to the In 2016, after the performance evaluation, 2016 (84 % men and 16 % women). project, I suddenly remembered, then the 13 % of corporate center employees received In 2016, many employees of the Group were feeling of student drive in the university and recommendations to join the succession pool, again pulled into this stream, where there awarded various prizes, including: state ones 5 % received promotion and 29 % received is a place to challenge and strain, fear of (76 people), departmental ones (112 people) salary revisions. Individual development plans failure and joy from victory, which means, and more than 60 employees were rewarded the place of life itself. As a result, I received are developed for each employee based on the with the Certificate of Honor of Samruk-Kazyna an unforgettable experience, there was both results of the assessment. JSC, 12 workers with KAZENERGY awards, and a challenge and a strain of strength when I prepared the first lecture, and the fear In addition, in 2015, a Standard Model for the best 320 employees received certificates of of failure before the performance and the business competence of executives, management honor and commemorative badges of JSC NC and administrative staff in the KMG Group of KazMunayGas . 103-3 joy of winning when the participants asked interesting questions. 404-3 Coaching gives me the opportunity to hone my knowledge. But most importantly, coaching helps not to lose the inquisitiveness of the mind and to fall in love with the profession again, because you again and again see your subject area with strange eyes, with curious eyes of inexperienced participants. The coach gives knowledge, but receives inspiration. It’s certainly worth it. Seitalina Korlan is the director of the strategy department, internal trainer (in the project Institute of Internal Trainers from its very founding, and by the results of 2016 took first place in the competition The Best Coach of the Year ). 41 HUMAN RIGHTS Republic of Kazakhstan is a state gorned by the rule into the continuous KMG Business Ethics Code Social Stability Rating of law, the highest values of which are the person, improvement. his life, rights and freedoms. According to Article 14, Starting in 2013, the Group’s subsidiaries are The uncontested rights of workers is the freedom paragraph 2 of the Constitution of the RoK – no conducting social research for identifying a social of association, the right to form trade unions for the one shall be subjected to any discrimination based stability rating (SSR). In 2013, the SSR was 61 % protection of the workers collectives interests. As on origin, social, official and property status, sex, in the KMG Group, and stable at 74 % in the last a socially responsible company, KMG supports this race, nationality, language, attitude towards religion, 3 years, from 2014 to 2016. right and creates a favorable environment for the beliefs, residence or any other circumstances . development of this institutional structure. Annually action plans for improving the SSR As a national company, we strictly honor fundamental based on the conducted research are produced. Collective agreements are a legal act in the form of human rights. We recognize the undeniable a written agreement between the collective labor importance of granting equal rights to everyone. organization of employees and employer regulating Our policy of non-discrimination on any characteristic social and labor relations. Collective discussions in extends not only to employees of the Corporate the Group’s subsidiaries are conducted based on Center and subsidiaries, but to all stakeholders. the principle of equality and respect for the party From year to year, our position on basic human interests, freedom of choice in discussing issues that rights remains unwavered: we do not use child labor, relate to the content of collective agreements, the we do not practice forced labor, we recognize the voluntary acceptance of parties obligations, conequal rights of all employees and counterparties, trol over compliance to the collective agreements, regardless of their race, religion or gender. However, parties responsibilities and their representatives for 103-1 we realize their exceptional importance as a whole noncompliance with the collective agreements). At 406-1 for society and, therefore, recognize the above the end of 2016, collective agreements were signed 408-1 aspects as essential for our group of companies. in 38 of our subsidiaries (in 37 – in 2015). 409-1 102-16 At the same time, we monitor the compliance with In order to prevent the escalation of social tension 103-2 workers’ rights in the Group, and for this purpose and timely response to emerging situations, tools 407-1 we conduct periodic internal trainings, regular for monitoring the social climate (MSC) were 102-41 explanatory work, counseling, accepting requests developed in Group’s subsidiaries. Tools of MSC and appeals from employees on issues of ethics help to respond to emerging situations, determine and legislation violations. In cases of real conflicts of interest, we instruct employees, keep statistics and records of employees’ appeals (internal appeals), the causes of their occurrence, fix responsible and take appropriate solutions for solving problems in advance. In 2016, an MSC pilot was implemented in 58,658 people Number of employees covered by Collective appeals and requests from third parties (external 6 subsidiaries which we identified subsidiaries with agreements in 2016 (54,197 – in 2015). appeals – clients, partners, and other interested episodic social tension increase. persons). Incoming information analysis is reflected OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 43 POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT Our goal is to continuously reduce the The HSE activities are coordinated in the corporate negative impact of our activities on the center by the HSE Vice President. The Corporate environment. Center analyzes achievements and identifies areas for improvement, goals and objectives for future HSE activities and energy efficiency, сarries out HSE management targets are directly linked to benchmarking with past periods and with similar the Group’s Development Strategy till 2025. We indicators of the leading international companies conduct our production activities in accordance with of the industry (IOGP, IPIECA), Conducts audits CASE STUDY the requirements of the national legislation and the of production facilities. In order to preserve the Company’s Policy in the field of labor protection, environmental prosperity and reduce the negative In 2016, the following Companies of the industrial safety and environmental protection Group were awarded: impact on the environment, we continuously (hereinafter – Policy). According to the Policy, search for possibilities to apply and introduce new • In 2016, the following Companies of the main principles of HSE management are risk practices and technologies. the Group were awarded: identification and risk management, introduction • KazTransGaz JSC – The pursuit of of safe and resource-saving technologies aimed HSE results and issues are presented monthly excellence EFQM Certificate to reduce pollutants emissions and greenhouse at the KMG Management Board and the Board • KazTransGaz JSC, Amangeldy gases and to improve energy efficiency; ensuring of Directors meetings, which increases the Gas LLP, KazTransGas-Onimderi constant readiness of personnel and production responsibility of managers and specialists. LLP – were awarded with unified facilities to act in emergency situations; ensuring 103-2 The priority areas of our activity are: greenhouse certificates for compliance with transparency and awareness. 102-29 gas emissions management, flaring reduction, the standards ISO 9001: 2008, The Policy applies to all employees of the Group, as historical waste disposal, land remediation and ISO 14001: 2004, OHSAS 18001: well as employees of contractors providing services energy efficiency. 2007 according to the norms of at our facilities. AFNOR • Intergas Central Asia JSC – 3 stars As part of the Transformation, one of the tasks Recognized perfection EFQM was to improve the effectiveness of the existing Certificate. HSE management system. In 2016, the Policy AFNOR is the French National Standardization was updated and a Roadmap was developed for Body and one of the world’s leading players in the improving HSE which defined our goals for the certification market. period until 2020. This Roadmap involves the EFQM is the only official European Union organization main strategic initiatives in the field of sustainable that prepares and conducts an annual competition of the European award for the quality and excellence of development. the company management system. 44 CLIMATE CHANGE AND AIR QUALITY We share the world’s concerns about climate Association we participate in negotiations with GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS change. the Ministry of Energy and Atameken National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, participate in forums, We carry out an annual inventory of greenhouse gas conferences related to climate change and imemissions in the framework of state registration and November 4, 2016, the Paris Agreement came proving our knowledge and skills for the successful regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. Calculation into force and defined the international legal implementation of emission reduction strategy. of greenhouse gas emissions with direct greenhouse framework for global efforts to reduce greenhouse Within the framework of the Working Group effect (carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, gas emissions, improve energy efficiency, move to on Emissions Management together with our petrofluorocarbons) is based on methodological renewable energy sources and gradually phase out subsidiaries, we are developing a unified position of guidelines for greenhouse gas emissions calculation burning carbon fuels. Our Republic has joined the the Group on the issue of legislative regulation of which are approved by the authorized body. Paris Agreement (President’s Decree of July 20, greenhouse gas emissions. In 2017, we will develop Inventory reports are subject to verification, hence, 2016) and October 27 this agreement was ratified. a Climate Plan that will determine our potential and only verified data was used when writing this report. Despite the fact that in 2016 the Government of goals for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Thus, The quantitative indicators cover 15 of the most the RoK suspended the system of greenhouse gas in 2018 we are preparing to restart the national significant subsidiaries of the Group whose emissions quotas trading for 2 years, we take an system of quoting and trade in greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions amount to more than active part in improving the country’s regulatory emissions which will become a tool for fulfilling our 20,000 tons of CO2-equivalent per year. Emissions legislation in this area. Along with the KAZENERGY country obligations under the Paris Agreement. of CO2 from the combustion of biomass or its 201-2 decomposition are not taken into account. 102-43 Greenhouse gases 9.7 emissions 9.4 The actual amount of СО2 emissions for the Group 102-44 9.1 during the reporting period was 6.5 mln tons 102-48 (6.0 mln tons in 2015) *. 102-49 Upstream 6.5 103-1 Downstream 6.0 Upstream emissions of greenhouse gases in 2016 103-2 Midstream 5.8 Upstream GHG intensity amounted to 2.6 mln tons of CO2 (2.7 mln tons in 305-1 2015). 305-4 2014 Downstream and upstream contribution to the total Tons СО2 2015 127 134 129 volume of greenhouse gas emissions is 47 % and 2016 130 2014 42 % respectively. Tons СО2 120 115 2015 eq** 110 The increase in emissions is due to the change 2016 0 of reporting boundaries (more organizations are 2014 2015 2016 included in this report). In connection with the ** CO2 equivalent is a measure of the potential of global warming of greenhouse gases. Carbon dioxide is the benchmark by modernization of refineries and an increase in the *(In SDR 2015, the volume of 5.7 mln tons it was which other greenhouse gases are evaluated. The country’s KMG processing depth, there is an increase of greenhouse indicated due to the fact that in 2015 there were 13 uses the global warming factor for methane-21 and for nitrous organizations of the Group with emissions >20 000 oxide-310. IOGP Average = 129 gas emissions and intensity in downstream. tons of СО2 and in 2016 this number in-creased to 15). 45 CLIMATE CHANGE AND AIR QUALITY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AIR QUALITY CASE STUDY REDUCTION One of the main environmental objectives of Pilot project for direct detection As a result of energy efficiency measures the Group is to reduce pollutant emissions. of methane leaks intensity of emissions in downstream We have implemented a set of measures decreased by 4 %. * aimed at compliance with established standards and reduction of pollutant As a result of measures taken for reducing emissions, including inventory of emission greenhouse gas emissions, such as: changes sources, quarterly industrial environmental in the technological regime of production, air quality control, and improvement of our converting vehicles to natural gas, planting technological processes. trees, there is a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in Upstream. At one of the We continue the program of extensive Upstream enterprises 24 hot-water boilers modernization of our refineries to not only have been converted to electric heating. provide the domestic market of the RoK In Midstream, 136 vehicles have been with high-quality petroleum products from In 2016, we continued the field research project launched converted to natural gas (242 in 2015), the ecological class K4 and K5 (to reduce last year at the Group’s facilities which is aimed to identify which includes 25 vehicles converted the content of sulfur, benzene and olefinic 103-2 130 and quantify methane emissions from leaks and weathering. to compressed natural gas. We expect a hydrocarbons in products), but also reduce 103-3 In September 2016, a survey of production facilities in the significant reduction in greenhouse gas the negative impact on the environment 305-4 Aktobe region was carried out jointly with the US Environmental emissions in 2018 as a result of increased 0 through improving automation of 305-5 Protection Agency (EPA) and the Global Methane Initiative (GMI). use of associated 2014 petroleum 2015 gas (APG).2016 management, use of energy-saving and 201-2 The purpose of this research is to provide technical support and environmentally friendly technologies and build technical capabilities that will identify and prioritize projects rational use of natural resources. for reducing emissions, and facilitate their implementation. In order to reduce emissions of sulfurBased on the results of the research, the main sources of emissions and the potential for reducing methane emissions containing gases in the atmosphere, an Downstream GHG intensity, thousand installation for the utilization of hydrogen from the Group were identified. Besides the climate affect, the prevention of methane leaks will result in significant financial tons sulphide gas by the method of Klaus was saving. By joining forces we plan to register a project for the built (sulfur plant). At PKOP2013 refinery since domestic reduction of greenhouse gases. 219 220 181 the beginning of 2016 emissions2014 of sulfur 181 In 2017, we plan to join the Global Methane Initiative. dioxide into the atmosphere2015 decreased by 13 % in comparison to 2015.2016 0 At the Pavlodar refinery new fuel burners 2014 2015 2016 have been installed on technological *We excluded Midstream from the intensity furnaces, which not only reduced polluting calculations due to the fact that only one enterprise is represented in each Midstream direction. 46 CLIMATE CHANGE AND AIR QUALITY substance emissions (nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide), but also resulted in a reduction in fuel CASE STUDY oil consumption. The implemented measures We support transition to cleaner types of fuels in the regions. prevented the emission of 2,295 tons of pollutants. Gross pollutant emissions by the Group in 2016 With the participation of KazTransGas JSC the Program of passenger vehicles and harvesting amounted to 173,400 tons (171,200 tons in 2015). equipment transition to compressed natural gas (CNG) in Almaty is being implemented. CNG is more environmentally friendly and economical type of fuel than traditional ones – gasoline, diesel and There has been a slight increase in emissions liquefied hydrocarbon gas. Five CNG filling stations were built and now functioning. due to an increase in oil and gas production. The main volume of pollutant emissions occurs in the In Aktobe also in the framework of the Program of passenger buses transfer to CNG (more than 200 Midstream businesses – 48 %, with Downstream units), it is projected to construct a CNG filling stations in 2017. and Upstream at 27 % and 25 % respectively. Emissions of pollutants are calculated on the basis of technical characteristics of the equipment in accordance with current guidelines and recommendations. The most significant emissions are sulfur oxides (SOx) and nitrogen (NOx). The amount of pollutant 16.9 102-48 16.7 emissions of the Group 305-7 13.9 12.8 13.2 13.2 SО x emissions, 2014 thousand tons 2015 2016 NО x emissions, 2014 thousand tons 2015 2016 * In the 2015 SDR data was presented with the use of the estimating method for emissions quantification. Herein the calculation method is used for emissions quantification of sulfur oxides and nitrogen. 47 CLIMATE CHANGE AND AIR QUALITY Except KOA, where the project on reduction of more than 95 %. Only two of our subsidiaries still gas combustion has not yet been completed, the burn large volumes (the level of utilization there CASE STUDY value of NOx emission intensity in other Upstream remains at 55 % and 66 %). By mid-2017, the PNG companies is lower than the industry IOGP average desulphurisation unit of Prorva fields is expected to As part of the World Bank’s global initiative for termination of regular APG indexes. be commissioned, where APG flaring will be reduced flaring by 2030, we participated in to zero. A new roadmap for the implementation of meetings of the Steering Committee in Kozhasai Natural Gas Processing Project is expected London, at meetings in Astana with the ASSOCIATED PETROLEUM GAS UTILIZATION to be signed in 2017. The project duration has been participation of representatives of the One of our most important tasks is to increase the extended due to the fact that several legal entities World Bank and our subsidiaries in order utilization and recovery of APG and to minimize outside the Group participate in the project, and to discuss the scope of cooperation in APG utilization and possible joint flaring. We use APG in the fields to generate the negotiation process takes time. activities. In Q1 2017, the first report of electricity and for our own technical needs. The construction of infrastructure and modern associated gas flaring for 2016 will be Commodity 2 500 associated gas is supplied to gas submitted. facilities for utilization of APG will allow full-scale processing plants and for local communities. 2 000 development of production assets and significantly The gas utilization average in the Group in 2016 reduce greenhouse gas emissions into the 1 500 accounted for 86 % (85.3 % in 2015). Most of our atmosphere. 102-43 subsidiaries have achieved utilization rates of 1 000 102-44 OG6 500 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0.2 t/1,000 tones Gas production and flaring, mln m3 our Group’s average NOx emission 2 500 2,500 intensity per thousand tones of hydrocarbon crude (an average index 2,000 2 000 for IOGP companies is 0.4). 1,500 1 500 12 t/1,000 tones 1,000 1 000 500500 our Group’s average amount of burned 00 gas per unit of produced hydrocarbon 0120010220020320030 420040520050 620060720070820080 92009102010112011 12 2012 13 2013 15 2015 14 2014 16 2016 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 which is lower than the similar index for IOGP companies (13.6). Production Flaring 48 ENERGY USE AND ENERGY SAVING We are actively working to improve energy The main strategic directions for the Group’s Energy consumption structure, efficiency and optimize the energy saving and energy efficiency development by type of energy, % use of energy resources are modernization of technological equipment, introduction of energy saving technologies, In 2016, we developed a corporate Road Map for optimization of generation and consumption of 3 7 Energy Saving and Energy Efficiency Improvement thermal energy and development of own sources of 9 39 for the period until 2021, the implementation of energy generation including using APG. which will result in reducing the consumption of 11 As a result of energy saving measures consumption energy resources by 4.5 million Gj. We continue our of fuel and energy resources decreased by 1.4 % in 15 work in attracting strategic investors to the sphere comparison to the base year (2014). 16 of energy saving through internationally recognized mechanisms of energy service agreements. 1,617 mln KZT ($4.7 mln) were invested in the implementation of energy saving and energy Natural gas In our activities we consume electric and thermal efficiency measures, more than 74 events were Associated petroleum gas energy, as well as various types of fuel (see diagram). carried out. Costs saving on purchasing of fuel Boiler and furnace fuels In total, 107.7 mln Gj of fuel and energy resources and energy resources amounted to 955 mln KZT Thermal energy were consumed in the reporting year, which is 4 % ($2.8 mln), which is 4.6 % more than in 2015. Electricity 103-2 lower than in 2015 (and 13.6 % lower than in 2014) Fuel oil 103-3 Other 302-1 ECONOMY OF FUEL AND ENERGY 302-4 Dynamics of energy RESOURCES AMOUNTED: 201-2 consumption, mln Gj 111.9 107.7 1.5 mln Gj 124.6 Upstream 123.3 ECONOMY BY TYPES OF FUEL AND ENERGY 111.3 352.8 thousand Gj RESOURCES Midstream 16.9 mln kW 7,478.8 thousand m 3 318.8 thousand Gj of electric power (0.5 %) of natural gas (0.6 %) 2012 Downstream 76.4 thousand GCal 18.8 thousand tons 2013 2014 871.8 thousand Gj of thermal energy (2.9 %) of boiler-furnace fuel (4.7 %) 2015 2016 1 500 1 500 49 1 000 1 000 ENERGY USE 500 500 AND ENERGY SAVING 0,0 0,0 Group’s average energy consumption intensity For the period 2017–2020 we plan to: in upstream is 1.5 Gj per ton of produced CASE STUDY 2,0 2,0 • 8.0Conduct an energy 8.0 audit at the corporate hydrocarbon which is 7 % higher than IOGP center to develop a plan of energy-saving Smart field SanaField index (1.4 Gj per ton of hydrocarbons produced). 7.0 7.0 measures; 1,5 This is due to the age of the oilfields and the 1,5 • 6.0publish a specific 6.0 Energy Report of the high water-cut. 5.0 Group; 5.0 1,0 The Group’s average energy consumption • implement energy saving and efficiency 1,0 intensity in downstream is 1.5 Gj per ton of 4.0 measures to save 4.0 at least 0.9 million Gj of refined oil, which is 18 % higher than at the 3.0energy in 2017. 3.0 0,5 European 0,5 refineries. This is due to the harsh 2.0 2.0 climatic conditions of the refinery locations and 1.0 the age of the refineries. 1.0 0,0 0,0 КТМ КОА EMG КТМ ОМG КОА ММG EMG ОМG ММG 0.0 0.0 In 2016, a pilot project for implementation of intellectual (digital) field SanaField on the Uaz field in the JSC Embamunaygas . Implementation of digital field “Sana102-48 Upstream Energy consumption intensity Downstream Energy consumption intensity Field” will result in production increase and to risk mitiga103-3 tion for both the company and its employees. The digital (Gj per ton of oil production) (Gj per 1 ton of oil refined) 302-3 oilfield allows remote control and monitoring of oil and 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.0 5.0 5.0 gas production facilities, control of energy consumption 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 to improve energy efficiency, improve facility manage4.3 4.1 4.4 4.2 ment effectiveness, rationally use personnel, improve 1.5 4.0 3.9 3.7 4.0 1.5 1.5 1.4 information transparency and automate production. 1.3 1.3 1.2 3.0 3.0 The introduction of the intellectual field UAZ allows the 2.4 2.5 1.0 0.9 optimization of energy resources to reduce consumption 1.0 0.8 2.2 by 32 %. 2.0 2.0 0.6 2014 This project is planned for other oilfields of the Group. 0.5 0.5 1.0 1.0 2015 The deadline for completion of the program is 2020. 2016 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 КТМ КОА EMG КТМ ОМG КОА ММG EMG ОМG ММG y er fin fin er Re Reem y i s avP au nt t r lo y yr ke Re d a r At ym fin O Sh er il y Ch 50 USE OF WATER RESOURCES Water is one of the most important environment components. We realize its great role in preserving and maintaining environmental prosperity in our operating regions. Water is an integral part of all our production processes. Water withdrawal, water consumption and wastewater disposal information is aggregated in the corporate center on a quarterly basis and is the blueprint for the current situation analysis, weaknesses in uncovering and searching for solutions to improve the water management system. The standardized approach to the collection of primary information, which we applied for the first time in 2016 for a comparative analysis between companies within the Group, takes into account the diversity 303-1 of our production processes that require the use of 102-48 water. 103-2 103-3 OUR WATER FOOTPRINT 306-1 In 2016, our total water withdrawal accounted for 303-2 77.8 mln m3 (*78.3 mln m3 in 2015). OG5 303-3 In 2016 the Group of Companies discharged 8.8 mln water replenishment. However, the largest volume sands, Pyatimarskoe reservoir) which represent m3 of wastewater versus 8.0 mln m3 in 2015, which of treated wastewater is reused only in refineries a special ecological, economic, historical, cultural was associated with increased use of water during where 3.6 mln m3 of treated discharged water were and recreation value. We recognize that the the overhaul of Tuimazy – Omsk – Novosibirsk-2 returned to the circulating water supply units in northeastern Caspian region is characterized by oil-trunk pipeline. 84 % of all wastewaters were 2016. (3.1 mln cubic meters in 2015). high moisture scarcity and we strive to use water discharged to evaporation ponds, and the rest resources rationally. To prevent negative impacts 99 % of 123 mln m3 of produced water have been was transferred to third parties for disposal. The on sensitive ecosystems we regularly monitor reinjected for maintaining reservoir pressure and standards of discharged water quality, established by groundwater through observational monitoring only 1 % into absorption wells. *SDR 2015 specified the total water environmental legislation, are achieved through using wells and for surface water bodies – we regularly withdrawal as 87 million m3 for the reason that redistribution of the very mechanical and biological methods of discharged Our activities have the most significant impact hold activities aimed to reduce the volume of water same water between companies within water treatment. Water is reused for cleaning on water bodies of the western region of withdrawal and to increase the use of recycled the Group was not taken into account. This year the total water withdrawal for vehicles, dust suppression and for fire-fighting Kazakhstan (Ural and Kigach rivers, Kokzhide water. the year of 2015 was adjusted. 51 USE OF WATER RESOURCES MIDSTREAM reuse 3.6 mln m3 0.8 mln m3 84% discharged to evaporation ponds, 16% collected by contractors 6.8 mln m3 DOWNSTREAM 0.5 mln m3 1.1 mln m3 Transferred to other customers 10.7 mln m3 13.6 mln m3 20 mln m3 0.5 mln m3 78 mln m3 3 mln m3 water losses 23 mln m3 29.2 mln m3 11.5 mln m3 SEA 303-1 UPSTREAM Injected to maintain 47.8 mln m3 reservoir pressure GROUND 33 mln m3 306-1 WATERS 122.2 mln m3 Injected to maintain OG5 reservoir pressure 38.1 mln m3 303-3 2.6 mln m3 SURFACE 0.8 mln m3 WATERS Injected into water-absorbing 123 mln m3 wells MUNICIPAL WATERS PRODUCED WATER 52 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING We recognize that biodiversity is a key element RoK, at the same time giving significant attention PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS IN THE for ecological prosperity to specially protected natural areas and reservation REGIONS OF OUR PRESENCE zones. In addition to the abiotic component, we also strive North Caspian reserve zone. The eastern part of the In 2016, there was no development drilling on sites to minimize our impact on living organisms that Northern Caspian with the deltas of the Volga (within that are located or border on specially protected inhabit natural objects in the regions of our presence. the RoK) and the Ural rivers is part of the state areas or conservation zones; only seismic exploration For this purpose on a stage of planning our future reserve zone in the northern part of the Caspian Sea operations took place. Consequently, the main impact activities we assess the possible damage that may designed to conserve fish stocks and provide optimal was from physical pollution: noise, vibration, soil be caused to biodiversity and we develop measures habitat and natural reproduction of sturgeon and disturbance due to vehicle traffic, and transformation in an attempt to reduce it. Therefore when carrying other valuable fish species. of the terrain as a result of routine operations. The out our production operations we conduct regular impact on wildlife is mainly due to changes in other Fishery, use of water transport, as well as carrying environmental monitoring in accordance with the natural components: soils, vegetation, surface water. out opera-tions for the exploration and production of requirements of the environmental legislation of the OUR CONTRIBUTION TO BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION IN 103-2 2016: 103-3 304-2 • 149.2 km2 of disturbed land was 304-3 remediated. 306-5 • The production of juvenile sturgeon OG4 species was implemented (600 units of young-of-the-year) under the agreement with the plant for the production and release of young sturgeon species of fish. • An environmental audit conducted for the Kansu site resulted in the development of recommendations for realization of production operations with minimal impact on the biological diversity of the site and taking into account the special status of the Kenderli-Kayasan Reserve Zone. 53 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING hydrocarbons are allowed only taking into account special environmental requirements and special regime of use. Novinsky state reserve area. It was established in order to create optimal conditions for the reproduction of flora and fauna, including those listed in the Red Book of the RoK. Special protection mode is applied. Kenderli-Kayasan State Reserve Zone. It was created in order to preserve the habitat and natural reproduction of Houbara Bustard and Saker Falcon. Ustyurt Nature Reserve. Belongs to the highest category of specially protected territories of national significance. The reserve was established in order to preserve in its original state the natural complex of the northern deserts of the Ustyurt plateau 304-1 including a number of rare species of fauna and flora. 304-2 “Kokzhide-Kumzhagan” State natural reserve 306-5 zone includes 2 regions of Republican significance: 413-2 Kokzhide sands and Kokzhide groundwater field which are included in the List of geological objects of the state natural reserve fund of national and international importance. Production sites located within the boundaries or near specially protected natural areas AREAS OF OUR PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES Kind of specially Within the Adjacent borders (part of the LOCATED WITHIN THE PROTECTED AREAS Outside Borders protected natural areas borders territory) AND STATE RESERVES IUCN category I-IV 0 0 Kansu Kansu site is located in Kansu Karakiya district of Zhambyl Mangistau region. The contract area is partially Zhambyl Alibekmola IUCN category V-VI Kansu Satpayev Kozhasay located within Kendirli Kayasaskaya protected Urikhtau area and borders on the Ustyurt State Nature World Heritage Sites Reserve (2 km buffer zone from the site’s borders). Ramsar Sites In 2016 there were no geological prospecting and exploration on the site. 54 BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING Urikhtau, Alibekmola and Kozhasay fields are located in the Mugaljar district of Aktobe region. The North-western part of the field is located on Kokzhide sands. Also the fields border on “Kokzhide-Kumzhagan” state natural complex. In order to prevent groundwater pollution we regularly carry out environmental monitoring both in the area of the Group’s companies and in the Kozhikode sand zone which is adjacent to the contract area. A quarterly monitoring program has been developed for the fields, it includes a network of 15 wells specially drilled to monitor groundwater status, soil covering samples collection and analysis, air quality monitoring. The sites Zhambyl and Satpayev are located in the 304-4 northern part of the Caspian Sea. The contract areas are located within the protected zone of the Caspian Sea, as well as partially within the Novinsky Reserve, but production sites do not affect ecologically sensitive areas. Affected species of flora and fauna in specially protected natural areas Kenderli-Kayasan Novinsky state North Caspian “Kokzhide-Kumzhagan” Flora and fauna Ustyurt Nature Reserve State Reserve Zone reserve area reserve zone State natural reserve zone Vegetation 20 (13) 336 (5) 4 229 (54) 94 Birds 10 166 (18) 27 466 (63) 75 Animals, incl. 18 3 Mammals 17 29 (8) 125 (41) 44 Reptiles 15 (1) 20 (9) 8 Fish 133 (27) * In brackets: Number of species listed in the Red Book of the RoK. 55 PREVENTION OF OIL SPILLS AND PREPAREDNESS Constant readiness for oil spill liquidations is our • All operations are prohibited during spawning undisputable priority. periods (April 1st – July 15th); CASE STUDY • Prohibition of fishing from production vessels; • Prohibition of well testing and burning of OUR OFFSHORE OPERATIONS In order to develop cooperation in the hydrocarbons at night; field of assessment, risk and hazard The Caspian Sea is a unique natural landlocked water • Compliance with the special mode of use. management taking into account the body with a fragile ecosystem extremely sensitive to Norwegian experience in ensuring safety The Group’s operation sites are provided with OSR at sea KMG S&S signed a memorandum oil pollution. We set the bar high for environmental plans brought into action in accordance with the of cooperation with Det Norske Veritas safety in our offshore oil operations: before the established procedures. To increase the level of OSR (DNV GL group). beginning of any operations we carry out baseline preparedness we regularly carry out prac-tical and environmental studies in contract areas and assess Also in 2016, KMG S&S signed a theoretical exercises and trainings at various levels in memorandum of cooperation with the our potential social and environmental impacts. Also order to improve the practical skills of personnel. international OSR organization SWIRE we monitor our impact, emissions and emergency Emergency Response Services. Under preparedness – during and after our operations. the memorandum the parties will jointly PREVENTION OF SEA POLLUTION develop OSR activities in RoK. Before the beginning of offshore drilling operations we ensure permanent preparedness to respond to The Group has a system to ensure prompt and all possible oil spills. After finishing our operations effective response to emergencies, including oil spills 102-29 we carry out continuous environmental monitoring and the implementation of appropriate operations to 103-2 of abandoned wells. Monitoring of abandoned wells eliminate their consequences. 304-1 provided for the organization of the liquidation of in contract areas includes monitoring of: air quality, OG4 During the reporting period, we did not conduct oil spills involving various companies and facilities, pollution of sea water and bottom sediments, 303-2 offshore drilling operations. However, in 2017, depending on the level of pollution. biodiversity, as well as laboratory and analytical 306-5 exploration drilling is planned at the Satpaev site, and work, photo and video recording of the wellheads of In case of possible spills we conclude contracts 306-3 a special program for the prevention of sea pollution abandoned wells. with specialized companies for response to 1st and will be developed. The program will include measures 2nd levels oil spills. In case of 3rd level oil spills we During offshore operations we adhere to the for a proper level of protection of the marine have concluded an agreement with the international following principles: environment, removal of stored materials, drilling association Oil Spill Response Limited specializing in fluids and other substances from the flooding zone • Strict adherence to project documents; the liquidation of accidents at offshore oil and gas that may harm the environment, the lawful use of the • Principle of zero waste and discharge when all fields. sea and other economic activities. waste and water are transported to the land; Our subsidiary KMG Systems & Services LLP • Provisioning of all floating crafts with fish A program for the localization and purification of (hereinafter referred to as KMG S&S) owns the protection devices and ensuring the absence of water in the case of marine pollution (modeling the North Caspian Environmental Oil Spill Response Base bilge water; spread of oil spills), in addition, a scheme will be 56 PREVENTION OF OIL SPILLS AND PREPAREDNESS 2 500 2 000 1 500 (hereinafter referred to as NCEOSR) in Atyrau Oblast ONSHORE SITES Upstream oil spills volume (onshore), tons which is the only specialized facility in the RoK1 000 for OSR. Its main tasks are: The main cause of oil spills in the Company is oilfield 2016 1,466.25 500 pipeline ruptures due to corrosion. In 2017, it is • oil spill response in the North Caspian, in 2015 4,527.06 planned to focus on the crea-tion of a program for particular when Kashagan field facilities operate; 0,0 the integrity of in-field pipelines in Upstream. 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 • rehabilitation of animals in case of emergency at sea; In 2016, at onshore production sites of the Group’s • personnel training on the use of emergency Upstream businesses, the volume of spills decreased Number of industrial safety Incidents equipment; by 67.6 % compared to the previous year due to the • ecological and meteorological monitoring. implementation of planned works on diagnostics, 1,66 2,0 repair and replacement of field pipelines. 8.0 0,14 All equipment for response to 1st and 2nd levels oil 0,0 spill are located on the NCEOSR base owned by the In 2016, KMG Tier 1 Process Safety Event Rate* 7.0 0,0 7 North Caspian Operating Company. 1,5 (PSER) was benchmarked against oil companies in the 6.0 0,00 0,40 0,80 1,20 1,40 1,80 IOGP association for the first time. In 2016, it was In 2016, KMG S&S acquired an oil operations support 18 times higher than the IOGP group of companies 5.0 base (OOSB) in Fort Shevchenko of Mangistau region 103-3 1,0 (which is 0.14 cases per 1 mln man-hours). 4 4 4 which has an optimal location for effective and well4.0 306-3 timed response to oil spills at any time of the year. 3.0 3 3 0,5 As part of the cooperation agreement with LLP 2.0 NRC Kazakhstan KMG S&S gained access to 1.0 1 1 international resources owned by NRC International. 0,0 КТМ КОА EMG ОМG ММG 0.0 NRC International has a large number of equipment G in a s , In in different countries of the world which can be flo oi w la an n d p o cid w en U er t mobilized in the event of large spills in the Kazakhstan d w g u at th n au lin s o Ac pi c i sh e r er e th m o es n ai r i sector of the Caspian Sea. p e de lin nt es s o n ze oi d n tr l p ti un k i p e -i el n s in t e o 2.0 5.0 4.0 1.5 * Tier 1index = number of occupational safety incidents of the first level / number of spent 3.0 man hours * 1,000,000 1.0 Tier 1 PPM is specified according to the 2.0 classification of the American Petroleum Institute Guidelines 754 0.5 1.0 0.0 57 INDUSTRIAL SAFETY AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT. EMERGENCY RESPONSE PREPAREDNESS We recognize the danger and criticality in the long term we plan to introduce Integrity CASE STUDY of the consequences in case of industrial Management in our Group. safety accidents. EMERGENCY SITUATIONS Lockout-Tagout PREPAREDNESS Electrical isolation is a significant operational risk In 2016, significant industrial accidents that could Comprehensive emergency management is (more than 20,000 transformers are serviced on cause damage to employee’s health or to the carried out by the first leader, and operative a quarterly basis every year). environment were not registered at the Group’s emergency management – by the emergency We launched an industry best practice production facilities. Other accidents taking into commissions. Instructions, Rules and Response called Lock-Out-Tag-Out at the 1st pilot account the frequency of their occurrence and Plans in the conditions of emergence of site in Ozenmunaigas JSC in 2016. LOTO the various production specificities by category emergency and other contingencies determine is a production safety system that prevents are indicated in the graph. the interaction procedure for all responsible unauthorized use of equipment during persons. In order to promptly respond to maintenance and repair. All incidents are subject to internal analysis emergency situations we have developed alert for identifying root causes. Information on In 2017, we plan to further implement the LOTO schemes for internal and external stakeholders. system in other companies of the Group. lessons learned and recommendations for their prevention are spread among all companies of Fire prevention divisions have been established the Group. at 95 sites of the Group’s activities. These OG13 divisions are equipped with 189 fire trucks and 102-29 The corporate center conducts risk-audits supportive firefighting equipment. Practical 103-2 on the industrial safety of our production training of of emergency situations for personnel facilities. Based on the results of these audits we is carried out according to the programs of developed recommendations for reduction of training. main production risks while taking into account best world practices and international standards In order to ensure the safety of workers, the in the field of industrial and fire safety. environment and to minimize damage, we conduct tactical fire trainings with the participation of We study international experience in the field of volunteer firefighters among employees and industrial safety at the production facilities and 58 INDUSTRIAL SAFETY AND INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT. EMERGENCY RESPONSE PREPAREDNESS training sessions for oil and gas wells. The results of training exercises are analyzed by management, emergency response services and state inspectors. In order to improve the preparedness level of the Group companies as well as of hired non-state firefighting services, in 2017, we plan to introduce a unified approach to the verification and assessment of firefighting services preparedness to prevent and extinguish fires at our production facilities. Number of trainings on fire and process safety 733 607 103-3 88 2015 95 1 2016 89 2015 101 2 2016 129 130 2015 3 2016 2015 4 2016 1 Republican team-headquarters emergency training exercises 2 Team-headquarters emergency training exercises 3 Fire-tactical exercises 4 Emergency response exercise lessons 59 WASTE MANAGEMENT 2016 1466,25 2015 4527,06 Industrial waste management is one of our Also in order to comply with legal requirements the than 2.3 billion KZT ($6.7 million) were allocated for 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 environmental priorities. On an annual basis we Group has developed and now implements waste these purposes. allocate significant means and identify investments management programs agreed with state authorities The volume of accumulated wastes in 2016 was 305 for solutions to problems related to waste generation in the field of environmental protection. 100 tons, or 25.4 % less than in 2015. This difference and land pollution at our production facilities. We regularly search for new practices and effective is explained by an increase in the volume of 1,66 Following the requirements of the national technologies in the field of waste management for generated waste in 2015 due to the measures taken 0,14 environmental legislation hazardous waste that introduction at our facilities. for expansion of production at Atyrau Refinery. 0,0 cannot be rendered harmless, recycled or disposed Within the framework of social 0,0 responsibility and Drilling waste is the majority of all accumulated waste at our facilities is transported to specialized landfills. commitments we continue to 0,00 work 0,40 on the removal 0,80 1,20 1,40and1,80accounts for 56.8 % of the total (drill cuttings We ensure that our contractors comply with of historical oil waste matter and contaminated land 35.1 %, oil sludge 14.5 % and clayed soil 7.2 %). the requirements of safe transport, disposal and remediation at our contract areas. In 2016, more treatment of waste. Waste generation, thousand tons Waste generation intensity, tons/tons of crude Waste generation by business units, % hydrocarbons 102-48 5.1 379.9 103-3 8.51 9.91 3.2 306-2 279.2 12.8 8.5 8.81 6.8 16.6 2014 2015 179.4 44.9 4.33 4.54 2016 48.7 2014 0.10 16.1 2014 Midstream 2015 0.09 Non-hazardous 2015 29.4 3.27 32.1 31.7 2016 0.12 56.2 25.8 2016 2014 2014 Downstream 2015 2016 Hazardous 2015 66.1 2014 2016 Upstream 2015 2016 Upstream Downsream Service Midstream *Waste volumes for 2015–2016 are shown taking into account the subsidiaries and contractors of EP KMG and MMG 60 WASTE MANAGEMENT WASTE GENERATION INTENSITY The intensity of waste generation decreased in the Upstream business unit, and slightly increased in the Midstream business unit due to a decrease in the volumes of transported Turkmen gas to the Russian Federation in the main gas pipelines of Intergas Central Asia JSC. We do not import or export hazardous wastes outside RoK. In 2016, the total amount of accumulated drilling waste amounted to 151,300 tons (or 47 % less than in 2015), where 107,100 tons was drilling sludge and 44,200 tons was used drilling mud. The decrease was due to a reduction in the drilling of exploratory wells during oil and gas operations on land and sea. OG7 In order to treat and dispose drilling waste we applied 103-3 the following methods and technologies: biological 306-4 remediation, thermal cracking, thermal desorption, burial at specialized landfills. Waste utilization methods, % 2016 2016 1466,25 1466,25 2015 2015 4527,06 4527,06 2015 2016 0.87 1.00 0.23 1000 2000 2000 3000 3000 4000 4000 5000 5000 1.04 0.29 1000 4.25 5.46 7.33 1.40 Reuse 6.40 5.17 4.36 Recycling 2.61 3.50 Recovery Burning 1,66 1,66 Waste placement on disposal site 80.37 0,14 77.87 0,14 Storage on site 0,00,0 0,00,0 0,00 0,40 0,00 0,40 0,80 1,201,40 0,801,20 1,401,80 1,80 61 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE In 2016, the total costs and investments for environmental pro-tection amounted to 15,580 mln KZT ($45.6 mln), of which costs related to waste management, purification of emissions and discharges and elimination of environmental damage – 14,185.8 mln KZT ($41.5 mln) and investments aimed at prevention of environmental impact and environmental management of 1,394.7 mln KZT ($4.1 mln). The total amount of penalties paid was 1,170 mln KZT or $3.4 mln (1,764 mln KZT or $7.9 mln in 2015), including administrative fines, damages and excess payments. Penalties for air emissions compared to 2015 decreased by 60 %, and 2014 by 70 %. 103-3 307-1 203-1 Paid environmental fines, mln KZT 3,000 2,835 2,000 2,303 1,764 1,748 1,171 1,000 495 727 424 17.4 1 6.2 0 *Compared to the 2015 SDR, data 3.1 for 2015 changed due to the fact that the amount of excess payments was 2014 2015 2016 paid in early 2016. The difference was postponed from 2015 to 2016. Emissions Discharges Waste Total OUR COMMUNITIES 63 OUR COMMUNITIES We contribute to the development of regions Since 2016, the franchising program DODO Number of public hearings and are in regular dialogue with key stakeholders ( Dealer Owns-Dealer Manages ), will become the on material topics. main direction of the Group’s fuel stations network. The program allows the owners of fuel stations to 117 In order to assist with the development of regions become part of the network of KazMunayGas to sell we actively interact with local authorities, signing petroleum products under our brand, which is well memorandums of cooperation in the field of sociorecognized in the RoK. 84 economic development provide gas to the regions, provide access to hard-to-reach and necessary goods We continue to carry out measures to support and services in the regions. domestic entrepreneurs by making certain purchases only among producers in the Fund’s Register, as well As a national operator of petroleum and its 57 as only among the organizations for disabled people products, we offer shipment of socially important from the Register of Organizations of Disabled petroleum products at a reduced cost. Every year Persons of the Fund within the framework of the we provide diesel fuel to farmers during the sowing current procurement system. and harvesting at a reduced price, supply oil with the onset of the heating season. In 2016, for the In 2016, the share of local content of purchased 2014 needs of agriculture, we shipped 247,000 tons of goods, works and services accounted for 76%, 83% 2015 diesel fuel (120,000 tons in 2015) and 6,000 tons for goods and 71% for services. 103-1 2016 (24,000 tons in 2015) of fuel oil for heating needs. 103-2 We conduct systematic work on interaction with In July 2015, within the framework of the Group’s 103-3 the population. We provide social assistance to the transformation, a unique program for our country, 203-2 people of need of the population, contribute to the CODO ( Company Owns-Dealer Manages ) was 203-1 development of culture and sports under the program launched to transfer almost half of the KazMunayGas 413-1 of social responsibility of business. The social projects fuel stations to private management. It is aimed 102-9 are implemented under the Local Communities at supporting small business in the regions of the 204-1 Development Program, taking into account the needs republic and contributes to the creation of an efficient and expectations of local communities (appeals of private sector of the economy, the development of the population, public organizations of veterans of public-private partnership. For today in 110 regions the Second World War, labor, invalids, educational of the country 110 entrepreneurs are successfully centers, medical centers and orphanages). managing 150 fuel stations of KazMunayGas. 64 OUR COMMUNITIES CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Atyrau refinery in the charitable project Zhanashyr 1. KazMunayGaz as a national operator in the oil and gas industry and continues to support the domestic commodity producers, and also participates in the industrialization of the June 1, 2015, in the Atyrau region, a project of corporate social country through the establishment of enterprises. guardianship Zhanashyr was launched. The project is to provide support KMG automation successfully operates in cooperation with to orphants in three directions: upbringing, education and assistance in the international company, Schneider Electric. social adaptation. Immediately after the launch of the project, the staff of the Atyrau Refinery supported 16-year-old Yersultan U., a student of the A joint venture between KazMunayGas and the American orphanage named after S. Kazybaev. A tripartite memorandum was signed company Nabors Drilling International Ltd was signed. between the Atyrau Mayor office, Atyrau Refinery, and the Children’s Home for orphans and children left without parental care, for collective 2. KTG supplies traded gas to more than 8 million consumers social assistance to Yersultan U. inside the country. This is more than 1.6 million clients and about 35,000 companies in 10 regions of RoK. The refinery developed a program with involvement of Nur Otan , the youth chapter, the trade union committee and the administration of 3. Due to the main gas pipeline Beineu – Bozoy – Shymkent, 577 the refinery. An instructor was assigned to Yersultan, from the young settlements of the southern regions (half of the population of specialists committee. After graduating from the school, Yersultan entered the republic) are additionally gasified. the Polytechnic College of Atyrau specializing in the technology of oil and 4. In 2016, PetroKazakhstan Oil Products LLP became the gas processing. Yersultan will do his internship at the refinery, and later be winner of the annual national competition on social business accepted into the team as an employee. responsibility Paryz . During the summer holidays, Yersultan vacationed together with the 5. The Ministry of Health and Social Development of RoK children of the Atyrau refinery in Borjomi (Georgia) and in the healthnominated Shymkent Oil Refinery For Contribution to the improving center Mashat-Arasan , Shymkent. Environment Shymkent Oil Refinery. Also, companies within the project are advised to open housing deposits in banks, so that in the future the orphans could buy their own house. For this purpose, a personal account was opened in JSC Housing and Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan for Yersultan and the plant transfers payments monthly in the amount of 40,000 tenge for the purchase of housing upon reaching adult age. 65 OUR COMMUNITIES For example, under the Road to School project, the the framework of environmental impact assessment In order to ensure the requirements of occupational Shymkent refinery annually helps 50 children from (EIA), which is aimed at informing the society on safety, prevention of occupational diseases and low-income large families to prepare for school. For planned activities in order to get their feedback. We accidents at work, as well as to check working several years, KMG has helped to develop village ensure access of all stakeholders to EIAs, suggestions conditions in the regions, the Health, Safety and schools under the project Caring for the Childhood . and comments. The EIA and other related materials Environmental Protection Commissions are doing are posted on local authorities’ websites and in work together with Local Labor unions. Some of our female employees are members of the massmedia. We immediately respond to questions, Association of Business Women of Kazakhstan. There are official mechanisms for submitting which are important to communities and one of the complaints; the detailed information is provided in KMG subscribes to principal provisions of the Group’s priorities is pre-trial settlement of situations. The grievances procedure. precautionary principle (Principle 15 of the Rio Assessment and continued monitoring are conducted Declaration on Environment and Development of in accordance with the Industrial Environmental the UN, 1992). Prior to launching new projects and Control Programs. facilities we implement a complex plan of actions in 102-11 MARKETING AND LABELING 67 MARKETING AND LABELING We distribute a wide range of petroleum products, To ensure the quality of the fuel, we continuously fuel is available at petrol stations and reflected in the including premium petrol, diesel fuel and aviation monitor the entire supply chain of petroleum products cash receipts. In addition, at each gas station there is a kerosene (jet fuel), heating oil, fuel oil, vacuum gas oil, from refinery oil depots to gas stations. The process Customer point , where all information is available for coke, liquid gas, scrape, bitumen both for export and of oil products quality control is governed by the review – quality passports and company declaration for the domestic market of RoK. Regulations on the Control and securing the quality for each type of fuel sold. of petroleum products , documents of accredited In accordance with the state program for industrial During the reporting year, there were no cases of laboratories management systems and is conducted 102-2 and innovative development of RoK, three refineries noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes by a special quality control department. Laboratories 103-1 are undergoing modernization and reconstruction. concerning product marketing and labeling. carrying out quality control in KMG facilities are 103-3 Modernization of refineries will reduce the negative accredited by the state accreditation system of KMG-Onimdery, KazMunayGas – Aero and КМG-RM 417-1 impact on the environment and improve the quality the RoK and are included in the registers of Testing are the sole operators of petrol, diesel fuel, aviation 417-2 of petroleum products to the requirements of the Laboratories of the Customs Union and international fuel and fuel oil supply to the security agencies of the class K4, K5 and in accordance with the requirements laboratories, which are part of International Republic of Kazakhstan, to the state material reserve, of technical regulations of the Customs Union, to Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation (ILAC). In as well as for the needs of the national operating increase the capacity of the secondary processes and addition, control is carried out by express analysis airline. oil refining depth. The fuel requirements of class K5 laboratories, allowing monitoring of fuel quality at all provide a sulfur content 50 times less than in K2 fuel, In the national project #1 Choice of the Year in sites on the territory of the RoK. and the content of the volume fraction of benzene Kazakhstan , which was held in November 2016, is reduced from 5% to 1%, and also completely Before the release of fuel into circulation/ people of Kazakhstan again voted for the brand rejects the highly toxic octane-enhancing additive – consumption, an appropriate fuel acknowledgment is KazMunayGas . monomethylaniline (MMA). In 2016, the benzene and carried out and a declaration of conformity is issued. paraxylene (the base products for petrochemicals) Each batch of fuel put into circulation is accompanied production unit was put into operation. The production by a quality document (passport). Information about of high-octane gasolines has been increased. the name, brand fuel dispensers of gasoline and diesel OUR ECONOMIC INPUT 69 OUR ECONOMIC INPUT Key production indicators Indicator metrix 2014 2015 2016 Oil production K tons 22,490 22,670 22,638 Gas production (natural) mln m3 7,025 7,255 7,384 Hydrocarbons refining K tons 17,115 16,317 16,601 Oil transportation by trunk oil pipelines K tons 64,005 61,001 56,576 Oil cargo turnover mln tons km 44,206 45,447 43,130 Marine oil transportation K tons 9,606 7,033 7,082 Gas transportation by main gas pipelines mln m3 105,445 102,750 88,077 Commodity transport operations for gas transportation bln m3 km 45,381 40,339 40,436 210-1 Key Financial indicators, mln KZT 201-1 Indicator 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Income, total 3,041,975 2,215,626 3,541,713 3,405,049 3,101,218 2,787,707 2,252,197 including: Income from sales of goods and rendering services 1,857,435 1,093,806 3,186,764 3,252,719 2,960,418 2,625,256 2,098,942 Costs. total 3,143,713 2,272,402 3,650,072 3,206,860 2,982,379 2,689,116 2,065,663 including: Cost price of sold products and rendered services 1,561,746 1,090,380 2,322,162 2,354,109 2,090,818 1,836,061 1,409,001 Corporate income tax expenses 163,791 231,528 117,101 193,396 177,131 153,147 132,675 (inc. EPT) Net income after minority interest 305,849 398,326 207,363 440,955 369,420 422,422 305,309 70 FINANCIAL IMPACT Profit Actual salary Education 305,849,105 343,563,067 $894 mln 2,961,304 Investment $1,005 mln Social care of certain $8.665 mln categories of Export 599,083,745 the population $1,753 mln 844,544,978 1,544,528 $2,471 mln $4.519 mln Health 6,552,545 $19.174 mln Regions infrastructure Other payments development 495,839,503 1,171,437 $1,450.926 mln $3.427 mln ECONOMIC Expenditures for SOCIO-ECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Export customs duty (ECD) IMPACT liquidation of SOCIAL ecological impact The violations for non-compliance with 81,322,163 PAYMENTS $237.965 mln 14,186,000 the requirements of legislation in the FINANCIAL $41.511 mln field of industrial and fire safety were 103-3 IMPACT identified during the audits of our 203-1 Corporate income tax CHART Air emissions (current) companies, penalties were imposed 307-1 (inc. gas flaring) 109,802,056 5,389,000 by the transport prosecutor’s office, 419-1 $321.302 mln TAX IMPACT $15.769 mln statistics bodies, etc. In 2016, the size ENVIRONMENTAL of fines for the Group was 50.1 million PAYMENTS KZT ($147,000), which exceeds the Waste Mineral extraction tax thousands KZT fine of 2015. The majority of the fines (MET) 412,000 imposed on the results of the tax audit 61,838,132 $1.205 mln $180.950 mln (penalty tax accrued) were 41.7 million KZT or $122,000. Crude, condensate, Water pollution gas Rent Export Tax 40,000 During the reporting period, there were 23,294,198 $0.117 mln $68.163 mln no significant cases of non-financial sanctions and significant cases using APG flaring Value-added tax 4,325,000 dispute resolution mechanisms. (VAT) $12.655 mln 181,778,798 Expenditures on mitigation $531.921 mln Excess profits tax of ecological impact (EPT) and environmental management 18,614,154 1,395,000 $54.468 mln $40.082 mln GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX 72 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX Omission Connection with GRI Standard Disclosures Page number or URL Part Omitted Reason Explanation the UNGC GRI 101 Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102 General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organization p. 2, 5 this disclosure cannot be omitted 2016 102-2 – Activities, brands, products, and services p. 2, 19, 67 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 2, 19, 89 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-4 Location of operations p. 2, 19 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 5, 10 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-6 Markets served p. 2, 17, 19 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 2, 10, 17, 19 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 2, 28 this disclosure cannot be omitted Principle 6 102-9 Supply chain p. 2, 63 this disclosure cannot be omitted Annual Report* 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain p. 20 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 65 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-12 External initiatives p. 18 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-13 Membership of associations p. 17, 18 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 6, 7, 8 this disclosure cannot be omitted Principle 1 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 10, 11, 13, 15, 17, 22, 25, 30, 33, 36, 83-84 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior p. 9, 13, 14, 21, 41 this disclosure cannot be omitted Principle 10 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics p. 14, 15 Principle 2, 10 102-18 Governance structure p. 10, 11 this disclosure cannot be omitted Annual Report 102-55 102-19 Delegating authority p. 10 Annual Report 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and p. 10, 11 social topics Annual Report 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and p. 10, 22, 83-84 social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its p. 9, 10 committees Annual Report 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body p. 9 According to the Charter, the Chairman of the Management Board can not be elected the chairman of the Board of Directors 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body p. 10 Annual Report 102-25 Conflicts of interest p. 10 Annual Report 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, p. 10, 14 and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body p. 10 Annual Report 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance p. 10, 25 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social p. 10, 11, 22, 43, 55, 57, 83-84 impacts Annual Report 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes p. 10 Annual Report 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics p. 10 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting p. 5 73 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX 102-33 Communicating critical concerns p. 10, 30 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns p. 11 Annual Report 102-35 Remuneration policies p. 38 Annual Report 102-36 Process for determining remuneration p. 38 Annual Report 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Annual Report 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio – Not disclosed Confidentiality constraints 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio – Not disclosed Confidentiality constraints 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 22, 83-84 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements p. 41 this disclosure cannot be omitted Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 21, 22, 83-84 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 13, 17, 21, 22, 23, 30, 44, 47, 83-84 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 3, 22, 24, 44, 47, 83-84 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements p. 81 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p. 23, 81, 82 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-47 List of material topics p. 3, 24, 82 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-48 Restatements of information p. 44, 46, 49, 50, 59 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 23, 44 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-50 Reporting period p. 81 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 81 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 81 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 89 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards p. 5 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-55 GRI Standards Content Index p. 72 this disclosure cannot be omitted 102-56 External assurance p. 5 this disclosure cannot be omitted Material topics GRI 200 Economic Topics Economic Performance GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 70 Annual Report GRI 201 Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 69 Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to p. 44, 45, 48 Principle 7 climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans p. 35 201-4 Financial assistance received from government – Not disclosed Not applicable KMG does not receive financial assistance from the government Market Presence GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 28, 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 38 74 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 202 Market Presence 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local p. 38 Principle 6 2016 minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community p. 38 Principle 6 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 63, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach – GRI 203 Indirect Economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported p. 61, 63, 70 Impacts 2016 Annual Report 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts p. 63 Annual Report Procurement Practices GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 63 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report p. 63 GRI 204 Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 63 Practices 2016 Annual Report Anti-corruption GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 15 Annual Report p. 15 -16, 70 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption p. 15 Principle 10 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and p. 15, 16 Principles 2,10 procedures Our approach to stakeholders engagement 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 16 Principle 10 Reserves GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Annual Report Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Annual Report 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Annual Report O&G Sector Disclosures OG-1 – Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production p. 2 GRI 300 Environmental topics Energy GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81,82 Principles 7, 8, 9 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 43, 48, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 48, 49, 70, 87 GRI 302 Energy 2016 302-1 – 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 48, 85 Principle 7 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Not disclosed Information According to the unavailable legislation, we keep a record of consumption of energy resources only within the organization 302-3 Energy intensity p. 49,85 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption p. 48 Principles 7, 8, 9 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services – Not disclosed Information No account is taken unavailable 75 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX O&G Sector Disclosures OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy – Not disclosed Not applicable KMG does not invest in renewable energy sources O&G Sector Disclosures OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source – Not disclosed Not applicable KMG does not invest in renewable energy sources Water GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 18, 43, 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 49, 61, 70, 87 GRI 303 Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 50, 51, 85 Principle 7 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water p. 50 303-3 Water recycled and reused p. 50, 51 Biodiversity GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 18, 43, 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 51, 56, 61, 70, 87 GRI 304 Biodiversity 2016 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, p. 53, 55, 86 Principles 8 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on p. 52, 53 biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored p. 52 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species p. 54 with habitats in areas affected by operations O&G Sector Disclosures OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which p. 52, 54 biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored Emissions GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 44, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 17, 43, 44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 45, 61, 70, 87 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 44, 85 Principle 7 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Not disclosed Current legislation It is planned to start requires only direct accounting in the emissions future 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Not disclosed Current legislation It is planned to start requires only direct accounting in the emissions future 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 44, 45, 85 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions p. 45 Principles 8,9 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Not disclosed Emissions of ODS Periodic monitoring are not significant is carried out 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant p. 46 Principle 7 air emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 17, 43, 50, 55 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 50, 59, 60, 61, 70, 87 76 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination p. 50, 51, 85 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 59, 85 306-3 Significant spills p. 55, 56 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste p. 60 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff p. 52, 55 O&G Sector Disclosures OG 5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water p. 50, 51 O&G Sector Disclosures OG 6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon p. 47, 85 Principles 7,8 O&G Sector Disclosures OG 7 Amount of drilling waste and strategies for treatment and p. 60, 85 disposal Environmental Compliance GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 43, 61 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 61 GRI 307 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations p. 61, 70 Principle 8 Compliance 2016 GRI 400 Social topics Employment GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 28, 22, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14 GRI 401 Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 28 Principle 6 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided p. 35 to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave p. 35 Principle 6 Labor/Management Relations GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Principle 3 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 30, 22, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14 GRI 402 Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes p. 28, 38 Principle 3 Relations 2016 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 30, 33, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 26, 31, 33 GRI 403 Occupational Health 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management–worker p. 11, 32 and Safety 2016 health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost p. 30, 31, 33 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to p. 33 their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with p. 33 trade unions Training and Education GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 35, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 35, 37, 38, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach P. 35, 39, 70 77 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 404 Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 2 Principle 6 Education 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance p. 36, 37 programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and p. 40 Principle 6 career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Principle 6 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 28, 38, 41, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 10, 28 Principle 6 Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men p. 36, 38 Principle 6 Non-discrimination GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Principle 6 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 38, 41, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14 GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 41 Principle 6 2016 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 41, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14 GRI 408 Child Labor 2016 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of p. 41 Principle 3 association and collective bargaining may be at risk Child Labor GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 41, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 408 Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child p. 41 Principle 5 labor Forced or Compulsory Labor GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 41, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 409 Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of p. 41 Principle 4 Compulsory Labor 2016 forced or compulsory labor Security Practices GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Principle 1 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 14, 15, 22, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14, 15, 16, GRI 410 Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures p. 15, 16 Principle 1 2016 Local Communities GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Principle 1 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 63, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 14, 70 78 GRI STANDARDS CONTENT INDEX GRI 413 Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact p. 22, 63, 83-84 Principle 1 2016 assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts p. 53 Principle 1 on local communities Emergency response preparedness GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 18, 22, 43, 55, 57, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 56, 61, 70 Industrial safety and integrity management GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 43, 57, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 56, 58, 61, 70 O&G Sector Disclosures OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity p. 57, 85 Marketing and Labeling GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81-82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 6, 22, 45, 67, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 67, 70 GRI 417 Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling p. 67 Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service p. 67 information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing During the reporting year, there were no cases of noncompliance with communications regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications Socio-economic Compliance GRI 103 Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 23, 81, 82 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 22, 14, 83-84 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 70 GRI 419 Socio-economic 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and p. 70 Compliance economic area 2016 *www.kmg.kz/upload/corporate_ management/equity/2017/ AnnualReport2016Eng.pdf APPENDICES ABBREVIATIONS ANS “Aktaunefteservice” LLC KPI Key performance indicators BBS Behavioral Based Safety Program KZT Kazakhstan national currency tenge BoD Board of Director LLC Limited Liability Company CNG Compressed Natural Gas filling stations LTI Lost-time Injury filling LTIR Lost-time Injury Rate stations mln Millions(s) CNPC Chinese National Oil and Gas Corporation MMG “Mangistaumunaygas” JSC EIA Environmental Impact Assessment MTC Medical Treatment Case EMG “EmbaMunayGas” JSC MVCR Motor Vehicle Crash Rate ENU Gumilyov Eurasian National University NC National company FAR Fatality Accident Rate OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development FAR Fatality Accident Rate OMG “OzenMunayGas” JSC GMI The Global Methane Initiative OSC “Oil Construction Company” LLC GRI Global Reporting Initiative OSR Oil Spill Response HSE Health, Safety and Environment OSRL Oil Spill Response Limited IAOT International Association of Oil Transporters PJSC Public Joint Stock Corporation ICA “IntergasCentralAsia” JSC RoK Republic of Kazakhstan ILAC International Laboratory Accreditation Cooperation Samruk“Sovereign Samruk Kazyna Wealth Fund” JSC IOGP International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Kazyna JSC Joint stock company Fund KazGPZ “Kazakh gas refining plant” LPP SD Sustainable Development KBTU Kazakh-British Technical University SDR Sustainable Development Report KIMEP Kazakhstan Institute of Management, Economics and Strategic Research TRIR Total Recordable Incidents Rate KMG “KazMynayGas NC” JSC ULRS Unified Labor Remuneration System KMG “KazMunayGas Exploration and Production” JSC UN United Nations E&P USD, $ United States dollar KMG “KazMunayGas refining-marketing” JSC OSRL Oil Spill Response Limited RM KOA “Kazakhoil Aktobe” LLP 81 THE REPORTING BOUNDARIES The Report discloses information about the Group’s activities for the 2016 etc. unless otherwise stated. Biodiversity indicators illustrate impacts to our calendar year. The report is released annually, our previous Sustainable Developoperated assets and facilities inside environmental sensitive areas. ment report was published on July 15. • We collect social performance data from assets under our operational control. Due to the diversity of our operations, the range of activities, and the size of the • Our HR data covers employees under our direct employment. Temporary Group (over 200 member companies), defining simple and transparent boundaries employees are not included. for sustainability reporting is in itself a complex task. We strive to be consistent • With regard to ethics, human rights, anti-corruption our policies and and transparent about variations in boundaries. requirements apply within the organization and outside its borders, being We did not include the indicators of the European subsidiary – KMG International, applicable to contractors and to all stakeholders in a direct or indirect relation since they operate under EU legislation standards and published independent with KMG NC. However, the quantitative indicators are provided for the stand-alone sustainability report. Group, unless otherwise stated. • We report production and economic data include Group’s consolidated data The non-financial performance data provided includes information from on an equity basis, unless otherwise stated, and prepared in compliance with subsidiaries and JVs with more than 50% of KMG shares unless otherwise stated. IFRS. We employ this approach as a best industry practice, and because it is data that we can directly manage and influence. The review of KMG’s assets can be found • The onshore and offshore projects data for some indicators are disclosed on our corporate website and in our annual report www.kmg.kz. separately. • To comply with the principle of comparability, the financial data are provided 102-45 • We report health and safety incident data for our operated assets, facilities both in the national currency – KZT (tenge), and in US dollars. The indicators 102-46 and vehicles of member-companies, including subsidiaries, regardless of KMG are presented for the last 3 years, unless otherwise stated. All amounts are 102-50 share (KPO, TCO, NCOC are not included) presented in US dollars according to the following exchange rate: for 2016 – 102-51 • We report environmental data for our operated assets and facilities. 341.74 KZT per US dollar; for 2015 – 221.73 KZT per US dollar; for 2014 – 102-52 Environmental data represent our direct emissions, discharges, consumption 179.19 KZT per US dollar. 103-1 82 THE REPORTING BOUNDARIES Material Topic Boundaries Material Topic Boundaries Economic Performance Group Asset integrity & process safety Production, local communities Market Presence Group Employment Group Indirect economic impacts Operations, local communities Labour/Management Relations Group Anti-corruption Group, all stakeholders Occupational Health and Safety Group Reserves Group Training and Education Group Equal remuneration for women and Energy Operations Operations (excl. EP) men 102-46 Water management Operations Non-discrimination Group 102-47 103-1 Operations in environmental sensitive Freedom of association and collective Biodiversity Group areas, local communities bargaining Emissions Operations Child & Forced/compulsory Labor Group, all stakeholders Waste management Operations, contractors Local communities Operations Compliance Operations Security practices Group Produced water utilization Operations Indirect socio-economic impacts Operations Operations (Refining & Marketing), Volume of burned hydrocarbons and leaks Operations (Upstream) Marketing Communications clients Oil spill prevention & emergency prepareness Operations, local communities 83 OUR APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT Our key Stakeholders Expectations, interest on following themes Employees, officials • Development of the scientific sphere, implementation of new technologies; • Corporate management system and strategy realization; • Gender policy; • Occupational health and safety; • HSE best practices exchange; • Training of middle line managers on risk management at hazardous operational sites, including behavioral audits; • Statistics of accidents and analysis of the most common cases; • Process and fire safety; • Transport safety and improvement of vehicle services; • Best practices in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and emissions, energy efficiency; • Usage of ozone-depleting substances (ODS); • Waste management implemented technologies; • Recultivation and amenity planting ; • Caspian Sea shoreland safety; • Environmental action plan. Shareholders • Acting in accordance with Corporate Governance Code of the Fund; • Raising the corporate governance rating; • Integration of sustainable development as part of the Group’s corporate governance. Subsidiaries • Social support of employees; 102-40 • Collective Agreements; 102-42 • Expansion program of the retail network under the brand KazMunayGas ; 102-43 • Prevention of oil spills on the Caspian Sea; • Implementation of own sustainability reporting systemin in subsidiaries; 102-44 • Training; 103-2 • Feedback. 102-21 Local communities, public • Timely release of the Report; 413-1 organizations • Benchmarking 102-29 • Implement new indicators of the Green Economy; 102-15 • To highlight the results of the creation and operation of public councils. Government, state authorities • Emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases; • Compliance; • Water discharges and waste disposal. Suppliers • Reliable market; • Business solvency of the permanent client; • Compliance with contractual obligations; • Increase of industrial and ecological safety. 84 OUR APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT Labor unions • Respect for the rights of employees; • Safe working conditions; 102-40 • Social guarantees, benefits and compensation. 102-42 Clients • Create and sustain long-term relationship with the customer; 102-43 • Identify areas for future improvement in customer service; 102-44 • High-quality goods and services at an affordable price. 103-2 Associations • To highlight social issues of sustainable development; 102-21 • Implementation of development programs and associated gas processing. 413-1 Partners, other companies • Publish an activity map in the report; 102-29 • To include hyperlinks to the GRI Index table; 102-15 • Describe the approach to the definition of meaningful topics. 85 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Upstream Midstream Downsrteam 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) Direct GHGs (Carbon dioxide (CO2), million tons) 2.4 2.9 2.8 0.8 0.6 0.7 2.6 2.6 3.1 GHG intencity (ton CO2 per 1000 tons of hydrocarbon production) 110 120 115 181 181 219 Flaring Flaring (million tons CO2) 0.5 0.7 0.7 Flared gas per unit of hydrocarbon production ( ton per 1000 tons of hydrocarbon production) 9.0 12.0 12.0 Flaring (million tons of hydrocarbon flared) 0.2 0.3 0.3 Energy intensity Energy consumption (mln Gj) 24.6 26.9 26.1 48.4 34.1 32.3 51.7 50.8 49.3 Energy intensity index (Gj per ton of production) 1.5 1.57 1.5 3.5 3.55 3.5 Acid gases 302-1 Sulphur oxides (SOx) (thousand tons SO2) 4.8 7.0 9.0 0.4 0.3 0.4 8.7 9.4 7.5 302-3 303-1 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (thousand tons NO2) 3.7 5.5 6.1 3.3 2.7 3.2 6.1 5.0 3.5 305-1 Spills and discharges 305-4 Sabotage spills – volume (thousand tons) 305-7 Sabotage spills – number 7 1 306-1 306-2 Operational spills – volume (onshore) (thousand tons) 4.5 1.5 OG6 Water OG7 Total water withdrawal (million cubic meters) 49.1 50.6 49.6 28.6 29.1 29.2 8.9 10.6 10.7 OG13 Water discharge volume (million cubic meters) 0.9 0.8 0.8 1.2 1.02 1.1 6.0 6.28 6.8 Waste disposal Hazardous (thousand tons) 82 221 195 7.3 6.8 8.8 52 119 38 Non-hazardous (thousand tons) 20 9.1 6.7 8.1 6.4 6.6 20 12 11 Total waste (thousand tons) 103 230 202 15 13 15 72 132 49 Waste generation intensity (ton per ton of production) 4.5 9.7 8.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 4.3 8.8 3.3 Drilling waste, onshore (thousand tons) 284 353 151 0 0 0 0 0 0 Drilling waste, offshore (thousand tons) 2.0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 86 LOCATION AND SCALE OF PRODUCTION UNITS IN RELATION TO NATURAL RESERVES Contract area How we plan to reduce Site Location Key biodiversity zones (KBZ) Location in relation to KBZ (km2) exposure Karakiya district of Mangistau Kenderli-Kayasan State Reserve Zone and Located in a protected area Kansu 4,374.6 Biological monitoring region Ustyurt Nature Reserve and located nearby the reserve Mugaljar district of Aktobe “Kokzhide-Kumzhagan” State natural reserve Urikhtau Includes part of the territory 239.9 Hydrogeological monitoring region zone Mugaljar district of Aktobe Alibekmola and Kozhasay Kokzhide sands и Kokzhide groundwater field Located nearby 156.5 Hydrogeological monitoring region Regular environmental Kazakhstan sector of the Special ecologically sensi-tive zone of 304-1 Located in a protected area and monitoring, restrictions during Zhambyl Caspian Sea Kazakhstan sector of the Caspian Sea, 1,935.2 Includes part of the territory conducting of offshore oil Atyrau region Novinsky state reserve area operations Regular environmental Kazakhstan sector of the Special ecologically sensi-tive zone of monitoring, restrictions during Satpayev Caspian Sea Located in a protected area 1,481 Kazakhstan sector of the Caspian Sea conducting of offshore oil Atyrau region operations 87 EXPENSES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 2014 2015 2016 Expenses mln KZT $ mln mln KZT $ mln mln KZT $ mln 1 The costs of waste management, the purification of emissions and discharges, total 10,996.7 61.4 7,661.7 34.6 14185.8 41.5 1.1 Waste processing and disposal 4,793.3 26.7 1,858.1 8.4 2,330.6 6.8 1.2 Emission and discharge purification 2,304.9 12.9 2,515.1 11.3 3,778.3 11.0 1.3 Costs for the acquisition and use of emission certificates 450.8 2.5 79.9 0.4 52.6 0.15 Depreciation of the relevant equipment, materials and services necessary for its operation and 1.4 2,430.7 13.6 2,942.9 13.3 7,506.6 22 103-3 maintenance, personnel costs associated with the related activities 1.5 Environmental liability insurance 238.0 1.3 238.0 1.0 365.5 1.1 1.6 Costs for the elimination of environmental damage, including the costs of liquidation of spills 1,079.1 6.0 27.8 0.1 152.1 0.45 2 Investments in prevention of environmental impact and environmental management, total 1,303.4 7.3 1,354.6 6.1 1,394.7 4.08 2.1 Staff training personnel 21.7 0.1 9.7 0.04 246.3 0.7 2.2 External services for the environmental management system 15.1 0.08 11.2 0.05 7.8 0.02 2.3 External certification of management systems 24.9 0.1 38.8 0.2 33.5 0.09 2.4 Personnel for general activities in the field of environmental management 5.3 0.03 4.3 0.02 2.1 0.006 2.5 Research and development 351.5 1.9, 376.1 1.7 263.1 0.76 2.6 Additional costs for the introduction of cleaner technologies 4.2 0.02 6.5 0.03 0.0 0.0 2.7 Additional costs for green procurement 7.6 0.04, 5.1 0.02 6.1 0.01 2.8 Other costs associated with environmental management 873.0 4.9 903.0 4.1 835.6 2.5 88 STAKEHOLDERS FEEDBACK FORM: Please dedicate a few minutes to fulfill our survey on 2016 Sustainability Report. Your Which of the following groups of stakeholders do you belong to? opinion is important to us as we continue to strive to improve our sustainability efforts. Your comments and suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Employee Local community member In which of the following topics are you interested the most? Stakeholder Environment NGO Occupational health and safety Media Employee development Supplier Community relationships Customer Product responsibility Business partner Company’s economic impact Authority representative Corporate Governance & Transparency Other In your opinion what was the level of disclosure of material aspects presented in this report? After reading the 2016 Sustainability Report, has your opinion of KMG Group been influenced at all? Detailed Positively influenced Average Not influenced Not detailed enough Negatively influenced Please specify any topics you would like to see in the 2017 Sustainability Report? Thank you for your cooperation! Your opinion will be taken into account during the preparation for the next Sustainability Report. 89 CONTACT INFORMATION: Joint Stock Company National Company KazMunayGas Contact person: Address: 010000, Astana city, Kabanbay Batyr Avenue 19 Yelena Kuanbayeva Ye.Kuanbayeva@kmg.kz Tel: +7/7172/ 78 61 01 Zhanel Bessembayeva Fax: +7/7172/ 78 60 00 zh.bessembayeva@kmg.kz Website: www.kmg.kz E-mail: sustainability@kmg.kz Reporting team: Project coordinators: 102-3 Date of the report publishing: June 2017 102-53 Yelena Kuanbayeva The previous Sustainability Report was published in 2016 Zhanel Bessembayeva Participants: Alyonov Arman Bakytkyzy Gulvira Beknazarova Raushan Costinela Dragan Salikhova Salima Yessenbekova Karina Yurkavets Xeniya Zhakenova Yerkesh In this report we partly used photographs prepared by the Strategic Communications Agency SUCCESS K by order of JSC NC KazMunayGas for the photo catalogue People of Oil in 2016. Including the portraits of the following employees of JSC NC KazMunayGas : Besenbay Baiguzhiev – Operator of Oil and Gas Production Department (Introduction), Bolatbek Kanatbayev – head of oil and gas treatment at the Kozhasai field (Our approach to Sustainability), Serykkali Myrzashev – head of the Mechanical–Energy service of the Oil and Gas Production Department (Our Environmental impact), Vasily Melnikov – oil and gas preparation Lead Engineer, veteran of the oil and gas industry (Our communities), Pavel Metikov – fitter of control and measuring instruments at the Akshabulak field (Our economic input). Design, Lay-out & Print – KAZAKHSTANIKA National Branding Agency www.kazakhstanika.kz
