MINERVA Capital Partners S.à r.l. 6-8, Op der Ahlkerrech 6776 Grevenmacher Großherzogtum Luxemburg T +352 26728835 F +352 26728872 info@micapa.eu www.micapa.eu R.C.S. Nr.: B-190 566 UID Nr.: LU27476421 Geschäftsführer: Matthias F. ALTIERI Sparkasse Trier Theodor-Heuss-Allee 1, D-54292 Trier IBAN: DE30 5855 0130 0001 0709 11 BIC: TRISDE55XXX BIL, Banque Internationale à Luxembourg SA 69, Route d’Esch, 2953 Luxembourg IBAN LU78 0028 5100 8534 3000 (EUR) IBAN LU08 0025 5100 8534 1500 (USD) BIC: BILLLULL Luxemburg, 14. März 2017 Communication on Progress 2016 (06.04.2015 / 31.12.2016) I am pleased to confirm that MINERVA Capital Partners S.à r.l. (“MINERVA”) reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. I hereby confirm our commitments of our business to continuously respect Human Rights, labour laws, the Environment and Anti-Corruption laws and principles. MINERVA has a clear policy to respect the Ten Principles; we integrate them in our strategy as a point of reference for every decision of our board. We believe that our company has a responsibility to the people working in it, towards the society and the environment surrounds us. MINERVA has a management policy to full respect human rights, against all forms of discrimination and to protect the environment. Our intention is to guarantee that all activities are in full accordance with these policies. Our collaborators (directors, partners, consultants, officers and employees as well as directors, partners, consultants, officers and employees of each subsidiary of MINERVA Capital Partners S.à r.l., including members of its Investment Committee, in each case when and to the extent such individuals are acting for or on behalf of the Company) sign a “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” in order to involve them consciously. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Matthias Altieri Managing Director DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; MINERVA is a company with a direct relationship between collaborators and management. We have a special attention to each person, his potential, abilities and difficulties. Our culture gives a special attention to the values of freedom, equality, rights, non-discrimination sex, religion, in respect of a wider ethical code of values. All of us sign a “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” in order to share this policy. We are a team of twelve members from seven nations with high reputation. We work in harmony and with mutual respect. We have no difficulty in language or cultural integration. MINERVA pays attention to the protection of privacy, to respect of freedom, to protect health and safety of each workers. We adopt a flexible working hours’ system, that helps us in the relationship across time zones. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; The person and the respect of fundamental rights are qualified under the law of the subsidiaries of MINERVA. Our Company is a firm focused on investing in renewable energy power generation and transmission facilities worldwide. We aim to make a positive economic and social impact. We adopt a “Quality Gate” system before investing in a project; we will adopt explicitly the policy of the Ten Principles in our process of investment extending them to our chain of value. In the meanwhile, our Investment Committee considers the Ten Principles as a point of reference for every decision before placing an investment. We don’t admit in any form, and in any subsidiaries, the presence of child labour, discrimination and compulsory labour. If our Company's Audit Committee determines that our Code of Conduct has been violated, the offending counterpart may be disciplined for non-compliance with penalties up to and including removal from office or dismissal. MINERVA Capital Partners S.à r.l. Großherzogtum Luxemburg 2/3 Communication on Progress 2016 (06.04.2015 / 31.12.2016) Luxemburg, 14. März 2017 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our Statute incorporates the respect of environmental. We invest only in renewables energy. In our website we published our “Environment Commitment”. MINERVA is aware of its responsibility. The responsibility towards the environment, responsibility towards current and future generations, and towards ourselves and our economical actions. We know that our actions have a significant impact on our world around us and on our cohabitation. All our holdings ultimately result in the benefit and certainly not in the damage of our environment. Our fundamental decision to invest exclusively in renewable energies serves to achieve these goals. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our Code of Conduct, signed by our officers, cover this Principle. In particular, we promote fair dealing and we do not permit insider trading. The offer or acceptance of cash gifts is prohibited. Our collaborators must discuss with the chief legal officer any gifts or proposed gifts that they think may be inappropriate. We will adopt a procedure in our “Quality Gate” system to ensure that all counterparts support anticorruption and ethical behaviour. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We have not yet adopted the measure of outcomes since our investment actions is not full started. Until 31.03.2016, we did not record the infringement of any Principle and of our Code of Conduct. MINERVA Capital Partners S.à r.l. Großherzogtum Luxemburg 3/3 Communication on Progress 2016 (06.04.2015 / 31.12.2016) Luxemburg, 14. März 2017
