ANNUAL REPORT 2016 AT A GLANCE 1 6 8 10 12 14 Vision, mission and values Chairman's letter CEO's letter Highlights consolidated figures Corporate Governance MANAGEMENT'S REPORT OF 2 ACTIVITIES CONTENT 18 Financial review and analysis 22 Overall business review 30 Maintenance & Engineering 32 Flight Operations CONSOLIDATED 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 36 Consolidated income statement 37 Consolidated income statement of comprehensive income 38 Consolidated balance sheet 39 Consolidated statement of cash flows ANNUAL REPORT 2016 40 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 74 Independent auditor's report 2 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CARGOLUX 78 79 79 80 82 Corporate Social Responsability at Cargolux Progress in 2016 CSR Goals: committed to sustainability Stakeholder engagement and materiality About the company 4 83 Operational safety 84 Ethics and compliance 86 General disclosures 99 About this report 100 Appendix social and environment 102 GRI table 2016 108 Independent and limited assurance report 5 SPANNING THE WORLD 112 European trucking network 114 Destinations route map 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 1 AT A GLANCE VISION, MISSION AND VALUES 1 OUR VISION To be ‘The Global Cargo Carrier of Choice’ OUR MISSION We deliver consistent flexibility and reliability through our valued and dedicated employees creating sustainable benefits for all stakeholders in a safe environment. THE CARGOLUX SPIRIT > Leading by example > Respecting each other > Working as a team > Being dedicated and passionate > Going the extra mile > Being cost efficient ANNUAL REPORT 2016 > Being flexible > Delivering service excellence 6 7 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CHAIRMAN'S LETTER ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8 We will remember 2016 as a year that not only held activities represents a disturbance to the people its own set of economic and operational challenges living close to our home base. For many years already, but also brought the departure of Dirk Reich we have put our efforts into finding an acceptable from Cargolux. In the time he led our company, balance for all interests; efforts that have continued Dirk Reich initiated many changes and pushed for in 2016 and to date through intensive dialogues with an ambitious and successful expansion in China. authorities, the airport operator and the inhabitants The Board of Directors accepted his decision to of the surrounding communities. Especially in regards leave Cargolux for personal reasons. This could have to the noise issue, but also in regards to emissions, presented a potential hurdle for the company but, I believe that we have demonstrated that Cargolux thankfully, we have a more than suitable successor in has actively and continuously worked to mitigate Richard Forson, who accepted the challenge. I want the impact of its operations on the environment and to take this opportunity to thank Dirk Reich for his surrounding communities. contribution to the airline during his tenure and also once more warmly welcome Richard Forson as our To this end, we have, during 2016, concluded our company’s President and CEO. fleet roll-over program with the delivery of our final new 747-8 freighter on order. This aircraft type not The early part of 2017 also saw a change on our only offers lower fuel consumption, engine emissions Board of Directors. Etienne Reuter, who represents and noise than older aircraft, it also represents a the Luxembourg State at Cargolux retired from this significant investment in the quietest freighter aircraft position and was succeeded by Isabelle Goubin, who in its class that significantly helps to enhance the now represents the Luxembourg Ministry of Finance. quality of life around Luxembourg airport. We have My deep thanks go to Etienne Reuter for his valuable also demonstrated that we are willing to discuss and work on behalf of our company and, again, I extend find solutions with the authorities in order to limit my welcome to Isabelle Goubin who, I believe, will be our night activities in Luxembourg as much as we an important asset for our board. can without disrupting our worldwide operation and network. It is a balancing act, but I am confident that On the business side, China remained a focus for there is a common ground that respects the needs Cargolux throughout 2016; we consolidated and and requirements of all concerned. expanded our operations at Zhengzhou, which is now our largest hub in Mainland China. Last year, we flew Our continued environmental efforts were also in excess of 100,000 actual tons of freight into and out recognized, as Cargolux became the first airline of Zhengzhou. All this was possible through the worldwide to be honored with the Lean & Green excellent cooperation with our partners in Henan, award in 2016. Environmental concerns are of especially HNCA, who stood by our decisions and growing importance to many customers and the strategy every step of the way. Once again, I can say that forwarding industry is putting more and more the alliance with HNCA has produced positive results emphasis on working with carriers that understand for both sides and has forged many new friendships. their responsibility in regards to environmental awareness. With a Lean & Green seal of approval, The airport of Zhengzhou has also helped us with a we are very proud to lead the field once more and rapid development of its infrastructure and, in 2016, hope we can encourage others in our industry opened a second runway and a new passenger to follow. terminal capable of handling 20 million passengers. In addition, construction of new cargo handling Let me finish by thanking my fellow colleagues on facilities is planned to commence shortly and a third the Cargolux Board of Directors and the Cargolux runway is expected to become operational in 2019. management and staff, as well as our partners across the globe for their dedicated efforts in keeping Closer to home, Cargolux is preparing for the planned this proud company at the forefront of the industry. runway resurfacing work at Luxembourg airport that In yet another difficult year, we have come out with is scheduled for 2018 and 2019. Throughout 2016, a profit, small as it may be, but a positive result we were in discussions with the authorities and nevertheless, that is due to the hard work, the strong concerned parties, in order to minimize the potential will and the family spirit that the people of Cargolux disruption of our services and flight schedule during once again have shown. the works. The airport will begin its own preparation for the works during 2017. This may lead to closures of the runway from 12.00 pm to 6.00 am on some days of the week. During 2018, when the works commence in full, the runway will be closed from 11.00 pm to 6.00 am on weekdays. It is planned that the runway will be fully available over weekends and also during the winter period which fortunately coincides with the busiest period of our weekly operations and peak Paul Helminger season respectively. As stated, we are already in the process of preparing plans to minimize disruptions to our activities for the period of resurfacing of the runway and upgrade of existing facilities. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 As a good neighbor, Cargolux has long ago accepted its responsibility to limit the impact of its operations on the environment and the surrounding communities at Luxembourg airport as much as possible. We recognize that the noise generated by our 9 CEO'S LETTER It seems that turbulence is the new norm for the air our business at the end of 2016. We need to become cargo industry and 2016 has once again proven the lean and agile and more resilient in an increasingly point. But, despite the difficult business environment volatile industry. In addition, we are also focusing on that prevailed during the first nine months, Cargolux the customer experience of Cargolux. was able to end the year on a positive note with a net profit of US$ 5.5 million. We have commenced an in-depth business process review to implement best practice and lean processes Thankfully, we experienced a very strong fourth whilst making full use of currently available technologies. quarter of which we were able to take full advantage; We have also set up a dedicated innovation laboratory the best peak season in many years that resulted in to monitor and identify changes in technologies, or a significantly positive close to the year for the industry. the way we use technology, that will add value to our business, especially for our customers. Digitalization of In November, Cargolux achieved all-time records data is also being reviewed to enable a much higher in block hours flown, with over 12,000 hours for the level of analysis of information at hand and to produce month, and in tonnage, in excess of 96,000 tons. reports with improved accuracy and relevancy to the During the month, the airline also registered a near day-to-day and strategic decisions we take. record-high daily aircraft utilization of its fleet. With 16:74 block hours per day, it was second only to Cost optimization remains a key focus of the November 2013, when Cargolux freighters flew an organization including introducing a greater degree of average of 16:85 hours per day. flexibility into our cost structure to be better able to respond to changes in developments in global markets. During the year, Cargolux moved up to the number six position in IATA’s Top 25 cargo carriers’ ranking for Investments into our charter business are delivering international scheduled FTKs. It is the highest position results, with a record number of flights in 2016 and we that we have reached in our history and it puts us well on also intend to introduce ACMI offerings to the market the way to being ‘The Global Cargo Carrier of Choice’ that are more adaptable to potential client needs. with a truly global operation with multiple hubs. Although yields continue to remain under pressure These excellent achievements are testament to the we have also introduced measures to address this. strength of Cargolux and the dedicated passion of our employees who deserve special recognition for Through our ‘Connecting Flights’ program we have their effort and hard work, especially during the last created platforms whereby employees can engage quarter. They have enabled the airline to perform all with others, including management at the highest flights as planned and deliver on our service quality level, on a variety of issues in order to further improve promise towards our customers. the family spirit in the organization and to ensure that the voices of all employees are heard and initiatives We have expanded our product portfolio with taken to address issues identified. This will further CV Select and CV Select+ and we have grown our enhance the performance of the business. network with new services to Aguadilla in Puerto Rico, Ashgabat, Rio de Janeiro and Oslo, amongst others. In September 2016, we received our 14th new We have also increased direct services to other 747-8 freighter. With this delivery, we concluded our destinations and now fly flower shipments from South fleet renewal that began in 2005 when we became America directly to Amsterdam. All these network Boeing’s launch customer for the 747-8 program. changes follow our principle to always go where our With 26 aircraft, we now operate the largest fleet in customers want us to go. our history, a fleet that is more efficient, flexible and environmentally-friendly than ever before. We have continued to consolidate our business in China and to establish Cargolux as a significant global We continue to cope with the overcapacity situation brand in that country. Zhengzhou is now solidly on its in the market, driven principally by the introduction way to becoming a major air cargo hub, not least due of available belly space for cargo. Analysts’ reviews to our focus and development of services to that city. indicate that the amount of belly capacity will grow by In 2016, we carried over 100,000 actual tons of freight around 4% to 6% per year, while the expected cargo to and from Zhengzhou, a remarkable achievement volume growth is around 3%. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 that was also made possible by the strong support of our Chinese partners. But, while IATA forecasts a growth of the passenger market of between 4% and 6% per annum, the In order to continue to remain a relevant and competitive question remains how much capacity can be added player in the industry, we initiated a strategic review of before the passenger market itself becomes saturated. 10 That being said, belly capacity itself may not always And, while we welcome transparency in the markets, be in the right position at the right time to satisfy the we also see other potential disruptive forces that needs of the cargo industry. will come to bear on the industry driven principally by the rapid pace of developments in technology However, there is clearly a current oversupply of and artificial intelligence. I believe that the future capacity in the markets, which makes for a more competitive impact for Cargolux will not only be challenging environment for cargo operators that have from other airlines and the above mentioned factors, to achieve a healthy level of sustainable profitability. but also from a completely different set of industries, On the other hand, I also do not believe that it will be e.g. 3D printing and, as a cargo airline, we have to be beneficial for shippers and forwarders if dedicated air agile enough to adapt to change and to be courageous freight operators were to disappear from the market. to take those decisions that ensure we do not get left behind in the way the industry has to develop in the Coming from an extremely busy peak season in 2016, future to remain relevant and competitive. it is difficult to predict how the markets will develop in 2017. While many players seem bullish for the year, Once more I want to thank the worldwide Cargolux I believe that their optimism might be driven by family for their unyielding hard work and support the excellent final quarter of 2016 that, admittedly, that keeps the airline flying high. I also want to give carried some momentum into the New Year. thanks to our shareholders and partners, our Board of Directors and our customers who continue to There has been a modal shift from air freight to sea support us with their loyalty and trust. The success of freight over the years whilst rail freight between Asia Cargolux is truly a team effort and that is exactly the and Europe is an additional competitive challenge. way it should be. Richard Forson ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 HIGHLIGHTS – CONSOLIDATED FIGURES AS AT DECEMBER 31 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total income in US$ ’000 1,754,495 1,861,126 2,154,880 1,988,508 Profit for the year in US$ ’000 5,533 49,479 2,854 7,636 Shareholders’ equity in US$ ’000 838,001 822,996 664,128 482,630 Tonnes sold 964,131 889,652 828,658 753,848 Tonne-kilometers flown (millions) 7,550 6,919 6,364 5,723 Available tonne-kilometers (millions) 11,310 10,499 9,514 8,452 Number of employees worldwide 1,856 1,779 1,710 1,606 Headquarters 1,389 1,335 1,305 1,224 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 12 FLEET 2016 2015 2014 2013 Boeing 7478 Freighter 14 13 11 9 Boeing 747400 Freighter 10 9 8 8 Boeing 747400 BCF 0 2 2 2 Boeing 747400 ERF 2 2 1 1 AIRCRAFT ON ORDER 2016 2015 2014 2013 Boeing 7478 Freighter 0 1 3 4 747-8F CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As at April 26, 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Luxair representatives Cargolux staff representatives Paul Helminger Bettina Faulhaber Chairman of the Board of Cargolux Manager Sales & Marketing, Crew Training Chairman of the Board, Luxair Group Director Director George Karambilas Adrien Ney Captain President and Chief Executive Officer, Luxair Group Director Director Einar Kristjansson Françoise Thoma Captain Executive Vice President, Director Banque et Caisse d’Épargne de l’État Director David Massaro Permanent Delegate, Staff Delegation Tom Weisgerber Director Premier Conseiller de Gouvernement, Ministère du Développement durable Armand Seil et des Infrastructures Permanent Delegate, Staff Delegation Director Director Luxembourg State representative HNCA representatives Etienne Reuter (until 27/01/2017) Huiyuan An (until 09/10/2016) Premier Conseiller de Gouvernement Chairman of Henan Province Airport Group Co.,Ltd Mingchao Zhang BCEE representative Chairman of Henan Civil Aviation Development and Investment Co., Ltd Guy Rosseljong Executive Vice President Shengbo Yuan Member of the Executive Committee, Project Manager of Henan Civil Aviation Development Banque et Caisse d’Epargne de l’Etat and Investment Co., Ltd Director Société Nationale de Crédit et d’Investissement (SNCI) Director (corporate mandate) represented by COMMITTEES OF Patrick Nickels THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Conseiller de Gouvernement 1ère classe Compensation Committee Paul Helminger Etienne Reuter (until 27/01/2017) Françoise Thoma (as of 27/04/2016) ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Audit Committee Françoise Thoma SNCI, represented by Patrick Nickels Tom Weisgerber Mingchao Zhang 14 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Richard Forson Maxim Straus President Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Emese Bekessy Onno Pietersma Lars Syberg Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President HR, Legal Affairs & Compliance Maintenance & Engineering Vice President Global Logistics Nicolaas van der Weide Claude Zehren Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Sales & Marketing Flight Operations SHAREHOLDERS as at December 31, 2016 LUXAIR HNCA (LUXEMBOURG) SÀRL 35.10% 35.00% ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10.91% 10.67% 8.32% BANQUE ET CAISSE SOCIETE NATIONALE LUXEMBOURG D’ÉPARGNE DE L’ÉTAT DE CREDIT ET STATE D’INVESTISSEMENT 15 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT OF 2 ACTIVITIES FINANCIAL REVIEW AND ANALYSIS AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 GENERAL The Cargolux Group achieved a profit in 2016 despite According to IATA’s statistics measured by international market conditions that remained overall difficult. scheduled FTKs, Cargolux’ global market share grew After an impairment of US$ 39.7 million on its fleet, to 3.9% in 2016. the Group recorded a net profit after tax of US$ 5.5 million which is a major achievement, given the very Compared to 2015, average total network commercial depressed market conditions during the first nine net yield (US$/kg) decreased by 27 US cents (-13.5%). months of the year. The Group was able to realize The drop is explained by lower fuel surcharge this turnaround due to an exceptionally strong peak revenues (-17 US cents) due to lower fuel prices and season in Q4. the lower underlying prices achieved (-10 US cents). Despite the prevailing overcapacity in the market, Over the same period, tonnage sold increased to especially from the continuing growth in belly space, 964,131 (+8.4%) across the Cargolux network. the Group grew its tonnage flown and moved up to the sixth place in IATA’s top 20 scheduled cargo carrier ranking. Cargolux is the largest all-cargo airline in Europe. MARKETS AND NETWORK Worldwide markets experienced a steep decline KEY PERFORMANCE after the Chinese New Year and picked up during the last quarter for an unprecedented peak season, INDICATORS the strongest in many years. However, overcapacity and depressed yields remained a constant source of concern for the industry. Nonetheless, the Group Capacity, measured in ATKs, increased managed to grow its tonnage by 8.4% and end the by 7.7% versus 2015, driven by higher year with a net profit of US$ 5.5 million, after impairing Capacity block hours (+6.8%) following the its fleet by US$ 39.7 million. delivery of one new Boeing 747-8 increased by freighter in September 2016 and the In November, the Group achieved all-time records 7.7 % full-year impact of the 2015 deliveries. with over 12,000 block hours flown and in excess of Fleet wide utilization reached a daily 96,000 tonnes sold. During the month, the airline also average of 13:27 hours. In addition to registered a near record-high daily aircraft utilization the added Boeing 747-8 freighter in with 16:74 block hours per aircraft per day. 2016, the Group also leased one further Boeing 747-400 freighter on a power-by-theThe fleet-rollover to the Boeing 747-8 freighter was hour basis (“PBH”), replacing together the two concluded with the delivery of the 14th and last unit BCFs which left the fleet in January and April 2016 on order, LX-VCN, in September 2016. The airline respectively. This brought the total flexible capacity now operates a fleet of 26 Boeing 747 freighters. fleet to five Boeing 747-400 freighter aircraft. The network of the Group was expanded further with At the end of December, the total fleet consisted of new destinations Mumbai, Ashgabat, Rio de Janeiro, seven Boeing 747-400 freighters, fourteen Boeing Oslo and Toulouse. 747-8 freighters (together our ‘core fleet’) and five PBH aircraft (three Boeing 747-400 freighters and two During the year, Cargolux consolidated its presence in Boeing 747-400 extended range freighters). Zhengzhou with the help of its Chinese partners and now operates 16 weekly services between its Henan The Group’s production, measured in FTKs, increased hub and its home base in Luxembourg. Four weekly by 9.1% versus 2015, resulting in a higher load factor transpacific services to and from the United States compared to the previous year. This increase results supplement the airline’s Zhengzhou operation. In ANNUAL REPORT 2016 mainly from a strong peak season. total, the Group carried in excess of 100,000 tonnes of freight to and from Zhengzhou throughout the year. 18 CONSOLIDATION Aircraft maintenance expenses decreased by 3.4% to US$ 82.5 million from US$ 85.4 million due mainly to lower engine overhaul costs on our Boeing 747-400 The Group’s Consolidated accounts compromise, fleet and lower utilization of our flexible fleet, partly in addition to Parent Company accounts, Cargolux offset by a higher utilization of our Boeing 747-8F fleet. RE S.A., a captive reinsurance company, Luxfresh S.A., a Luxembourg based import-export company, Depreciation and impairment increased by 3.6% to Cargolux Italia S.p.A., an Italian all-cargo airline, and an US$ 210.0 million, due mainly to the full-year impact Italian investment company, Italia Aerologistic S.R.L.. of two Boeing 747-8 freighters delivered during the The Company equity accounts its participations in course of 2015 (LX-VCL, LX-VCM) and one Boeing Champ Cargosystems S.A. (49%), 8F Leasing S.A. 747-8F delivered in 2016 (LX-VCN), compounded (33.3%) and a joint venture, Global Aviation Technical by the higher utilization of our own fleet. As already Solutions GB (BVI) Ltd (50%). mentioned, the figure also includes US$ 39.7 million as an impairment charge. Fuel cost decreased by 13.7% to US$ 551.5 million INCOME STATEMENT and represented 32.3% of operating costs. The Group has taken the decision to stop hedging fuel due to the significant decline of fuel prices, the extreme volatility Revenues decreased by 5.8% from US$ 1,856.3 million in the market and the overall efficiency of its own fuel to US$ 1,749.0 million, mainly as a result of the surcharge mechanism. Once this level of efficiency lower level of fuel surcharge revenue received reaches an established trigger level, hedging activities which represented 21.4% of revenues, or US$ will be reconsidered. 374.8 million, down by 24.9% compared to 2015. The Euro weakened versus the US dollar by 3.5% Personnel costs and benefits increased by 5.7% to US$ during 2016 which also had a negative impact on our 250.3 million from US$ 236.9 million. In Euro terms, Euro denominated revenues. the salary of Luxembourg-based staff went up by 3.8% reflecting a headcount increase, promotions and time Other operating income, comprising mainly credits unit increases under its Collective Work Agreement. from third parties, increased by 14.1% to US$ 5.5 million from US$ 4.8 million in 2015. Handling, landing and overflying costs increased by 5.4% to US$ 327.9 million in 2016. Handling Aircraft lease expenses increased by US$ 2.2 million charges went up by 4.3% due mainly to an increase ANNUAL REPORT 2016 (or 5.6%) to US$ 41.4 million. in cycles flown (+5.3%) as well as additional tonnage sold (+8.4%) offset by a slightly weaker Euro. Landing 19 charges increased by 6.2% due mainly to increased BRANCH NETWORK cycles (+5.3%) and a unit rate increase of 1.9%. Overflying cost increased by 6.8% up to 101.2 million in 2016 driven mainly by an increase in cycles flown of +5.3% vs 2015 and a unit rate increase of 1.3%. Trucking, truck handling and interlining costs increased by 5.6% to US$ 125.7 million in 2016. Trucking and truck handling costs increased by 7.3% compared to 34 countries The Group operates worldwide through a network of branches and representative offices in 2015 due to higher tonnage sold (+8.4%), offset by worldwide 34 countries. a slightly weaker Euro. Interlining costs decreased by 32.9%, originating from lower interline production. Other operating expenses, including inter alia GSA commissions, IT services, travel & entertainment, office rental and equipment, legal, audit and consulting OUTLOOK AND fees, other aircraft expenses, telecommunication expenses and net worth tax, decreased by 12.6% RECENT DEVELOPMENTS to US$ 117.9 million due mainly to lower foreign exchange losses, lower anti-trust related expenses and lower consulting expenses. To counter downward pressure on yields, the Group has initiated company-wide measures to improve bottom Financial income increased by 116.5% from US$ 7.1 line profitability. This includes a complete Business million to US$ 15.3 million due mainly to the fair value Process Re-engineering, enhancing automation, gain of the interest rate derivative portfolio. improved customer and yield management, income diversification and a continuing review of cost levels. Financial expenses decreased by 0.9% to US$ 73.0 million due to the reduction of the overall debt level In early 2017, the Group further refined its 5 year in 2016 compared to 2015. business plan reflecting the Group’s strategy for the period 2017-2021. This includes an investment Net finance costs were US$ 57.7 million (2015: US$ in ‘Cargolux China’, Cargolux’ investment in a new 66.6 million). Chinese cargo airline to be based in Zhengzhou. Current tax for the year amounted to a credit of US$ In 2016, all committed credit facilities available to 14.0 million (2015: US$ 23.5 million), which includes Cargolux remained unused. Such committed credit a positive tax value of ITC benefits as a result of a lines amounted in the aggregate to US$ 63.3 million financial transaction involving the Group’s Boeing at year-end 2016. The 2017 budget foresees no 747-8 freighter fleet. breach in the financial covenants ratios. Taking all of the preceding into account, the net profit after The Group continuously monitors the environment for tax was US$ 5.5 million for 2016 (2015: US$ 49.5 million). such risks and in respect of those under our control, has in place existing safeguards, including legal and operational compliance reviews, regular corporate security risk assessments, aircraft maintenance quality BALANCE SHEET programs and IT security measures to protect against unauthorised entry into our systems. The Group’s Aircraft and Third Party Liability insurance coverage Total assets decreased by 1.0% to US$ 3,167.8 million is also in line with industry best practice and satisfies from US$ 3,201.1 million. specific financing contractual obligations. Shareholders’ equity increased by 1.8% to US$ 838.0 As regards instances of events out of our control, million from US$ 823.0 million following the financial such as occurred when volcanic ash clouds disrupted result of 2016 and the change in fair value recognized flight operations, these tend to affect the industry as in equity. a whole and Cargolux would work together with the relevant authorities, including other airlines, to ensure Interest bearing liabilities (including finance leases) the minimum disruption to normal operations. decreased by 2.6% to US$ 1,886.3 million from US$ 1,936.4 million. Cash and cash equivalents and Other investments decreased by 9.0% from US$ 528.8 million to US$ 481.0 million. Net financial gearing amounted to 167.7% (2015: 171.0%) and net adjusted gearing (taking into account the present value of future operating lease payments) ANNUAL REPORT 2016 was 185.4% (2015: 193.5%). 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERALL BUSINESS REVIEW 2016 BUSINESS REVIEW The international air cargo industry remains an extremely volatile environment as 2016 once more 122,575 proved. The year can be categorized in three phases. block hours After a good start, the markets, especially from Asia, went into a steep decline after the Chinese New flown Year, with rates dropping to extremely low levels. They only picked up during the last quarter for an unprecedented peak season, the strongest in many years. However, fierce competition resulting in massive overcapacity and 6.7 % depressed yields remained a constant THE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT source of worry for the industry. Growth rate Given this scenario, Cargolux managed The continuously low level of yields throughout the to perform very well and ended the year year presented a major challenge. It made for an with a profit of US$ 5.5 million while its increasingly difficult environment for all air cargo freight tonne kilometers grew by 8.4%. operators to reach and maintain a sustainable, financially The airline showed a growth rate of 6.7% and viable level of operation. And, while the last quarter again outperformed its competitors and the market. was widely hailed as the strongest season in years, Its worldwide market share reached 3.9%. With this it could not gloss over the fact that overcapacity, achievements, Cargolux moved up two places to the mainly from Gulf airlines who hold massive orders of number six position in IATA’s Top 25 cargo carriers passenger aircraft with increased belly load capability, ranking for international scheduled FTKs; the highest had a negative impact on pure freighter operators. position that the airline has held during its history. That said, Cargolux can be reasonably satisfied with the The extremely good peak season produced all-time year, especially given the results of the peak season. record results for Cargolux. In November 2016, The Hanjin bankruptcy had some effect on air cargo, the airline registered over 12,000 block hours flown but the fourth quarter turn-around mainly resulted from and in excess of 96,000 ton carried. During that month, a number of factors; consumer spending in Europe and the airline also achieved a near record-high daily aircraft the United States was high in the run-up to the holiday utilization with 16:74 block hours per day. Throughout season and demand even continued into 2017. the last quarter, Cargolux registered very strong demand, especially out of China and Hong Kong as Traffic from Europe to Asia and the United States was well as on transpacific routes. The airline operated an strong with good load factors throughout the year. additional 81 Hong Kong flights during the period. The Olympic Games in Brazil helped the South American markets with continued demand after the events. The Cargolux Group, in 2016, carried 964,131 tonnes of freight on its global network. The available tonne Africa suffered from a decline of the oil and gas sector kilometers increased to 11.310 million. The overall while the Middle East performed well. Luxury goods load factor stood at 66.76%. were in high demand; Cargolux moved over 1,000 high-value cars mainly to the Middle East and Asia. With a stable fleet of 26 747 freighters, a mix of 747-400Fs, 747-400BCFs, 747-400ERFs and 747-8Fs, In contrast, the prevailing economic crisis had an the Group flew 122,575 block hours, a substantial impact on airfreight once more, as imports were ANNUAL REPORT 2016 increase over the 114,792 block hours in 2015. affected by the slow traffic during the first nine The average daily aircraft utilization of the combined months of the year. In order to mitigate the effect, 747-400F and 747-8F fleet for the year stood at Cargolux constantly adjusted its schedule and capacity, 13:27 hours. relying on its ability to react flexibly and fast to changing requirements. With the operating costs of 22 Powered by the Customer a European-based airline, Cargolux found it difficult The CV Select duo became an instant hit with Cargolux’s to compete with combination and belly carriers on customers and generated in excess of 2,300 tonnes price, rather, the company concentrated on its charter in 2016. It was especially popular during the last quarter ability and flexible routings, on flight optimization when a significant number of peak season flights carried and its close attention to customers with personalized full loads of CV Select cargo. In addition, the airline has contact, detailed attention and innovative solutions. realized special growth for its CV Alive, CV Pharma, This, and to some extent a flexible pricing policy, CV Jumbo and CV Power products. helped to lessen the negative impact of the economic slowdown somewhat. A bright spot was Cargolux’s investment in China. POWERED BY The operation in Zhengzhou was consolidated and the destination is now the Group’s largest hub in Mainland China, surpassing Shanghai. Flights between In a gesture of gratitude for continued support and Luxembourg and Zhengzhou are complemented by a trustful cooperation, Cargolux has begun to honor four weekly services across the Pacific to Chicago its top customers during 2016 by adding their and back. Supported by its partners at HNCA, the name and logos to the livery of its aircraft with a airline carried over 100,000 tonnes of freight to and ‘Powered By’ slogan. Several Cargolux 747 freighters from Zhengzhou during 2016, a significant achieve­ sport the added branding of a major customer ment that underlines the success of its China business. along with the familiar, distinctive Cargolux colors. In total, the Cargolux Group operates 24 weekly flights Cargolux underlines the importance of its successful longfrom Europe to Mainland China. term relationships with the world’s freight forwarders who play an important role in the global supply chains and who continue to power Cargolux’s success. SUCCESSFUL PRODUCTS More company names will appear on additional members of the fleet in the future. Cargolux had named 2016 the ‘Year of the Customer’ and focused its efforts With the introduction of its extensive product portfolio and energy on what its partners in the industry require in 2015, Cargolux laid the foundation for enhanced as well as offering perfect solutions for their needs. customer service that builds on the personal attention, experience and dedication of the Cargolux team. The Global Product Management was introduced as a centralized unit within Cargolux Sales & Marketing to connect between commercial expectations and operational capabilities. In 2016, the product portfolio was expanded with the introduction CV Select and CV Select+, two features that act as an additional layer in combination with any of the eight existing products and can be added with the ‘product speed’ feature while booking. The two additions present customers with a number ANNUAL REPORT 2016 of unique advantages. CV Select features preferred access to premium capacity and booking commitment, while CV Select+ adds to that vastly reduced cut off times of only 30 minutes before departure that customers’ shipments can arrive at the airport. 23 45 years NETWORK of excellence Given the difficult economic Against this backdrop, Cargolux in the Americas climate across the globe, Cargolux achieved significant accomplishments. The airline consolidated its freighter network with focus on not only successfully protected its market share in demand and profitability. After more than 45 years in several key Americas markets, but it was the number existence, the airline operates an extensive worldwide one cargo carrier in the U.S. during December 2016 network that connects with every important industrial and placed third in 2016 overall. This translated to a and trade center worldwide. Still, Cargolux keeps looking market share improvement to 5.1% from the United for additional opportunities and will react to any viable States to all worldwide destinations. In essence, customer request for services. Cargolux outperformed its competitors and was one of only a few top carriers to avoid a reduction While some existing destinations saw increased services, in tonnage. Furthermore, while pressure on yields a number of new scheduled and charter destinations intensified, Cargolux was able to maintain positive were opened during 2016; these include Tokyo, yield differentials. Particularly strong performances Ashgabat, Rio de Janeiro, Toulouse, Montevideo and in Chicago, Los Angeles, Columbus, Puerto Rico and Salalah in Oman. Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, was also Guadalajara helped to mitigate a year of disappointing added, driven by demand for pharma shipments. demand and excess capacity. Traffic from Hong Kong to the United States increased Due to limited opportunities to expand its footprint in while the company registered more requests to the Americas, Cargolux focused on the improvement Zhengzhou. Some African destinations were important of commercial and operational efficiencies in markets as a source of high quality revenues. In addition, with an established presence. With an emphasis on Cargolux saw an increase in requests for block space providing value-added solutions, Cargolux launched agreements, especially out of Hong Kong. a direct, once-weekly service from New York to Oslo in November. This service provides additional capacity The airline’s decision to operate flexible aircraft capacity for the Scandinavian market with onward trucking as a service to the customer was widely appreciated services offered from Oslo. In addition, Cargolux and accepted by the market; it enabled the efficient expanded its extensive product portfolio with the running of the network throughout 2016. The airline introduction of its new, capacity-guaranteed services, underlines that its network policy builds on the CV Select and CV Select+. commitment to always go where the customer needs it to go which, in turn, remains a major factor in the Cargolux managed a capacity increase of nearly 8% network development and expansion planning. from the Americas by year-end. Its flight schedule consists of 40 weekly flights, 35 in North America and 5 in Latin America. As a major supplier of capacity from the North American market, Cargolux offers service FROM THE AREAS from 14 origins: Atlanta, Calgary, Chicago, Columbus (Rickenbacker), Dallas, Guadalajara, Houston, Huntsville, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Miami, New York Area 1 – The Americas and Seattle. Cargolux is currently providing scheduled service from seven origins in Latin America: Aguadilla, The combined impact of the adverse dynamics that Bogota, Curitiba, Latacunga, Manaus, Petrolina, and plagued the air cargo industry for years continued São Paulo. to dampen expansion potential in 2016. As in other parts of the world, overcapacity put pressure on rates The importance of the Latin American market remained as passenger carriers operate bigger aircraft in the undiminished in 2016, even as demand contracted in 777/A330/A350 category with more cargo payload. several key markets. Similar to the North American Additionally, a strengthened US dollar, which, in turn, performance, Cargolux was able to improve its market diminished American export potential and an oil share despite the slowdown in demand. Efficiencies in industry that, in early 2016, finally bottomed out, commercial efforts and route management lessened had a negative impact. As mentioned, supply the impact of these challenges. versus demand continued its unfavorable trend where capacity growth, at 5.3%, outpaced growth The Latin American region continued to be tested in demand in 2016 against 2015. Together, these economically as well as geopolitically on several were among the contributing factors that negatively fronts, however, Cargolux again was able to maintain influenced air cargo at many key export markets. its market share. In Puerto Rico, pharmaceuticals illustrated healthy growth with an increase of 8%. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 24 The Andean region had its own set of challenges, led by continuously suppressed demand for its flowers by local markets in Russia. No country demonstrated this more than Ecuador, which experienced a 7% decline in demand, though Cargolux, in contrast, again managed to improve its market share there. Demand in Colombia remained consistent, as the drop was less sharp. Collectively, the Americas produced 174,469 tonnes, an increase of 6.9% over 2015. Area 2 – Europe, Middle East, Central Asia and Africa Europe, once again, proved to be the backbone of Cargolux’s operation. For the seventh consecutive year, the area, excluding Africa, recorded growth and achieved an increase in tonnage of 7.5%. With 437,020 tonnes carried, the airline could significantly expand its business in key European markets and ranks as the second largest cargo carrier in Germany, France and Austria, outperforming the national carriers of these countries in growth. The Cargolux Group remains the largest cargo carrier in Italy. At home in Luxembourg, Cargolux continues its reign as the number one carrier with a market share in excess of 80%. However, despite the growth in tonnage and the introduction of premium products, such as CV Select, the pressure on yields resulted in a slight overall decline in Area 2 revenues of 1.5%. In the United Kingdom, Cargolux grew its tonnage by 6.3%, despite the uncertainty over the Brexit proceedings. The airline moved more than 1,000 cars during 2016, as well as a large number of aircraft engines. Despite increased competition from passenger carriers, especially in London, the airline was able to exceed its 2015 numbers. In Ireland, Cargolux grew by 23.2%. During 2016, volumes from Europe to Asia were especially strong with high export traffic to destinations such as Taipei, Singapore or Bangkok. The airline also registered an increase in demand to the United States. Developments in Zhengzhou remained a focus during Area 3 – Asia Pacific the year. Business in Zhengzhou also benefitted from additional charters as Hong Kong implemented a new 2016 was a special year for both, Cargolux Asia air traffic control system that, for a time, restricted Pacific and the general airfreight environment in access to additional slots during the peak season. the region. As in other parts of the world, market demand was quite gloomy and overcapacity, as well The Group introduced its first commercial stop in as stiff competition, continued to challenge Cargolux Russia with Cargolux Italia’s service to Novosibirsk in Asia. While Mainland China and Hong Kong were and launched flights to Oslo from New York and on very strong, South East Asia gave cause for worries to Luxembourg. On the Oslo Luxembourg sector, as markets there remained flat. Asia, in general, Cargolux offers Norwegian salmon shippers direct is an area dictated by demand with lots of fluctuations connections to its vast network, giving them the that clearly shows how vulnerable these markets can opportunity to benefit from the airline’s long-standing be. Especially in South East Asia, the airline registers expertise in cool chain transports and its dedicated stronger import than export demand. CV Fresh product offering. Nevertheless, Cargolux expanded its network and Pharma traffic registered continued growth, even as services, adding a service to Ho Chi Minh City in more competitors entered the market. Cargolux operates Vietnam in April 2016, thus increasing its weekly from an excellent, dedicated healthcare facility in frequencies from two to three. Luxembourg that enables the company to offer a superior product with CV Pharma and holds the Cargolux Italia added a third service between Zhengzhou potential to further grow this segment in 2017. and Milan Malpensa, while Cargolux Airlines added On the downside, the airline notes that more shippers another Zhengzhou-Luxembourg flight in September shift some pharma traffic to sea freight or fly them as 2016. The airline also introduced a fourth flight from general cargo instead of benefitting from the expertise Taipei to Luxembourg via Mumbai, India, in October and handling that a dedicated product offers. 2016. This service can also carry fifth freedom traffic between Taipei and Mumbai. Despite fierce competition in the Middle East, Cargolux was able to increase its flight frequencies At present, the Cargolux Group operates 52 scheduled and maintained a good market share. Perishable weekly flights out of the Asia Pacific region. traffic was in high demand and markets such as Kuwait developed rapidly. Services to India suffered The last quarter represents the peak season for the from very low rates; even though the Cargolux flights air cargo industry and Cargolux Asia Pacific saw an carried full loads, it became difficult to operate turnunprecedented surge in demand. While the airline around freighter services on a financially viable or had to cope with a number of hurdles, including slot sustainable basis. Cargolux now serves India as part restrictions in Hong Kong and Shanghai, the company of its Far East network. operated close to 90 additional frequencies from Asia to both Europe and the United States; these While Africa continued to suffer from a decline in oil mainly originated in Hong Kong and Zhengzhou. This and gas traffic that also affected Cargolux’s services compares with 63 additional flights operated during to and from Houston and Dallas, the continent the 2015 peak season. produced good results and is expected to remain stable in the first half of 2017. Overall, Cargolux saw In 2016, Cargolux Area 3 produced a total of 295,031 healthy growth in African markets of 8% in tonnage tonnes of cargo, an almost 13% increase over 2015. and 3.1% in revenues during 2016, but imports into Africa continue to outgrow exports which could pose a problem in the future. As in other markets, Africa suffered from significant pressure on yields due to overcapacity. Nevertheless, the airline registered exceptional export growth in Lagos and Bamako. Other growth markets included Ouagadougou, Cairo and Nairobi. The lack of modern infrastructures keeps challenging manufacturing and, while the automotive industry in South Africa is relatively stable, the company sees suppliers increasingly moving to Asia or Eastern Europe, where a better infrastructure and lower costs present more attractive options. However, Cargolux still sees opportunities and growth potential, especially in East and West Africa. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 26 CARGOLUX ITALIA Cargolux Italia had a successful year that saw the Italian Elsewhere in Asia, Cargolux Italia operated four weekly part of the Cargolux Group consolidate its position as frequencies to Hong Kong, three via Japan and one the number one cargo carrier in Italy, with a market via Dubai. The operation to Japan consolidated the share of 14.5%, and as the largest cargo operator at successful development of the commercial agreement Milan airport. with Nippon Cargo Airlines from 2015 that allows Cargolux Italia’s flights to Tokyo Narita. After having doubled its aircraft fleet in 2015, Cargolux Italia, in 2016, focused on stabilizing its performance On routes to the United States, the airline served New from an operational and management perspective, York JFK with two weekly flights. Throughout the year, strengthening the company’s standing as the first Cargolux Italia continued its operation for Cargolux choice in air cargo for Italian forwarders. Airlines to all African destinations while also providing capacity to other points. The fleet of four 747-400 freighters saw intensive employment but also went through a heavy maintenance The airline registered the strongest growth in markets schedule with three D-Checks LX-RCV between January such as New York, with 55%; Tokyo, with 37% and and February, LX-YCV between June and July and Dubai, with 82%. LX-TCV between July and August and one C-Check on LX-OCV between May and June. In total, Cargolux Italia carried 78,000 tonnes of freight, 10% more than in 2015, and produced 574,947 freight Nevertheless, the airline flew a total of 19,224 block tonne kilometers, an increase of 25.63% over the hours, an increase of 17.34% compared to the previous previous year. year, and grew its load factor by 1.2 percentage points. Block hours include flights that Cargolux Italy performed for Cargolux Airlines as well as flights across its own network. In March, Cargolux Italia obtained its dangerous goods air transport permit from the Chinese authorities at CAAC, which significantly enhanced the company’s commercial flexibility. The airline expanded its schedule to China with the introduction of a third weekly flight to Zhengzhou in September, thus increasing capacity and offering expanded services for its customers from its Chinese hub. This now also includes the possibility to access other interior destinations such as Shanghai, Dalian, Ningbo and Chin Tao. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 STRONG CHARTER OPPORTUNITIES 2017 OUTLOOK Coming from a record year in charter demand that Going back to September 2016, customers had a was boosted by exceptional circumstances, such gloomier outlook on business in 2017. That changed as the extended US West Coast port strikes in early after the unexpectedly strong peak season and, 2015, Cargolux anticipated a slowdown in activities without saying that suddenly everything is overly for 2016. And while demand, as expected, declined positive, there is more optimism in the markets in early to a certain extent over 2015, charter activities in 2017, with growth anticipated to reach 2.5% to 3%. 2016 still comfortably exceeded those of earlier years. The airline operated over 160 charter flights, added At the same time, it is noteworthy, that the industry more charter sectors and ended the year with a good is working in an increasingly shorter time frame. profit from its charter activities. Given the unpredictability and volatility of the markets, as well as shaky economic developments, long term Just like the rest of the industry, charter demand went views are no longer possible. In addition, political through three phases in 2016. After a reasonably good developments in several key world markets and its start to the year, the business recorded mixed results uncertain effects on trade give cause for caution. after the Chinese New Year and went into overdrive in October. November 2016 brought unprecedented One area that shows promise is consumer electronics record performances for Cargolux, aided significantly where Cargolux sees potential, albeit only temporary, as by charter traffic as the airline operated 43 additional companies such as Apple are introducing new products. flights during that month alone. Equaling 1.5 charter flights per day, it represents a remarkable achievement Question marks linger on the overcapacity situation for Cargolux’s charter team. and the yield development. The outlook in early 2017 is cautiously positive, though; for Cargolux, the glass Healthy demand in December rounded up a successful remains half full. fourth quarter that continued into early 2017. 2016 was a year of transition and expansion for the Charter Department. The team was reinforced with additional specialists and grew from three to eight persons, including one in Houston and one in Hong Kong, thus taking the coverage to a global level. It enables the team to offer an enhanced customer service, shorter response times and round-the-clock availability during weekdays with a standby desk on weekends. The expanded team also enables the introduction of Cargolux’s ACMI service in the coming years and an expansion of the charter product portfolio. Customers have repeatedly shown their appreciation for the fact that Cargolux has the ability to reliably serve their short-term charter requirements whenever necessary. To that end, Cargolux operates a number of aircraft on a power-by-the-hour basis that offer flexible capacity dedicated to charter demand, maintenance coverage and high season traffic, as well as a foundation for the build-up of ACMI services. Throughout the year, the airline has strongly benefitted from this flexible capacity that enabled it to perform the high number of extra flights as a positive contribution to its business. Building up on these assets, Cargolux believes that its charter business in 2017 has the potential to perform even better than in the record year of 2015. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 29 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MAINTENANCE & ENGINEERING HI-TECH SUPPORT FOR A SOPHISTICATED FLEET INNOVATION The Maintenance & Engineering Division (M&E) of Supported by the division’s project management Cargolux continues to enjoy an excellent reputation structure, Cargolux M&E continues to develop its as a provider of high quality maintenance services for capabilities and implements innovative tools in areas the Cargolux Group as well as third party customers. such as airplane health management, digital aircraft The division guarantees the technical reliability and records, environmentally-friendly aircraft cleaning and safe operation of the advanced 747 freighter fleet for design solutions. both, Cargolux Airlines and Cargolux Italia. Cargolux M&E has also partnered with local research In 2016, Cargolux Airlines concluded its fleet rollover institutions on a project for aircraft inspections with program with the delivery of one more 747-8F, taking drones as well as data analytics, with the objective to the total to 14 units of Boeing’s next-generation freighter. make maximum use of data generated by the aircraft Cargolux and Cargolux Italia operated a mixed fleet and its engines to facilitate optimized maintenance of 747-8F, 747-400F, 747-400ERF and 747-400BCF. processes and to perform predictive maintenance. Two 747-400BCFs left the fleet while another 747-400F was leased-in. This kept the combined fleet at 26 aircraft. RECORD UTILIZATION HANGAR MAINTENANCE Cargolux is a leading operator of Boeing’s 747-8 During 2016, the maintenance team performed 98 freighter and routinely achieves a record-high utilization A-Checks against 109 in 2015, as well as 8 C-Checks. of its fleet. The airline’s M&E division has gained a deep The lower number of A-Checks is the result of increased knowledge and extensive experience in all maintenance A-Check intervals that were achieved through detailed processes of the 747-8 freighter, giving the company analysis of maintenance and reliability data. On the a distinct competitive advantage that also benefits a 747-400F, the reduction of A-checks is the combination range of 747 operators that rely on Cargolux’s innovative of a slightly lower utilization of the aircraft type, a better technical solutions and broad range of sophisticated utilization of the A-check intervals and one additional technical services. D-check. Three D-Checks on 747-400 freighters were outsourced. The operational activity of the M&E division grew in line with a 6.6% increase in flight hours compared During 2016, Cargolux employed an average of to 2015. In view of this challenge, M&E was able to 446 maintenance staff, who produced 510,000 man keep the schedule reliability on a high level, similar to hours, in line with the previous year. 2015, with an average dispatch rate of 97.7% for the 747-8F and 97.5% for the 747-400F. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 30 SERVING THE CUSTOMER An increasing number of carriers join the ranks of satisfied Cargolux M&E customers who benefit from the airline’s proven service and high quality of maintenance work. In 2016, the Cargolux M&E team maintained the aircraft of Silkway Airways, Silkway Italia, Air Bridge Cargo, Atlas Air, Corsair, Air Atlanta, Wamos Air and Air Cargo Global. Throughout the year, M&E also proved that it can react swiftly and flexibly, when it performed substantial ad-hoc work for a number of contractual and noncontractual customers on a time and material basis. Moreover, Cargolux continued to grow its customer base in the area of component repairs, notably for repairs of cargo power drive units. Throughout the year, Cargolux M&E performed 27 A-Checks and 2 C-Checks on customer aircraft while revenue from all third-party work reached US$ 19.1 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 FLIGHT OPERATIONS 2016 was a busy year for Flight Operations that not to be a valid and important tool that, for the first time only saw the completion of the airline’s fleet roll-over ever, not only looks at scheduled work hours but also program but also a change of guard at the helm when takes into account the individual body clock of pilots. Jason Holt decided to leave Cargolux and move on to a new opportunity in August. He was replaced by Cargolux also introduced a fatigue response system; Claude Zehren who has been with Cargolux for more such a system is not mandatory but the company felt than 18 years. it is necessary for the health and safety of its crews and operation. The airline now not only plans crew The fleet renewal was concluded in October with rosters in respect of avoiding fatigue situations but the delivery of 747-8F, LX-VCN, the last of 14 747-8 also considers whether previous rosters might lead to freighters on order from Boeing. During the year, two a fatigue risk. The system also incorporates day-toleased-in aircraft left the fleet while one additional day developments, such as roster changes, that could 747-400F on lease joined Cargolux, keeping the fleet have a negative impact. size steady at 26 aircraft. This number includes four 747-400F that operate for Cargolux Italia. Responding to requests from its pilots who had indicated that the previous part-time offer did not fully While the fleet was not expanded, its utilization meet their demands, Cargolux, in 2016, introduced grew significantly during 2016. The combined fleet the possibility of permanent part-time. In total, of the Cargolux Group flew 122,575 block hours on 63 pilots decided to accept the permanent part-time 21,296 network sectors against 114,792 block hours offer that fully started with the first roster of 2017. on 20,223 sectors in 2015. Throughout the year, Throughout the year, Cargolux continued its effort to the company flew 4,424 rotations out of its hub at increase the quality of life of its pilot community by Luxembourg airport, slightly more than the 4,301 improving planning stability of time away from work. rotations flown in 2015. The high season in 2016 turned out to be exceptionally As a large freighter operator, Cargolux routinely good for Cargolux, but the massive amount of demand, records one of the highest daily aircraft utilization rates coupled with an expansion of the airline’s regular in the industry. In 2016, the daily aircraft utilization network throughout the year, not only brought of the combined 747-400F and 747-8F fleet reached new records in flight numbers, tonnage and aircraft 13:27 hours; the daily utilization rate of the 747-8F utilization, but also increased pressure and workload alone grew to 15:41 hours. for Flight Operations. A big thank you must go to the Flight Operations staff as well as the crews for their The punctuality performance in 2016 improved over passion, dedication and relentless efforts that enabled the previous year and reached 53% of all flights Cargolux to operate a very demanding schedule with leaving within 60 minutes. While airport curfews are minimal disruptions. among the main reasons for delays, special shipments with sophisticated handling requirements are also As cost minimization becomes increasingly important, causes for late flights. Flight Operations continued to analyze areas of potential savings. The Cargolux Fuel Efficiency Round Table Cargolux hired 56 new pilots during 2016, while 34 was introduced with encouraging results. In 2016, pilots left the company. This includes a large number the initiative saved over US$ 1 million in fuel costs of pilots employed by Lufthansa Cityline who flew at Flight Operations alone. This translates to 2,031 for Cargolux on a fixed-term contract. At the end tons of fuel that were saved, which also reduced the of 2016, Cargolux counted 463 pilots, 230 of which fleet’s CO2 emission by 6,398 tons. were Captains and 233 First Officers. The savings became possible through operational The selection process for new pilots was adapted measures such as different flap settings, lower APU use ANNUAL REPORT 2016 and streamlined which led to a much shorter process or three-engine taxiing after landing. Other measures, duration, thus becoming more flexible and efficient. such as the introduction of the electronic flight bag, helped to reduce weight by eliminating paper maps In late 2015, Cargolux introduced the European and introducing electronic maps in the cockpit. Aviation Safety Agency’s (EASA) flight time limitation Additional initiatives are planned in the coming year rules (FTL) ahead of its February 2016 deadline. After that are expected to yield even higher savings. its first full year in operation, the EASA FTL has proven 32 For 2017, the fleet will remain constant, at the Together, both simulators recorded a utilization of same time, Cargolux expects to hire 40 new pilots. 61%, or 10,490:16 hours in 2016. Of these, 6,480 The year will also see the implementation of a new hours were flown by Cargolux crews and 3,511 hours flight planning software that allows to operate more by external customer crews, including Cargolux Italia. cost-effective while retaining the company’s high safety Based on a 24-hour cycle, the 747-400 simulator standards. This system is the centerpiece of Cargolux was utilized for 67% of the time while the B747-8 Simulator had a slightly lower utilization rate of 56%. Flight Operations; the complete implementation will last into 2018, with first modules available in 2017. In cooperation with Boeing and EASA, the Cargolux Its introduction will be coordinated by a newly-formed Flight Academy conducted the very first transition project office and also introduces changes in electronic courses from the 747-400 to the 747-8; this led flight folders, flight plans, fuel slips and load sheets. to an approved footprint for all such courses at other suppliers. During 2016, 62 pilots went through the Flight CARGOLUX FLIGHT ACADEMY Academy’s Course A, 56 of those were Cargolux pilots. In addition, 1 pilot went through Course C while 26 passed through a Command Course during their Following regulatory changes and new requirements promotion to Captain. set forth by EASA, Cargolux restructured its crew training organization and created the Cargolux The airline’s Flight Academy is the only approved Flight Academy. The new organization was set up as training organization worldwide to offer 747 line a profit center that not only fulfills the pilot training training to third-party pilots. It also markets the capacity requirements of the Cargolux Group, but also markets of Luxair’s new cabin training simulator to third parties. crew training capacity to third-party customers. In contrast to other providers who mainly employ retired pilots, Cargolux’s trainers are active line pilots with an average of 15,000 flight hours and way over 20 years of 747 experience at Cargolux under their belt. In addition, as cargo pilots, Cargolux trainers are versed in operating to demanding and difficult airfields in remote or less than ideal locations that passenger airlines usually don’t fly to. When launch customer Cargolux introduced the Boeing 747-8F, it also introduced the world’s first 747-8F simulator and has since converted it to Level D status, the highest possible qualification. Cargolux, today, employs one of only four advanced 747-8 training units worldwide. Both Cargolux simulators, the 747-400F and 747-8F, are equipped with state-of-the-art visuals. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 3 STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF CARGOLUX AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL S.A. CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended December 31, 2016 In thousands of U.S. Dollar NOTES 2016 2015 Revenues 6 1,748,982 1,856,296 Other operating income 7 5,513 4,830 Aircraft lease expenses 8 (41,370) (39,164) Aircraft maintenance expenses 9 (82,502) (85,376) Depreciation and impairment 14 (210,035) (202,767) Fuel (551,471) (639,270) Personnel costs and benefits 10 (250,317) (236,860) Handling, landing and overflying (327,862) (311,093) Trucking, truck handling and interlining (125,695) (118,988) Other operating expenses 11 (117,927) (134,999) Operating profit before financing costs 47,316 92,609 Financial income 15,298 7,067 Financial expenses (72,972) (73,668) Net finance costs 12 (57,674) (66,601) Share of profit / (loss) of associates and joint ventures 1,851 (27) Profit / (Loss) before tax (8,507) 25,981 Current tax 13 14,040 23,498 Deferred tax 13 Profit for the year 5,533 49,479 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Parent 5,533 49,479 Non-controlling interests Profit for the year 5,533 49,479 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The notes on page 42 to 73 are an integral part of these financial statements. 36 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended December 31, 2016 In thousands of U.S. Dollar NOTES 2016 2015 Profit for the year 5,533 49,479 Other comprehensive income Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit liability / (asset) 22 (539) 1,066 Related tax 13 141 (311) (398) 755 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 5 / 12 16,029 15,790 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit 5 / 12 (3) (9) or loss Income tax on other comprehensive income 12 / 13 (5,582) (4,611) Currency translation adjustment (574) (2,536) 9,870 8,634 Other comprehensive income for the year, 9,472 9,389 net of income tax Total comprehensive income for the year 15,005 58,868 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Parent 15,005 58,868 Non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income for the year 15,005 58,868 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The notes on page 42 to 73 are an integral part of these financial statements. 37 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET As at December 31, 2016 In thousands of U.S. Dollar NOTES 2016 2015 Assets Aircraft and equipment 14 2,118,428 2,127,508 Other property, plant and equipment 14 81,686 63,948 Derivative assets 13,804 6,949 Investments in associates and joint ventures 15 75,314 68,970 Deposits with third parties 14 36,539 39,645 Deferred tax assets 16 43,487 49,017 Total non-current assets 2,369,258 2,356,037 Expendable parts and supplies 23,147 21,259 Trade receivables and other receivables 17 294,379 294,969 Other investments 18 99,373 69,127 Cash and cash equivalents 19 381,607 459,687 Total current assets 798,506 845,042 Total assets 3,167,764 3,201,079 Equity Issued capital 525,007 525,007 Share premium 5,846 5,846 Reserves 252,322 225,953 Retained earnings 49,293 16,711 Profit for the year 5,533 49,479 Equity 20 838,001 822,996 Non-controlling interest Total equity 838,001 822,996 Liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 90,711 99,475 Finance lease liabilities 21 1,547,831 1,598,050 Employee benefits 22 7,951 7,629 Other payables 24 9,378 8,648 Derivative liabilities 23,787 35,849 Provisions 23 95,424 93,277 Total non-current liabilities 1,775,082 1,842,928 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 6,666 6,430 Finance lease liabilities 21 241,130 232,453 Trade payables and other payables 24 279,202 259,799 Provisions 23 13,210 17,168 Taxes payable 14,473 19,305 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Total current liabilities 554,681 535,155 Total liabilities 2,329,763 2,378,083 Total equity and liabilities 3,167,764 3,201,079 The notes on page 42 to 73 are an integral part of these financial statements. 38 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended December 31, 2016 In thousands of U.S. Dollar NOTES 2016 2015 Cash flow from operating activities Profit for the year 5,533 49,479 Adjustments for Depreciation and impairment 14 210,035 202,767 Unrealized foreign exchange gains (20,694) (14,933) Net finance costs 12 57,674 66,601 Share of profit of associates and joint venture (1,851) 27 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 7 1,242 514 Fuel hedging 5 134 Change in provisions 23 5,564 4,373 Tax expenses 11 / 13 (11,864) (19,917) Use of provisions 23 (1,846) (17,517) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 243,793 271,528 Changes in working capital 27,080 12,819 Cash generated from the operations 270,873 284,347 Income tax paid (6,716) (6,249) Benefits of tax credits 13,269 22,823 Interest paid (60,134) (61,963) Net cash from operating activities 217,292 238,958 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 14 (122,220) (40,313) Acquisition of other investments (53,379) (30,350) Loans granted to associates (3,323) (3,388) Dividends from associates 119 77 Interest received 3,550 3,412 Reimbursement of advance payments 45,987 50,880 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 204 400 Proceeds from sale of other investments 23,464 69,401 Deposits with third parties (975) (1,200) Net cash from / (used in) investing activities (106,573) 48,919 Cash flow from financing activities Repayment of borrowings (6,383) (67,469) Repayment of finance lease liabilities (235,833) (192,997) Proceeds from borrowings 41,319 111,907 Net cash used in financing activities (200,897) (148,559) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (90,178) 139,318 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 459,687 306,046 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 12,098 14,323 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 19 381,607 459,687 The notes on page 42 to 73 are an integral part of these financial statements. 39 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended December 31, 2016 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Issued Share Non Free capital premium distributable reserve reserve BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014 425,007 5,846 87,102 176,570 Transactions with owners Allocation to free reserve (18,600) 18,600 Capital increase through conversion of bonds (note 20) 100,000 Total comprehensive income Profit for 2015 Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015 525,007 5,846 68,502 195,170 Transactions with owners Allocation to legal reserve 16,499 Total comprehensive income Profit for 2016 Total other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 525,007 5,846 85,001 195,170 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The notes on page 42 to 73 are an integral part of these financial statements. 40 Currency Hedging Total Retained Total Non-controlling Total translation reserve reserves earnings equity interest equity reserve (2,621) (43,732) 217,319 15,956 664,128 664,128 100,000 100,000 49,479 49,479 49,479 (2,536) 11,170 8,634 755 9,389 9,389 (2,536) 11,170 8,634 50,234 58,868 58,868 (5,157) (32,562) 225,953 66,190 822,996 822,996 16,499 (16,499) 5,533 5,533 5,533 (574) 10,444 9,870 (398) 9,472 9,472 (574) 10,444 9,870 5,135 15,005 15,005 (5,731) (22,118) 252,322 54,826 838,001 838,001 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. REPORTING ENTITY 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION The parent company, Cargolux Airlines International S.A. (a) Statement of compliance (the Company or “Cargolux”), was incorporated on March 4, 1970 and is registered as a société anonyme The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. under International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as adopted by the EU (the “financial statements”). The registered address of the Company is Aéroport de Luxembourg, L-2990 Sandweiler, Grand-Duchy The Board of Directors approved the financial statements of Luxembourg and the registration number is R.C. for the year ended December 31, 2016 on March 22, Luxembourg B 008.916. 2017 and authorized the publication of said financial statements on April 26, 2017, following confirmation by The Company is an all cargo airline. It also maintains its the shareholders thereof on that date. own aircraft and provides third party maintenance and flight operations assistance (including crew training) to third parties at its Luxembourg headquarters. (b) Basis of measurement As at the balance sheet date, operations outside of Luxembourg that relate to the Company's business The financial statements have been prepared on the activities are conducted solely under branch and historical cost basis except for the following material representative offices, except for Italy, where Cargolux items in the financial statements: mainly conducts its business through its subsidiary Cargolux Italia S.p.A., an all cargo airline based in derivative financial instruments are measured at Milan. As at the balance sheet date the Company fair value operated its business through branches and representative offices in 34 countries. the defined benefit liability is recognized as the net total of: fair value of plan assets plus service The consolidated financial statements of the Company cost, actuarial losses minus actuarial gains and the for the year ended December 31, 2016, comprise present value of the defined benefit obligation. the Company and its subsidiaries, Cargolux RE S.A., Cargolux Italia S.p.A., Italia Aerologistics S.R.L. and Luxfresh S.A. (together referred to as the “Group”) (c) Going concern and the Group’s interest in joint ventures and associates. The Company believes that the operating cash flows and the credit facilities in place secure the liquidity needs of the Group for the foreseeable future and at least 12 months from the date of issuance of these financial statements (see notes 5 (e) and 21). Consequently, the financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the assumption of the Group’s ability to operate as a going concern. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 42 (d) Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States Dollar (“US dollar” or “US$”) which is also the functional currency of the Company. US dollars are rounded to the nearest thousand. (e) Use of estimates and judgments The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and related assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors. These estimates and related assumptions are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances and on their basis judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities that cannot readily be derived from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are given effect in the period during which the estimate was revised and in any future periods affected. Judgments and estimates made by management in the application of IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements are discussed in note 29. (f) Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements. In addition, certain comparative amounts in the financial statements and in the notes thereto have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. 3. SIGNIFICANT expressed in the functional currency at the beginning of the period and the value of the item expressed in ACCOUNTING POLICIES functional currency at the end of the period, using for translation purposes the exchange rate prevailing at the end of each relevant date. The year-end value (a) Basis of consolidation reflects, if and as applicable, amortization, payments and interest accruals effected during the year. Non(i) Subsidiaries monetary assets and liabilities that are stated at historical cost less amortization are translated into Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. the functional currency using the exchange rate at The Group controls an entity when it is ex posed to, the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and or has right to, variable returns from its involvement liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns stated at fair value are translated into the functional through its power over the entity. The financial statements currency at foreign exchange rates applicable at the of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial date the fair value is determined. Foreign exchange statements from the date on which control commences differences arising on translation are recognized in until the date on which control ceases. the income statement. (ii) Associates and joint ventures (ii) Financial statements of foreign operations Associates are those entities in which the Group The assets and liabilities of entities controlled by the has significant influence, but not control, over the Group that have a functional currency other than the financial and operating policies. Joint ventures are US dollar (“foreign operations”) are translated into those entities over whose activities the Group has US dollar at foreign exchange rates applicable at the joint control, established by contractual agreement. balance sheet date. The rule also applies to goodwill The consolidated financial statements include the and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation Group’s share of the total recognized gains and of foreign operations. The revenues and expenses of losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, foreign operations are translated into US dollar at rates from the date that significant influence commences applicable at the dates of the transactions. Foreign until the date that significant influence ceases. exchange differences arising on retranslation are Typically associates where the Group controls 20% recognized directly in a separate component of equity. or more of the equity but does not exercise control and joint ventures are equity accounted. When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an (c) D  erivative financial instruments, including equity accounted investee, the carrying amount of hedge accounting that interest (including any long-term investments) is reduced to nil and the recognition of further losses The Group uses derivative financial instruments to is discontinued except to the extent that the Group hedge its exposure to the fluctuation of exchange rates, has an obligation to make payments or has made interest rates and fuel prices arising from operational payments on behalf of that investee. and financing activities. In accordance with its hedging policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative (iii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting Intragroup balances and any unrealized gains and are treated as trading instruments. losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions with fully consolidated entities are The gain or loss in the fair value of the derivative eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial financial instrument is recognized in the income statements. Unrealized gains and losses arising from statement unless the derivative qualifies for cash flow transactions with associates are eliminated to the hedge accounting, in which case the effective part extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. of the derivative financial instrument is recognized in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity. Any gain or loss with (b) Foreign currency respect to the ineffective part of hedge accounted instruments (as are gains or losses on trading (i) Foreign currency transactions instruments) is recognized in the income statement. Transactions in foreign currencies initially recorded Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging by the Group’s entities at their respective functional instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, currency spot rate at the date of the transaction or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets and time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are instrument recognized in equity is retained in equity translated into functional currency at the foreign until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a hedged exchange rates applicable at the balance sheet transaction is no longer expected to occur, the date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary net cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity is items is the difference between the value of the item transferred to income statement for the period. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 44 (d) Property, plant and equipment (i) Aircraft and equipment (ii) Other property, plant and equipment B747-400F and B747-8F aircraft (including installed Other items of property, plant and equipment are also engines) and rotable spare parts (including spare stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see (v) engines) are stated at cost, adjusted for any impairment, below) and impairment, if applicable (on which see (j)). less accumulated depreciation. Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment Borrowing costs related to the acquisition of an aircraft have different useful lives, they are accounted for as are capitalized as part of the cost of this aircraft. separate items of property, plant and equipment (see (v) below). The initial cost of the aircraft includes the first “D-check” as a separate component. The costs of subsequent “D-checks” are capitalized when the first “D-check” (or second or third “D-check”, as the case may be) occurs and the capitalized “D-check” is depreciated over the period to the next scheduled “D-check”. The period of depreciation of “D-checks” is set forth in (v) below. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 (iii) Leased assets (v) Depreciation 1. Finance leases Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes of each component, except engine components (life substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership limited parts (“LLPs”) and engine overhaul (shop are classified as finance leases. The assets acquired visits)) which are depreciated based on cycles flown, by way of finance leases are recognized as nonor part of aircraft and other property, plant and current assets and are stated at an amount equal to equipment. The estimated useful lives and residual the lower of their fair value and the present value values of relevant assets are as follows: of the minimum future lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see (v)) Useful life Residual and impairment, if any (on which see (j)). The related (average) value liability is included under Finance lease liabilities. (average) In the context of sale and leaseback transactions, the Components of aircraft recognition of any gain on the sale is deferred and recognized instead as finance income over the lease [15% 9%] term. No loss is recognized unless the asset is impaired. Airframe 20 years of initial cost 8% of 2. Operating leases E ngines (Carcass) 12 years initial cost Leases under the terms of which the Group does not E ngines (LLPs) 9,700 cycles nil assume the risks and rewards of ownership are classified E ngines (Shop visits) 3,700 cycles nil as operating leases and are not carried on the Group’s balance sheet. The net present value of future lease 1 and 2 “D-check” st nd 8 years nil payments under operating leases is disclosed in the notes to these financial statements (see note 25). S ubsequent “D-checks” 6 years nil In the context of sale and leaseback transactions, the L anding gears 10 years nil related gains are accounted for as follows: R otable spare parts 10 years nil they are immediately recognized as income when E quipment 5 years nil the transaction is realized at fair market value, they are deferred and amortized over the lease Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values term when the transaction is realized under or over are reassessed periodically as circumstances warrant. fair value. Depreciation is discontinued when the carrying amount of the asset is below its residual or sale value. (iv) Subsequent costs The Group outsources the major aircraft overhaul checks, as well as the maintenance and repairs of engines to outside contractors, however performs the major overhaul “C-checks” internally. The cost related to line maintenance, “A-checks” and “C-checks” performed in Luxembourg are expensed when incurred under various line items in the income statement. (e) Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures (i) Cash and cash equivalents and associates Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are accounted call and short term deposits and shares in money for in accordance with the basis for consolidation (see (a)). market funds. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are included as a component of Cash (f) Investments and cash equivalents in the Statement of Cash Flows. Treasury instruments are carried at fair value with variations in value flowing through the income statement. (j) Impairment These assets are classified as current assets in Other investments. Related transaction costs are expensed (i) Non-financial assets when incurred. The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial Financial instruments are recognized / derecognized assets, other than expendable parts and supplies by the Group on the date it commits to purchase / sell (on which see (h) above) and deferred tax assets (on the instruments. which see (q)), are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, (g) Trade and other receivables the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated and the carrying value adjusted accordingly. Trade and other receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently Impairment is recognized whenever the carrying amount measured at their amortized cost less impairment (on of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment which see (j)). losses are recognized in the income statement. Calculation of recoverable amount: The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of (h) Expendable parts and supplies their fair value (less costs to sell) and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows Expendable parts and supplies are stated at the to be derived from the use of the asset are discounted lower of cost and net realizable value. Inventories are to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate carried on a first-in-first-out basis. Net realizable value that reflects current market assessments of the time is the estimated market price in the ordinary course of value of money and the risks specific to the asset. business, less estimated sales costs. Expendable parts Impairment is reversed if there has been a change and supplies are charged to Aircraft maintenance in the estimates used to determine the recoverable expenses when used. amount. Impairment is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, ANNUAL REPORT 2016 net of depreciation or amortization. 47 (ii) Financial assets (k) Interest-bearing liabilities and finance lease liabilities A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objec­ tive evidence indicates that one or more events have Interest-bearing liabilities and finance lease liabilities had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows are recognized initially at fair value less related of that asset. transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing liabilities are stated at amortized An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset amount using the effective interest rate method. carried at amortized cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows. An impairment loss (l) Employee benefits Retirement benefit costs in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value. The Group maintains defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes for its Luxembourg Significant financial assets are tested for impairment based employees. on an individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar Premiums paid to the insurance company in relation credit risk characteristics. to defined contribution retirement benefit plan are charged as an expense as they fall due. All impairment losses are recognized in income statement. The defined benefit scheme in Luxembourg is An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can ac­counted for as such under IAS 19, using the Pro­jected be related objectively to an event occurring after Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being the impairment loss was recognized. For financial carried out at each balance sheet date (see note 22). assets carried at amortized cost and available-for-sale financial assets that are debt securities, the reversal Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, is recognized in income statement. For availablewhich comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect reversal is recognized directly in equity. of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognized immediately in Other Comprehensive Income (“OCI”). Net interest expense and other ANNUAL REPORT 2016 expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized in income statement. 48 (m) Provisions Interest income and expense are recognized in the income statement as it accrues, using the effective A provision is recognized in the balance sheet interest method where appropriate. Dividend income when the Group has a present legal or contractual is recognized in the income statement as Other obligation that can be estimated reliably as a result operating income on the date the Group’s right to of a past event, and if it is probable that an outflow receive the payments is established. of economic benefits will be required to settle this obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash (q) Income tax flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where Income tax on the income statement for the year appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. Accruals comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is related to those provisions are recognized as finance recognized in the income statement except to the cost over the period. extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity, in which case it is recognized in equity or in Heavy maintenance costs (“D-checks”) relating to aircraft Other comprehensive income. under operating leases are recognized as provisions on the basis of the heavy maintenance supplier agreement. Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted The Group accrues for re-delivery costs related to applicable at the balance sheet date, subject to any aircraft under operating leases as soon as it becomes adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous apparent that the asset does not meet the return years. Taxes that are not assessed on the Group’s condition criteria set forth in the lease agreement. income (e.g. Net worth tax) are recognized in Other operating expenses. (n) Trade and other payables Deferred tax is computed using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between Trade and other payables are initially recognized at the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently financial reporting purposes and the amounts used measured at their amortized cost. for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realization or settlement of the carrying amount of (o) Revenue Services rendered assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date. Cargo sales, net of discounts, are recognized as revenue when the transportation service is provided. Other A deferred tax asset is recognized only to the extent revenue, primarily third party aircraft maintenance, that it is probable that future taxable profits will be is also recognized when the service is rendered. available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and are reduced to the extent that (p) Expenses it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized. (i) Operating lease payments Rentals paid under operating leases are recognized (r) New and amended standards adopted by in the income statement over the term of the lease. the Group Lease incentives received are recognized in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are expense over the term of the lease. effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after January 1, 2016 that had a material impact (ii) Finance lease payments on the reporting result of the Group. Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the out­­standing (s)New standards, amendments and liability. The finance charge is allocated to each period interpretations issued but not effective for during the lease term so as to produce a constant the financial year beginning January 1, 2016 periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance and not early adopted of the liability. The interest expense component of finance lease payments is recognized in the income A number of new standards, amendments to standards statement using the effective interest rate method. and interpretations are effective for annual periods begin­ning after January 1, 2016, and have not been ap­ (iii) Net finance costs plied in preparing these separate financial statements. Those which may be relevant to the Group are set Net finance costs comprise the net result of (i) interest out below. The Group does not plan to adopt these payable on borrowings, and (ii) interest receivable on standards early. funds invested (Cash and cash equivalents and Other ANNUAL REPORT 2016 investments), and gains and losses (realized and unrealized) on Other investments and on interest rate hedging instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting (see (c)). 49 IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the clas­ use and obtain the benefits from the good or service. sification, measurement and recognition of financial The standard replaces all current revenue standards assets and financial liabilities. The complete version and related interpretations. The standard is effective of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification 2018 and earlier application is permitted. The Group and measurement of financial instruments. is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 15. IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ sets out the principles for the and measurement of financial instruments, including recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure a new expected credit loss model for calculating of leases. The objective is to ensure that lessees and impairment on financial assets, and the new general lessors provide relevant information in a manner that hedge accounting requirement. It also carries forward faithfully represents those transactions. This information the guidance of recognition and derecognition of gives a basis for users of financial statements to assess financial instruments from IAS 39. The standard is the effect that leases have on the financial position, effective for accounting periods beginning on or after financial performance and cash flows of the entity. January 1, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. IFRS 16 eliminates the current dual accounting model The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9’s full impact. for lessees, which distinguishes between on-balance sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ leases. Instead, there is a single, on-balance sheet deals with revenue recognition and establishes accounting model that is similar to current finance principles for reporting useful information to users of lease accounting. The standard is effective for annual ANNUAL REPORT 2016 financial statements about the nature, amount, timing periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Like all and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising groups that lease major assets for use in their business, from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue the Group will see an increase in reported assets is recognized when a customer obtains control of a and liabilities. good or service and thus has the ability to direct the 50 4. DETERMINATION OF FAIR VALUES A number of the Group’s accounting policies and Group’s counterparties to the hedging transactions. disclosures require the determination of fair value, for Where feasible any counterparty valuation is verified both financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. by the Group using independent sources. The values Fair values have been determined for measurement assume a normal functioning of financial markets. and / or disclosure purposes based on the following Market volatility will necessarily have an impact on said methods. Where applicable, further information pricings and valuations as well as the Group’s eventual about the assumptions made in determining fair liability with respect of the hedging instruments booked values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset at the balance sheet date. or liability. (iii) Other financial assets/liabilities (i) Investments in equity securities The fair value of non-current receivables and payables The fair value of financial assets is determined by is determined by discounting future cash flows using reference to their quoted bid price at the reporting date. current market interest rates. Other financial assets and liabilities are carried at the fair value (on which (ii) Derivatives see note 3 (j) above). ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Fair values of hedging instruments, representing unrealized gains and losses, are determined on the balance sheet date based on third party pricings and valuations, including valuations provided by the 51 5. FINANCIAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management framework Market risk The Group has exposure to the following risks with res­ Market risk is the risk that changes in asset prices pect of its financial assets and use of financial instruments: resulting from fluctuation in foreign exchange rates, interest rates or fuel prices will affect the Group’s income credit risk or the value of its holdings of financial instruments. liquidity risk General market risk This note presents information about the Group’s The objective of risk management is to manage and exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s control risk exposures within acceptable parameters, objectives, policies and processes for measuring and while optimizing the benefit expected to be derived from managing risk, as well as the Group’s objectives and the investing and risk management activities, respectively. policies for the management of excess cash. Where applicable, further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these financial statements. Credit risk The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk a counterparty to a financial instrument or issuer of a management framework. The Board has established the security owned by the Group fails to meet its contractual Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for obligations because of insolvency, bankruptcy or executing and monitoring the Group’s risk manage­ment similar event. policies. The Risk Management Committee reports on a regular basis to the Board of Directors and its Audit Committee on the committee’s activities and on the Liquidity risk evolution of the Group’s derivative portfolio. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter The Group’s risk management policies are established difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with to identify and analyze the risks faced by the Group, its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering to set appropriate risk limits and controls, to determine cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach appropriate instruments to protect the Group against to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, risks and to monitor risks and financial limits. Risk that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its management policies and procedures are reviewed liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed as required to reflect changes in market conditions conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its risking damage to the Group’s assets or reputation. training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which employees involved in the risk management activity understand their respective roles and obligations. Risk management policies Trade and other receivables The Group buys derivatives in order to manage The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced market risks. In connection with purchases of derivmainly by the individual characteristics of the customer atives, the Group sometimes also sells derivatives. and the demographics of the Group’s customer Such transactions are carried out within the risk base, including the default risk of the industry and management framework and control mechanisms country in which customers operate. The Group described below. Where possible the Group seeks distinguishes between countries considered as low to apply hedge accounting for those instruments risk and countries of higher risk depending on their in order to reduce volatility in income statement. geographical and political situation and monitors The Group’s risk management policy prohibits short customers on either list separately. selling of options. The Credit Committee has established a credit policy under which each new customer not paying through Investment policy CASS (Cargo Accounts Settlement Systems) is analyzed individually for creditworthiness before the The primary goal of the Group’s investment policy is Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and to optimize the returns while always preserving the conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes invested capital. To this effect, the Group invests external ratings, when available, and in some cases excess cash, according to Board approved limits, bank references. Purchase limits are established in investment funds, bank deposits, zero-coupons for each customer, which represents the maximum and structured products with a capital guarantee at open amount allowed for trading without requiring maturity. The return on structured products depends approval from the Credit Committee; these limits are on the performance of the underlying used, which reviewed regularly. Customers that fail to meet the may be equities, commodities, indices, currencies, Group’s benchmark creditworthiness may transact securities or interest rates. Structured products are with the Group only on a prepayment basis or if they designated as Other investments and recorded can offer collateral e.g. bank guarantees or letters of at fair value in the balance sheet with any change a credit. The creditworthiness of customers paying in value flowing through the income statement. through CASS is assessed and monitored by IATA The Group does only purchase securities or structured which runs this clearing and settlement system on investment products from a counterparty having behalf of the cargo carriers. a minimum, pre-determined credit rating and which makes a daily market in those securities or Not more than 10% (2015: 10%) of the Group’s financial instruments. revenue is attributable to sales transactions with a single customer. The five largest customers of the Group represent 38% (2015: 38%) of the net cargo (a) Credit risk sales. More than 61% (2015: 57%) of the Group’s customers have been transacting with the Group for over four years, and losses have occurred infrequently. Cash, derivatives and other financial instruments In monitoring customer credit risk, customers are grouped according to their credit characteristics, Generally, the Group limits its exposure to credit risk including whether they are an individual or legal entity, by only making deposits with, investing in securities whether they are standalone entities or part of a larger issued by and buying protection from counterparties group, geographic location, aging profile, maturity that have a long-term credit rating of at least and credit history. Customers that are graded as BBBfrom Standard & Poor’s and Fitch and Baa3 “high risk” are closely scrutinized and monitored, and from Moody’s. Any exception to this rule must be future sales are made on a prepayment or collateral approved by the Risk Management Committee and basis with approval of the Credit Committee. is closely monitored and reported to the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Credit limits The Group’s credit risk exposure is mitigated by a for each counterparty are in place and monitored on credit risk insurance purchased from a professional an ongoing basis. This enables the Group to cap the and international insurer that partially retrocedes the maximum amount of business that can be transacted risk to the Group’s captive reinsurance company to with any given counterparty. Compliance with those cover delinquent customer payments. credit limits is monitored on a daily basis. The carrying amount of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53 The Group establishes an allowance for impairment Fuel hedges that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables (see note 17). To manage its fuel price risk the Group uses derivative instruments, mainly options. Call options are purchased The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables as insurance against high fuel prices. The Group is at the reporting date by areas was: protected against high fuel prices above the call strike price and pays a premium for this insurance. The worst outcome of this strategy would be that In thousands 2016 2015 the premium is not recovered. Fuel exposures are of U.S. Dollar hedged over time. The hedging portfolio and the strategy are reviewed in regular meetings of the Group’s Fuel Risk Management Committee. The Area I 33,200 29,504 Committee works within a Governance framework Area II 99,338 85,908 of Policy and Procedures and actively manages the fuel hedge portfolio, regularly reporting to the Audit Area III 98,597 79,155 Committee of the Board of Directors. 231,135 194,567 As at December 31, 2016, the fair value of fuel derivatives was as follows: Cargolux is a member of the IATA clearing systems CASS (Cargo Accounts Settlement Systems) and ICH In thousands 2016 2015 (IATA Clearing House) commonly used by forwarders of U.S. Dollar and airlines, respectively, to settle payments. In 2016, 79.63% of receivables were cleared through CASS and ICH (78.44% in 2015). As of December 31, 2016, Derivative assets 134 99.77% (99.64% in 2015) of the total outstanding Derivative liabilities trade debtors were within the contractual payment terms. The average DSO of trade receivables was Balance at January 1 134 41.9 days in 2016 (40.4 days in 2015). In 2016 the Group suffered a credit loss of US$ 0.01 million (2015: Non-qualifying hedges (134) US$ 0.49 million). recognized in profit and loss (b) Fuel risk Derivative assets Derivative liabilities Fuel price Balance at December 31 The price of fuel significantly affects the Group’s earnings. At a 2016 average of US$/tonne 422, the jet None of these positions have been considered for market price decreased by US$/tonne 100 compared hedge accounting. to the preceding year. During the year 2016, fuel prices gradually recovered from their multi-year low The Group has taken the decision to stop hedging in January. fuel due to the significant decline of fuel prices, the extreme volatility in the market and the overall efficiency of its own fuel surcharge mechanism. Once this level of efficiency reaches an established trigger level, hedging activities will be reconsidered. (c) Currency risk Generally, the Group does not incur non-dollar denominated indebtedness to finance its assets stated The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, in US$ in order to eliminate any related volatility in purchases and borrowings that are denominated income statement except if the management sees in in a currency other than the functional currency of such financing an opportunity to reduce his currency the Group. exposition. At the balance sheet date, the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: In thousands of U.S. Dollar EUR HKD CNY OTHER % OF TOTAL Deposits with third parties 6,493 106 54 305 19.0 Trade receivables and other receivables 74,098 48,750 42,443 35,243 71.7 Other investments 2,131 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 189,653 12,769 13,417 22,298 62.4 Employee benefits (6,925) (1,026) 100.0 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (63,453) 64.7 Finance lease liabilities (26,159) 1.4 Trade payable and other payables (97,705) (5,684) (6,522) (12,341) 42.4 Taxes payable (14,213) 89 97.6 At the immediately preceding balance sheet date, the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: In thousands of U.S. Dollar EUR HKD CNY OTHER % OF TOTAL Deposits with third parties 5,822 125 62 309 15.9 Trade receivables and other receivables 111,678 44,282 27,265 29,598 77.9 Other investments 2,240 3.2 Cash and cash equivalents 108,875 5,162 22,973 18,706 33.9 Employee benefits (6,691) (938) 100.0 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (65,774) 61.6 Finance lease liabilities (31,846) 1.7 Trade payable and other payables (72,069) (5,418) (4,395) (10,899) 34.6 Taxes payable (18,999) (55) 98.7 Relevant foreign exchange rates relative to the US$ were as follows: AVERAGE RATE REPORTING DATE SPOT RATE 2016 2015 2016 2015 EUR 1.10682 1.11034 1.05410 1.09260 HKD 0.12883 0.12899 0.12894 0.12902 CNY 0.15061 0.15919 0.14400 0.15408 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Depending on market views, the Group hedges the foreign exchange risk related to payables and receivables through the use of forwards and options. 55 (d) Interest rate risk As at December 31, 2016, the fair value of interest rate derivatives was a follows: The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest payments related to its on balance sheet debt and on rental payments. Additionally, the Group is also In thousands 2016 2015 exposed to interest rate risk related to future, nonof U.S. Dollar contingent interest bearing liabilities such as refinancing of current fleet outside the current reporting period. Derivative assets 8,561 9,855 The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that its exposure to increases in interest rates on borrowings is capped Derivative liabilities (54,060) (70,280) or reduced while allowing the Group to benefit to a certain extent from a low interest rate environment. Balance at January 1 (45,499) (60,425) Generally, this objective is achieved by buying caps and selling floors. This strategy is generally deemed preferable than fixing the rate at the time the loan Net change in fair value 16,026 15,781 is contracted or the payment liability is crystallized, recognized in equity unless interest rates are deemed to be very low and in Non-qualifying hedges 9,084 (855) which case such rates are locked in via a swap or fixed recognized in profit and loss interest loan, strategy that the Group has pursued in 2016 and is likely to continue to pursue in 2017. Derivative assets 15,443 8,561 Where possible the Group seeks to apply hedge Derivative liabilities (35,832) (54,060) accounting for those instruments in order to reduce volatility in income statement. Balance at December 31 (20,389) (45,499) At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments was: (e) Liquidity risk In thousands 2016 2015 The Group’s approach to manage liquidity risk is to of U.S. Dollar ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions. Major known 2017 liabilities and how the Fixed rate instruments Group expects to cover same is discussed below. Financial liabilities 976,925 1,095,633 The Group is subject to loan covenants for some of its borrowing and finance lease arrangements, which Floating rate instruments in case of breach, unless waived, would entitle the Financial assets 480,980 528,814 lending parties to demand prepayment of the loan. Financial covenants require the Group to respect Financial liabilities 982,648 919,734 certain balance sheet, interest and rental coverage ratios. Under one such covenant EBITDAR (Earnings Interest rate derivatives before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and Nominal amount of 681,111 736,207 rentals) must cover 1.3 times net interest expense plus rentals for the period and under the second underlying financings in place covenant the shareholders’ equity must represent at at the balance sheet date least 16.7% of total liabilities. As at December 31, 2016, the Group was in compliance with this and all other contractual financial covenants. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 56 The following are the contractual maturities of liabilities: In thousands of U.S. Dollar Carrying Contracted 2017 2018 2019 Further amount cash flows than 2019 Interest-bearing liabilities (97,377) (108,513) (9,698) (9,187) (9,132) (80,496) Finance lease liabilities (1,788,961) (2,112,508) (296,863) (256,365) (230,608) (1,328,672) Trade payables and other payables (276,502) (276,502) (267,125) (1,659) (1,041) (6,677) Derivative liabilities (35,865) (37,080) (12,106) (8,382) (6,431) (10,161) (2,198,705) (2,534,603) (585,792) (275,593) (247,212) (1,426,006) In addition to routine capital repayment under interest (f) Sensitivity analysis bearing loans, finance lease liabilities and rentals under operating leases, the Group foresees the following In managing currency, interest rate and fuel price payments during the year immediately following the risks, the Group seeks to reduce the impact of shortbalance sheet date: to medium-term changes in values on the Group's budgeted earnings and cash flows. Over the longer Capital expenditures relating to aircraft components term, however, permanent changes in any or all of (approximately US$ 73.8 million). the above would have a material impact on earnings and cash flows. Payment of an anti-trust fine estimated at EUR 80 million to the European Commission, following the For the year 2016, it is estimated that a general re-adoption of the Commission’s 2010 decision in increase/decrease of one percentage point in interest the “Airfreight” case (which was annulled by the rates would have decreased the Group’s profit General Court in December 2015). before tax before marked-to-market of derivative instruments by respectively approximately US$ 0.2 The Group will be able to meet its financial obligations million and US$ 0.01 million. Interest rate swaps and in 2017 out of a mix of the proceeds of operating other hedging instruments that were in place at that cash flows and new debt mentioned below. The level time have been included in this calculation. of liquidity of the Group at the balance sheet date is expected to be maintained by the following additional It is estimated that a general increase/decrease of one measures during 2017: percentage point in the value of the US dollar against other foreign currencies throughout the year would The Group intends to close a US$ 20 million have decreased/increased the Group’s profit before refinancing of one debt-free B747-400F. tax by approximately US$ 7.7 million. The impact on the Income statement of an increase in the value of The Group also intends to issue a new “Schuldschein” the US Dollar can to a certain extent be mitigated by loan for an amount of EUR 50 million. cash inflows from currency hedging. The Group maintains credit lines to ensure that it It is estimated that an increase/decrease of US$/tonne will be able to face its obligations when they fall 50 in the price of jet fuel (basis barges Rotterdam) over due. As at December 31, 2016, the Group had the a one-year period would have increased/decreased the following credit lines available for drawing: US$ Group’s fuel bill by around US$ 60 million. The impact 63.25 million (US$ 47.5 million and EUR 15 million) on the Income statement of a fuel price increase can with a maturity ranging from June to December 2017. to a large extent be mitigated by cash inflows from the fuel surcharge program and in addition fuel hedging. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 (g) Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities other than those with carrying amounts that are reasonable approxi­ mations of fair values, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: DECEMBER 31, 2016 DECEMBER 31, 2015 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Assets carried at fair value Other investments 28,200 28,200 23,464 23,464 Interest rate transactions through profit and loss 15,443 15,443 8,561 8,561 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 4,672 4,672 48,315 48,315 32,025 32,025 Assets carried at amortized costs Loans and receivables 288,068 288,068 293,357 293,357 Cash and cash equivalents 381,607 381,607 459,687 459,687 669,675 669,675 753,044 753,044 Liabilities carried at fair value Interest rate transactions used for hedging (35,832) (35,832) (54,060) (54,060) Forward exchange contracts used for hedging (33) (33) (35,865) (35,865) (54,060) (54,060) Liabilities carried at amortized cost Secured bank loans (34,688) (30,176) (41,071) (36,558) Unsecured bond issues (63,246) (54,302) (65,556) (56,579) Finance lease liabilities (1,861,639) (1,432,468) (1,908,740) (1,562,452) Trade and other payables (267,125) (267,125) (241,589) (241,589) (2,226,698) (1,784,071) (2,256,956) (1,897,178) The basis for determining fair values is discussed in note 4. (h) Fair values hierarchy DECEMBER 31, 2016 DECEMBER 31, 2015 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total Other investments 28,200 28,200 23,464 23,464 Interest rate transactions through profit and loss 15,443 15,443 8,561 8,561 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging 4,672 4,672 28,200 20,115 48,315 23,464 8,561 32,025 Interest rate transactions used for hedging (35,832) (35,832) (54,060) (54,060) Forward exchange contracts used for hedging (33) (33) ANNUAL REPORT 2016 (35,865) (35,865) (54,060) (54,060) Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) 58 6. REVENUES 9. AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE EXPENSES In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar Cargo sales 1,715,734 1,822,621 Maintenance revenues 18,838 19,331 Engine repair and 26,499 30,395 Trucking, handling 14,410 14,344 overhaul and other services Engine reserve 9,785 11,391 1,748,982 1,856,296 Heavy maintenance 775 (438) (“C-checks” and Cargo sales represent revenues directly related to the “D-checks” on dry leased Group's core business, i.e. air freight, net of customer aircraft) incentives and rebates. The largest contributors to net turnover were Area II (Europe, Middle East, Pakistan Component and 13,304 10,328 & Africa) traffic with 44.2% (2015: 41.9%), followed brakes repair by Area III (Asia & Pacific) traffic with 39.5% (2015: Stock consumption 12,276 12,068 38.6%), with the balance accounted for by Area I (the Americas) and charter traffic with 16.3% (2015: 19.5%). Line maintenance at 7,519 7,485 stations Other maintenance 12,344 14,147 expenses 7. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 82,502 85,376 In thousands 2016 2015 In 2015, additional provisions for engine shop visits of U.S. Dollar for aircraft under operating lease agreements were ac­ counted and heavy maintenance cost included provision releases of aircraft under operating lease contract. Loss on sale of property, (1,242) (514) plant and equipment Miscellaneous 6,755 5,344 10. PERSONNEL COSTS 5,513 4,830 AND BENEFITS Miscellaneous includes mainly credits received from third parties. In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar 8. AIRCRAFT LEASE EXPENSES By category of expenses Salaries, overtime, 196,501 190,134 In thousands 2016 2015 13th month of U.S. Dollar Social security 23,812 21,831 Aircraft rentals 39,033 38,741 Employee benefits under dry leases  xpenses related to E 515 553 Return conditions 2,337 423 defined benefit plans provision in respect of  xpenses related to E 5,075 5,141 dry leased aircraft defined contribution plans 41,370 39,164  ther (accident and O 10,566 7,071 At the balance sheet date the Group dry leased the invalidity insurance) following aircraft: LX-ECV, LX-OCV, LX-JCV, LX-FCL, LX-GCL, LX-WCV and LX-VCC. Training and sundry 13,848 12,130 personnel charges 250,317 236,860 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 Average number of staff by category 2016 2015 11. OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES Active Flight Operations 612 596 (including crews) In thousands 2016 2015 Sales and Marketing 306 292 of U.S. Dollar Maintenance 475 445 GSA commissions 12,945 13,528 Finance and 138 138 Administration IT services 23,160 22,426 General Management 31 48 Travel & entertainment 25,514 26,911 (Corporate Division) Office and office 16,657 17,469 Legal and Compliance 50 46 equipment (rental and Division maintenance) Commercial Planning 38 34 Legal, audit and 9,621 16,860 consulting fees Global Logistics 247 218 Other aircraft expenses 8,832 9,357 Corporate Development 7 2 Purchase, maint. & repairs 3,895 3,644 1,904 1,819 of ULD & packing material Office & printing material 3,260 3,485 Other Net worth tax 2,176 3,581 Reclassified staff 4 3 Foreign exchange loss, net 1,255 8,370 Employees on early 7 14 retirement Miscellaneous 10,612 9,368 Apprentices 10 10 117,927 134,999 1,925 1,846 GSA commissions represent commissions payable to As of December 31, 2016 1,645 (2015: 1,567) employees the Group’s general sales agents. were based in countries of the European Union, of which 1,389 in Luxembourg (2015: 1,335). Legal, audit and consulting fees include US$ 2.0 million (in 2015: US$ 4.4 million) related to the anti-trust cases The collective work agreement (CWA) covering in various jurisdiction which are entirely provisioned (see Luxembourg based staff other than managers and exalso note 23). empt employees entered into force on December 1, 2015 covering the years 2015 to 2018. Legal, audit and consulting fees also include an amount of US$ 0.39 million (in 2015: US$ 0.38 million) accrued for audit fees and an amount of US$ 0.12 million (in 2015: US$ 0.09 million) accrued for tax services to our external auditors. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 60 12. NET FINANCE COSTS Recognized in income statement Recognized in other comprehensive income In thousands 2016 2015 In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar of U.S. Dollar Net change in fair value 9,567 Effective portion of 16,029 15,790 of financial instruments changes in fair value of Interest income on bank 2,976 3,057 interest cash flow hedges deposits Net change in fair value (3) (9) Interest on loans and 2,582 3,700 of cash flow hedges receivables transferred to income statement Other financial income 173 310 (IATA call day adjustments, Income tax on finance (5,582) (4,611) discounts received) income and finance costs recognized in other comprehensive income Financial income 15,298 7,067 Finance income 10,444 11,170 Interest expense (70,398) (74,571) recognized in other Net change in fair value (1,172) comprehensive of financial instruments income, net of tax Accrued interest on (1,002) (1,570) net present value of provisions and liabilities Other financial expenses (1,572) 3,645 (bank charges, loan agency fees, CASS commissions) Financial expenses (72,972) (73,668) Net finance costs (57,674) (66,601) ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 13. INCOME TAX EXPENSE In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2016 2015 Current tax expense (14,040) (23,498) Current year (14,040) (23,498) Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary 1,445 (14,017) differences Use / (Benefit) of tax losses (1,445) 14,017 Total income tax expense in income (14,040) (23,498) statement Income tax expense recognized in other 5,441 4,922 comprehensive income Origination and reversal of temporary differences mainly relates to different depreciation periods on aircraft and derivative accounting. Reconciliation of effective tax rate In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2016 2016 2015 2015 % % Profit / (Loss) before tax (8,507) 25,981 Income tax using the domestic rate 29.22 (2,486) 29.22 7,592 Share of profit of associates 541 (7) Effect of current tax in foreign branches 6 65 Non-deductible expenses / Non-taxable income 3,819 (2,194) Benefits of tax credits through finance lease (15,150) (24,978) Unrecognized DTA (724) (3,930) Tax exempt revenues (46) (46) Income tax expense (14,040) (23,498) The Group is subject to corporate income tax, municipal Unutilized ITC benefits to-date generated through the business tax and net worth tax in Luxembourg. acquisition of aircraft have not been recognized as The Group is also subject to certain taxes in foreign a deferred tax asset and are reassessed on a regular tax jurisdictions in which it maintains permanent basis. The reassessment of these benefits is linked to establishments. their expiry dates and they are not expected to be used due to the tax losses incurred in 2008, 2009 and In 2008, the determination of the tax basis of assets from 2011 to 2014. As per the latest business plan, and liabilities and the related taxable income were nil of ITC amounting to US$ 96.5 million (2015: US$ changed and resulted in tax losses which are amortized 95.0 million) was recognized as a deferred tax asset over a period of six years. (in 2015: nil). In addition, an amount of US$ 6.6 million (2015: US$ 7.3 million) of deferred tax assets on tax ITC benefits are now recognized as a tax credit and losses was not recognized (see note 16). therefore recorded in the income statement under Current tax as ITC benefits generated directly by the acquisition of the aircraft. In 2016, these benefits ANNUAL REPORT 2016 amounted to US$ 15.2 million (2015: US$ 25.0 million). 62 14. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT In thousands of U.S. Dollar Aircraft and Land and Other Payments on Total equipment buildings equipment accounts and assets in course of construction Cost at beginning of year 3,040,450 10,304 63,906 45,170 3,159,830 Acquisitions 181,333 170 1,421 85,079 268,003 Transfer from assets under construction 18,519 611 72 (19,202) Reimbursement of advance payments (45,987) (45,987) Disposals (note 7) (16,300) (3,360) (1,771) (2,767) (24,198) At end of year 3,224,002 7,725 63,628 62,293 3,357,648 Accumulated depreciation at beginning of year (912,942) (8,683) (44,012) (2,737) (968,374) Charge for the year (162,815) (686) (3,685) (167,186) Impairment loss (42,849) (42,849) Adjustments for disposals 13,032 3,361 1,745 2,737 20,875 At end of year (1,105,574) (6,008) (45,952) (1,157,534) Net book value as of December 31, 2016 2,118,428 1,717 17,676 62,293 2,200,114 Net book value as of December 31, 2015 2,127,508 1,621 19,894 42,433 2,191,456 Impairment loss At December 31, 2016, the net carrying amount of leased aircraft under finance leases was US$ 2,027 As of December 31, 2016, the Group reviewed the carrymillion (2015: US$ 2,039 million). ing amount of aircraft in light of current market condition. Following the review and the subsequent impairment Security tests applied, the carrying amount of several assets exceeded their recoverable amount. Accordingly At December 31, 2016, aircraft and equipment with a carrythe Group recognized an impairment loss of US$ ing amount of US$ 2,072 million (2015: US$ 2,091 million) 39.7 million (2015: US$ 41.2 million) against these are subject to mortgages to secure the bank loans relating aircraft. The estimate of value in use was determined to LX-RCV, LX-SCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% (2015: 8%). The LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LXrecoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX-VCJ, LX-VCL, LX-VCM, LX-VCN used, as well as the expected future cash inflows. and four GEnx spare engines (2015: LX-RCV, LX-TCV, LXA neutral impact of the Company’s profit is estimated UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, to be reached with a combination of a decrease by LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX100bps in the discount rate used and a decrease of VCJ, LX-VCL, LX-VCM and four GEnx spare engines). US$ 8.0 million in future annual cash inflows or with a On May 28, 2008 the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg raticombination of an increase by 100bps in the discount fied the Cape Town Convention on international interests rate used and an increase of US$ 17.7 million in future in mobile equipment (Cape Town 2001). The convention annual cash inflows. was enacted into Luxembourg law effective of December 12, 2008. Some of the Group’s aircraft are subject to a mortgage registration in the Cape Town registry. Aircraft subject to finance leases The Group leases aircraft under finance lease Capitalized borrowing costs agreements LX-RCV, LX-SCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LXVCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LXAssets under construction include no capitalization of ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX-VCJ, borrowing costs (2015: US$ 0.9 million). LX-VCL, LX-VCM and LX-VCN (2015: LX-RCV, LXSCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LXVCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, Deposits with third parties LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX-VCJ, LX-VCL and LX-VCM). At the end of each of the leases the Group has the option to Advance payments to aircraft manufacturers are purchase the aircraft at a preferential or favorable price. recorded under Other property, plant and equipment or Deposits with third parties depending on whether or not the Group keeps the risks and rewards of the aircraft under the intended financing structure. 63 15. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES The Group has the following investments in associates and joint ventures: Ownership Country 2016 2015 Champ Cargosystems S.A. Luxembourg 49% 49% 8F Leasing S.A. Luxembourg 33% 33% Global Aviation Technical Solutions GB (BVI) Ltd. British Virgin Islands 50% 50% In 2016, the Group made a contribution in kind to GATS amounting to US$ 2.2 million (2015: US$ 4.9 million). Summary financial information for equity accounted investees, not adjusted for the percentage of ownership held by the Group: In thousands of U.S. Dollar Ownership Carrying Assets Equity Liabilities Revenues Profit / amount (Loss) 2016 Champ Cargosystems S.A. 49% 28,609 73,831 36,970 36,861 65,877 4,705 (associate) 8F Leasing S.A. (associate) 33% 6,132 131,165 12,696 118,469 12,961 1,126 Global Aviation Technical 50% 22,260 45,878 44,483 1,395 8,799 (1,441) Solutions GB (BVI) Ltd. (joint venture) 57,001 250,874 94,149 156,725 87,637 4,390 2015 Champ Cargosystems S.A. 49% 27,106 68,551 32,981 35,570 58,555 2,650 (associate) 8F Leasing S.A. (associate) 33% 5,757 139,851 11,570 128,281 12,396 (2,362) Global Aviation Technical 50% 20,738 42,670 41,429 1,241 5,570 (1,076) Solutions GB (BVI) Ltd. (joint venture) 53,601 251,072 85,980 165,092 76,520 (788) 16. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Aircraft and equipment 14,266 9,352 14,266 9,352 Other property, plant and equipment (634) (634) Derivative assets (3,619) (2,030) (3,619) (2,030) Trade receivables and other (3,467) (1,944) (3,467) (1,944) receivables Other investments 999 1,007 999 1,007 Finance lease liabilities 6,989 (677) (677) 6,989 Employee benefits 511 461 511 461 Derivative liabilities 6,237 10,475 6,237 10,475 Trade and other payables 2,425 4,165 2,425 4,165 Provisions (12,604) (17,292) (12,604) (17,292) Benefit of tax losses brought forward Tax credit on loss carry forward 39,416 38,468 39,416 38,468 Tax assets / (liabilities) 63,854 70,917 (20,367) (21,900) 43,487 49,017 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities (20,367) (21,900) 20,367 21,900 Net tax assets 43,487 49,017 43,487 49,017 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented net An ITC for an amount of US$ 96.5 million (2015: US$ because the Group has the legal right to offset. 95.0 million) and deferred tax assets on tax losses amounting to US$ 6.6 million (2015: US$ 7.3 million) Deferred tax adjustments of US$ 5.4 million were were not recognized (see note 13). recognized in equity in 2016 and US$ 4.9 million in 2015 (see note 13). 17. TRADE RECEIVABLES AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Trade receivables of US$ 240.7 million (2015: US$ Prepaid expenses include security deposits made in 203.8 million) are shown net of any impairment losses connection with operating leases, rental payments recognized in the current year. made in advance and other prepayments. In 2015, other receivables include an amount which In thousands 2016 2015 has been received in February 2016 from the EU of U.S. Dollar Commission after the EU General Court ruled in favor of the Company and annulled the EU Commission’s 2010 decision. Trade receivables 240,717 203,814 Prepaid expenses 10,713 18,604 Advances paid to 9,515 4,154 suppliers ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VAT 5,627 8,478 Derivative assets 6,311 1,612 Other receivables 21,496 58,307 294,379 294,969 65 18. OTHER INVESTMENTS At balance sheet date the main shareholders are: 2016 2015 In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar Luxair 35.1% 35.1% HNCA 35.0% 35.0% Restricted cash 71,173 45,663 Banque et Caisse 10.9% 10.9% Securities held at fair value 28,200 23,464 d’Epargne de l’Etat through profit and loss (BCEE) 99,373 69,127 SNCI 10.7% 10.7% Luxembourg State 8.3% 8.3% Restricted cash comprises an amount of US$ 44.8 million (2015: 42.6 million) of pledged deposits related to aircraft financings and an amount of US$ As at December 31, 2016, the share capital of the 2.2 million (2015: US$ 2.2 million) securing letters Company is represented by 20,939,223 common shares of credit issued on behalf of the Group. Cash for an which are fully paid in.The extraordinary general meeting amount of US$ 24.2 million (2015: US$ 0.8 million) is of shareholders of September 8, 2011 resolved to renew pledged as collateral in derivative transactions. for a period of 5 years the Company’s authorized capital of US$ 100 million and grant authorization to the Board of Directors to issue such instruments. On February 7, 2013, the Board of Directors approved 19. CASH AND the issue of up to US$ 100 million interest-bearing mandatorily convertible bonds, with a maturity of CASH EQUIVALENTS 2 years. The mandatorily convertible bonds were originally issued to Luxair, BCEE and SNCI on March 27, 2013 and have been converted into ordinary shares on March 27, 2015 using the authorized share capital. In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar Reserves Bank balances 169,887 99,992 Reserves comprise the legal reserve, various nonShort term deposits 207,292 351,304 distributable reserves, the free reserve and the Money market funds 4,428 8,391 hedging reserves. Cash and cash 381,607 459,687 equivalents in Legal reserve the statement of Under Luxembourg corporate law, the Company must cash flows allocate at least 5% of the statutory annual net profit to a legal reserve until this reserve reaches 10% of the issued share capital. The legal reserve is not available 20. CAPITAL AND RESERVES for dividend distributions. Share capital and main shareholders Net worth tax reserve To forego payment of the net worth tax, the Company In thousands of U.S. 2016 2015 has utilized the option provided by Luxembourg law and Dollar excluding decided to constitute and maintain a restricted reserve share numbers as of fiscal year 2003. Any dividend payments from this reserve during the restricted period would suffer tax. 525,007 525,007 Issued and subscribed 20,939,223 registered Hedging reserve common shares of no par value (2015: 20,939,223) The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedge accounted derivative instruments. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 66 21. INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS AND FINANCE LEASE LIABILITIES This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see also note 5 (c) and (d). In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2016 2015 Non-current liabilities Secured bank loans 28,057 34,688 Unsecured bank loans (Schuldschein) 63,246 65,556 Loan originated costs (592) (769) Total 90,711 99,475 Finance lease liabilities 1,616,134 1,673,270 Loan originated costs (68,303) (75,220) Total 1,547,831 1,598,050 Grand total 1,638,542 1,697,525 Current liabilities Interest payable on current and non-current liabilities 5,383 6,862 Loan originated costs (9,723) (9,869) Current portion of secured bank loans 6,631 6,383 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 245,505 235,507 Total 247,796 238,883 Terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: In thousands of U.S. Dollar Currency Nominal Year of Principal Principal interest rate maturity amount amount 2016 2015 Secured bank loans US$ Fixed 2021, 2022 34,688 41,071 Unsecured bank loans EUR Euribor 6M + margin 2020, 2022 63,246 65,556 Finance lease liabilities US$ Fixed, Libor 6M + 2017, 2020 1,861,639 1,908,777 margin, EIB 3M + 2023, 2024 margin, Libor 3M + 2025, 2026 margin 2027, 2028 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,959,573 2,015,404 The maturity analysis is provided in note 5 (e). ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67 Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities are repayable as follows: Minimum Interest Principal Minimum Interest Principal lease lease payments payments In thousands 2016 2016 2016 2015 2015 2015 of U.S. Dollar Less than one year 292,973 47,468 245,505 280,354 44,847 235,507 Between one and five years 945,975 136,099 809,876 959,221 153,819 805,402 More than five years 877,514 71,256 806,258 971,504 103,636 867,868 2,116,462 254,823 1,861,639 2,211,079 302,302 1,908,777 Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. Capital Ratios In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar Outstanding loans 97,377 105,905 Outstanding finance 1,788,961 1,830,503 lease obligations Total debt 1,886,338 1,936,408 Less cash and cash equivalents and other investments (480,980) (528,814) Net debt 1,405,358 1,407,594 Present value of future lease payments 148,406 184,509 Adjusted net debt 1,553,764 1,592,103 Equity 838,001 822,996 Net debt/equity 167.7% 171.0% Adjusted net debt/equity 185.4% 193.5% See also note 5 (e) above. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 68 22. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Movements in the net liability for defined benefit obligations recognized in the balance sheet In thousands 2016 2015 In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar of U.S. Dollar Net liability for defined 5,083 6,272 Fair value of plan assets (7,603) (7,729) benefit obligations at Present value of net 12,821 12,812 January 1 obligations Contributions received (347) (347) Recognized liability 5,218 5,083 Pension payments (381) (400) for defined benefit obligations (see below) Expense recognized in 515 553 the income statement Other employee benefits 2,733 2,546 (see below) Total employee 7,951 7,629 Foreign exchange impact (179) (636) benefits Remeasurements 527 (359) Net liability for 5,218 5,083 The Group maintains defined benefit and defined defined benefit contribution pension schemes for its staff in Luxembourg. Effective January 1, 1997, the terms of the pension obligations at plan were amended for all staff who had not reached December 31 retirement age at that date. All staff who had retired at this date continue to be covered by the previous plan. Under the new schemes (covering under identical Expense recognized in the income statement vesting rules the crews and the ground staff covered by collective work agreements and the managers), In thousands 2016 2015 retirement benefits are generally paid in one lump of U.S. Dollar sum. The rights to pension benefits commence at entry into service date and are fully vested after Current service costs 412 433 five years of service. The Group's pension fund obligations (other than the liabilities with respect of Interest on pension 103 120 the pensioners at January 1, 1997) and related assets obligation were transferred to a life insurance company in 2002 and are held separately from the Group. The Group 515 553 is current with respect of its payment obligations of the annual premiums due under the Group's pension schemes and such premiums are expensed under The expense is recognized in Personnel costs and benefits. Personnel costs and benefits. Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages): The Group also maintains separate insurance schemes providing for death, orphan, widow and disability benefits. These schemes are covered by an insurance 2016 2015 plan and the related insurance premiums are reflected as a current year operating expense. Discount rate at 1.75% 2.25% The Cargolux defined benefit scheme is not a multiDecember 31 employer scheme and sufficient information is Expected return on plan 1.75% 2.25% available to determine the obligation, plan assets assets at December 31 and costs to the Group. The funding requirements are determined pursuant to the projected unit funding method and the pension cost and provision Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on have been assessed by a third party qualified actuary. published statistics and mortality tables. The latest full pension scheme valuation was performed by the scheme’s actuaries in January 2017. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 23. PROVISIONS In thousands of U.S. Dollar Anti-trust Legal Return cost Heavy maintenance Total provision program Balance at January 1, 2016 91,929 6,000 8,887 3,629 110,445 Provisions made during the year 1,972 2,817 775 5,564 Effect of net present value on 389 301 690 provisions Provisions used during the year (972) (1) (873) (1,846) Provisions reversed during the year Provisions reclassified (1,684) (1,459) (3,143) Effect of foreign exchange (3,076) (3,076) Balance at December 31, 2016 88,853 7,000 10,408 2,373 108,634 of which current 4,630 7,000 1,580 13,210 of which non-current 84,223 8,828 2,373 95,424 In 2016, provisions were recognized to cover the The Group provides for two (2015: two) leased aircraft Group against remaining liability risks from pending the cost of major aircraft overhaul or so-called “D-checks” anti-trust related civil proceedings. and the related costs are recognized to operating expenses in the line item Aircraft maintenance expenses, The return cost provision of US$ 10.4 million represents based on the estimated remaining number of years until the net present value of maintenance cost expected the next major overhaul. to be incurred to deliver the aircraft under operating leases to the lessor at lease-end in conformity with the delivery conditions stipulated in the respective lease agreements. 24. TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER PAYABLES In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2016 2015 Trade payables 96,259 60,887 Accruals for: General and administration 15,756 16,149 Maintenance 21,986 21,209 Fuel 10,573 8,589 -H  andling, landing and overflying 41,956 37,494 -T  rucking, truck handling and interlining 12,315 10,897 Incentive and worldwide commissions 21,843 16,888 Staff related costs 15,511 14,730 Derivatives liabilities 12,078 18,210 Anti-trust 392 22,092 Amount owed to related parties 3,241 3,204 Deferred income 26,882 30,086 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Miscellaneous 9,788 8,012 Total trade payables and other payables 288,580 268,447 of which current 279,202 259,799 of which non-current 9,378 8,648 70 25. OPERATING LEASES 27. RELATED PARTIES Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable Identity of related parties as follows: The Group has a related party relationship with In thousands 2016 2015 shareholders, its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates of U.S. Dollar and with its directors and executive officers. The Group is an entity that is controlled by the State Less than one year 22,326 35,279 of Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg directly and indirectly via its shareholders. The Group uses the exemption Between one and five years 84,046 92,431 in IAS 24 and discloses below only the individual More than five years 47,020 72,057 significant related party transactions. The Group has transactions and balances with government agencies and administrations that are customary to any entity The present value of minimum lease payments and which have not been disclosed as a related related to operating leases of aircraft and the hangar party below. facility amounted to US$ 148.4 million (2015: US$ 184.5 million) at the balance sheet date. This present value was calculated using actual rental terms and a Key management personnel and directors discount factor equal to Libor, respectively Euribor end of the year rates. In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides cash (described below) and non-cash benefits (company car and fuel card) to members of the extended Executive Committee and area vice26. CONTINGENCIES presidents and contributes (as for other Group employees) to a defined contribution plan and to an accident/invalidity insurance on their behalf. Legal proceedings The compensations of the extended Executive The Group is party to legal proceedings, both as Committee and heads of areas are as follows: defendant and claimant, from time to time in the normal course of its business. In addition, the Group was In thousands 2016 2015 subject to investigations and proceedings from antitrust authorities in the US, EU, Canada, Australia, New of U.S. Dollar Zealand, South Africa, South Korea and Switzerland in connection with a worldwide investigation of air Salaries and profit sharing 6,802 6,467 cargo carriers regarding alleged violations of antitrust laws. In previous years, the Group reached Contribution to pension 1,575 1,689 settlements with and/or accepted penalties imposed scheme and accident/ by the competition authorities in the US, Canada, invalidity insurance Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland, South Africa and South Korea. On March 17, 2017 the European 8,377 8,156 Commission re-adopted its decision in the airfreight cartel case. The Commission’s original 2010 decision These amounts, which are paid in euros, are included was previously annulled by the EU General Court in Personnel costs and benefits (see note 10). in December 2015 on procedural grounds. The readopted decision maintains the fine imposed on the Directors are given an annual fee for their supervisory Company at the previous EUR 79.9 million amount. work on behalf of the Group. In addition Board members who sit on the Compensation Committee or the Audit In the wake of the anti-trust proceedings, civil lawsuits Committee of the Board are paid attendance fees. were launched in the USA, Canada, England, the The total remuneration of Directors was as follows: Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Korea, Germany and Australia against a number of air 2016 2015 In thousands carriers, including against the Group. The Group of U.S. Dollar won its case in New Zealand and the plaintiff did not appeal, making the decision final. The class action suits in the USA, Canada and Australia had been Directors 476 435 settled in previous years. In 2016 and prior periods, the Group constituted provisions to cover the Group’s exposure with respect to the anti-trust related proceedings (see also notes 11 and 23). ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 Shareholders Year end balances arising from sales purchases and services are as follows: The Group paid landing fees to the “Administration de la Navigation Aérienne”. The amount charged to operations for such services was US$ 5.7 million Accounts receivable and deposit with (2015: US$ 6.0 million). related parties: The Group paid handling fees and other service In thousands 2016 2015 charges to Luxair in Luxembourg. The amount of U.S. Dollar charged to operations for such services was US$ 74.7 million (2015: US$ 74.9 million). Associates 23,379 19,994 The Group paid no interest (2015: US$ 1.3 million) and Joint Venture on the mandatorily convertible bonds. Shareholders 178,478 170,854 Interest and commissions of approximately US$ 201,857 190,848 0.04 million (2015: US$ 0.02 million) were paid in 2016 and US$ 0.33 million (2015: US$ 0.46 million) of investment income was received in 2016 from banks which are shareholders. Accounts payable and loan from related parties: The Group receives freight and maintenance revenues from Luxair. The amount invoiced was approximately US$ 1.0 million (2015: US$ 1.0 million). In thousands 2016 2015 of U.S. Dollar Joint ventures and associates Associates 4,847 4,563 and Joint Venture During the year ended December 31, 2016 the Group paid US$ 30.2 million (2015: US$ 25.4 million) for IT Shareholders 10,783 4,101 services to Champ Cargosystems S.A., overhead fees and repair of component parts of US$ 1.2 million (2015: 15,630 8,664 US$ 0.7 million) to Global Aviation Technical Solutions SECS and aircraft rentals of US$ 12.6 million (2015: US$ Structured entities 12.4 million) to subsidiaries of 8F Leasing S.A.. A number of structures entities have been established for the purpose of aircraft financing, notably in the context of finance leases. Given the nature of the contractual arrangements, the assets and liabilities are shown on the balance sheet in accordance with accounting policy 3 (c). ANNUAL REPORT 2016 72 28. GROUP ENTITIES Subsidiaries Country of incorporation Direct ownership 2016 2015 Cargolux RE S.A. Luxembourg 100% 100% Cargolux Italia S.p.A. Italy 40% 40% Italia Aerologistics S.R.L. Italy 98% 98% Luxfresh S.A. Luxembourg 100% 100% The Group holds a 100% controlling interest in all its subsidiaries. Heavy Maintenance Check 29. ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The timing of “C” and “D-check” is determined in AND JUDGMENTS accordance with the Group’s maintenance program which is based on recommendations of the manufacturer and is approved by the civil aviation authorities (DAC). Certain critical accounting judgments in applying the The amount provisioned is based on prices derived from Group’s accounting policies are described below. contractual arrangements concluded with providers and is discounted to the balance sheet date. As of July 2009 the Group performs the major overhaul “C-checks” in-house. Finance and operating leases The Group entered into a lease arrangement in Provision relation with the hangar it operates in Luxembourg. The lease contains three extension options for The recognition of a provision requires that the incremental five year lease periods. This option can management is in the position to make a reliable be exercised for the first time on the 15th anniversary estimate of the amount of the obligation resulting from of the lease, i.e. on June 15, 2024. past events. When no reliable estimate can be made, a contingent liability is disclosed. In determining lease classification the Group evaluated whether substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership were transferred to the Group. Residual values of aircraft Specifically, it was not considered as reasonably certain, at the inception of the lease, that the Group Management estimates of residual values and carrying will operate the hangar beyond fifteen years. amount are reassessed regularly on the basis of fact and circumstances existing at year end. Estimated Based on this judgment, it is concluded that the lease market values published by external appraisers, is an operating lease. observable transactions or usage of the aircraft are among factors that would, when appropriate lead to revisions to the residual values, carrying amount and Deferred tax asset and investment tax credits related impairment losses. This was the case in 2016 and 2015 (see note 3 (d)(v) and note 14). Deferred tax assets are recognized on tax losses and/or investment tax credits (see note 13). Their recoverability is based on the most recent business plan available at each balance sheet date and 30. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS represents a significant estimate. The recognition of ITC benefits generated through finance leases are reflected in current tax. No event occurred after balance sheet date. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73 Ernst & Young Société anonyme 35E, Avenue John F. Kennedy B.P. 780 L-1855 Luxembourg L-2017 Luxembourg Tel: +352 42 124 1 R.C.S. Luxembourg B 47 771 TVA LU 16063074 www.ey.com/luxembourg lndependent auditor’s report To the Shareholders of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. Aéroport de Luxembourg L-2990 Sandweiler Report on the consolidated financial statements Following our appointment by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders dated 27 April 2016, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cargolux Airlines International S.A., which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Board of Directors‘ responsibility for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for such internal contral as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibility of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the “Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier”. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé”, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. ln making those risk assessments, the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited ANNUAL REPORT 2016 74 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion ln our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. as of 31 December 2016, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Other matter The consolidated financial statements of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2015 were audited by another auditor who expressed an unmodified opinion on those consolidated financial statements on 24 March 2016 . Report on other legal and regulatory requirements The management report, which is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. Luxembourg, 22 March 2017 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 4 AT CARGOLUX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CORPORATE SOCIAL green technologies, advanced automation, software systems and high-tech advances in warehousing and RESPONSIBILITY tracking systems, as well as more collaboration in the supply chain, this perception is now outdated. AT CARGOLUX Lean & Green Europe, with its award, recognized that Cargolux successfully faced the challenge of finding a healthy balance between environmental and economic Recognizing its responsibility as an airline, Cargolux concerns. The airline’s customers and logistics partners, has, for a long time, sought to raise the awareness the major forwarders of this world, are well aware of for environmental issues amongst its staff and has the Lean & Green program and appreciate Cargolux’s committed to lessen the impact of its activities on efforts. Being Lean & Green certainly gives Cargolux a the environment as much as possible. To this end, competitive advantage and underlines its commitment the company has, on one hand, introduced measure to always deliver the highest service excellence. for energy savings, recycling and waste reduction at its offices and facilities and, on the other hand, acquired Cargolux considers itself an ambassador for the modern, fuel-efficient and quiet aircraft for its fleet. Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and is deeply rooted in In 2016, the airline completed its fleet rollover program the country since its inception in 1970. The airline with the delivery of its 14th new 747-8F, an aircraft type has developed strong ties with local communes that is more fuel efficient and produces lower noise and organizations, adding to Luxembourg’s economic disturbances during take-off and landing than its strength with signifcant contributions in 2016. The direct predecessor, the 747-400F, itself still one of the company’s commitment also extends to promoting quietest and most efficient aircraft in its class. cultural and sports activities, as well as education, research and the support of humanitarian NGOs. Not stopping here, Cargolux has initiated its Fuel Efficiency Round Table, a project that aims to identify areas of inefficient fuel usage and to implement change towards a more efficient and conscious fuel usage. The club has an economic goal (cutting costs) but also an ecological objective (less fuel consumption FIRST LEAN & GREEN equals less CO2 emissions). In Flight Operations, the AIRLINE WORLDWIDE initiative saved 2,000 tons of fuel during 2016 and reduced CO2 emissions by 6,398 tons. In June 2016, the company’s environmental efforts were validated as Cargolux, true to its pioneering spirit, became the first airline worldwide to be honored with With a growing workforce of 1,389 people in the Lean & Green award. The airline was recognized Luxembourg at the end of 2016 and having created for its commitment to improve its carbon efficiency by thousands of jobs in other industries directly related to 10% within five years. its air freight activities at Luxembourg airport, Cargolux ranks in the top ten of Luxembourg’s most attractive Lean & Green was started in 2008 as an initiative of employers. Worldwide, the airline employed 1,856 people the Dutch Ministry for Infrastructure and Environment at the end of 2016. to reduce the carbon footprints of companies. Today, Lean & Green Europe is Europe's leading community for sustainable logistics. Lean & Green IN THE Europe combines corporate responsibility for reducing footprints with continuous improvement of operational TOP 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 performance and value for customers. OF LUXEMBOURG 'S Until recently, logistics was perceived as a low-skill industry associated with a history of emissions and MOST ATTRACTIVE noise pollution. Due to the rapid introduction of EMPLOYERS 78 PROGRESS IN 2016 ECOVADIS Cargolux sees a growing commitment for environmental and social awareness, both among its staff on one hand and customers and the industry on the other hand. In 2016, Cargolux This continues to contribute positively to the actions achieved Ecovadis’ and programs the company has in place ; programs that have been recognized by authorizations and Gold Rating status. organizations alike as shown by awards, such as Lean & Green, or labels, such as ‘Superdreckskescht fir Betriber’. Cargolux strives to continuously expand its engagement towards the environment, its neighbors and the people whose livelihood rely on the economic Ecovadis provides a solution for the success of the company. monitoring of sustainability in global supply chains ; Cargolux is one of the companies audited by Ecovadis. CSR GOALS: COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY This produces a reliable assessment of the air­line’s corporate social responsiCargolux’s CSR program focusses on four areas of bility performance through comprepriority for its business. Each area is driven by specific commitments, goals and targets that involve all hensive feedback, benchmarks and stakeholders within the company. The CSR program tools. Its methodology is based on supports the company’s vision as the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice sustainable development standards of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, The CSR program is composed of four main pillars: Environment, People, Communities and Customers. the United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26 000. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY a) Stakeholder list and engagement Stakeholders play an important role in Cargolux’s activities and affect the company’s business in a number of ways. Cargolux employs various means to interact with its stakeholders, all the while maintaining transparency and an open dialogue. Cargolux’s stake­ holders include shareholders, employees, customers, investors and suppliers. They extend to the commu­ nities potentially affected by the company’s activities, primarily those around the airport of Luxembourg, its primary operational hub. Finally, they also include government and local authorities, national and industrial representations, non-governmental organizations and auditing bodies. The airline has adopted various means of commu­ nication to address its stakeholders, inform about developments and learn about opinions and ideas. These comprise:  E  xternally : Cargolux continued and elaborated the exchanges in direct dialogue and written feedback, direct representation, events, company website and social media platforms, customer magazine and media. Representatives of the company regularly participate in a number of working groups in leading industry associations such as IATA, TIACA and A4E.  I nternally : Emphasis was put on the exchange and dialogue with internal stakeholders: a new Intranet was launched, improving accessibility to internal information for the entire staff. Exchanges take place via direct dialogue, the Intranet, staff newsletter and staff events. As part of a project focusing on company culture, a survey was performed amongst employees to better understand their view on Cargolux’s values and culture. Under the auspices of the project, a cross-divisional working group was formed to provide ideas and feedback for further enhancing internal communications. b) Materiality Matrix The company’s CSR program was developed over the last couple of years, in line with the development of its business and with the input from the stakeholders. However, the identification and prioritization of key CSR issues remains an ongoing process that continuously evolves and provides a growing platform for stakeholder consultations. Without continuous development, the program would come to a standstill. The airfreight industry has fought a myriad of challenges and difficult conditions for a number of years. It is an increasingly difficult environment for maintaining a financially sustainable operation that also respects the demands and needs of its stakeholders. Yet, despite the challenges, Cargolux has been eager to uphold its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. Environment EN CARGO GRE Environmental Awareness & Compliance Fuel Efficiency Carbon Efficiency Reduction of Noise Emissions Waste Management OD NEIGHBOR Safe Workplace unity Suppor tive Employe ry C o mp Training & Comm Attrac Noise Abatement a to Development PEOPLE O lia R c s • e g ul Night Movements Quality of Life t nce r at Workplace G Community Support/ Involvement Safety Work/Life Balance • Co Socially Responsible hi m Sound Labor Relations Local Development iance & E pl Employee t Engagement Diversity Financial Performance Innovation Sustainable Procurement Customer Satisfaction Customer Relations PR Customer Care R EFER RED CARRIE AT A GLANCE Key figures  1,856 staff worldwide  7,550 million tonne-kilometers flown  26 aircraft – biggest fleet in the company history. 12 Boeing 747-400Fs and 14 Boeing 747-8Fs  Europe’s biggest all-cargo airline; 6th worldwide, based on FTKs  First GDP certified airline worldwide  First Lean & Green certified airline worldwide  Complementary hub in Zhengzhou, China, more than 100,000 tonnes of freight flown in 2016  13:27 hours average daily aircraft utilization ABOUT THE COMPANY Operational structure of the organization  Commercial Planning Cargolux Airlines International S.A. is a leading global allcargo airline, based in Luxembourg, operating a fleet of  Corporate Development modern Boeing 747-8 and 747-400 freighters. It provides air freight transport services to freight forwarders in most  Corporate Services parts of the world through scheduled and charter flights.  Finance and Administration This includes the regular transportation of perishables, temperature and shock-sensitive goods, supply-chain  Flight Operations goods, project cargo, finished commodities and live animals on its worldwide network that covers some  Global Logistics 90 destinations. The company has developed a unique expertise in the handling of fragile and also outsized  Human Resources, Legal Affairs and Compliance commodities that require increasingly sophisticated logistics and Cargolux’s highly trained and dedicated  Maintenance and Engineering staff guarantees the best possible service to customers.  Sales & Marketing Industry Associations and Organizations WORLDWIDE NETWORK THAT COVERS SOME  UN Global Compact 90 DESTINATIONS Cargolux is committed to operating and acting in a socially and environmentally responsible manner and has underpinned this commitment in 2007 when it signed up to the UN Global Compact, pledging to apply its 10 key principles. Cargolux also offers third-party maintenance services at its maintenance center in Luxembourg. The company is  Corporate Charter for Social Responsibility and specialized in Boeing 747 line and hangar maintenance Sustainable Development up to and including C-Checks. Its service offering includes a range of specialized maintenance services Already in 2005, Cargolux signed the Corporate Charter such as, but not limited to, avionic modifications, for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development, structural repairs and worldwide AOG support. an initiative launched by the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce. Innovative concepts and the constant drive for quality have earned Cargolux a number of awards throughout  IATA the years. Among the awards that Cargolux received in 2016 were the ‘Best All-Cargo Airline– Europe Award’ The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is the from trade magazine Transport News as well as the trade association for the world’s airlines, representing ‘2016 Logistics Management Quest for Quality’ award some 265 airlines or 83% of total air traffic. It supports in the ‘air cargo carriers’ category. many areas of aviation activity and helps to formulate industry policy on critical aviation issues. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Cargolux is member of IATA’s Air Cargo Carbon Footprint (ACCF) working group. 82  TIACA The Cargolux Safety Review Board (SRB), the airline’s highest governance body for safety-related issues, The International Air Cargo Association (TIACA) comprises all nominated persons, as required by EASA. represents, supports, informs and connects every The board regularly meets to analyze and advance the element of the global air freight supply chain. operational safety performance of Cargolux. The organization provides a unifying voice for the industry, works for global standards and raises the A number of safety performance indicators measure profile of air cargo. the effectiveness of safety barriers. These indicators are regularly presented to the process owners, as well as the Airlines for Europe (A4E) SRB, to analyze potential problem areas and take proactive risk control action. At the end of 2016 Cargolux joined A4E, which has become Europe’s largest airline association, based All safety and risk management processes are docuin Brussels. A4E represents the interest of its airline mented in Cargolux’s Management System Manual members and their customers in a number of policy and are mandatory for all operational stake holders. areas including a reform of European air traffic manaThe manual is approved by the Luxembourg Civil Aviation gement framework, aviation emissions trading scheAuthority (DAC). mes, security issues and aviation taxes. The organization has recognized crew fatigue as a safety  Cargo iQ issue that needs to be monitored. Consequently, Cargolux has established a Fatigue Risk Monitoring Cargo iQ is the new name of the former Cargo 2000 System (FRMS) as part of its SMS, using recommendinitiative, a joint effort by a group of airlines and ed practices based on ICAO guidelines. A dedicated forwarders (members) that, today, is an IATA interest group of FRMS Safety Officers, pilots’ representatives group aiming at improving the work processes in the and flight operations management meets regularly air cargo transportation from shipper-through-to-theto discuss fatigue-related issues and recommend to consignee (end-to-end). management processes and procedures to reduce and/or control crew fatigue.  SAFUG Over 1,500 safety reports where submitted in 2016, Cargolux is a founding member of SAFUG (Sustainable including Air Safety, Maintenance Safety, Ground Safety Aviation Fuel Users Group), a cross-industry initiative and Fatigue Reports. These where all processes as that aims at promoting and bringing onto the market per the Management System procedures. A steadily sustainable aviation biofuels. growing rate of pro-active reports enabled the airline to take actions before hazards become an event. Several of the Cargolux Aviation Safety Department OPERATIONAL SAFETY members are involved in safety industry groups and contribute to generating best practices that can then be implemented within Cargolux. These groups Cargolux maintains a Safety Management System (SMS) include amongst others, EASA CAT-CAT (Civil Aviation that is based on EASA requirements and guidelines and Collaborative Analysis Group), the IATA Safety Group, recommendations issued by ICAO, the International the IATA Hazard Identification Task Force, and the EASA Civil Aviation Organization. The SMS embraces Flight European Operators Flight Data Monitoring Initiative. Operations, Maintenance and Engineering, Design Organization, Aircrew Training (ATO & FSTD), Maintenance Training (MTO) and Ground Operations Divisions. The Safety Management System is overseen by a dedicated team of investigators, analysts, risk management and safety experts, who directly report to the accountable manager. Additionally, safety critical issues are quickly addressed through direct communication between the aviation safety department and the responsible proves owners. The SMS includes pro-active and re-active safety reporting, flight data monitoring, hazard identification, risk management and management of change procedures. These and other elements are used to identify and mitigate potential safety related issues, thus keeping risks within acceptable levels, as low as reasonable possible. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83 ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Export Control Comprehensive procedures, as well as manual and Cargolux, as a leading supplier of high-quality air electronic controlling systems ensure full compliance cargo services to customers around the world, works with embargoes applicable to individual countries. in a variety of cultures. The airline has committed to A targeted training imparts special procedures for support and strengthen an ethical business culture shipping goods to restricted countries and enables that promotes compliance with all applicable laws and Cargolux staff to ensure that the airline does not regulations, as well as adherence to internal rules and violate embargoes. policies. An ethical corporate, as well as individual, attitude fosters sustainable and profitable long-term business relations built on trust and avoids the risk of Confidential Reporting reputational or financial damage. Cargolux has tasked a specialized, independent Since 2010, Cargolux has a strong, comprehensive external organization with running a confidential compliance program in place that safeguards the reporting system. This enables individuals to report company’s business and assets and protects its potential misconduct in complete confidentiality and employees by enabling them to better identify ethical helps Cargolux to uncover potential breaches of laws, challenges and giving them the tools to handle these internal rules or procedures and to prevent reoccurrences. adequately. The program, managed by a dedicated compliance department, involves all divisions of The company’s own Compliance Consultation Desk Cargolux and is actively supported by the company aims to accurately and quickly respond to employees’ management. questions regarding applicable rules and their interpretation. It has seen continuous growth in the It is based on a string of policies and conduct guidelines number of submitted questions since its launch a few for personal and business behavior and supplemented years ago, which demonstrates the increasing risk by training schedules, communication initiatives and a awareness of employees. compliance management system. Risk Analysis Training Cargolux deals with a number of business partners Cargolux has a compliance training program in place and suppliers worldwide. In order to ensure that these that incorporates online and classroom sessions, companies work according to its business ethics and with recurring refresher training at regular intervals. compliance principles, the company performs due It introduces the company’s legal obligations, values diligence on partners classified as medium and high and ethical principles to all employees, sales agents risk. This risk classification is country specific according and legal representatives worldwide. to a corruption perception index and is also based on the type of services rendered. Cargolux's compliance classroom training program works in cycles lasting three years. In 2016, the comCargolux is based in a country with very high standards pany conducted a total of 2,336 hours of training for its in respect of the observance of human rights. Human employees and contractors. 698 Cargolux employees rights issues therefore play a minor role in the company’s went through a compliance training in addition to 14 daily business at its home base. However, Cargolux’s external trainees and 91 GHAs and GSAs. Topics inservice level agreements require that its partners and cluded anti-bribery and anti-corruption, competition suppliers also comply with its values and ethics code law, conflicts of interests, data protection and more. and observe human rights in their business activities. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 84 85 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES PEOPLE Disclosure on management approach A positive culture can make all the difference for a company in a challenging business environment Focus on Culture dominated by fierce competition, overcapacity and low yields. It separates the strong players from the weak. From its very beginnings as a one-airplane charter airline It is a delicate balancing act between often competing to the largest all-cargo carrier in Europe today, Cargolux interests. Yet, it is worth paying attention to, because has always been viewed as a pioneer in the airfreight a strong culture aligned with the organization’s industry. Its successful climb to the top was driven by ambitions is an essential element of a company’s longflexibility to changing market demands, the ability to term success and sustainability. grasp opportunities whenever they come and the will to explore new ways of doing business. In short, Cargolux Cargolux has started addressing this challenge with the has grown by constantly adapting its view on the air launch of its ‘Connecting Flights’ project during 2016. cargo industry and adjusting its strategy accordingly. ‘Connecting Flights’ encourages a close cooperation Or, in other words, the people of Cargolux have consis­ and open dialogue between all employees, working tently embraced change. together to boost the Cargolux Spirit and to support the airline’s vision of being the ‘Global Cargo Carrier Throughout its existence, Cargolux has seen itself as a of Choice’. people-driven company powered by its most valuable asset, its employees. The staff turnover rate remains Within only a few months after the launch of at a remarkably low level at 6.7% in 2016 and is an ‘Connecting Flights’ in August 2016, the volunteer encouraging sign of the loyalty the employees place in teams have laid some solid groundwork and identified Cargolux. Building on this commitment and dedication, a number of improvement opportunities to work on. the company continues to invest in a number of talent ‘Connecting Flights’, in a collaborative effort, helps to management activities that include initiatives such as shape the company’s future and to strengthen the succession planning in order to better recognize, develop spirit that made Cargolux big and successful. and retain its high potentials. A culture change is an ongoing process and it takes In addition, these measures contribute to giving emp­ time. It takes a ‘working-together’ ethic and a common loyees clearly defined career paths and development effort that puts the company’s long-term stability opportunities. Cargolux believes that its skilled and and interests first. Changing some isolated values highly motivated employees are the basis for a strong does not make a culture change. Companies that and sustainable economic future. Employees that feel understand this are in the best position to succeed in content, safe and secure in their work environment also face of future business challenges. Cargolux continues best understand that, in order to move the company its ‘Connecting Flights’ journey in 2017. forward and to build tomorrow’s success, they need to constantly adapt their actions and behavior to be aligned with the organization’s values and vision, to effectively and actively contribute to a culture that, ultimately, creates business opportunities, has a positive impact on customer relations and, at the same time, also gives individual job satisfaction. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 86 STAFF & EMPLOYMENT At a glance  Total number of employees 1,856: 4.3% increase in staff throughout the Cargolux network  Diversity: 5,4% more women compared to the previous year, overall 20% of Cargolux employees are female  Cargolux employs people from 65 nations throughout the network, 44 in Luxembourg  Seventh most attractive employer in Luxembourg Employees First VISION, MISSION AND SPIRIT Cargolux gives high importance on building and nurturing mutually beneficial long-term relationships with its employees. The reputation and success of Cargolux continues to focus on achieving its vision Cargolux is built on the team spirit and family-like to be the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice. The airline atmosphere among the staff that was instrumental in aims to build on its strengths in order to be the the company’s growth and prosperity. preferred partner for its customers, suppliers and service providers as well as its current and future employees, not only at its Luxembourg home base The number of employees worldwide increased from but, underpinned by an extensive global network, 1,779 to 1,856 at the end of 2016. The majority of all around the world. employees in Luxembourg (64.6%) are hired on full-time contracts governed by an advantageous collective work As the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice, Cargolux’s agreement, which provides protection and advantages mission is to deliver consistent flexibility and relia­ to employees beyond those afforded by law. In addition, bility through its valued and dedicated employees, the company offers a range of attractive fringe benefits. creating sustainable benefits for all stakeholders in a safe environment. In working towards realizing its strategic ambitions in RECRUITED an ever more competitive market environment, the airline has decided to place an even stronger emphasis 207 PERSONS on reinforcing its key values, which make up the Cargolux Spirit. The eight core values are the hallmark of Cargolux’s success and act as the key guiding principles for the company’s employees in their dayto-day actions in bringing the airline’s mission to life. In total, Cargolux HR processed 6,590 applications These values are at the center of the ‘Connecting and recruited 207 persons during 2016; this includes Flights’ project, launched in 2016, which is aimed apprentices, trainees and pilots, both temporary and firm. at reshaping the company’s culture and revitalizing the Cargolux Spirit to serve as the foundation for an In other projects for 2016, The Cargolux HR Department even stronger, more agile and forward-looking global introduced team, united by common values. This project is closely aligned with other strategic talent management  the “Connecting Flights” project, focusing on core initiatives such as succession planning, clarification values and strengthening the Cargolux Spirit; of career paths and placing more emphasis on talent development activities, including management and   a worldwide appraisal and career development leadership trainings. plan for managerial employees worldwide; ANNUAL REPORT 2016  an HR business partner/business coordinator set-up to assist the divisions in their people-oriented processes and projects;  an enhanced part-time scheme for its flight crews;  a succession planning scheme. 87 ‘Connecting Flights’ also aims to provide a platform All employees have access to a variety of soft skills for tapping into the creativity and drive of employees training such as presentation skills and project all over the organization in order to bring about management basics; courses that have proven to be improvements and new ideas in open, collaborative very popular among the staff. The company also offers cross-divisional working groups established outside more complex programs dedicated to leadership and the traditional hierarchical structures. These initiatives management, including the team leader program are expected to enhance the outcomes of the recently and the management development program. During launched business process re-engineering project, 2016, Cargolux delivered an average of 64 hours of which aims at further improving the efficiency and training per employee. excellence of Cargolux’s business activities. ‘Connecting Flights’ IMPROVES THE EFFICIENCY AND EXCELLENCE OF 64 CARGOLUX’S BUSINESS TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES. TRAINING Cargolux is interested in knowing its people what AND DEVELOPMENT motivates them, what makes them unique and how the fit between the organization and individual career aspiration can be optimized. The company knows that Corporate Training and Development only when people are happy at what they do, they will be able to utilize their full potential and perform Corporate training constitutes the second major pillar at their best. In this way, training and development in Cargolux’s training activities, next to Flight Training. supports business continuity and increases individual Training at Cargolux covers two areas: job satisfaction. a) Mandatory courses for all staff, e.g.: for pilots and mechanics to maintain and/or upgrade their license. Talent management This also covers training on new equipment, new technologies or the application of new procedures. Continuous development and transparent feedback This type of training is a legal requirement. improves competencies and performance, individually and as team. To support employees in this matter, b) Various types of training for staff that allows them Cargolux has designed an appraisal system for em­ to acquire new skills and develop their areas of ployees with managerial function, based on reviewing competence and expertise. This type of training main tasks and responsibilities, setting objectives, extends beyond legal requirements and constitutes analyzing competencies and creating an individual a voluntary action on behalf of Cargolux. career development plan. The system was rolled out to the airline’s global stations in early 2016. Owing to the many regulations and high standards within the aviation industry, Cargolux follows a wellestablished training philosophy that has made training Succession planning and development one of the company’s greatest strengths. Cargolux offers a great variety of voluntary In order to guarantee business continuity and matching personal development courses beyond regulatory and organizational needs with individual career development, mandatory training. The company strives to foster Cargolux has launched a project implementing a a culture for continuous education and development, structured succession planning framework. To ensure teaching and learning – both in its headquarters and undisrupted operations and to safeguard internal expert its stations all over the world. knowledge, Cargolux also works on implementing a global process that will enable the company to better recognize, develop and retain its talents. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 88 Flight Training EASA FTL Following regulatory changes and new requirements In late 2015, Cargolux introduced the European set forth by EASA, Cargolux, in 2016, restructured its Aviation Safety Agency’s (EASA) flight time limitation crew training organization and created the Cargolux rules (FTL) ahead of its February 2016 deadline. Flight Academy. The new organization was set up as After its first full year in operation, the EASA FTL has a profit center that not only fulfills the pilot training proven to be a valid and important tool that, for the requirements of the Cargolux Group, but also markets first time ever, not only looks at scheduled work hours crew training capacity to third-party customers. but also takes into account the individual body clock of pilots. In contrast to other providers who mainly employ retired pilots, Cargolux’s trainers are active line pilots with an average of 15,000 flight hours and way over 20 years of 747 experience at Cargolux under their belt. A SAFE WORKPLACE In addition, as cargo pilots, Cargolux trainers are well versed in operating to demanding and difficult airfields in remote or less than ideal locations that passenger Disclosure on Management Approach airlines usually don’t fly to. Cargolux strives to provide its employees with a safe When launch customer Cargolux introduced the Boeing and healthy workplace. The company wants to offer 747-8F, it also introduced the world’s first 747-8F an environment where its employees feel comfortable simulator and has since converted it to Level D status, and protected during their daily work. To this end, the highest possible qualification. Cargolux, today, Cargolux has in place an effective health and safety employs one of only four advanced 747-8 training units management system and holds an OHSAS 18001 worldwide. Both Cargolux simulators, the 747-400F certification for its Health & Safety Department. and 747-8F, are equipped with state-of-the-art visuals. Together, both simulators recorded a utilization of Safety at work 61%, or 10,490:16 hours in 2016. Of these, 6,480 hours were flown by Cargolux crews and 3,511 hours Work plays a central role in people's lives who spend by external customer crews, including Cargolux Italia. a large part of each day in the workplace. Given this, Based on a 24-hour cycle, the 747-400 simulator Cargolux believes that a work environment should was utilized for 67% of the time while the B747-8 not only be inspiring and conductive to creativity but Simulator had a slightly lower utilization rate of 56%. also safe and healthy. In cooperation with Boeing and EASA, the Cargolux The Cargolux Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) Flight Academy conducted the very first transition Department has made efforts during 2016 to further courses from the 747-400 to the 747-8; this led to an promote health and safety awareness and developed approved footprint for all such courses at other suppliers. a dedicated intranet site to promote safety practices among both employer and employee. Aimed at During 2016, 62 pilots went through the Flight creating a system of continuous improvement, Academy’s Course A, 56 of those were Cargolux pilots.­ this intranet page is a new step forward in sharing In addition, 1 pilot went through Course C while 26 information and promoting prevention. passed through a Command Course during their promotion to Captain. The department supported the renewal of the OHSAS 18001 certification for the company’s Maintenance The airline’s Flight Academy is the only approved and Engineering Division and introduced an IQ SMS training organization worldwide to offer 747 line reporting tool. During the outbreak of the Zika virus, training to third-party pilots. It also markets the capacity an awareness program was launched for Cargolux of Luxair’s new cabin training simulator to third parties. pilots travelling to the affected countries in support of health and safety for crews. The department furthermore welcomed a delegation of the European Commission that was interested in how Cargolux is applying EU regulations, particularly in risk areas. In an ongoing campaign, OHS runs a sensitivity campaign aimed specifically at staff working in highrisk areas. Thanks to a continuous presence of OHS IN 2016 in these areas, the number of lost days for accidents decreased to 346. Lost days for sickness also 10,490:16 hours decreased and reached 12,163. B747-8F AND 747-400F SIMULATOR UTILIZATION ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89 GENERAL DISCLOSURES ENVIRONMENT AT A GLANCE Key figures  26 747 freighters: 14 747-8F, 10 747-400F, 2 747-400ERF  Average age of the fleet on 31 December 2016: 7.0 years Fuel & Emissions One of the best carbon footprint in its class  Jet fuel 1 consumption: 189,381.62 tonnes  CO2 emissions: 3,746,552.05 tonnes CO2  Carbon footprint: CO2 footprint: 497 gr/FTK Noise One of the best noise footprint in its class  100% of the Cargolux fleet is compliant with ICAO Chapter 4 Waste  Waste : 21.5% of produced waste is recyclable (Luxembourg only) Climate commitment Fuel consumption Our goals On its way to achieving these goals, Cargolux has made significant investments. The airline, in 2016, Cargolux has defined near and long term goals concluded its fleet rollover program with the that follow IATA’s targets for airlines to reduce CO2 delivery of its 14th and final 747-8 freighter. In 2005, emissions with the aim to eventually achieve carbonthe company became Boeing’s launch customer for neutral growth. this aircraft type that was consequently developed with the input of Cargolux. The 747-8F, together Cargolux commits to with the 747-400F that Cargolux operates, allow the airline to lower the fuel consumption of its fleet, thus  an average improvement in fuel efficiency of 1.5% effectively reducing CO2 emissions. per year until 2020; Not ending here, Cargolux has initiated its Fuel Efficiency  a cap on aviation CO2 emissions from 2020, in effect Round Table with encouraging results. In 2016, the ANNUAL REPORT 2016 carbon neutral growth; initiative saved over US$ 1 million in fuel costs at Flight Operations alone. This translates to 2,031 tons of  a reduction in CO2 emissions of 50% by 2050, relative fuel that were saved in airline operation, which also to 2005 levels. reduced the fleet’s CO2 emission by 6,398 tons. 90 The savings became possible through operational Lean and Green measures such as different flap settings, lower APU usage or three-engine taxiing after landing. Other In June 2016, the company’s environmental efforts measures, such as the introduction of the electronic were validated as Cargolux, true to its pioneering flight bag, helped to reduce weight by eliminating spirit, became the first airline worldwide to be honpaper maps and introducing electronic maps in the ored with the Lean & Green award. The airline was cockpit. Initiatives in other departments complement recognized for its commitment to improve its carbon the savings at Flight Operations. During 2016, efficiency by 10% within five years. the Fuel Efficiency Round Table implemented 13 fuel saving initiatives for Cargolux, 2 of those are now Lean & Green was started in 2008 as an initiative of part of the company’s standard procedures while the Dutch Ministry for Infrastructure and Environment 11 initiatives are still running as such. Initiatives in to reduce the carbon footprints of companies. Today, other departments include APU usage and weight Lean & Green Europe is Europe's leading community reductions at Ground Operations and Maintenance, for sustainable logistics. Lean & Green Europe comthe latter also introduced calendar-based engine bines corporate responsibility for reducing footprints washing on the 747-8F. Finally, Flight Operations with continuous improvement of operational perforSupport initiated an opti­mized random routing, fair mance and value for customers. weather alternatives and statistical taxi fuel. Until recently, logistics was perceived as a low-skill In 2016, the Fuel Efficiency Round Table achieved industry associated with a history of emissions and 97% of its targets for Flight Operations. noise pollution. Due to the rapid introduction of green technologies, advanced automation, software The Fuel Efficiency Round Table is a perfect example systems and high tech advances in warehousing and of cross-divisional projects within Cargolux. Even tracking systems, as well as more collaboration in though it is a Flight Operations Initiative, many other the supply chain, this perception is now outdated. departments contributed to its success. Maintenance, Lean & Green Europe, with its award, recognized Engineering, Ground Operations, Network and Crew that Cargolux successfully faced the challenge of Training – everyone involved in the Fuel Efficiency finding a healthy balance between environmental Round Table is an expert in their field and promotes the and economic concerns. The airline’s customers and project in their division and department. The initiative logistics partners, the major forwarders of this world, offers more potential savings for the company that are well aware of the Lean & Green program and directly translate to a lower environmental impact. appreciate Cargolux’s efforts. Being Lean & Green It could reduce fuel burn based on block hour by certainly gives Cargolux a competitive advantage another 0.5%, which means that 240 kgs of fuel can be and underlines its commitment to always deliver the saved on each Cargolux flight. highest service excellence. In total, the airline targets to reduce its fuel consumption at Flight Operations by 1,700 tons and compaOngoing programs ny-wide by 3,800 tons in 2017. The company continues a range of programs that Access to high-quality data is crucial when improving support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for fuel efficiency. In order to achieve this, Cargolux has its fleet of aircraft. These include: invested in Honeywell’s GoDirect software, formerly known as Aviaso. It is a technologically advanced  Deep core engine washing. This is performed fuel efficiency software that simplifies data gathering, on the GEnx-2B, CF6-80C2B5F and selected analysis and reporting, helps identifying additional RB211-524H2-T engines with low N3 speed margin. fuel savings and monitors the progress of existing fuel Engines are washed at an interval of 500 cycles or savings initiatives. about twice a year. Cargolux Group Fleet Fuel Consumption:  PIP performance improvement package retrofitted to the GEnx engines of the airline’s early 747-8Fs.  Jet A Fuel: 1,189,381.62 tons In 2016, four engines went through the PIP upgrade, it is planned to upgrade another 10 engines in 2017. GSE vehicles:  Optimization of APU usage when no ground power  Lead-free fuel: 3,210 liters supply is available.  Diesel: 20,851 liters Certifications  Diesel / industrial machines: 74,482 liters Cargolux holds ISO 14001 certifications for its Luxembourg hub, its Maintenance & Engineering Division, its Flight Operations and Training Division as well as its Global Logistics Division. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91 Emissions CO2 EFFICIENCY ( IN KG CO2 / FTK ) CO2 EFFICIENCY ( IN KG CO2 / ATK ) 0.560 0.390 0.550 0.380 0.382 0.540 0.540 0.370 0.530 0.360 0.354 0.520 0.520 0.350 0.510 0.340 0.339 0.501 0.504 0.497 0.335 0.332 0.331 0.500 0.500 0.330 0.490 0.320 0.480 0.310 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 The airline group can show exemplary greenhouse gas emission intensity for its fleet of aircraft. Based on 11.3 million ATKs (available ton kilometers) for the Cargolux and Cargolux Italia fleets, the CO2 efficiency reached 0.331 kgs CO2 per ATK. Scope 2 Cargolux offices and facilities recorded a CO2 emission of 2,235 tonnes for fuel and gas heating during 2016. Use of electricity emitted no CO2. Scopes The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines three scopes of emissions: CO2 CH4 N2O HFCS PCFS SF6 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct indirect indirect Company facilities, purchased Company electricity, steam, heating & All other emissions vehicles cooling for own use attributable Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Direct greenhouse emissions from sour­ Accounts for greenhouse emissions Category that covers all other indirect ces that are owned or controlled by from the generation of fuel or gas emissions attributable to the activities of the company. In the case of Cargolux, heating and purchased electricity by Cargolux, but from the company. Scope emissions from the combustion engines the company. 3 has no relevance to the reporting of its aircraft, ground vehicles and indus­ of Cargolux and is not included here. trial vehicles or machines. 92 EU emissions trading scheme (EU-ETS) These include a ‘Constant Descend Approach, developed in coordination with the DAC, that reduces Cargolux complies with the EU-ETS reporting require­ noise disturbances over the approach sector to ments and continues to monitor and report the CO2 Luxembourg airport by following a continuous desemissions. cend path all the way down to runway level. It minimizes the thrust required for the approach, as engines do not have to be spooled up for renewed level Trucking flight in a stepped approach. Third-party trucking fleet operating for Cargolux Revised flap settings during the approach also in Europe reduces the amount of thrust engines have to deliver for landing. Landings in Luxembourg are limited to idle reverse thrust to reduce noise levels. CATEGORY QTY % After landing, Cargolux aircraft shut down one of the four engines for three-engine taxying to the parking Euro 6 24 2.5 position to conserve fuel and lower the noise level. Euro 5 259 27.2 The aircraft’s auxiliary power unit (APU) is not used Euro 4 672 70.3 for arrivals in Luxembourg to reduce the noise on the ramp. Instead of the APU, a ground power unit is TOTAL 955 100 used to supply electricity to the aircraft. The airline is also studying a quiet climb procedure Noise control after take-off from Luxembourg airport that incorpo­ rates a climb to a certain level before reducing World trade, global economics, human healthcare engine thrust while overflying noise-sensitive areas. and a decent standard of living rely on sustainable At a given height, thrust is then restored to climb thrust. air freight transport. Cargolux firmly believes that This procedure would be applicable to the company’s achieving this goal requires the collaboration of all new fleet of 747-8 freighters. partners in the transport chain as well as aircraft and engine manufacturers and governments. At the same time, Cargolux is aware that its activities affect the communities around the airports it operates from and strives to minimize the impact of these activities as much as possible. The emission of noise is therefore an important area of environmental concern for the company, especially at the airline’s home base in Luxembourg where most of its aircraft movements take place. Operating the world’s quietest freighter aircraft in its class, both the Boeing 747-400F and the 747-8F, represents a significant measurable improvement for the surrounding communities. Introducing the 747-8F in particular, with its advanced engine technology and new wing design, reduced the 85db take-off noise footprint around airports by another 30%. Both aircraft types in the Cargolux fleet fully comply with the standards of ICAO chapter 4, the most stringent aviation standard. -30% TAKE-OFF NOISE FOOTPRINT AROUND AIRPORTS FOR THE 747-8F Additionally, over the past years, the company studied ANNUAL REPORT 2016 and implemented a number of operating procedures to further reduce community noise with its existing fleet. 93 Waste management During 2016, the amount of recyclable waste grew by 23.03% while oily waste and residual waste declined by Cargolux runs a waste management system that enables 8.12% and 6.20% respectively. The growth in hazardous the company to better control and segregate the waste waste was due to an unscheduled cleaning of one oil it generates in Luxembourg. This system is operated by a separator that resulted in the disposal of large quantities spe­cialized external company, managing and monitoring of oil contaminated water. the correct collection, segregation and disposal of all categories of waste, including recyclables and hazardous waste. The overall amount of waste produced by Cargolux FRACTION QTY/kgs QTY/kgs Difference in 2016 went up by 14.63%. The growth in waste was in 2016 in 2015 driven by increased maintenance activities due to the higher fleet utilization, especially during the peak Recyclable 91,172 74,103 23,03% season, as well as the disposal of accumulated wood and steel waste at the maintenance center. The higher-thanOily Waste 23,031 21,801 -8,12% before aircraft utilization also resulted in the disposal of Hazardous 165,410 124,948 32,38% more end-of-life tires than in the previous year. Waste The company handles oil-contaminated waste with Residual 109,829 117,086 -6,20% an innovative oil absorber product as well as waste Waste compactors that have the added benefit of reducing Others 7,826 6,007 30,28% transportation costs and emissions that would otherwise result from the waste disposal process. TOTAL 349,268 343,945 14,63% The Cargolux Maintenance Center recorded no spills during the year while only one spill was recorded at the Cargo Center’s tarmac. Recycling is an important factor in the company’s waste management system. All facilities and rented offices in Luxembourg are equipped with a waste-sorting LABEL OF and recycling system. Wastewater from the airline’s ENVIRONMENTAL maintenance operations and maintenance facilities in Luxembourg are directly collected by the airport sewage EXCELLENCE system followed by a wastewater treatment plant. In addition, the company encourages its office staff to Cargolux’s waste management system holds the adopt measures that cut down on waste production, ‘Superdreckskescht fir Betriber’ environmental label. including the use of electronic storage for documents, The next audit to retain this label will take place electronic communication methods or greater use of during 2017. recycled paper. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 94 95 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES COMMUNITY SUPPORT Disclosure on Management Approach As an investment in the future, Cargolux seeks to sponsor the next generation of air cargo professionals 41 trainees, through a close cooperation with schools and institutes in Luxembourg. The airline has, for instance, a long6 CIE contracts term, close cooperative relationship with the Lycée IN COLLABORATION Technique Privé Emile Metz (LTPEM) in Luxembourg WITH ADEM for an aircraft mechanic apprenticeship program. Cargolux has traditionally put a strong emphasis on supporting future professionals and has participated The company maintains its cooperation and close in a range of initiatives in 2016 that included visits to relationship with the Lycée Technique Privé Emile Metz schools and events that give youngsters the chance (LTPEM) in Luxembourg that runs an aircraft mechanics to explore job opportunities and career paths. With apprenticeship program. Students that successfully these activities, students can sample first-hand pass their exam become B.1.1-licensed AML aircraft experience and impressions on the various aspects of mechanics with an opportunity to gain employment the daily work life and learn about requirements and at Cargolux. B.1.1-licensed mechanics are certified to opportunities for a career in the air freight industry. perform mechanical and/or avionic works during base and line maintenance. In addition, Cargolux continues its support of local artists and cultural institutions, as well as humanitarian Graduates from Luxembourg’s AML apprentice scheme causes through its cooperation with non-governmental obtain a license in accordance with EASA regulations, organizations that help people in need. Part 66. After obtaining the AML, the junior mechanics have to complete an in-house type rating training for the 747-400F and 747-8F aircraft in order to be fully Recruitment and apprenticeship licensed to work on Cargolux aircraft. Cargolux focusses on securing a motivated and highly In another successful year for the technical training qualified workforce for its present and future activities. organization, Cargolux, in 2016, employed five To this end, the airline seeks to support young people students in their first year of apprenticeship and five, in Luxembourg in their career choices and decisions. including one female, students in their second year. Throughout 2016, the Cargolux Human Resources The practical part of the apprenticeship takes place (HR) team performed 13 company presentations that in Cargolux’s own workshops. This not only applies included visits to schools and participation at the to Cargolux students, but, in the frame of enhanced local Girls and Boys Day. The team also attended synergies between Cargolux and Luxair, also to students six events for job seekers, presenting openings and at Luxembourg’s national carrier, who has three each in career opportunities at the airline. During 2016, their first and second year of apprenticeship. the company welcomed 41 trainees and offered 6 CIE contracts in collaboration with ADEM, the Luxembourg government’s employment agency. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 96 Help to help In another 2016 project, Cargolux agreed to a yearly financial allocation to the Luxembourg environmental Cargolux not only seeks to support young people in foundation Hëllef fir d'Natur to sponsor the acquisition their career search but also puts efforts into making of a woodland area and its transformation into a space available for humanitarian causes by supporting protected nature reserve that helps to safeguard the NGOs who bring relief aid and medical goods to natural heritage and biodiversity in Luxembourg. This people affected by epidemics and natural disasters. sponsorship runs for three years. The fine arts As a company firmly rooted in the Grand Duchy of CARGOLUX SUPPORTS Luxembourg, Cargolux believes it is important to support and promote Luxembourg’s cultural activities. NGOs With a worldwide presence, Cargolux is in a perfect position to enrich the cultural life of its home country WHO BRING RELIEF AND MEDICAL and to support Luxembourg artists in their international SUPPLIES TO PEOPLE AFFECTED exposure. This support is strongly anchored in Cargolux’s BY EPIDEMICS AND NATURAL ambitions and the role it wants to play as a good citizen. DISASTERS. In 2016, Cargolux and Luxembourg Museum of Modern Art, MUDAM, have renewed their partnership agreement for another three years. Cargolux has a long-standing sponsorship agreement with MUDAM and regularly flies paintings, objects and other artworks In 2016, ten FOC shipments were flown, many of those for the museum’s exhibitions, mostly between Europe, to African countries. Cargolux also continued its longthe United States and Asia. Because transportation standing support of the International Bazaar, one of usually represents a large part of an exhibition’s costs, Luxembourg’s major annual charity events that brings Cargolux’s support contributes to tip the balance together volunteers from over 50 nations to sell goods towards a successful completion of such projects and specialties from their home countries. The proceeds and constitutes an essential logistical link between from these sales are distributed among a wide number MUDAM and other museums around the world. of larger and smaller aid and relief projects throughout the world. In 2016, Cargolux supported the stands of Cargolux has a longstanding expertise in flying artworks South Africa, Hungary and the USA. and valuable goods and its CV Precious product not only meets the highest security standards, but sets Charity and social support are not only close to the them. Logistical planning around an art exhibition does company’s heart, but also the employees'. In 2016, the not start with the transport and, due to the size and Cargolux staff sports clubs supported the ‘Fondation bulkiness of the artworks, the feasibility of an exhibition Hellef fir kriibskrank Kanner’, a local organization becomes increasingly dependent on Cargolux’s support supporting children suffering from cancer or other life and ample experience in the field of art transportation. threatening diseases and their families. In addition, a group of employees participated in a charity sport event organized by the international section of the Red Cross in Luxembourg, held in support of local charity organizations. GENERAL DISCLOSURES CUSTOMER CARE Disclosure on management approach In January 2016, Cargolux successfully passed its GDP Surveillance Audit, validating its GDP certification for Cargolux strongly believes in service excellence, personal another year. contact and detailed attention to customer needs as a foundation for a successful business built on cooperation To support a positive customer experience, the and trust. With its activities, the airline seeks to boost the company established its Global Accounts Team that businesses and economic success of its partners. This has became fully operational in 2016. The team focused its earned Cargolux a high level of trust and loyalty from its attention on dedicated customer contacts in order to customers and business partners in the industry. Many of guarantee short reaction times to requests and market these long-lasting partnerships have grown over decades developments. The airline’s Pricing Department also and Cargolux is proud that its efforts are recognized with played an important role in customer relations and the many industry awards it receives. served the organization with enhanced data and information. The Product Team members were able to help customers with special cargo requirements and For the customer tailor-made solution for specific needs. 2016 was Cargolux’s ‘Year of the Customer’. However, Speaking of products, Cargolux expanded its port­ the airline’s efforts in enhancing its customer experience folio in June 2016 with two new additions, CV Select are ongoing as every year is first and foremost a ‘Year and CV Select+. These two features act as an ad­ of the Customer’. This was underlined by Cargolux’s ditional layer in combination with any of the eight ‘Powered By’ initiative that honors its top customers by existing products. adding their names and logos to the livery of its aircraft. With this gesture, Cargolux stresses the importance of its The two additions present customers with a number successful long-term relations with several of the world’s of unique advantages. CV Select features preferred leading freight forwarders who play an important role access to premium capacity and booking commitment, in the global supply chains and who continue to power all combined with the airline’s long-standing expertise Cargolux’s success. It is also a sign of friendship and the and detailed attention to the specificities of different strengthening of common goals. commodities. In addition, CV Select+ gives vastly reduced cut-off times of only 30 minutes before departure that customers’ shipments can arrive at the airport. Cargolux’s CV Select and CV Select+ offers guaranteed POWERED BY access to the schedules that suit customers and their clients. With both options, Cargolux can guarantee THE CUSTOMER full, optimal airport-to-airport service and real-time track and trace updates. Also in June, Cargolux launched a new and updated Cargolux was the first airline worldwide to receive the website that greatly enhanced the customer experience Good Distribution Practice (GDP) certification that with features, such as track and trace, that provides attests that Cargolux’s management system meets the customers with the most accurate and up-to-date requirements of the EU directive ‘Guidelines on Good information in a particularly user-friendly way. The new Distribution Practice of Medical Products for Human site is optimized for mobile devices and offers five Use’, as well as World Health Organization guidelines. sub-sites with easy navigation that gives direct access to e-services as well as sales or maintenance-related Reflecting this expertise in its CV Pharma product, information and fast points of contact. ANNUAL REPORT 2016 one of eight specialized offerings in its product portfolio, makes Cargolux a preferred carrier for the transport of As an additional communications tool, the company pharmaceutical goods and underlines the company’s launched a new customer print magazine during 2016, commitment to the safe and fast movement of ‘Charlie Victor’, that gives outsiders a glimpse into high-value, temperature-sensitive healthcare shipments the world of Cargolux. The airline believes that close across its global network. personal contact with its partners, as well as detailed 98 attention and an understanding of the customers’ needs This report pertains to Cargolux’s operations and geoforms the foundation of a superior service offering and graphical presence overall, except where otherwise is central to what makes Cargolux different. The name specified in the report. Certain indicators cover its ‘Charlie Victor’ refers to Cargolux’s IATA code CV, which, Luxembourg-based activities only. These include fiin NATO alphabet, spells Charlie Victor. gures relating the company’s employees as well as data related to occupational health and safety. Data monitoring the company’s waste disposal also relates to its facilities in Luxembourg only. The report does ABOUT THIS REPORT not cover the activities of separate legal entities fully or partly owned by Cargolux. Monitoring of fuel consumption and CO2 emissions includes the data This report provides information for the calendar collected by Cargolux Italia. year 2016. The previous report was published in April 2016. It is published annually. Contact point Its elaboration is based on the continued analysis of the company’s main impact and responsibilities, Cargolux invites all interested parties to enter into both with regard to the environment and society, dialogue about its sustainability policy, its activities and and relative to the concerns raised by key groups of this report. The company’s policy, further information stakeholders in this area. about its activities and previous reports can be found on its website at http://www.cargolux.com/about-us/ The 2016 report describes the company’s efforts in corporate-responsability. All comments and enquiries a context where priorities were given to competing are welcome and can be forwarded through the in the difficult market environment that challenged contact form on the aforementioned webpage, or by Cargolux and the global air cargo industry. Despite writing to corpcom@cargolux.com. these difficulties, Cargolux took care to uphold its commitment to environmental and social issues and developed them even further. This report is prepared in accordance with the CORE requirements of the GRI Standards guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiatives. Cargolux endeavors to constantly review and further elaborate its Corporate Social Responsibility program and the Sustainability Reporting Process. APPENDIX SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENT Employment 2016 2015 2014 Number of staff Worldwide 1,856 1,779 1,710 Headquarter 1,389 1,333 1,305 Rest of the world 467 446 405 Percentage of women 20 20 20 Permanent contract 1,798 1,622 1,580 Newly hired 207 181 188 CWA 1,199 1,164 1,148 Female 13.2% 13.0% 8.42% Male 86.7% 87.0% 58.71% Turnover 120 107 76 Retention rate after parental leave na 100% 95% Number of employees by age groups Under 30 249 254 232 30-50 1,166 1,125 1,126 Over 50 441 400 352 Absenteeism Lost days for accidents 346 362 273 Lost days for sickness 12,163 12,741 13,304 Maternity leave 4,622 1,592 7,566 Occupational Health & Safety Number of injuries (accidents) Internal 27 26 42 External 10 14 16 Training Number of training hours per employee 64 87 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 100 Environment 2016 2015 2014 Materials A/C cleaning products, TOTAL (ltrs) 37,955 34,017 35,741 Honey bee 401 402 310 A/C cleaner 34,456 32,760 32,095 Hydraulic removal 3,098 855 3,336 De-icing and anti-icing product, TOTAL (kgs) Tarmac/airside (ltrs/kgs) 3,400 / 1,600 6,000 / 2,750 2,500/2,500 Salt (parking/road) 11,075 13,175 4,005 Paper (DIN A4) (kgs) 24,522 24,400 30,630 Cartridges (pcs) 69 162 240 Emissions Direct emissions: CO2 emitted by aircraft (tonnes) 3,746,552 3,485,274 3,184,580 CO2 emitted by GSE vehicles 261 289 233 Indirect emissions: Facilities 2,475 2,475 2,513 Consumption Water 10,309 9,183 9,296 Fuel (Heating systems for Lorang building) 79,210 70,052 87,599 Fuel (sprinkler pumps) 2,190 4,509 2,889 Electricity (kWh) 5,787,954 5,582,725 5,787,965 The following data regarding the indirect Energy Consumption are only available for CMC: Heating (kWh) 5,445,500 6,227,000 5,627,100 Cooling (kWh) 483,700 443,500 466,600 Compressed air (m ) 3 1,040,123 994,885 1,004,077 Gas (m )3 966,882 1,090,762 1,088,487 Fuel Jet A (tonnes) 1,189,382 1,106,436 1,010,978 GSE vehicles Industrial Fuel (ltrs) 74,216 91,926 71,305 Diesel (ltrs) 20,851 15,123 13,542 Unleaded Gasoline 95 (ltrs) 3,210 1,970 2,949 Waste Hazardous waste 165,410 124,948 176,046 Recyclable waste 91,172 74,103 90,625 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Residual waste 109,829 117,086 76,029 Oily waste 20,031 21,801 25,219 Other waste 7,826 6,007 4,972 101 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. the organisation 102-2 Activities, Long-range transport of goods by air brands, products, and services 102-3 Location Luxembourg of headquarters 102-4 Location As a scheduled all cargo airline, the company operates of operations flight to over 50 destinations throughout the world. 102-5 Ownership Joint-stock company and legal form (Société Anonyme) 102-6 Markets served Cargolux provides air freight transport services to freight forwarders in most parts of the world through scheduled and charter flights. This includes the regular transportation of supply-chain goods, finished commodities, project cargo, perishables, temperature and shock-sensitive goods and live animals, among others. 102-7 Scale of Highlights in Annual Report the organisation 102-8 Information 100 on employees and other workers 102-10 Significant nothing to report changes to the organization and its supply chain 102-12 External 82 initiatives 102-13 Membership 82 of associations 102-14 Statement Annual Report from senior decision maker 102-16 Values, 87 principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-18 Governance Annual Report structure ANNUAL REPORT 2016 102 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-40 List of 80 stakeholder groups 102-41 Collective 87 | 100 bargaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and 80 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach 80 to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics 81 and concerns raised 102-45 Entities This report does not include information on other entities, included in the except for the CO2 emissions and fuel data where CV Italia consolidated financial is included. statements 102-46 Defining report 99 content and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material 80 | 81 topics 102-48 Restatement nothing to report of information 102-49 Changes nothing to report in reporting 102-50 Reporting Calendar Year 2016 period 102-51 Date of most April 2016 recent report 102-52 Reporting Annual cycle 102-53 Contact corpcom@cargolux.com point for questions regarding the report 102-54 Claims 99 of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 102-55 102 -106 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 102-56 108 -109 103 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) General Disclosures GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of 78 | 86 the material topic and its boundaries 103-2 The 78 | 86 management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of 78 | 86 the management approach GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic Annual Report value generated and distributed GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations 84 assessed for risks related to corruption 205-2 Communication 84 and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed no incidents reported during reporting period incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI 301: Materials 301-1 Materials used 101 by weight or volume GRI 302: Engergy 302-1 Energy 101 consumption within the organization 302-3 Energy intensity 101 | 92 302-4 Reduction of 90 | 91 energy consumption 302-5 Reduction in 90 | 91 energy requirements of products and services GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water 101 withdrawal by source 303-3 Water recycled nothing to report as we do not have this process in place and reused GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats 97 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 protected or restored 104 GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) General Disclosures GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 92 GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect 92 (Scope 2) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions 92 intensity 305-5 Reduction of 91 GHG emissions GRI 306: Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type 94 | 101 and disposal method 306-3 Significant spills No spills reported GRI 401: Employment 401-1 New employee 100 hires and employee turnover GRI 403: OHS 403-1 Workers 100 representation in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of 100 injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities 403-4 Health and 89 safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions GRI 404: Training and education 404-1 Average hours 100 of training per year per employee 404-2 Programs for 88 upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of 100 Diversity and equal opportunity governance bodies and employees ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) AND/OR URL(S) General Disclosures GRI 409: 409-1 Operations and 100 Forced or compulsory labor suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor ANNUAL REPORT 2016 106 Ernst & Young Société anonyme 35E, Avenue John F. Kennedy B.P. 780 L-1855 Luxembourg L-2017 Luxembourg Tel: +352 42 124 1 R.C.S. Luxembourg B 47 771 TVA LU 16063074 www.ey.com/luxembourg lndependent auditor’s report To the Shareholders of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. Aéroport de Luxembourg L-2990 Sandweiler Report on the consolidated financial statements Following our appointment by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders dated 27 April 2016, we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cargolux Airlines International S.A., which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Board of Directors‘ responsibility for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and for such internal contral as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibility of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the “Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier”. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé”, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. ln making those risk assessments, the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited ANNUAL REPORT 2016 108 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 SPANNING 5 THE WORLD EUROPEAN TRUCKING NETWORK EUROPEAN ROAD FEEDER NETWORK FROM AND TO LUXEMBOURG AUSTRIA ITALY ROAD Linz Bologna FEEDER Vienna Citanova Marche NETWORK Florence BELGIUM FROM Aberdeen Dublin Milan Antwerp Rome PRESTWICK Belfast Glasgow Brussels Turin Birmingham London Venice Bristol Manchester CZECH Cardiff Newcastle REPUBLIC NETHERLANDS SWITZERLAND Cork Norwich Prague Amsterdam Basle Derby Shannon Maastricht Geneva DENMARK Rotterdam Zurich Billund Copenhagen NORWAY UNITED Bergen KINGDOM FINLAND Stravanger London ROAD Helsinki Oslo Manchester FEEDER FRANCE Prestwick NETWORK PORTUGAL Lille IRELAND FROM Luxembourg Lisbon MAASTRICHT Lyon Amsterdam Porto Cork Marseille Dublin Mullhouse SPAIN Shannon Nice Alicante Paris Bilbao Strasbourg Madrid Valencia GERMANY Zaragoza ROAD Berlin Bremen SWEDEN FEEDER Cologne Gothenburg NETWORK Dortmund Malmö FROM Alicante Porto Dresden Stockholm BARCELONA Bilbao Valencia Dusseldorf Lisbon Zaragoza Frankfurt Madrid Hamburg Hanover Leipzig Nuremberg ROAD Munich FEEDER MunsterNETWORK Osnabruck FROM Barcelona Genova Turin Stuttgart MILAN Basle Lyon Venice HUNGARY Bordeaux Marseille Verona ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Budapest Civitanova Munich Vienna Marche Naples Zurich Firenze Nuremberg Fiumicino Stuttgart ROAD Geneva Toulouse FEEDER NETWORK FROM Adana 112 ISTANBUL Ankara Izmir TRUCKING SERVICES OUT OF CARGOLUX ONLINE STATIONS Ad hoc trucking can be arranged upon client request, please contact our cargo services office for additional information. ROAD FEEDER NETWORK FROM Bratislava Sarajevo BUDAPEST Bucharest Sofia Linz Vienna Ljubljana Warsaw Prague DESTINATIONS ROUTE MAP 2017 Calgary Seattle Chicago New York Indianapolis Colombus Los Angeles Huntsville Atlanta Dallas Houston Miami Guadalajara Mexico City Aguadilla/San Juan Bogota Latagunga Manaus Petrolina Campinas Sao Paulo Rio de Janeiro Curitiba ANNUAL REPORT 2016 114 Oslo Novosibirsk Prestwick Amsterdam Stansted Maastricht Luxembourg Budapest Milan Vienna Almaty Toulouse Tbilisi Turkmenbashi Zaragoza Barcelona Beijing Komatsu Istanbul Baku Tokyo/Narita Beirut Zhengzhou Seoul Amman Osaka Kuwait Shanghai Cairo Bahrain Dammam Xiamen Riyadh Dubai Taipei Doha Hanoi Hong Kong Muscat Bombay Ouagadougou Bangkok Bamako N’Djamena Ho Chi Mnh City Lagos Abidjan Port Harcourt Kuala Lumpur Accra Singapore Nairobi Brazzaville Kinshasa Johannesburg (also) flown by Cargolux Italia ISSUED AND EDITED BY PHOTO CREDITS Corporate Communications Artem Karasev Cargolux Airlines International S.A. Page 97 Luxembourg Airport L-2990 Luxembourg David Laurent Tel. : +352 4211-1 Pages 21, 31, 60, 68, 99, cover Fax : +352 4211 3747 Corpcom@cargolux.com Viktor Laszlo Pages 6, 7, 12, 18, 22, 24, 30, 32, 36, 42, 45, 46, 48, 53, 54, 72, 78, 80, 82, 86, 90, 96, 97, 98, 112, 114 DESIGNED BY Simone Previdi Page 27 Tetris Communication Tristan Sulzberger Pics Pages 81, 87, 90 PRINTED BY Christiaan van Heijst Reka Pages 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 13, 14, 33, 47, 50, 77, 85, 95, 111 Christoph Van Biesen Pages 4, 19, 29, 35, 43, 64, cover Frank Weber Page 8 Cargolux Pages 56, 25 Tetris Communication Pages 11, 15, 17, 107
