1/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 2/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As the world’s largest global corporate citizenship initiative, the Global Compact is concerned with demonstrating and building the social legitimacy of business and markets. Marshalls plc became a signatory of the UNGC in January 2009 and a member of the UK Network later the same year. The UN Global Compact aims to mobilize a global movement of sustainable companies and stakeholders to create the world we want. To realise this vision, the UN Global Compact supports companies to: 1 Do business responsibly by aligning their strategies and operations with Ten Principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption; and 2 Take strategic actions to advance broader societal goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals, with an emphasis on collaboration and innovation. The UNGC is not a regulatory instrument, but rather a voluntary initiative that relies on public accountability, transparency and disclosure to complement regulation and to provide a space for innovation and collective action. This is the Company’s eighth Communication on Progress and outlines how Marshalls is aligned with the ten principles and how, throughout 2017, the plc intends to develop its activities in support of the framework laid out by the UNGC. 3/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Principle 7: Businesses should support Businesses should support a and respect the protection of precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human environmental challenges; rights; Principle 8: Principle 2: Undertake initiatives to Make sure that they are not promote greater environmental complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Labour friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Anti-Corruption to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Principle 4: Businesses should work against The elimination of all forms of all forms of corruption, including forced and compulsory labour; extortion and bribery. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Contents Statement of Support for the UNGC, by Martyn Coffey 05 Statement by UNGC UK Chairman, Chris Harrop 06 Foreword and Focus for 2017 07 Scope of Operations 13 Achievement Indicators 15 Third Party Assurances 16 Marshalls’ Brand Manifesto 16 Marshalls the Superbrand 17 M-Way – Code of Conduct; Ethical & Sustainable Procurement 19 Future Spaces: Changing face of the spaces we share 23 Product Innovation 26 Sustainable Development Goals; how Marshalls is contributing 32 Fairstone: how do you know? 34 Focus on Modern Slavery 42 Human Rights 45 Labour 54 Environment 61 Anti-Corruption 69 Business in the Community 73 Best Companies Survey & Employee Engagement 75 Training & Development 78 Health & Safety 80 Award Success 81 Third Party Recognition & Awards 81 COP Feedback 86 GRI Performance Indicators 87 5/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement of Support for the UNGC Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO I like to take time out at this time of year to reflect upon the reasons that Marshalls became a UNGC signatory back in 2009, to think about what this means for us right here and now, as well as run a keen eye over the horizon in an effort to identify the challenges and opportunities to come. The ten fundamental principles, to which we remain committed, within the pillars of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption are no small undertaking and it requires constant thought, challenge, engagement, change and action in all kinds of areas; from governance, gender equality, poverty, climate change, rule of law, social sustainability, inequality, peace and supply chain sustainability, to name but a few. I and my Board know that sustainability counts and that it can be levered for competitive advantage by those organisation which are innovative, fully engaged, trustworthy and there for the long haul. Guided by our brand values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability I remain confident that Marshalls’ team is Martyn Coffey, Marshalls CEO empowered to make the right sustainable choices for our business day-in and dayDriving Business Growth out. Through Sustainability Marshalls has continued to make a rich contribution throughout 2016; engaging with governments both in the UK and overseas, collaborating with United Nations partners, working with regional & local networks and partners globally, developing innovative products which respond to environmental challenges, working to prevent modern slavery through education, and elevating transparency in our global supply chain. We know too that by working effectively with our global supply chains we have the opportunity to make a significant impact in promoting human rights, fair labour practices, environmental progress and anti-corruption policies. While we’ve been doing this long enough to know that it can be challenging and complex, we remain passionate, dedicated and undeterred. It helps that we see our supply chain as an extension of our workforce and community. We have much to be proud of in terms of our work and efforts to uphold the UNGC principles throughout 2016 and yet much more to do as we press on further still. Marshalls won the 2016 PLC Award for Corporate Social Responsibility which acknowledges leadership, innovation and commitment in taking responsibility for the impact a company has on environmental and social wellbeing. I hope that you’d agree that this is a good independent indicator of the progress that we’ve made. Regular readers will know that this UNGC Communication on Progress sits alongside our Annual Report as the main vehicle for sharing our sustainability progress. I hope that as you read you’ll see the wide ranging actions which clearly demonstrate that each day we’re walking the talk and that sustainability remains firmly at the heart of all that we do. 6/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Statement by UNGC UK Chair Chris Harrop This is my last statement as Global Compact Network UK Chair. My term ends in December 2016 and it has been a great privilege to hold this post for four years. I have had opportunities, education and insights that I would never have had were it not for the UNGC UK Network Chair role. Highlights for me have been the Annual Local Meeting in Ethiopia and the Leadership Summit in New York where we won a social media award. The UK Network is in great shape and I’m delighted to hand over to Dr. Nicky Black, Head of Social Performance at De Beers. I want to wish both Nicky and the UK Network continued success and I’m sure that in the hands of Nicky, the Advisory Group and the Secretariat, headed by Steve Kenzie, things will continue to go from strength-to-strength. I will remain a Director of the UK Network and involved in UK Network activities. I maintain my belief that the Global Compact Local Networks Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group activity is extremely important in advancing corporate sustainability at the Marketing Director, (Responsible for grassroots level by helping companies understand what being a sustainable Sustainability), UNGC UK Network business means in practice, how this is good for business and good for Chair, ETI Non-Executive Director society and what can be done within a national context to contribute towards the sustainable development goals. The Power of Principles in Uncertain Times “Harmony between people within and among communities supports an 2016 has been a year of change, uncertainty and discord in all spheres. open global business environment and There’s much discussion about truth, post truth and out-and-out lies; not companies that value the diversity of only in politics but in all walks of life, including business. Like Lise Kingo, their customers, employees, business Executive Director, UN Global Compact, I whole heartedly agree that the partners and community stakeholders power of principles in uncertain times serves to give businesses the bearings outperform their peers. This movement by which we can navigate, whatever the weather. of business as a force for good transcends borders, fences and walls. UNGC signatories have all publicly committed to the same unchanging Now more than ever, this is a time to values and principles; the ten principles set within the pillars of human stay firm on our universal values and rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Importantly, UNGC principles. signatories also know that whilst sustainability is a journey, good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. UNGC is a movement of businesses Lise Kingo, Executive Director, as a force for good and one which I’m proud to be a part of. It transcends UN Global Compact borders, fences, walls, geography, the rhetoric of fear, fake news and all of the hyperbole. Now is the time for UNGC signatories to stand firm, live up to the public commitments that they have made and invite other businesses to join them. *https://www.unglobalcompact.org/news/ 3921-01-31-2017 7/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 8/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Regular readers of our COP’s will be very familiar with our sustainability INABLE BU USTA model which incorporates our membership of the UNGC and FTSE4GOOD, S S AVAILABLE SPECIFICAT SINE FTSE4GOOD MEMBERSHIP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE L and our continued commitment to Integrated Management Systems. L LIC BS EN ISO 14001 ION 9 SS HA PUB 9 NS GLOBAL CO MA NATIO The three pillars of sustainability; economic, environmental and social EL MP ITED AC RS OD UN T Foreword continue to provide the focus for our activity. Underpinned by the UNGC M principles regarding the environment, labour, human rights and antiEnvironmental Water use CO2 and CO2e corruption. Biodiversity Waste to Legal landfill Marshalls remains focused on being a successful and profitable business Social Economic whilst minimising our impact on the environment, looking after the people A very warm welcome to all readers of this Marshalls’ eighth As many of you will know, Marshalls became a UNGC signatory 01 Ethical sourcing Community Safety Total shareholder return Customer BS E and communities, striving to be innovative and to respond to market 180 responsibility N UNGC Communication on Progress Report. I always like to in 2009 and a Global Compact Local Network member later the S service index E ISO challenges and opportunities and to taking the lead in our sector. SA T IV 90 share with you here, at the beginning of our report, some same year. My tenure as chair comes to an end in December OH SE FT 4G OO G IA IN IT 01 TI N of the highlights of the often challenging work that we’ve but under the guidance of Dr Nicki Black, Head of Social DM EMB E RS HIP GLOBA L REP OR Our purpose as a business is to ‘Create Better Spaces’ for all of our customers. undertaken in 2016. Our focus has been very much shaped Performance at De Beers the Global Compact Local Network We do this The Marshalls Way – MWay – by ensuring that we live our shared values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability. These are the values by the business and human rights agenda, the publishing UK continues to be a platform for high level networking, that our business is built on. of our first Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement and its discussion, dialogue and peer support, specialised work implementation throughout UK business operations and our streams, and open lines of communication directly with UNGC global supply chains, and also our work to contribute to the HQ in New York. The Global Compact Local Network remains sustainable development goals. a key resource for Marshalls as we ensure that we’re well informed and engineer our business for the future and ensure The appointment of Marshalls’ first Business & Human Rights Lead ensured that our first Modern Slavery Disclosure that we’re well positioned to face the challenges as well as take advantage of the emerging opportunities. The Values Our Business is Built On Statement, published in May, was identified as a ‘best LEADERSHIP is not just about being a manager. TRUST means that we are open, honest, fair and performer’* and that its implementation across UK business Our CEO, Martyn Coffey, continues to champion Marshalls’ It means that we should all set the standards that consistent. We must always follow through on our operations and our global supply chain has moved ahead at strategic approach to sustainability and made clear in his others aspire to, no matter what our role is within promises, respect others’ talents and treat each pace. Much of our work is focused upon prevention and we Statement of Support that, he and our Board ‘… know that the business. We should all take responsibility for other fairly whilst always acting with integrity. have established a new and innovative partnership with antisustainability counts and that it can be levered for competitive our actions and try to set a good example every slavery organisation Hope for Justice initially focusing upon the advantage by those organisation who are innovative, fully single day. SUSTAINABILITY means that we are committed UK, Vietnam and China. As well as gearing up to communicate engaged, trustworthy and there for the long haul.’ It’s very to doing the right thing for the long-term good of on a new IT-based platform with all of our suppliers regarding simply the way that we do business and the UNGC framework EXCELLENCE means that we must always strive our business, for society and for the environment. modern slavery, anti-bribery & corruption and supplier code is a fundamental part of Marshalls’ long-term business strategy. to be the best we can be. We must be ambitious This means that we must always do the right thing of conduct, we have also put in place a key supplier education and demand high performance from ourselves and consider the impact on our business and of our programme with our temporary labour provider here in the Marshalls’ employees are all aware of the businesses as well as others. We must also be innovative and decisions and actions. UK. The appointment of Marshalls first two Modern Slavery commitment to sustainability and what this means to them constantly seek to improve our performance. Ambassadors in UK business operations has been a particular in terms of what they do here at work and also beyond into It’s essential that we always make good our commitments and have pride and passion in highlight and I look forward to you reading later in this report the local and global community. New and existing employees everything that we do. about the education work and their impact. are also introduced to our sustainable approach through a specially developed induction process. All employees also I’m also highly delighted to be able to tell you that Marshalls have the opportunity to engage with Marshalls Certificate in Employees throughout the business continue to be actively involved: has retained its Superbrand status which has been awarded Sustainability which is heartily endorses by the Global Compact following a rigorous independent selection process. Local Network UK. Andy Ackroyd, Richard Capper, Susie Fehr, Helen Taverner, Claire Quinton-TullDavid Morrell, Matthew Gibb, Nick Carr, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Samantha Munkley, Commercial Energy HR Director Group Systems Auditor och, Group Head of Group Environment Group Health & Business & Human Employee Engagement Controller Management Head of PR Sustainability & Water Manager Safety Advisor Rights Lead. Manager. Engineer Chris Frankland, Andrew Stalker, Richard Beal, Claire Blake, Pete Stevens, Steve Swanwick, Sophie Rowe, Nicole Gledhill, Chris Griffith, Alice Couldwell, International Product Head of Procurement Director Head of Domestic Group Carbon & Group Systems PR Executive Product Manager SuDs and CBP Linear Drainage Manager Commercial Product Energy Manager Manager Commercial Paving. Manager. Product Manager. Marketing Management. These employees work alongside those with special full and frank feedback on a range of issues especially Empowerment Principles as well as quarterly human responsibilities including; Group Procurement in relation to our human rights programme and our rights briefings. In addition we continue to work Director, Richard Beal, Group Human Resources work on modern slavery and transparency in the closely with Indira Saxena regarding social issues in Director, Suzie Fehr and Business & Human Rights supply chain. India and Sterling Smith of Just Solutions Ltd. Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, Group Head of Sustainability, * Marshalls was highlighted as ‘best performer’ by Innovation Forum for its first David Morrell and Natural Stone Director, Rory I’m excited to report that Marshalls is the first I am especially delighted to confirm that Marshalls Statement http://innovation-forum.co.uk/analysis.php?s=are-modern-slaveryKendrick. organisation globally to have undergone the has again retained its Superbrand status for the statements-lagging-performance assessment process for the BRE Global Ethical Labour seventh year running. This is a testament to the Marshalls’ progress is monitored thoroughly and Sourcing Standard Verification 6002. We will know dedication and passion of everyone within the on an ongoing basis against both internal and the outcome of this during the first quarter of 2017. business and a feat which we are extremely proud. external measures. As a matter of course Marshalls seeks verification from third party organisations Our Human Rights Programme has developed In this our eighth Communication on Progress, we which include non-governmental organisations and steadily since 2010 and now includes human share with you the efforts that we have made to independent auditors; The Carbon Trust, BSI, Wild Life rights impact assessments, Children's Rights & uphold the UNGC principles during 2016 and our Trust, ETI & BITC. We also engage with third sector Business Principles implementation, working enduring commitment to these principles as we organisations as 'critical friends' in order that we get towards becoming signatories of the Women's move forward throughout 2016. 9/ United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 10 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Focus for 2017 Business and Human Rights – Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement Implementation: UK & Overseas In May 2016 Marshalls published it first Modern Slavery We have made good progress, together with our anti-slavery Disclosure Statement as required following the introduction of partner Hope for Justice, in terms or preventative education the UK Government Modern Slavery Act 2015. This Act requires work with employees, suppliers, and those in and around our all businesses with a turnover in excess of £36m to provide overseas supply chains especially in Vietnam and India, we an annual Statement of Disclosure detailing the steps an remain extremely focused moving forward. During 2017 we organisation has taken during the financial year to ensure that aim to continue our work in the UK, in Vietnam and in India slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in any of its and will also look to extend this to China and Brazil. We look supply chains or in any part of its own business. forward to publishing our second disclosure statement in 2017 and to detailing our key performance indicators in this area. Modern Slavery KPI’s for 2016/17 West Yorkshire Anti-Trafficking & Modern Slavery Deliver an internal awareness campaign throughout UK Modern Slavery training for all employees involved Supplier communication and verification programme Network Engagement operations to all employees directly in supply chains and which confirms that regarding modern slavery. procurement. suppliers have received and understood Marshalls’ position regarding modern slavery and area aware of Marshalls Modern Slavery “ West Yorkshire is taking the issue to its heart and putting it as Policy & Disclosure Statement. a priority. This is something that other regions must follow.” Kevin Hyland, UK’s Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioner As an engaged business and a member of the local community we are looking forward during 2017 to being part of the West Yorkshire AntiTrafficking & Modern Slavery Network. Marshalls is the first business Report on its effectiveness Further develop the Develop, in conjunction invited to become part of this Network due to our commitment to the in ensuring that slavery and organisations supply chain with appropriate partners, prevention of modern slavery. The West Yorkshire Anti-Trafficking & human trafficking is not due diligence, related human a process of remediation and Modern Slavery Network was created by anti-human trafficking charity taking place in its business rights programme and support for victims of modern Hope for Justice in conjunction with West Yorkshire’s Police and Crime or supply chains including external auditing process slavery identified within the the due diligence processes in order that instances of organisations operations Commissioner Mark Burns-Williamson after he was awarded £200,000 outlined in Marshalls modern slavery can be and supply chains. from the Ministry of Justice in 2014 to create and lead the network. The Modern Slavery Policy & identified, remedial action network currently provides a strategic meeting framework on behalf Disclosure Statement. undertaken, the victims of the statutory, non-statutory and third sector organisations in West supported and that all of this is transparently reported. Yorkshire who contribute to tackling human trafficking and modern slavery in all its forms but is exploring how businesses can engage in support of the Independent Anti-Slavery Commissioners strategic plan. 11 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 12 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Supplier Code of Conduct – Children’s Rights & Business Principles Audit & International Programme on the M-Way Role Out Elimination of Child Labour During 2017 we will undertake our third Children’s Rights & Business Principles Audit which will help us to assess our progress and identify the priorities for the coming two years. We will do this in conjunction “ Our purpose as a company is to Create Better Spaces for all our customers. with key partners and NGO’s in the areas where we operate. We also remain a member of the International Programme on the Elimination of The way we do this is to understand and focus on our core shared values Child Labour (IPEC). The rights of children and the elimination of child labour in the sandstone sector still remains a key driver for us. of Leadership, Excellence, Trust and Sustainability, and use these to guide how we behave as individuals.” Martyn Coffey, CEO, Marshalls plc Diversity, UN Women Engagement & In an increasingly globalised and interconnected world Marshalls understands that HOW WE WORK AND WHAT WE VALUE 1 Women’s Empowerment Principles modern supply chains can have a significant impact on not only our own operations but also on society and the environment. During 2016 the procurement department Leadership Excellence Trust Sustainability Framework and our business and human rights specialist have worked closely, together with a leading provider of online compliance training and risk management software, We had planned to undertake a full audit against the Women’s to develop a programme of online compliance training for suppliers on Marshalls Empowerment Principles during 2016 but this will now happen in Supplier Code of Conduct, Modern Slavery and Anti-Bribery & Corruption. This will be 2017. The ground work has been laid and Marshalls is set to engage rolled out during the first quarter of 2017. with UN Women UK during the first half of 2017, to undertake the WEPS audit and to undertake internal research regarding diversity throughout our operations. We understand that women have a critical CODE OF role to play in all of the sustainable development goals, with many targets specifically recognizing women’s equality and empowerment CONDUCT as both the objective, and as part of the solution Goal 5 is known as the stand-alone gender goal because it is dedicated to achieving these ends. 2017 will see the launch of Marshalls internal women’s network, The Marshalls Way Marshalls Women Step it Up. “ M-Way reflects Marshalls absolute commitment to ethical and sustainable procurement practice. We will only do business with responsible suppliers and subcontractors who understand the nature of the products, materials and services they supply and who recognise their Please enjoy read on and finding out more about how sustainability is helping to build competitive advantage responsibility to protect the environment whilst fostering good relations for our business. with their employees and local communities.” Richard Beale, Marshalls Group Supply Chain Director. Chris Harrop Group Marketing Director Responsible for Sustainability Marshalls plc 13 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 14 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Scope of Operations UK HQ and Manufacturing BELGIUM Manufacturing TURKEY Sourcing CHINA Quality & Ethical Compliance Office and Sourcing INDIA Sourcing VIETNAMSourcing NORTH AMERICA Office 15 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 16 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Achievement Indicators Third Party Assurances Once this report is submitted to Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best the UNGC and published online, Practice it will be volunteered for peer79% review by a randomly selected group of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the UNGC. Any suggested changes will be made and the report will Reviewing Feedback Delivering Best be re-submitted, if required, to the Legal Compliance & Developing Our Approach Practice UNGC following the peer review process. As indicated in the 2010 COP, Throughout this and all other Marshalls Each indicator is broken down in percentage Marshalls has sought to extend Communications on Progress you will find a self terms, which allows any progress made to stakeholder engagement in the assessment indicator which represents what be identified by all readers of this report with COP process by inviting feedback Collaborating & Sharing Best Marshalls believes it is achieving in relation to ease. It is also intended to make any year-onof its COP by inviting employees, each of the principles. Marshalls will strive to year comparisons clear, uncomplicated and customers, suppliers, partners, Practice improve its achievements year-on-year. informative. NGOs, third parties and peers to Delivering Best Practice assess the company’s progress. Marshalls initially developed its own indicators Marshalls constantly monitors best practice Achieving Good Results for its COP reporting rather than use an existing in its sector, as well as in the field of corporate Marshalls looks forward to one, such as the Ethos Indicators and Global responsibility and sustainability reporting. Any receiving comments from its wide Reviewing Feedback & Developing Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology. Whilst informative developments and advancements range of stakeholders. Details it is Marshalls’ intention to introduce GRI in this area will be introduced into subsequent of where to give feedback via a Piloting New Initiatives methodology in subsequent COP reports, it COP reports. dedicated survey can be found at has left its own indicators in place for this 2016 the end of this report. Legal Compliance report. Please direct any feedback to Elaine Mitchel-Hill elaine.mitchel-hill@marshalls.co.uk Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The GRI is a framework for reporting on an environmental and social impacts a Key executives, managers and individuals organisation’s economic, environmental and fundamental component in effective have undergone GRI accredited training and social performance. have formed a working party responsible for stakeholder relations, investment the delivery of GRI monitoring and reporting The goal of sustainable development is to decision, and other market relations. moving forward. Marshalls’ 2015 COP will ‘meet the needs of the present without To support this expectation, and to contain further GRI disclosure regarding compromising the ability of future generations communicate clearly and openly economic, environmental, social – labour to meet their own needs.’ (1) about sustainability, a globally shared practices and decent work – human rights, framework of concepts, consistent society and product responsibility. As key forces in society, organisations of all kinds have an important role to play in language, and metrics is required. It achieving this goal. is the GRI’s mission to fulfil this need by providing a trusted and credible (1) World Commission on Environment and Development. Our Common Future. Oxford: Oxford University Press, ‘The urgency and magnitude of the framework for sustainability reporting 1987, p.43 risks and threats to our collective that can be used by organisations of any sustainability, alongside increasing size, sector or location’. (2) (2) GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2011, p.2 choice and opportunities, will make transparency about economic, 17 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 18 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls The Superbrand Marshalls is proud to have retained its For clarity it is worth stating that brands cannot Superbrand status. Published annually since apply or pay to be considered for Superbrand 1995, the Superbrands Annual documents status. Only following a rigorous and This case study is reprinted from the Superbrands Annual 2017. some of the strongest consumer and businessindependent selection process is the accolade to-business brands in Britain today. The book awarded on an annual basis. 2017 Definition establishes how Superbrands manage to A Superbrand is a brand that has established the 2017 finest reputation in its field. It offers customers achieve outstanding success. The 2017 Superbrand book provides insights emotional and/or tangible advantages over its competitors, which customers want and recognise. into Marshalls’ branding strategy and business It must represent: success. Further information can be found at • Quality www.superbrand.uk.com • Reliability • Distinction Selection Process Brands do not apply or pay to be considered for Superbrands status. Rather, the accolade is awarded to the country’s strongest brands following a rigorous and independent selection process that consults marketing experts, business professionals and thousands of British consumers. Full details are available at Superbrands.uk.com. 2017 SUPERBRANDS ANNUAL 2017 MARSHALLS An insight into some of Britain’s strongest brands © 2017 Superbrands (UK) Ltd Tel: 020 7079 3310 22-23 Little Portland Street superbrands.uk.com London, W1W 8BU @SuperbrandsUK Promotion Marshalls continues to invest heavily in Brand History communications across the group of marshalls.co.uk 1890 Solomon Marshall starts to quarry in businesses. The 2016 domestic advertising Southowram, Halifax, and in 1904 campaign ‘Give your home the attention establishes S. Marshall and Sons Ltd in West Yorkshire. it deserves’ was used to promote the business’ landscape products and Register 1947 A second production site is opened, manufacturing lintels, steps and fence posts. of Accredited Installers. In 1948 an engineering division is established. The commercial business focused on 1964 Marshalls becomes a plc, with shares quoted challenging the stereotypes of paving and on the London Stock Exchange. ran an integrated campaign titled ‘Get a 1972 New product development sees the new perspective on paving’, which recently introduction of block paving and the famous Marshalls is the UK’s leading manufacturer of hard landscaping products including superior natural stone, innovative won a UK marketing award. ‘Beany Block’ which combines drain and kerb. concrete hard landscaping products, water and has been supplying superior natural stone and innovative concrete Marshalls’ digital strategy is also increasing 1988 Brick manufacturer George Armitage & Sons management solutions, rail products, is acquired, becoming Marshalls Clay Products. products to the construction, home improvement and landscape markets protective street furniture and natural stone in its importance, combining digital trading, 2004 Marshalls acquires Woodhouse, expanding since the 1890s. Marshalls believes that the better environments are, cladding and facades. digital marketing and digital business. its product offering to include design-led This strategy is focused on the customer street furniture, lighting and signage. the better people can be and strives to create products that improve Marshalls’ domestic customers range from experience and the key touchpoints therein. 2009 More than 2,000 of Marshalls’ commercial landscapes to create happier and healthier communities. DIY enthusiasts, to professional landscapers, products now have a Carbon Trust Carbon Specifically, Marshalls has created web and driveway installers and garden designers, Reduction label. mobile applications which allow customers and Marshalls specialises in helping them to 2011 Marshalls announces a European venture, DID to model their requirements, allow digital Marshalls NV. create beautiful, yet practical, outdoor spaces ? Market Product that families can enjoy for years to come. YOU KNOW access to the registered installer base and 2012 Marshalls is an official supplier to the London In the public sector and commercial markets, Marshalls is committed to producing ne clads allow real-time visibility of stock. Marshalls sto berg 2012 Olympic Park. In addition, an office is Marshalls focuses on developing products new products that better existing market Marshalls extensive product ranges are om the new Blo the Furthermore, Marshalls continues to opened in Xiamen, China. that help architects, local authorities and designed to inspire, combining quality, Marshalls has been accredited with the in April. The statement building in offerings and to make them from the best City of lead the way in thought leadership, and 2014 Marshalls is accredited by the Living Wage elegance and durability in both traditional Fair Tax mark for the second year running states the actions that Foundation. contractors to create better spaces, whether materials it can source. Over the years, London. were recently featured on the BBC’s The it is street furniture, natural stone paving, and cutting-edge designs, with products to and also as a Living Wage Employer, in Marshalls is taking in order 2015 The Fair Tax Mark is awarded to Marshalls, Marshalls has continued to develop and One Show, discussing the importance of stone cladding and facades, block paving, suit every taste and style. recognition of the business’ commitment to to identify and eradicate and the company’s Design Space in London expand its products and services to both the protective street furniture and how it can is opened. water management or protective products. transparent tax processes and responsible slavery from its supply chains. commercial and domestic markets. Achievements be attractively integrated into landscapes pay respectively. 2016 Marshalls publishes its Modern Slavery Marshalls’ domestic customers range from In the public sector and commercial Sustainability remains at the heart of Additionally, Marshalls has had a mature without compromising on a design’s Statement. homeowners to professional landscapers, market, Marshalls satisfies the needs of a everything Marshalls does. As the first Recent Developments energy management system in place for aesthetic. driveway installers and garden designers. diverse commercial customer base company in its sector to belong to the For the first time in 2016, Marshalls a number of years, and in 2015, achieved Sales continue to be driven through DID which spans local authorities, Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI), Marshalls is has chosen a corporate partner charity, ISO50001 certification for all its UK OW ? Brand Values 3,250+ the Marshalls Register of Accredited YO U KN Prostate Cancer UK, and has committed to operations. ISO5001 has supported further commercial architects, committed to the implementation of the ETI Marshalls’ shared values of Leadership, Excellence, Trust and Sustainability underpin the products Landscapers and Driveway Installers. Marshalls’ oughout specifiers, contractors and Base Code, pioneering the ethical sourcing fundraising throughout the year via various savings and opportunities to increase energy thr company and are important to the continued success of the business. are featured awarddifferent events, initiatives and challenges. Marshalls has an established and the RIBA housebuilders. It offers them of natural stone paving from India and efficiency and meet the group’s energy ibition Marshalls aims to be the supplier of choice for every landscape architect, contractor, growing presence in the Middle winning Exh unrivalled technical expertise, China, and has remained a signatory of the In 2016, Marshalls published its Modern reduction targets. In 2016, the system Road in installer and consumer, and for the brand to remain synonymous with quality, East, Northern Europe, North London. manufacturing capability United Nations Global Compact since its Slavery Statement in response to the continued to be improved and will help innovation and superior customer service. America and China. and an enviable product range, acceptance in 2009. Modern Slavery Act, which came into force support energy reduction in the future. 2,000+ OF MARSHALLS’ COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS HAVE A CARBON TRUST CARBON REDUCTION LABEL 19 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 20 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress M-Way – Marshalls Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethical & Sustainable Procurement M-Way is our new Supplier Code of Conduct. It covers our values and why an ethical approach matters to us; ethical procurement & sustainability; anti-bribery & corruption measures; fraud & deception, open and fair competition; our commitments to employees; protecting and respecting human rights; our modern slavery commitments; protecting the environment; and what to do if you have a serious concern. The Marshalls Way It’s Marshalls-Way of doing business. M-Way makes absolutely clear the way in which Marshalls aspires to work; what we value, our approach to sustainability and how we aim to treat people. M-Way applies to all of us, and achieving our own high standards and aspirations is an expectation we have of ourselves and those that we work with. During 2016 the procurement department, and our business and human rights lead, have worked closely, together with a leading provider of online compliance training and risk management software, to develop a programme of online compliance training for suppliers on Marshalls Supplier Code of Conduct, Modern Slavery and Anti-Bribery & Corruption. This will be rolled out during the first quarter of 2017 and we look forward to reporting back on its impact in our next report. “ At Marshalls we are all guided by our values in all that we do. Leadership, Excellence, Trust & Sustainability define the decisions that we all make each and every day in the running of our business. I want there to be no doubt – to employees, suppliers, partners and other stakeholders – about how Marshalls operates; the things that we will and will not do and how we treat people. M-Way – Marshalls Way – makes this absolutely clear. It sets out what we value as an organisation and what we look for in our suppliers and partners. It also makes clear what we expect of ourselves and if you find us falling short in any way I want you to tell us. We will always support you for challenging practices or behaviours that do not meet the standards that we have set out in M-Way.” Martyn Coffey, CEO Marshalls. “M-Way reflects Marshalls absolute commitment to ethical and sustainable procurement practice. We will only do business with responsible suppliers and subcontractors who understand the nature of the products, materials and services they supply and who recognise their responsibility to protect the environment whilst fostering good relations with their employees and local communities.” Richard Beale, Group Supply Chain Director 21 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 22 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress M-Way Applies To You Global Supply Chains for Natural Stone Rory Kendrick, Marshalls Natural Stone Sourcing Director Our code applies to all of us, and complying with it is an expectation we have of everyone we work with. Marshalls is committed to working only with business partners whose standards are consistent Responsible for sourcing existing and new natural stone products auditing visits and clear corrective action plans if necessary, and with our own, and who respect our values. This includes joint venture and business partners, worldwide and identifying suitable trading partners, a key part of my detailed human rights impact assessments. commercial customers, sub-contractors, consultants and all suppliers of goods and services. work is identifying the very best in natural stone from around the world. While this involves developing products that compliment our Our assessment for natural stone is therefore undertaken in stages When you work with us, we expect you to demand these same standards of your supply chain; existing product portfolio and working with our suppliers to determine resulting in a ‘go/no-go’ protocol. Essentially it’s based primarily on your partners, sub-contractors, consultants and suppliers. product specification and service levels, it’s also about making sure that adherence to the UNGC Principles, implementation of the Ethical the technical properties of the stone live up to the quality demanded Trading Initiative Base Code and a clear Human Rights Impact by Marshalls ‘Stone Standard’*. When looking at technical properties Assessment Programme. we’re checking water absorption, slip resistance, flexural strength, frost resistance, chemical composition and more for each stone type. Importantly, once a trading relationship is established I work with my While all of this this is driven by the geology in each country we source colleagues in procurement, ethical labour & supply chains and business from, Marshalls’ purchasing decisions are also based on the results of a & human rights, to guide and support suppliers on a journey of Suppliers & Partners: rigorous due diligence process which involves desk-based assessments, continuous improvements in ethical standards wherever they are in the supplier visits and audits against the UNGC principles covering human world, be it India, China, Vietnam, Turkey, Brazil or anywhere else. rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, ongoing third party The Commitments We Aspire to Stage 1: Make To Each Other. Initial Desk-based Due Diligence Report referencing published data from sources including, but not limited to: International Peace Index Global Observatory, Human Rights Watch Global Report, Human Rights Monitor, Universal Human Rights Index Database, Amnesty International Annual Report, Transparency International’s In our business dealings: Corruption Index, Children’s Rights and Business Atlas, Gender Inequality Index, Social Institutions and Gender Index, The Global Slavery Index, ITUC Global Rights Index and the International Labour Organisation. 1. We value Leadership, Excellence, Trust and Sustainability. 2. Are honest and transparent. Stage 2: 3. Support diversity, human rights and treat everyone equally. Initial Supplier Visit and Audit against United Nations Global Compact Principles – Human Rights; Labour; 4. Select and reward people and organisations based on a fair objective Environment; Anti-Corruption; https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles – and the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code; http://www.ethicaltrade.org/resources/eti-base-code. process, clear expectations of what is required and demonstrated competence for the job. Stage 3: 5. Regularly, fairly and openly evaluate our own performance and the performance of others. Third Party Auditing Visit and Report resulting in a clear corrective action plan if necessary. 6. Meet our obligations of corporate responsibility. Stage 4: 7. Keep our promises and fulfil the commitments we make openly, honestly and promptly. Detailed Human Rights Impact Assessment report which is then incorporated into ongoing updates, internal 8. Work to resolve disputes at the earliest stage and in a manner briefings, and corrective action plans, etc. consistent with this M-Way code. *Marshalls Stone Standard http://www.marshalls.co.uk/homeowners/assets/pdfs/driveway-garden-patio-information-sheets/marshalls%20stone%20 9. Communicate truthfully, clearly, regularly and punctually. standard%20booklet.pdf by 03 23 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 24 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress DEMARCATING Future Spaces: MULTI-USE SPACES www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/multi-use-spaces The Changing Face of the Spaces We Share Marshalls believes in creating better spaces – and as the UK’s leading landscape materials brand, we believe that it’s important to think ahead. Future Spaces is our ambitious attempt to foresee how the commercial, public and domestic spaces we help design, build and share might adapt and evolve over the next ten years. We set out to predict how changing lifestyles, technology and economic conditions might dictate the look, feel, colour, shape, textures and materials used to create those spaces. But once we dug below the surface we found much more. Four unstoppable 04 THE NEW WAVE OF WATER MANAGEMENT www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/water05 global megatrends driving 12 emerging themes: pervasive management forces that will change the nature of our built environment, both subtly and dramatically. Future Spaces is the result of our own intensive research, including interviews with academics, industry commentators, journalists, architects, landscape designers, materials technologists, engineers, futurologists – as broad a spectrum of opinions, ideas and experience as we could find. Here, we’re delighted to share a brief glimpse of what we might expect as the future rushes towards us at an ever-increasing pace. Our full FUTURE CONCRETE findings are published in ‘Future Spaces’, a limited edition book that not only reveals how the spaces we share will be designed, but also how they will be owned, governed, managed, occupied, humanised and monetised. If you are intrigued by this short www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/future-concrete introduction to our Future Spaces project, and you’re keen to find out more, visit marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces. 01 THE BLURRING OF PUBLIC/PRIVATE SPACES www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/public-private 06 THE BLOSSOMING OF BIOPHILIC DESIGN www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/biophillic-design 02 MORE PEOPLE IN SMALLER SPACES www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/smaller-spaces 07 URBAN GREENING www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/urban-greening 08 25 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress THE RISE OF THE SUPER -LANDLORD www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/super-landlords 09 THE GENDER NEUTRALISATION OF SOCIETY www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/gender10 neutralisation PLACE MAKING FOR THE PEOPLE www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/place-makingfor-the-people 11 BUILDING IN RESILIENCE www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/building-inresilience 12 THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY www.marshalls.co.uk/futurespaces/circulareconomy 26 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 27 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Product Innovation: The Marshalls Stone Standard Have complete confidence in the stone you lay... There are three key stone characteristics you need to be What is the Marshalls Stone Standard? made aware of... Indian sandstone is market and this variation causes To ensure all the sandstone products All Marshalls’ sandstone supplied All Marshalls’ sandstone will have a high All Marshalls’ sandstone supplied is popular in the UK confusion amongst homeowners as to Marshalls supplies are fit for purpose, will have a low water absorption flexural strength. frost resistant. and complements what constitutes good quality stone. we have carried out tests and have percentage. This means the stone is stronger and less If stone loses strength or starts to fall apart the style of many labelled our sandstone products with The lower the water absorption, the less likely to break or crack under pressure or in when subjected to repeated frosts, then it British homes, We tested Indian sandstones currently the ‘Stone Standard’ trademark. This chance the stone has of going green due to transit. isn’t fit for purpose. Marshalls’ sandstone is however not all available in the UK and found over 50% trademark gives our customers peace algae growth. strong and will cope with harsh winters with sandstone is the failed to meet the British Standard*. of mind when choosing sandstone for minimal maintenance. same. When you This means homeowners may be their garden patio or driveway. think of stone, you think of it being purchasing stone which could fail strong and long-lasting. In reality, there’s during installation, or once installed There are three key stone characteristics could cause maintenance issues or homeowners should be aware of when Sandstones with a high water Bed delamination indicates a wide variety of Indian sandstone costs to repair the damage. choosing sandstone for their garden: absorbency may turn green quickly low flexural strength Damage caused by frost products currently available on the Quality sandstone will look good for years to come Any natural stone paving that doesn’t meet these criteria, will not be fit for purpose and could fail. Make sure you are fully aware about the products you are laying. ‘The Marshalls Stone Standard’ 28 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 29 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Product Innovation: Protective Street Furniture Following events in recent years, the threat of international terrorism has risen to unprecedented levels. In order to meet the ever evolving security threats faced by modern day society, Marshalls places an emphasis on the development of physical perimeter security products designed to protect people, places and infrastructure from the threat of vehicle-borne attacks. Marshalls RhinoGuardTM products have been successfully tested in accordance with BSI PAS68 and PAS69 Standards for RhinoGuardTM 15/30 vehicle security barriers as set by the Government and key agencies such as The Home Office, Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism, The Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI) and The National Counter Terrorism Security Office (NaCTSO). The Standard tests a specific vehicle weight impacting a barrier at a specific speed (for example, a 1.5 tonne vehicle crashing into a bollard at 30mph). Testing weights range from 1.5 tonnes to 7.5 tonnes at speeds of either 30, 40 and 50mph. As an active member of the Perimeter Security Suppliers Association (PSSA), Marshalls designs and supplies products to provide effective hostile vehicle mitigation in proportion with all levels of risk, site vulnerability and project budgets. RhinoGuardTM 75/30 Seat Frame For more information on classifications and designs, please contact us on 0370 600 2425. RhinoGuardTM 75/40 RhinoGuardTM 75/30 Seating RhinoGuardTM 75/30 Shallow mount excavation 30 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 31 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Product Innovation: Protective Street Furniture RHINOGUARD™ High Security Technology RhinoGuard™ Giove Planters, Cardiff PAS 68 Commercial PAS 68 Precious Stone Giove PAS 68 Geo Stainless Steel PAS 68 Geo Stainless Steel RhinoGuardTM 75/40 PAS 68 Ferrocast Bollards, Gateshead Successfully crash tested in accordance with BSI PAS68, PAS69 and Stainless Steel Sleeve Planter Litter Bin Cycle Stand PAS170, RhinoGuard™ products offer the highest level of protection for buildings and landscapes. There are 6 bollards to choose from which provide impact performance at distinct levels of protection and budget. All impact tests have used various vehicle types travelling at different speeds. Seating, planters, litter bins and cycle stands complete the range. 32 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 33 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Sustainable Development Goals How Marshalls is Contributing to & How Marshalls is Contributing the Sustainable Development Goals By being a UNGC signatory Marshalls is already contributing to the implementation SDG7 – Focus on our own solar panels of the SDGs. The UN Global Compact together with UN partners hosts a number of global issue platforms many of which Marshalls is involved in; the CEO Water Marshalls solar bus shelter design is an The Sustainable Development Goals build are unique in that they call for action by all countries, Mandate, the Women’s Empowerment Principles, Children’s Rights & Business example of how solar technology can be poor, rich and middle-income to promote prosperity while protecting the planet. They Principles and Business for Peace. discretely embedded into the fabric of recognize that ending poverty must go hand-in-hand with strategies that build economic structures and buildings, representing growth and addresses a range of social needs including education, health, social protection, and a convenient and attractive means of job opportunities, while tackling climate change and environmental protection. reducing carbon footprints in urban Living Wage, Elimination of Child Labour, Elimination and Prevention of SDG1 environments. The solar bus shelter is Modern Slavery. capable of generating more than 2000kW Living Wage, Global Living Wage Alliance Benchmarking Engagement, ETI hours per year, enough electricity to SDG2 power the average London home – so Base Code Implementation. adoption of this exciting technology UK Employee Wellbeing Programme, Prostate Cancer Charity of the Year can make a significant contribution to SDG3 Support. London’s sustainable future. Children’s Rights & Business Principles Top 10 Priorities Implementation, UN SDG4 Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement, Business in the SDG 8: Focus on the Fair Tax Mark Community Business Class Engagement. The Fair Tax Mark is the label for good taxpayers. Wherever you see the Fair Tax UN Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement, Marshalls SDG5 Mark you can be sure that a company is Women ‘Step it Up’ Network. open and transparent about its tax affairs UN CEO Water Mandate, Priora Product Innovation, New Product Research and seeks to pay the right amount of SDG6 & Development Programme, Marshalls Operations Water Management corporation tax at the right time in the Programme. right place. It sets a new standards in responsible tax practice. Marshalls use of solar power within its own business operations, product SDG7 innovation in embedding solar technology discretely into the fabric of structures and buildings. SDG11 – Focus on Sustainable Cities and Communities Fair Tax Mark, Ethical & Sustainable Supplier Code of Conduct, Apprentice SDG8 Training Programme, Living Wage, UN Women Women’s Empowerment Marshalls has developed ‘M-LIVE’ a new Principles Engagement. technology that enables ordinary street furniture products to connect with a New Product Research & Development Programme, New Product personal Bluetooth tag, carried by a SDG9 Innovation such as; Solar Technology Embedded Products, Anti-Terrorist pedestrian. The tag can be programmed Street Furniture, M-Live Technology Embedded Products. by an individual user via an online portal ETI Base Code Implementation, UN Women Women’s Empowerment or app to enable the furniture to respond Principles Engagement, Children’s Rights & Business Principles Top 10 to their needs. This means that bollards SDG10 can let a blind person know when they Priorities Implementation, Fair Tax Mark, Living Wage Accreditation, Ethical & Sustainable Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct. have reached a certain shop, monoliths can speak in a foreign language to guide Future Spaces Research, New Product Development, eg. M-Live, ETI Base tourists or street lighting can get brighter SDG11 Code Implementation. on approach for the elderly. http://www. Ethical & Sustainable Procurement Supplier Code of Conduct, Fairstone, marshalls.co.uk/commercial/streetSDG12 furniture/intelligent Product Carbon Footprint, ETI Base Code Implementation. Product Carbon Footprints, Marshalls Environmental KPI’s, New Product Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director, SDG13 Research, Development & Innovation Programme. says, “The introduction of this technology can ultimately revolutionise a person’s Water quality improvement from permeable paving sub bases preventing SDG14 experience of the built environment, river pollution preventing sea pollution, ask Chris G opening up places and spaces which SDG15 FSC Policy, Product Innovation; Bioverse, Grassguard. may have previously been either difficult for disabled people to navigate, or areas Fair Tax, Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy & Training, Modern Slavery Act which have felt unsafe perhaps to women SDG16 or to others in general. We are actively Implementation & Engagement. seeking collaborations and partnership so Fairtax Accreditation, UNICEF Research, IPEC Engagement, UNGC, UN that we can transform towns and cities for SDG17 Women Women’s Empowerment Principles Engagement. the benefit of all.” 34 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 35 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls Response to UNICEF’s Research Findings Develop and embed 'Marshalls Protocol Regarding the Elimination Fairstone® of Child Labour' which is effectively a Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced range of Natural Stone Standard Operating Procedure for the that has been quarried and produced in line with a clear set of organisation which sets out measures Develop and embed its to ensure a child labour free supply human rights training ethical values and commitments. chain, and also what should be done if programme, including an instance of child labour is identified. Work to establish a Living children's rights, throughout Wage Benchmark its supply chain. Fairstone® Fairstone® Fairstone® Work with its sole supplier and its UKINDIA Defined CHINA Defined VIETNAM Defined based procurement team in order to ensure Marshalls will continue to a high level of human undertake human rights rights knowledge due diligence, including and to ensure that an an explicit focus on the increase in demand rights of children, using the Continue to implement the to not have negative Children's Rights & Business Ensure a human rights lens ETI Base Code on a daily basis effects on workers. Principles as a framework. in Due diligence process. Marshalls knows where its quarried stone comes Marshalls knows where its quarried stone comes Marshalls Fairstone® is an ethically sourced range from. It knows how it is manufactured and that from. It knows how it is manufactured and that of Natural Stone. it has been produced in accordance with a it has been produced in accordance with a Fairstone® means that Marshalls knows where its clear and unequivocal set of ethical values and clear and unequivocal set of ethical values and quarried Vietnamese stone comes from, how it commitments . Specifically in the India supply commitments : All facts and figures in the leaflet are taken from the UNICEF UK ‘Children’s Lives Cast in Stone: The Sandstone Industry in 1. FACT 2. FACT 3. FACT 4. FACT is manufactured and that it has been produced CHILD LABOUR LABOUR CHILD TRAPS TRAPS chain: Specifically in the Chinese supply chain: in accordance with a clear and unequivocal set CHILD LABOUR DOES CHILD LABOUR IS A CHILDREN INTO CHILDREN INTO A A ACTIVITY IN THE STONE of ethical values and commitments based on the EXIST IN THE INDIAN GROSS INFRINGEMENT CYCLE LIFELONG LIFELONG CYCLE OFOF SECTOR TO HIDE & ✔ No child labour is used SANDSTONE SECTOR OF CHILDREN’S RIGHTS POVERTY POVERTY ✔ Chinese workers receive living wages ETI Base Code and UNGC Principles: DENY CHILD LABOUR ✔ Indian workers receive living wages for a normal working period ✔ Health & safety practices are in place ✔ Bonded labour is not used, i.e. prison ALCOHOL SHROUDED SHROUDED ✔ Working hours are not forced CHILDREN Marshalls employs a full time, field-based, Social economically or physically labour ✔ Living wages are paid for a normal AS YOUNG AS & DRUGS SECRECY INSECRECY IN WITH NON-TRANSPARENT Kota & Bundi, Rajasthan, India’ (September 2015). This important research was commissioned by UNICEF UK and funded 6 and 7 Auditor in India who works with quarry owners ✔ Health & Safety practices are in place working period ARE OFTEN USED TO OPERATIONS AND PROCESSES RIGHT and workers on a daily basis to ensure the ✔ Working hours are not forced AN AN ESTIMATED EASE THE PHYSICAL 200,000 HUM S Ethical standards and reports ongoing implementation of the Ethical Trading Through its local office in Xiamen, Marshalls’ PAIN OF DOING SUCH ION ARE WORKING AS on child labour have economically or physically ACT Initiative Base Code and to monitor progress. employees regularly visit quarries and factories GRUELLING WORK increased awareness among CHILD LABOURERS quarry owners, processors Daily contact, weekly reporting, annual third to work alongside workers and managers to ✔ No child labour is used IN S children are employed in the and exporters, it has party auditing and regular quarry inspections by H HT also had the ensure that these three commitments are UM G sandstone industry in India A N RI unfortunate Company employees allow Marshalls to ensure ✔ Health & safety practices are in place which is classified as hazardous consequence implemented. In addition, a dedicated member and one of the worst forms of Alcoholism, drug abuse and associated problems of prostitution, of reducing Working as a child labourer and that Fairstone commitments are upheld. of Marshalls’ Chinese team takes the lead on all child labour. transparency and by Marshalls plc as part of its strategic partnership with UNICEF which aims to eliminate child labour in the sandstone trapped in a cycle of poverty HIV/AIDS and sexual violence The Fairstone® Manager takes the lead on all affects almost all of a child’s all compound the situation and led to greater ethical supply chain matters. Quality Controllers ethical supply chain matters and the cohuman rights. perpetuate the poverty cycle. secrecy in the Marshalls is committed to working in partnership industry. also play a critical role in improving worker ordination of the in-field Quality Controllers who with its sole supplier Stone Shippers India to conditions. play a critical role in monitoring and improving achieve continuous improvement in supply chain conditions and to help deliver tangible benefits Marshalls is committed to working in partnership worker conditions. 5. FACT 6. FACT 7. FACT 8. FACT THE PHYSICAL IMPACT to all workers involved in stone production, their with its suppliers in China to achieve continuous Marshalls works with a small number of suppliers UPON CHILDREN CHILDREN WORK TO CHILD LABOUR families and the wider community. improvement in supply chain conditions and WORKING IN THE SUPPORT THEMSELVES, AVERAGE INCOME OF UNDERMINES LABOUR in Vietnam and is committed to building SANDSTONE INDUSTRY THEIR FAMILIES AND TO A CHILD LABOURER IN STANDARDS & HOLDS to help deliver tangible benefits to all workers relationships which promote shared learning, IS IMMENSE PAY OFF FAMILY DEBTS KOTA AND BUNDI THE INDUSTRY BACK sector in Rajasthan. To access the report please go to the publications section at www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/ Since early 2007, and following community involved in stone production, their families and best practice and the continuous improvement £35 £35 The average working hours of consultation, Marshalls has worked with local the wider community. Exposed to NGO Hadoti Hast Shilp Sansthan. of conditions throughout the supply chain for dust, fumes, children labourers is between DRAWN TO Marshalls ensures that every quarry and factory workers. OF CHILDREN ﬁre and gas at work 6-7 HOURS WORK BY A DAY in its supply chain has an appropriate first aid Marshalls has ensured that every quarry and kit. Marshalls has also specifically funded the production facility in its supply chain has an appropriate first aid kit and has specifically Exposed to loud noise, vibration MONTH AAMONTH DEPRIVATION... training of a nominated worker at each quarry funded the training of a nominated worker in and extreme AVERAGE AVERAGE INCOME INCOME ...and hope of earning money for a living, children are sacrificing their publications. OF CHILDREN temperatures 75 per cent of children said they childhood and are ill-equipped to and production facility in first aid practices. first aid practices. at work worked to supplement family income. prepare for the future. Marshalls funds regular cultural community Children reported health problems including fever, extreme The majority of children events for workers, their families and the wider fatigue, superficial injuries or conﬁrmed that they received “By driving down adult wages and depriving children of education, community. open wounds, body/back ache, payment for their work, some child labour results in poverty burns, corrosions, scalds or said that payment for their work passing down from generation to frostbite, & stomach problems was given to parents or that they generation and depressing the such as diarrhoea. did not get any payment at all. economy.” ILO Be Part of the Solution With Fairstone. 36 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 37 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Programme Timeline & Key Events Programme Key Events Appointment of Hadoti as Marshalls on-the-ground NGO partner. Hadoti NGO activities First Marshalls funded Social security programme All children from Marshalls incorporated into UNICEF Community activity in school opened for children started. Specialist health camps funded schools gain programme. UNICEF conjunction with our of local quarry workers, and Health camp programme Worker education camps introduced: malaria, Maternal health camps Beneficiaries of places in government run interventions on the sole supplier in Rajasthan the migrant communities. started. started. women’s health, TB. started. programme total: 75,000. schools. ground begin. Stone Shippers 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Development of a Consumer campaign to Marshalls become a UNGC Human Rights Impact HRIA China. HRIA Vietnam. HRIA India. Marshalls values revised: UK Government Modern Co-hosts with CRB the community engagement raise awareness of child signatory in January and a Assessment Process begins; Ruggie Framework Ratified. Marshalls invited to Marshalls attend UNICEF Leadership, Trust, Slavery Act 2015 comes Sandstone Stewardship plan for Kota. labour in the Indian UK Network member later India. take part in CRBP pilot CRBP conference in New York. Excellence & Sustainability. into force. Seminar, part of the sandstone sector. the same year. Fairstone Vietnam brought national conference on First COP published. to market. programme. Marshalls announce global Broad human rights Marshalls take part in Indian Marshalls join ETI and Fairstone India brought to programme developed Government Consultation voluntary sustainability Fairstone China brought to CRBP Launched. partnership with UNICEF. standards. begin to implement ETI market. market. and implemented. regarding UNICEF research base code. Human Rights in Action findings. Partnership with global Marshalls funded Bangor Series published. University Research Internal appointment of anti-slavery organisation Published; (1) Livelihood Chris Harrop appointed at Business & Human Rights Hope for Justice. impacts of quarrying and Chair of UNGC UK Network. Specialist. Further development, in the restoration of quarry Marshalls develops ‘Marshalls Marshalls develops its childconsultation with partners, sites in Kota and Bundhi CRBP: Universal Code centred ‘Protocol Regarding of Marshalls child-centred Districts of Rajasthan, India; of Conduct Regarding protocol regarding the the Elimination of Child (2) Socio-Economic Study Marketing & Advertising’ elimination of child labour. Labour’. of Quarrying Community; Marshalls funded UNICEF (3) Ecological Study of Marshalls joins ILO-IPEC. research begins. Quarrying Region. Second CRBP report. First CRBP report. Marshalls Key Events 38 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 39 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Ethical Supply Chains Fact or Fiction? Did you know? What is the ‘artisan method’? The artisan method is a process where a piece of stone, which started out life as a riven slab is cut and processed to look like sawn pieces of paving. One of the main giveaways that a sawn piece of paving started out life as a riven slab is that it will be sawn on 5 sides but have a calibrated underside, the calibrated underside is necessary to get the slab to the correct thickness. Marshalls sawn products are different. We only cut our sawn product from ‘freestones’ these are stones which have no natural beds in them meaning it can’t be split by hand, it can only be cut by saws into paving slabs. The reason we do this is because freestones are tougher, more durable stones meaning the paving we supply is of an extremely high quality. looking to supply the British market. Many of our What Marshalls Does: The suppliers Marshalls works competitors claim they offer an ‘end-to-end’ solution and with in India are continually investing Money into new trade responsibly, but the fact of the matter is that much machinery and processing sites meaning we are able to of this is untrue and whilst the claims are made, in reality provide our customers with stone products which are cut there is little management of any part of their Indian and finished to the highest quality. We are proud of the supply chain. So, let’s look in detail at the claims that are long-term relationship we have with our Indian suppliers, made. and continually look to innovate and improve our systems. What Other Companies Say: ‘We Own Our Own Quarries What Other Companies Say: ‘Our Products are CE in India’ Marked’ Fact: Nobody can own a quarry, the land people quarry Fact: Many companies claim their product is CE marked from is leased from the government for a set period of in accordance with the European standards but, in fact, An ethical supply chain goes along way towards This leave many questions unanswered: ‘What does time. In India only Indian registered companies can apply they have allowed their suppliers or vendors to ‘create a CE eradicating child labour. How do you know who’s this mean for a level playing field’? ‘Does this mean for one of these leases. Unfortunately there are also a certificate’ for them and often the stone tested does not genuinely committed to improving the situation for unsubstantiated claim after unsubstantiated claim left large number of illegal quarries operating in India which match the stone they are supplying. children and their families? There’s been much discussion unquestioned’? ‘What are the organisations who are have not obtained a licence from the Indian government. over the past few months about truth, post truth and legally bound to implement and report in relation to the Unscrupulous suppliers will buy product from these illegal What Marshalls Does: Marshalls carries out testing on out-and-out lies; not only in politics but in all walks of life, UK Modern Slavery Act doing about those in their supply quarries as it dramatically reduces the cost of the stone. all new stones in our own in-house lab but we also send including business. Marshalls is all in favour of a highly chains who shamelessly make false claim after false claim’? Unlicensed quarries are usually worked by people being samples to an independent lab based in the UK called competitive market place, and thrives on it, but we’re How Do You Know Who’s Telling the Truth? paid very low wages or involves child labour to keep wage Sandberg. We use the test results provided by Sandberg increasingly aware of competitor claims which don’t just costs low. for our CE Certificate and Declaration of Performance. stretch the truth but which shamelessly shrug off the truth Take, for example, the natural stone industry which has Our stone is tested regularly and through the control and kick it to the kerb without so much as a backwards become increasingly fiercely competitive, especially when What Marshalls Does: We work extremely closely with mechanisms we have in place, the stone we have tested is glance, all justified in the name of commerce. it comes to Indian Sandstone, with many companies our global suppliers to ensure we are from the same sources as the stone we supply. Only working with and buying stone from those who have legal quarry licences. What Other Companies Say: ‘We Own Our Own Transportation Fleet in India to Transport Our Products to Did you know? the Docks’ What Other Companies Say: ‘We have invested What are ‘Stone Vendors’? significant amounts of time, money, and resources in to our Indian manufacturing and processing facilities’ Fact: To Marshalls’ knowledge none of our main competitors own their own transportation fleet in India, As the popularity of Indian Sandstone continues to grow a number of Stone Vendors have started to operate in the Fact: A number of companies in the UK who sell Indian they pay vendors within India to transport their products quarrying regions of India. These Stone Vendors can source, process and ship a wide variety of Indian stone to anybody stone will actually use vendors* to source, process and to the docks. who contacts them. The use of a stone vendor is perfect for any company who isn’t interested in where the stone they ship products for them, meaning they do not invest money into manufacturing or processing facilities in India What Marshalls Does: Our suppliers in India do not own are buying is quarried from, how it is processed or how it is shipped to the UK. Companies who buy through Stone and have absolutely no control over the stone they are their own fleet of lorries to Transport products but we do Vendors do not need to visit India at any part of the quarrying or processing stages meaning the vendors are free to buying. load our product into containers at our suppliers factory buy stone from illegal quarries where child labour is often used, all of these factors mean the price of the stone available which is then taken by road a short distance to the local through a vendor is cheaper than anywhere else. 40 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 41 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress rail link. Our product is then taken by rail to the dock putting in the leg work necessary to build relationships, where it is then placed straight onto the cargo ship in develop understanding, commit to joint ethical goals and the container it was originally loaded into. This is a more to work together to overcome challenges it is quite frankly environmentally friendly, safer, way of transporting our impossible to guarantee anything that comes anywhere product in India as well as minimising the damage to near close to ‘responsible trading’. products caused by long distances on bumpy roads. What Marshalls Does: Marshalls source all of its Indian What Other Companies Say: ‘We Work Closely with Our domestic products through one supplier, we regularly visit “In the light of truths, half-truths, post-truth and down-right-lies, Supply Chain’ and audit both our supplier and the quarries they source Fact: Many of Marshalls’ main competitors rarely visit their the stone used for our products. We do this to ensure fair regarding ethical products my invitation to you is this; if you have suppliers in India, they simply reply on vendors in India to working conditions and pay are been given to all of the pick the stone for them and ship it to the UK, meaning they workers involved in our supply chain and that no child a question of Marshalls then go ahead and ask it. But also ask have little or no control over the stone they are selling, or labour is been used. knowledge of its exact origins. Any company which allow What Other Companies Say: ‘We are active members of the rest of the market what they’re doing. Be tenacious. Don’t be vendors to pick stone on its behalf means it will have little or no idea if the stone has come from an unlicensed quarry the Ethical Trade Initiative (ETI)’ fobbed off and don’t take the answers that you’re given at face valor if child labour was used in the supply chain. Fact: Many of our competitors advertise that they are What Marshalls Does: Marshalls visit its suppliers of members of the ETI but do very little to wear the badge. Saying no child labour is used in their supply chain is ue. Get them to substantiate their claims. If you do this you’re helpnatural stone products on a regular basis. These visits are usually carried out by our in house geologist, Rory an easy claim to make but what are they really doing to make sure that is the case? If there are no schools in the ing to create a level playing field that’s not only good for business Kendrick, a member of our sustainability team, by Stirling Smith, an independent auditor who also works with the quarrying areas then how are the children of the miners getting an education? but good for businesses that are respecting and supporting the governing body Ethical Trading Initiative, by myself, Chris Harrop, and by Elaine Mitchel-Hill our Business & Human What Marshalls Does: Marshalls and Stoneshippers have rights of those involved in its operations and supply chains around Rights Lead and accompanied by our modern slavery worked very closely with local communities in the Kota partner, Hope for Justice. area to provide facilities such as a crèche and free health the world.” camps as well as providing basic items such as blankets What other companies say: ‘We are committed to responsible trading.’ and water bags to the local quarrying families. The CSR programme Marshalls and Stoneshippers have is very real Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director Fact: Many of our competitors claim that they are and we keep people updated on the work we are doing committed to ‘responsible trading’, but the truth is that through social media. without having a secure, transparent supply chain and In the face of all of this we’re proud to say that Marshalls does do things differently; being a responsible, ethical business is at the heart of our brand. It’s fundamental to our sustainable business model. We’re not here for the short term, we’re committed to the long term. So the suppliers we choose to work with share our passion and understanding of why a responsible and ethical stance is so important; quite simply the business case for this approach is compelling. Ultimately, we don’t believe that anyone wants to buy products knowing that they have been produced by workers who have been treated unfairly, involve child labour or where people have been put in danger during the production. Marshalls has an absolute desire, driven by our integrity, to make a difference to the lives of the workers who provide us with the products we sell. But this is only made possible by building long term relationships with like-minded suppliers and working together to make the necessary and constant changes which are required in the dynamic global environment. And it’s through these supplier relationships that we can also ensure we are sourcing and producing products from quality raw material. 42 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 43 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Modern Slavery; Transparency Global Partnership with Anti-Slavery in the Supply chain Organisation During 2016 Marshalls agreed a long-term partnership with Hope for Justice, an anti-trafficking Marshalls was among the first to publish its Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement in May and anti-slavery organisation which exists to bring an end to modern slavery by rescuing 2016. In it we identified six focus areas for which we have developed specific key performance victims, restoring lives, and reforming society. (1) A major focus of the partnership will be indicators throughout 2016; these will be included in our second statement in May 2017. To preventative activity aimed at employee and supplier education but Hope for Justice will offer view our existing statement please visit http://www.marshalls.co.uk/documents/policies/ expert remediation services if required. Whilst at this point in time we are not aware of any Marshalls%20Modern%20Slavery%20Policy%20and%20Disclosure%20Statement.pdf instances of modern slavery within our business we understand that modern slavery is rife. This partnership will help us to deliver on the commitments we made in our first Modern Slavery Disclosure statement and the initial focus will be upon the UK, Vietnam and India. Modern Slavery Focus Areas for 2016/17 “ What’s special for us about Hope for Justice is that they are able to offer support and services which cover all aspects of training, prevention, investigation and response. They are a highly effective, efficient and well connected organisation, working closely with the Deliver an internal awareness Modern Slavery training Supplier communication campaign throughout UK for all employees involved and verification programme Anti-Slavery Commissioner, Kevin Hyland. By working with them operations to all employees directly in supply chains and which confirms that regarding modern slavery. procurement. suppliers have received and understood Marshalls’ we will be in a position to make our operations and supply chains position regarding modern slavery and area aware of a distinctly unattractive proposition for the organised criminals Marshalls Modern Slavery Policy & Disclosure Statement. seeking to exploit both individuals and businesses.” Chris Harrop, Group Marketing Director Neil Wain, International Programme Director at Hope for Justice, and Former Assistant Chief Constable, Greater Manchester Police, says, “As part of our own due diligence processes we scrutinize any partners seeking to work with Hope for Justice. Therefore I’m fully aware of the long-term efforts that Marshalls has made to support and uphold human rights around the globe and of the organisation’s genuine commitment to tackle modern slavery throughout its operations and supply chain. Indeed, Marshalls was one of the first organisations in the UK to publish its Modern Slavery Statement and as a result was identified as a ‘best performer’ (2), an early indication for us that it is absolutely committed to its work in this area. Marshalls’ has made clear to me its desire to uphold the highest levels of integrity towards its workforce and Report on its effectiveness Further develop the Develop, in conjunction I’m confident that together we can break new ground particularly in terms of prevention, but in ensuring that slavery and organisations supply chain with appropriate partners, also any remediation which might be necessary. I’m extremely pleased that Hope for Justice and human trafficking is not due diligence, related human a process of remediation and Marshalls will move forward into 2017 as partners in the fight to end modern slavery.” taking place in its business rights programme and support for victims of modern or supply chains including external auditing process slavery identified within the Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine Mitchel-Hill, responsible for the implementation of the the due diligence processes in order that instances of organisations operations Modern Slavery Act within Marshalls operations and global supply chain, commented, “While outlined in Marshalls modern slavery can be and supply chains. there is obviously a strong business case for this partnership in light of the Modern Slavery Modern Slavery Policy & identified, remedial action Act, Hope for Justice’s victim-centred approach together with their investigative expertise and Disclosure Statement. undertaken, the victims supported and that all of this ability to both rescue and remediate were extremely compelling; to my knowledge they are is transparently reported. the only organisation in the UK able to offer this holistic end-to-end service. Our partnership has already demonstrated that by being open, frank and providing constructive challenge we 44 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress can make good progress in the fight against modern slavery. I look forward to reporting on the progress that Marshalls has made in our second Modern Slavery Statement next year and to demonstrating how by fully engaging with an emerging business threat we can demonstrate best-practice as we drive towards transparent reporting. Increasingly it will be those organisations who continue to maintain that they remain untouched by the issues of modern slavery who will come under intense pressure to explain how this can possibly be the case in the light of this global issue. ” Hope for Justice’s training, developed through years of experience working directly with victims, law enforcement, other agencies and partners, will be delivered throughout the business and supply chain by frontline practitioners in collaboration with Marshalls’ in-house training team and its army of Modern Slavery Ambassadors throughout the business. In terms of prevention, Hope for Justice has extensive specialist experience identifying modern slavery within the business and labour recruitment sectors. Richard Beale, Marshalls Global Supply Chain Director, said, “A proactive preventative approach is the best way to inspire confidence in our customers and workforce and minimise risk to our brand. Together with Hope for Justice we will develop a supplier education programme focusing on modern slavery. We’re also planning to pilot this with our temporary labour provider here in the UK and the early signs of the benefit of this are very positive. This is part of a wider programme of activity that will unfold in 2017 from a procurement perspective which will send a clear message to all of our suppliers and partners about what we value, how we work and what is and isn’t acceptable to us. Both myself and my procurement team are working closely with our Business & Human Rights Lead who’s responsible for the implementation of the Modern Slavery Act throughout the business and supply chains. I’m delighted that in Hope for Justice we have found such a forging, responsive and hands-on partner.” With backgrounds in criminal investigation and public protection, Hope for Justices’ awardwinning expert teams operate out of highly successful Regional Investigative Hubs to provide proactive services to businesses partners. HFJ experienced team are also geared-up to respond where potential victims are identified within business operations or supply chain. Mitchel-Hill concluded, “By acting sensitively and discreetly, Hope for Justice will safely assess an individual’s situation and, if they are identified as trafficked, place them into the Government’s (1) Hope for Justice http://hopeforjustice.org/aboutus/ National Referral Mechanism aftercare accommodation and support them through a (2) Marshalls was highlighted as ‘best performer’ by Innovation Forum for its first Statement http:// remediation process. Marshalls will be guided by Hope for Justice to ensure that our business’ innovation-forum.co.uk/analysis.php?s=are-modernresponse to any individuals identified is both supportive, appropriate and in their best interests.” slavery-statements-lagging-performance 45 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 46 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Marshalls’ Children’s Rights Policy Human Rights Marshalls supports children’s rights consistent with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). The CRC sets out the basic human rights that children everywhere: have the right to survival; to develop to the fullest; to protection from harmful influences, abuse and exploitation; and to participate fully in family, cultural and social life. Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 84% Marshalls acknowledges its corporate responsibility to children’s images which demands that consent is given by respect and support children’s rights and actively seeks a child parent/guardian. to implement the Children’s Rights & Business Principles As a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI), Reviewing Feedback (CRBP) thereby supporting children’s rights in the & Developing Our Delivering Best Marshalls commits to the ETI Base Code which states workplace, marketplace and community. Legal Compliance Approach Practice that interpretation of the child labour clause of the Code As a signatory of the UNGC, Marshalls seeks to uphold should be done bearing in mind International Labour the ten guiding UNGC principles which act in support of Organisation conventions. In addition, the ETI Code states children’s rights. In conducting its business activities across that where national law and the code differ, the correct the globe Marshalls respects children’s rights and seeks to procedure is to adhere to the standard that offers workers “ There is a cast iron business case for our business & human rights programme. Whilst uphold, preserve and promote them wherever possible. the highest level of protection. Marshalls therefore follows the ETI Code, and ILO standard, and will not permit it clearly takes into account risk mitigation and legislative compliance, it is much Marshalls has a Children’s Rights Ambassador on the children under 18 to work in its supply chain. board who is responsible for ensuring that the company’s more to do with further driving and embedding sustainability specifically regarding Children’s Rights Policy is implemented across the In addition, the Company provides information regarding human rights, working effectively and creatively within the UN system, selectively business. issues of child labour and human rights guidance for all of extending our area of influence and ultimately creating competitive advantage for Marshalls’ Human Resources Department provides its stakeholders, including its suppliers, which is available in the publications section at www.marshalls.co.uk/ our business.” detailed information and guidance through the sustainabilty. Company’s induction process regarding the avoidance of violence, abuse and exploitation of children. Annual The Company has a programme of engagement with Martyn Coffey, CEO Marshalls. training workshops on children’s rights and the its suppliers regarding the implementation of UNGC implementation of CRBP also take place. Additional principles and the CRBP. All suppliers have received a copy training and guidance is given to those employees who of this Children’s Rights Policy and the Children’s Rights & have greater involvement with or exposure to potential Business Principles. children’s rights issues, e.g. procurement personnel, those Where children’s rights are under threat, Marshalls works travelling overseas, etc. to uphold local laws, promote international standards Marshalls’ Human Rights Policy and strives to have international standards upheld by the appropriate governments, institutions and agencies. Guidance material for all employees about avoiding Marshalls embraces opportunities to promote a broader Our Human Rights Programme of activity is framed by the International Bill of Rights, violence, abuse and exploitation of children, plus specific understanding of children’s rights working within its consisting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; International Covenants guidance regarding children working for company sphere of influence. Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate employees, is available on the Company intranet. on Civil & Political rights, and on economic, social and cultural rights. It is informed with appropriate organisations to promote children’s The CRC states that children have the right to a voice in rights in a manner which is consistent with the role of by and draws upon existing methodologies and frameworks including; The Danish matters that concern them and to have their opinions business. Institute of Human Rights Human Rights Compliance Assessment; Nogogaia, IFE, given due weight, based on their capacity and level of December 2016 UNGC, IBLF ‘Guide to Human Rights’ and also Children’s Rights & Business Principles, maturity. To ensure that any consultations with children follow ethical standards and are effective and meaningful and Women’s Empowerment Principles. for children, and useful for the organisation. Marshalls engages with in-country NGOs and/or communitybased organisations to organise safe and respectful consultation with children. The Company also consults with other experts on children such as UNICEF, human rights organisations, national authorities and independent Marshalls works to ensure that its presence Where human rights are under threat, Marshalls actively seeks to collaborate experts. cultivates fair and sustainable relationships. Marshalls works to uphold local laws, with appropriate organisations to promote Marshalls has an established protocol regarding the use of promote international standards and strives respect for human rights in a manner which Marshalls respects and values the dignity, to have international standards upheld by is consistent with the role of business. well-being and rights of employees, their the appropriate governments, institutions families and the wider community. The and agencies. Company actively works and collaborates December 2016 with employees, communities, nonMarshalls embraces opportunities to governmental and other appropriate promote a broader understanding of human stakeholders to uphold and promote rights values working within its sphere of these rights. influence. 47 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 48 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement Implementation The implementation of our modern slavery disclosure statement commitments has been a key focus area throughout 2016. During 2016 we undertook an awareness campaign throughout UK During 2016 the procurement department and our business and business operations to help ensure that all employees are aware of the human rights lead have worked closely, together with a leading signs of modern slavery and how to report it. The campaign involved provider of online compliance training and risk management software, posters focusing upon how to spot the signs, forced labour and sexual to develop a programme of online compliance training for suppliers on exploitation, Modern Slavery: Spot the Signs screen savers, clickMarshalls Supplier Code of Conduct, Modern Slavery and Anti-Bribery through-links from all company mobiles to the Home Office Modern and Corruption. This will be rolled out during the first quarter of 2017. Slavery website which gives clear indications on how to report an instance of modern slavery. In addition we also produced an e-learning module which focused upon Business & Human Rights as well as utilising the Home Office online learning resource on modern slavery. Deliver an internal awareness Both of these courses have been made available to all employees Supplier communication campaign throughout UK and must be undertaken by those individuals whose roles are more and verification programme operations to all employees likely to require them to be well versed in spotting the signs, such as which confirms that regarding modern slavery. human resources and procurement for example. We will continue to suppliers have received raise awareness throughout 2017 and provide information which will and understood Marshalls’ empower employees to play their part in preventing modern slavery. position regarding modern This will include ongoing e-learning, departmental training by our antislavery and area aware of slavery partner, the development of specific modern slavery induction Marshalls Modern Slavery information for new starter and an increasing number of tactical Policy & Disclosure Statement. Modern Slavery Ambassadors throughout the business. Our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, has developed and delivered Marshalls looks forward to reporting back, in its next Modern Slavery a specific training programme for employees directly involved in supply Disclosure Statement to be published in May 2017, on the measures chain management and procurement. This training will be repeated we’ve taken, and their effectiveness in ensuring that slavery and human annually, and is in addition to the other e-learning modules available to trafficking is not taking place in its business or supply chains. all employees. “A proactive preventative approach is the best way to inspire confidence in our customers and workforce and minimise risk to our brand.” Richard Beale, Global Supply Chain Director. Modern Slavery training Report on its effectiveness for all employees involved in ensuring that slavery and directly in supply chains and human trafficking is not procurement. taking place in its business or supply chains including the due diligence processes outlined in Marshalls Modern Slavery Policy & Disclosure Statement. 49 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 50 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement Implementation Hope for Justice Working with our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, has ensured Our due diligence, related human rights programme and external that we have a process of remediation in place for victims of modern auditing processes have either undergone further development or are slavery in the UK, Vietnam and India. We will look to extend this to all of work-in-progress with the assistance and guidance of our anti-slavery our supply chains as we undertake the enhanced ethical auditing and partner, Hope for Justice. We see this due diligence process as an modern slavery risk mapping. evolving area which is constantly under review/improvement as a result of our ongoing efforts and increasing knowledge in this area. We are also working with Hope for Justice and our Human Resources Department to develop an enhanced remediation offer from a business We have a clear internal process for dealing with information and perspective which would potentially allow us, where appropriate, to intelligence resulting from our enhanced due diligence, which has been offer ongoing employment to victims of modern slavery identified Further develop the developed following GLLA training and guidance. Develop, in conjunction within our UK operations. This would also include an internal ‘buddy organisations supply chain with appropriate partners, system’ which ensured that victims have the internal support required due diligence, related human We also have a clear internal process should an instance of modern a process of remediation and together with practical support such as language skills training for rights programme and slavery occur in UK business operations. This includes any necessary/ support for victims of modern example. external auditing process appropriate remedial action, victims support and remediation and slavery identified within the in order that instances of processes to ensure transparent reporting. Again, this will all be available organisations operations modern slavery can be in our next Modern Slavery Disclosure Statement in May 2017. and supply chains. identified, remedial action undertaken, the victims Enhanced Ethical Auditing & Modern Slavery Risk Mapping supported and that all of this As a result of collaborative working the independent Ethical Auditing is transparently reported. process now takes place alongside modern slavery risk mapping. The focus for this activity to date has been Vietnam and India. This will be undertaken for all supply chains moving forward. Modern Slavery Ambassadors IPEC As part of our preventative work to educate regarding the issues of modern slavery and equip all employees with the knowledge of how to Marshalls remains committed to the ILO’s International Program on the Elimination of Child Labour spot the signs of modern slavery and also how to report safely, Marshalls (IPEC) Child Labour Platform to further our work regarding the elimination of child labour in the sandstone sector in Rajasthan, India, and as a result of our commitments to Children’s Rights & appointed its first two Modern Slavery Ambassadors in 2016. The first Business Principles . of these was Karen Preiss, Category Manager and a key member of the procurement team, the second, Dave Jessop, Operations Manager for IPEC, created in 1992 with the overall goal of the progressive elimination of child labour, is the largest The Marshalls Register. program of its kind globally and the biggest single operational program of the ILO. IPEC’s work to eliminate child labour is an important facet of the ILO’s Decent Work Agenda. Child labour not Category Manager, Karen Preiss, added, “Recent training delivered only prevents children from acquiring the skills and education they need for a better future, it also by Hope for Justice to the entire group procurement function had a perpetuates poverty and affects national economies through losses in competitiveness, productivity and potential income. Withdrawing children from child labour, providing them with education and big impact. It’s ensured that we’re all on the same page in terms of assisting their families with training and employment opportunities contribute directly to creating understanding the organized crime which drives human trafficking and decent work for adults. makes all organisation and supply chains susceptible. It has enabled us to identify areas of risk and also, importantly, to understand the impact on the individuals who are vulnerable and exploited.” Dave Jessop, Operations Manager responsible for Marshalls registered installers who install driveways and patios for domestic customers, recently spoke with over 230 installers at a series of 14 roadshows in January throughout the UK. He says, “Highlighting the reasons that individuals get trafficked, the vulnerability which exists, the coercion which takes place and the organized crime which drives it was an eye opener for many. They are now aware of the signs of modern slavery, how to report it safely and know that I’m there to assist should they have any questions or queries at all. Through the training that I’ve had with our anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice, I totally understand that modern slavery is much closer than you think. It’s often in plain sight.” 51 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 52 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Children’s Rights & Business Principles During 2017 we will undertake our third Children’s Rights and Business Principles. This will allow us to refresh our top 10 CRBP priorities and to “ I will work tirelessly to make the UK a more hostile environment plan our work in this area accordingly. for traffickers and slave masters to operate in and to develop strategies to address demand that contributes to modern slavery. Ensuring that the new powers in the 2015 Modern Slavery Act are fully utilised, such as the use of enhanced tools to target criminal finances, and trafficking prevention and risk orders, will be of paramount importance. I am also focused on improving efforts to prevent these crimes from ever occurring in the first place, in the UK and in other countries of origin. Kevin Hyland, Independent Anti Slavery Commissioner https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/468729/ IASC_StrategicPlan_2015.pdf Women’s Empowerment Principles Marshalls has already begun the process of mapping its operations against the Women’s Empowerment Principles framework, a collaboration between UNGC and UN Women. This work will continue during the first half of 2017. We will also engage formally with UN Women UK Corporate Advisory Group with a view to becoming a WEPS signatory later in 2017. 53 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 TARGETS 2017 Continue to work to uphold the ETI Continue to work to uphold the ETI base code throughout our operations base code throughout our operations. to help ensure that no child labour is used within the supply chain. Further improve and develop the reporting process for social auditors Further improve and develop the and any associated corrective action reporting process for social auditors plans. and any associated corrective action plans. Further develop our human rights monitoring and evaluation Further develop our human programme in conjunction with our rights monitoring and evaluation anti-slavery partner, Hope for Justice. programme. Further development of the human Further development of the human rights programme. rights programme; completion of the Human Rights Assessment Check and development and integration of Further work on the process of the human rights impact assessment embedding human rights within the process and information. organisation; working closely with human resources and procurement Further work on the process of teams; modern slavery ambassadors embedding human rights within the and delivering the appropriate internal organisation; working closely with training regarding human rights & human resources and procurement business, especially in relation to teams; and delivering the appropriate modern slavery. internal training regarding human rights & business, especially in relation Continue to implement our CRBP top 10 to modern slavery. priorities. Continue to implement our CRBP top 10 priorities. Finalise our WEPs audit and implement Finalise our WEPs audit and implement recommendations. recommendations. Deliver our first Modern Slavery Act Deliver our second Modern Slavery Act Disclosure Statement and work with Disclosure Statement and work with ‘critical friends’ to develop and work ‘critical friends’ to develop and work on the associated KPI’s. on the associated KPI’s. 54 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 55 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour 4/ 5/ 6/ CHILD LABOUR SHALL LIVING WAGES ARE PAID WORKING HOURS ARE Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & NOT BE USED 5.1 Wages and benefits paid for a standard working week meet, at a minimum, national NOT EXCESSIVE Initiatives Results Sharing Best 4.1 There shall be no new recruitment of child legal standards or industry benchmark 6.1 Working hours comply with national laws Practice labour. and benchmark industry standards, whichever 76% standards, whichever is higher. In any event 4.2 Companies shall develop or participate in wages should always be enough to meet affords greater protection. and contribute to policies and programmes basic needs and to provide some discretionary 6.2 In any event, workers shall not on a regular which provide for the transition of any child income. basis be required to work in excess of 48 hours found to be performing child labour to enable 5.2 All workers shall be provided with written per week and shall be provided with at least Reviewing Feedback her or him to attend and remain in quality and understandable information about their one day off for every 7 day period on average. & Developing Our Delivering Best Practice education until no longer a child; “child” and employment conditions in respect to wages Overtime shall be voluntary, shall not exceed Legal Compliance Approach “child labour” being defined in the appendices. before they enter employment and about the 12 hours per week, shall not be demanded on a 4.3 Children and young persons under 18 particulars of their wages for the pay period regular basis and shall always be compensated shall not be employed at night or in hazardous concerned each time that they are paid. at a premium rate. conditions. 5.3 Deductions from wages as a disciplinary Marshalls’ approach to labour rights continues to be driven by the 4.4 These policies and procedures shall conform to the provisions of the relevant ILO measure shall not be permitted nor shall any deductions from wages not provided for Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, the UNGC Labour principles standards. by national law be permitted without the and the organisations’ commitment to sustainable business. expressed permission of the worker concerned. All disciplinary measures should be recorded. THE ETI BASE CODE STATES THAT: 1/ 2/ 3/ EMPLOYMENT IS FREELY FREEDOM OF WORKING CONDITIONS CHOSEN ASSOCIATION AND THE ARE SAFE AND 1.1 There is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE HYGIENIC. 1.2 Workers are not required to lodge “deposits” BARGAINING ARE 3.1 A safe and hygienic working environment shall be provided, bearing in mind the or their identity papers with their employer and RESPECTED. prevailing knowledge of the industry and of 7/ 8/ 9/ are free to leave their employer after reasonable any specific hazards. Adequate steps shall be notice. 2.1 Workers, without distinction, have the taken to prevent accidents and injury to health right to join or form trade unions of their own arising out of, associated with, or occurring in choosing and to bargain collectively. 2.2 The employer adopts an open attitude the course of work, by minimising, so far as is NO DISCRIMINATION IS REGULAR EMPLOYMENT NO HARSH OR INHUMANE reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards towards the activities of trade unions and their inherent in the working environment. PRACTICED IS PROVIDED TREATMENT IS ALLOWED organisational activities. 7.1 There is no discrimination in hiring, 8.1 To every extent possible work performed 9.1 Physical abuse or discipline, the threat of 3.2 Workers shall receive regular and recorded 2.3 Workers’ representatives are not health and safety training, and such training compensation, access to training, promotion, must be on the basis of recognised physical abuse, sexual or other harassment and discriminated against and have access to shall be repeated for new or reassigned termination or retirement based on race, employment relationship established through verbal abuse or other forms of intimidation shall be carry out their representative functions in the workers. caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, national law and practice. prohibited. workplace. gender, marital status, sexual orientation, union 8.2 Obligations to employees under labour The provisions of this code constitute minimum 3.3 Access to clean toilet facilities and to 2.4 Where the right to freedom of association membership or political affiliation. or social security laws and regulations arising and not maximum standards, and this code should potable water, and, if appropriate, sanitary and collective bargaining is restricted under facilities for food storage shall be provided. from the regular employment relationship shall not be used to prevent companies from exceeding law, the employer facilitates, and does not not be avoided through the use of labour-only these standards. Companies applying this code 3.4 Accommodation, where provided, shall be hinder, the development of parallel means contracting, subcontracting, or home-working are expected to comply with national and other clean, safe, and meet the basic needs of the for independent and free association and arrangements, or through apprenticeship applicable law and, where the provisions of law workers. bargaining. schemes where there is no real intent to impart and this Base Code address the same subject, to 3.5 The company observing the code shall skills or provide regular employment, nor shall apply that provision which affords the greater assign responsibility for health and safety to a any such obligations be avoided through protection. senior management representative. the excessive use of fixed-term contracts of employment. 56 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 57 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Human Rights Due Diligence Labour ETI BASE CODE Framework Human Rights Due Diligence Framework The ETI Base Code covers the Implementing the major areas of human rights risk Human rights due diligence is the action for workers in global supply chains: taken by a company to both identify and act WORKERS AT GREATEST RISK ETI Base Code upon actual and potential risks for workers in OF HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Implementing the ETI Base Code across all of Employment Freedom of association Working conditions its operations, supply chains and the services our global supply chain operations is managed Human rights due diligence it uses. is freely chosen* and the right to collective are safe and hygienic bargaining are respected* and overseen by our Head of Sustainability, must include a focus on the most vulnerable workers, these include: David Morrell and Natural Stone Director, Rory Kendrick. Working closely with our in-country Moving forward Marshalls will use the ETI’s approach to human rights social auditors, our independent auditors, Child labour shall not be used* Living wages are paid Working hours are not excessive* due diligence which is based on multi-stakeholder engagement and CHILDREN WOMEN MIGRANT Business & Human Rights Lead, Elaine MitchelWORKERS processes that include: INTERNAL AND Hill and our Head of Procurement, Richard Beal, CROSS BORDER the organisation works hard to ensure that • Assessment of actual and potential human rights risks customer demands do not impact negatively No discrimination Regular employment No harsh or inhumane upon workers. is practised* is provided treatment is allowed • Mitigation of risk and remediation for workers impacted by human SEASONAL CONTRACT *Internationally agreed core human rights. All UN member states, whether or not they rights violations WORKERS AND have ratified the relevant ILO conventions, are obliged to meet these labour standards. SUCH AS AGENCY 6 See also Annex 3: Sector-specific risks. • Identification of corporate leverage and responsibility, decisionAGRICULTURAL WORKERS WORKERS making and actions needed MARGINALISED DOMESTIC • Monitoring, review, reporting and continuous improvement GROUPS WORKERS SUBJECT TO ETI’s experience has demonstrated that this is the most effective form DISCRIMINATORY LAWS AND TREATMENT of due diligence and the most likely way to bring about lasting change. “All supply chains presents their own unique challenges See also Annex 3: Sector-specific risks. 7 wherever they are in the world. Through a comprehensive research and risk based approach, including due diligence Human Rights Due Diligence Framework Human Rights Due Diligence Framework ETI HUMAN RIGHTS DUE Key steps that companies should take to prevent, with distinct labour rights and human rights parameters, we DILIGENCE FRAMEWORK manage and mitigate human rights abuses in their own operations and supply chains. assess our trading partners, not only at the beginning of any • Review country risks • Review HR systems, • Assess scale and scope of • Review supplier capacity • Map supply chains and contracting and corporate responsibility, to manage labour risks relationship but on an ongoing basis. We are ideally seeking services and prioritise • Identify risks to workers recruitment • Assess workers’ ability to access rights to including direct and indirect labour rights impacts • Review policies and procedures to enable workers to access their by sector, nature of • Assess leverage with right to organise and long term relationships and often work with our suppliers work, type of freedom of association worker, employment and collective bargaining suppliers, agents and bargain collectively relationships and labour market dynamics • Rank risks by severity and degree of 01. 02. contractors • Review sourcing • Identify opportunities for collaborative action utilising our knowledge and resources to help ensure that • Identify direct and indirect causes and responsibility • Analyse the data, Assess actual Identify strategies and purchasing practices • Review corporate decision-making and impacts identify next actions and potential leverage, • Establish benchmarks accountability, workers’ rights are not only observed but actively promoted.” and process and rules for monitoring policies and systems human responsibility improvements or termination with to manage risks rights risks and actions suppliers David Morrell, Head of Sustainability & IP • Track mitigation and • Analyse evidence, learn • Take immediate steps to • Provide training and remediation actions • Review decisionlessons, prioritise next actions and long-term 04. 03. mitigate human rights abuses capacity building on worker-management making, responsibility and accountability prevention • Communicate internally Monitor, Mitigate • Provide remediation for workers (avoiding further communication and negotiation (especially at senior levels) and with business partners on human review, risk and harm) • Identify and act on • Engage / collaborate with others (eg other • Review information sources and systems rights due diligence • Report publicly on steps report and remediate changes to working practices companies, trades unions, government – ensure evidence is credible, verifiable and taken to respect human rights and prevent improve workers • Enable workers to access their right to freedom of agencies, NGOs, experts, multi-stakeholder relevant modern slavery association and collective initiatives) • Build partnerships and bargaining • Establish / revise collaborative action grievance and remediation systems 58 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 59 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour: Living Wage Labour: Living Wage Marshalls was awarded the Living Wage Employers Accreditation in 2014. This is only available in the UK. In India, Marshalls works with NGOs and others to calculate a living wage which is paid to those working in its supply chain there. 1/ 2/ 3/ ACCREDITATION INTELLIGENCE INFLUENCE Offers accreditation to employers that pay the Provides advice and support to employers Provides a forum for leading employers and Living Wage, or those committed to an agreed and service providers implementing the service providers to publicly back the Living timetable of implementation, by awarding the Living Wage including best practice guides; Wage. Work with Principal Partners who bring Living Wage Employer Mark. case studies from leading employers; model financial and strategic support to our work. The procurement frameworks and access to Foundations coordinates Living Wage Week Offers a Service Provider Recognition Scheme specialist legal and HR advice. We coordinate each November, a UK wide celebration of the for third party contractors who pay their own the announcement of the new Living Wage Living Wage. staff the Living Wage and always offer a Living rates each November. Wage option when submitting tenders. What are the benefits? What is it? > Good for Business An independent study examining the business > Good for Families The Living Wage affords people the opportunity > Good for Society The Living Wage campaign was launched in benefits of implementing a Living Wage policy in to provide for themselves and their families. 2001 by parents in East London, who were • An hourly rate set independently • The Living Wage enjoys cross party London found that more than 80% of employers frustrated that working two minimum wage believe that the Living Wage had enhanced 75% of employees reported increases in work jobs left no time for family life. and updated annually support, with public backing from the quality of the work of their staff, while quality as a result of receiving the Living Wage. the Prime Minister and the Leader absenteeism had fallen by approximately 25%. The causes of poverty are complex and in order • The Living Wage is calculated of the Opposition 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage had to improve lives, there should be a package of Two thirds of employers reported a significant made them more willing to implement changes solutions across policy areas. The Living Wage according to the basic cost of impact on recruitment and retention within in their working practices; enabled them to can be part of the solution. living in the UK • Paying the Living Wage is good for their organisation. 70% of employers felt that require fewer concessions to effect change; and business, good for the individual the Living Wage had increased consumer made them more likely to adopt changes more • The current UK Living Wage is and good for society awareness of their organisation’s commitment quickly. to be an ethical employer. £7.85 an hour • The Living Wage Employer Mark Following the adoption of the Living Wage PwC • The current London Living Wage is and Service Provider Recognition found turnover of contractors fell from 4% to 1%. £9.15 an hour Scheme provide an ethical badge for responsible pay • Employers choose to pay the Living Wage on a voluntary basis “ 50% of employees felt that the Living Wage “ 75% of employees reported had made them more willing to implement increases in work quality as a result changes in their working practices” of receiving the Living Wage.” 60 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Labour: Targets ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 TARGETS 2017 Maintain accreditation to IMS. Maintain accreditation to IMS. Maintain accreditation to BRE ELS Maintain information gathering 6002. regarding labour laws throughout our supply chain. Maintain information gathering regarding labour laws throughout our Work to further improve the social supply chain. auditor reporting process; and any associated correct action plan Maintain a programme of auditing processes and procedures. against the ETI Base Code Implement the recommendations Work to further improve the social resulting from the UNICEF research. auditor reporting process; and any associated correct action plan processes and procedures. Work with procurement team to review and revise supplier code of Continue to implement the conduct as appropriate to reflect the recommendations resulting from the Modern Slavery Act. UNICEF research. Work with human resources team to Work with procurement team to further develop systems and procedures communicate Marshalls Supplier Code which help to ensure that no modern of Conduct. slavery takes place within our operations. Work with the procurement and human resources team to further develop systems and procedures which help to ensure that no modern Maintain Living Wage accreditation. slavery takes place within our operations. Work with ILO IPEC Child Labour Maintain Living Wage accreditation. Platform to contribute further to the eradication of child labour. Work with ILO IPEC Child Labour Platform to contribute further to the eradication of child labour. 61 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 62 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Board Responsibility Environment Environmental Policy – Key Features The Group’s Finance Director, Jack Clarke, is the Director responsible for the Environmental Phase one of the board strategy was completed in 2015 and the next phase will take the business to 2020. This Performance of the Group. The Group’s strategic vision will have an impact on the objectives Environmental Policies are approved by the Board and targets defined in the Policies and this requires and reviewed at least annually. The full text of the additional work to be undertaken. The aim is to issue Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Policies can be found on the Group’s website the Policies to the business during April 2016. Practice www.marshalls.co.uk/our-policies. 79% Target – To operate within the relevant legal Until that time the current Policies and targets, date January 2015 are considered appropriate for our activity. frameworks and comply with appropriate legislation. Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice Environmental Policy – Key Features • The Group has a commitment to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, preventing pollution and minimising the impact of its operations. Target – To operate within the relevant legal frameworks and comply with appropriate legislation. • All operations should meet or exceed the requirements of legislation and applicable best practice. Where no legislation exists, best practice • The Group has a commitment to achieving • Marshalls will continue to raise environmental Due to Marshalls’ status the environmental Marshalls’ environmental targets relate to will remain an integral part of Marshalls’ business strategy. the highest standards of environmental awareness within the Group through the key performance indicators will be published strategic plans which are driven by board alongside the annual report in April. This will be executives and implemented by a large internal performance, • The Group preventing pollution is committed and to considering development the environmental impactsand training of its employees available online in due course. resource. Systems, which represent a significant minimising associated the impactwithofitsitsproducts throughout their life cycle. operations. and will communicate openly and consult with investment, are in place throughout the customers, suppliers and other stakeholders on At the heart of Marshalls’ sustainable business • All operations is supported • Policy should meet by monitoring or exceed the and measuring environmental business and allow the real time monitoring of relevant environmental matters. model, shown earlier in this report, is an requirementsperformance using and of legislation appropriate applicableexternal guidelines wherever energy consumption and how this relates to approach which combines key business issues practicable. Operating sites have assessed the environmental aspects carbon reduction measures. best practice. Where no legislation exists, best • Marshalls strives to protect and enhance and KPIs with third party verification, legislation of their activities, and objectives and targets aimed at improving the and industry standards including ISO14001 for Marshalls’ Environment & Climate Change overall environmental impact of those activities havebiodiversity practice will remain an integral part of been set. Theseand natural habitats within its environmental management. Policy documents the related key performance Marshalls’are business strategy. reviewed on at least an annual basis. landholdings where possible. The Group indicators. also recognises the need for sympathetic Key environmental targets and drivers for • The Group is committed • Marshalls to considering will continue the to raise environmental awareness within andthe after-use of quarry and restoration our business are determined by legislative Group impacts environmental the development through associated with itsand training of its employees and willsites. requirement and also the Company’s other operational productscommunicate throughout their openlylifeand cycle.consult with customers, suppliers and other commitment to sustainability, cost efficiency and stakeholders on relevant environmental matters. shareholder value. • Marshalls considers the character of the • Policy is supported by monitoring and • Marshalls strives to protect and enhance biodiversitylocal and environment natural and the concerns of the measuring environmental performance using local community and other stakeholders in habitats within its landholdings where possible. The Group also appropriate externalthe recognises guidelines wherever restoration andrelation need for sympathetic activities. after-usetoofitsquarry practicable.and Operating sites have other operational sites.assessed the Environmental Policy Statement environmental aspects of their activities, and Energy and Climate Change Policy Statement Marshalls is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, protection of the environment, prevention of pollution and minimising the impact of our operations. • Marshalls objectives considers and targets aimedthe at character improving the local environment and the ofthe The Groupʼs aim is to minimise the environmental damage that occurs as a result of our activities and policies are being implemented to ensure that all our operations meet or exceed the The use of energy is vital in the supply and manufacture of our products and represents a significant proportion of our operating costs. Volatile energy costs for us and in our supply chain, growing concerns over the security of supply and climate change mean that the concerns of theimpact overall environmental local community and other stakeholders in relation to of those activities requirements of legislation and applicable best practice. Marshalls regards compliance with relevant environmental laws, and the adoption of responsible importance of controlling our energy use has never been so high. This policy document is its activities. standards where no legislation exists, as an integral part of our business strategy and we are committed to considering the environmental impacts associated with our products throughout consistent with our sustainability strategy and supports our vision by helping us to operate our business, as market leaders, in a sustainable and responsible manner. have been set. These are reviewed on at their life cycle. The Group aims to evaluate the lifecycle of our products making the most efficient Sustainability is one of Marshallsʼ four key core values, balancing our environmental, social use of raw materials and to maximise use of recycled and secondary raw materials, and production residues, where appropriate. The environmental stewardship of our major raw and economic impacts. In essence, achieving our goal of sustainability involves judging the long-term merits of our business against this triple bottom line. least an annual basis. material suppliers is reviewed as part of the Groupʼs ongoing commitment to Responsible Marshalls recognises that sound energy management is vital to the future of our business and Sourcing. it must be fully integrated into our management and operational procedures so that it is an Marshalls is committed to monitoring and measuring our environmental performance, using everyday part of what we all do. Marshallsʼ commits to ensuring that appropriate energy appropriate external guidelines wherever practicable. Each operational site has assessed the management systems, are developed, maintained, and that sufficient resources are made environmental aspects and impacts of its activities with objectives and targets being set with a available to achieve the objectives of this policy in a sustainable manner also that they are in view to improving the overall environmental impact of those activities particularly in relation to line with continuous improvement principles. All UK operations are certified under BS EN Group targets. 50001. This policy applies to all Marshallsʼ businesses requiring Marshalls to: This policy applies to all Marshalls businesses and requires Marshalls to: • Track, understand and implement all relevant legislation and other requirements related to energy use, consumption and efficiency. • Track, understand and implement all relevant legislation in relation to environmental • Set group wide KPIʼs and targets, appropriate to the nature and scale of our protection and satisfying our compliance obligations. operations, for energy efficiency and emission reduction. Ensure all fuels are • Set Group wide KPIʼs appropriate to the nature and scale of our operations. effectively monitored, measured and analysed to target energy efficiency opportunities. • Monitor and measure performance against the protection of the environment and prevention of pollution. • Conduct energy reviews to identify opportunities for efficiency improvements and • Consider, engage and communicate with all interested parties where applicable. implement appropriate action plans. . • Establish, monitor and measure continual improvement initiatives in relation to • Ensure energy efficiency is designed into capital projects that have a significant impact environmental protection and performance. on energy consumption. • Continue to improve environmental awareness and training across the Group. • Develop adaptation and mitigation strategies against external environmental factors which • Ensure contractors and suppliers that have a significant impact on energy support could have adverse impacts on the Group. Marshallsʼ energy performance improvement. Ensure Marshallsʼ staff is trained and aware of their responsibilities in relation to energy efficiency. • Review the Groupʼs targets and Policy annually against business objectives and commitments given to industry initiatives and wider stakeholders. The review being • Develop on-site generation or direct connections to renewable power where financially undertaken by the Sustainability Team and operationally viable. Marshalls will continue to raise environmental awareness within the Group through the • Develop adaptation and mitigation strategies for climate change and fossil fuel development and training of our employees and will communicate openly and consult with depletion. interested parties on relevant environmental matters. • Report progress in relation to this policy to internal and external stakeholders. Marshalls strives to protect and enhance biodiversity and natural habitats within our landholdings where possible. We also recognise the need for sympathetic restoration and after-use of quarry This policy will be reviewed annually as part of the management review process. and other operational sites and consider the character of the local environment and the concerns of the local community and other stakeholders when planning such matters. Signed by: Signed by: Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive Martyn Coffey, Chief Executive April 2016 April 2016 Drivesys Riven Stone, Basalt 4 63 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 64 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Environmental Management Environmental Impact Target – 95 per cent of Group production to be manufactured The business is currently redefined its Sustainability Policies and Key at sites operating an integrated management system in Performance Indicators (“KPI”) to align to its 2020 business strategy and to ensure they are relevant and appropriate to its stakeholders. accordance with Publicly Available Specification 99:2006 Marshalls is a signatory to the Sustainable Concrete Forum, a collaborative (“PAS 99”) to be maintained to 2020. industry initiative, which published a new road map, with time-bound targets to 2020 aimed at reducing the environmental impacts of the industry. The latest performance report is the 8th Report on Progress which will be published in March 2016 and which can be found on the Marshalls reviewed its Group target in 2013 and revised this “ In 2015 Marshalls engaged Cedrec Marshalls website. to 95 per cent. During the year 42 (2014: 43) sites. The target was achieved in the year and the Group aims to maintain Information Systems to provide specialist compliance to this target to 2020, however it recognises legal services to support their assessment As a member of the Mineral Products Association British Precast Marshalls that any business churn may in the short term adversely voluntarily participated in a Resource Efficiency Action Plan with other of legal requirements. Cedrec undertook industries to identify and create an actionable strategy for improving affect its ability to do so. compliance assessments at a selection of resource efficiency within the supply chain. During 2015 the Group had 47 operational* sites (2014: 49). Marshalls’ sites on an annual basis, reviewing Of these sites: The plan identifies the key challenges and actions that the sector and its legal compliance, scale of environmental associated supply chain need to address in order to make improvements • 46 (2014: 47) had BS EN ISO 9001:2008 Quality aspects and measures taken by Marshalls in waste, water, carbon (energy usage and emissions), materials (primary Management Systems in place representing 99 per cent raw materials and secondary/recycled materials) and biodiversity. of the Group’s manufacturing output. to minimise and reduce their impacts. Marshalls’ sites are well controlled, comply Marshalls does not operate processes that require the legislative ng an integrated • 44 (2014: 45) had BS EN ISO 14001:2004 for monitoring of emissions to air of NOx and SOx and only one site that is 006 (“PAS 99”) to be environmental Management Systems in place with necessary permit requirements and permitted for VOCs in relation to the spray painting of street furniture representing 99 per cent of the Group’s manufacturing have a well-established programme of risk items. output. management including energy management aged Cedrec Information ialist legal• services 44 (2014: to 46) had BS OHSAS 18001:2007 for Health and (to ISO 50001), carbon footprinting, water Safety Management Systems in place representing 99 nt of legal requirements. and waste to landfill reduction. For the per cent of the Group’s manufacturing IMR 72571 output. pliance assessments at a range of activities undertaken at their ites on anInannual additionbasis, to these, the Group also had PAS 99-compliant sites, Marshalls’ robust environmental nce, scalemanagement of environmental systems in place at its Group Laboratory, MarketingtoSupport Department,FMLandscape House and a management and engagement with legal aken by Marshalls 00004 eir impacts. distribution Marshalls’ site in the Midlands. compliance is delivering a low risk outcome , comply with necessary in terms of environmental and pollution d have a well-established impacts.” EMS 56194 agement including energy Richard Clarke, Senior Environment Health and Safety on001), carbon footprinting, Consultant, Cedrec Information Systems dfill reduction. For the range of t their sites, Marshalls’ robust s. OHS 69609 * Operational is defined as a site in the UK with production IMR 72571 ament and engagement with output during the reporting year. vering s, a low risk outcome in and ental pollution impacts.” FM 00004 EnMS 621049 nvironment Health and Safety ’ rmation Systems y hedas a site in the UK with EMS 56194 ergythe reporting year. ng ing, range of robust OHS 69609 t with me in s.” EnMS 621049 d Safety 65 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 66 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Carbon Target – to reduce our absolute CO2e consumption in line with UK Government targets (34 per cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). Carbon Water Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy approved Group total emissions. It considered that there has by the Board during the year confirms the Group’s been no material change to this situation and thus commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon continues to exclude these from this report. impact of its business activities. The current reduction is in line with the 2020 and 2050 targets. Marshalls does not report its scope 3 emissions separately however these are included in the The Group complied with its legal obligation in the ‘cradle to grave’ product carbon footprints Target – to reduce our absolute CO2e consumption Government’s inCarbon line Reduction Commitment Energy Trust and – certified to PAS2050 by the CarbonTarget reduce use of water from mains and licensed Efficiency Scheme (“CRC”) by submitting its Annual available on the Marshalls website. with UK Government targets (34 per cent by Report 2020and and 80 per boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of production by 2015. surrender of Carbon allowances for the Water The business energy and carbon KPIs are aligned to cent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline). period April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit Mandatory Carbon Reporting and CRC through the imposed by the legislation. The Group is certified to measurement of energy at both absoluteMarshalls understands the future value of harvesting is undertaken at Sittingbourne the Carbon Trust Standard and is re-certified up to Target –and reducerelative use of water from mains and licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per tonne of production by 2015. water and is intensity levels and the business remains committed to a signatory to the United Nations further reducing the burden on licensed water December 2016 demonstrating ongoing commitment Global Compact CEO Water Mandate. The extractionandin these areas. The Group doesatnot reducing energy use on both these Marshalls measures. understands the future value of water and harvesting is undertaken Sittingbourne to carbon reductions. business has demonstrated a commitment to abstract water in “serious stress” areas. Marshalls’ Energy and Climate Change Policy approved is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact further reducing the burden on licensed water water harvesting and recycling on numerous by the Board during the year confirms the Group’s Marshalls has a mandatory duty The Group’s approach to the Energy CEO Savings Water Mandate. Thewater business has demonstratedMarshallsextraction has consentsin these in place,areas. ThebyGroup does not issued sites and utilises quarry where commitment to reducing the Energy and Carbon impact of to report its annual Greenhouse Opportunity Scheme (“ESOS”) legislation a commitment was tointo appropriate itswater harvesting and recycling the relevant operations. abstract waterbodies, regulatory to discharge in “serious stress” areas. its business activities. The current reduction is in line with define its energy management inon compliance numerouswith sites and utilises quarry water wheretrade effluent. Previous investment in water Carbon continued... the 2020 and 2050 targets. Gas Emissions (“GHG”) under the Companies Act 2006 the international standard for energy The Group management particularly appropriate in its operations. recognises the impacts harvesting Marshalls has consents and recycling in place, of its process waterissued by and risk to2015. ISO50001, gaining certification in November the business in areas of “water helps to reduce the overall the relevant discharge regulatory volumes bodies, to discharge trade The Group complied with its legal obligation in the (Strategic and Directors’ Reports) stress”. Working to therecognises Government’s Government’s The Group particularly the 2013 re-use in its in water harvesting enablinginvestment effluent.byPrevious trade effluent impacts andofrisk The GroupCarbon continues Reduction Commitment to acknowledge thatEnergy renewable electricity requirement for the next 20 Regulations years 2013 andandthe Large classification, developed by the Environment products. The Group continues to report voluntarily to the to the business in areas of “water stress”. Working to and recycling of its process water helps to reduce the energyScheme Efficiency (“CRC”) purchased either directly or its by submitting Annual will be indirectly provide a substantial reduction and Medium-sized Companies in energy and Groups for the costs (Accounts Agency andaNatural Resource Wales, two Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”).the It Government’s received 98B2013 Report required in order of and surrender achieveallowances to Carbon its absolute forreduction the period site.andDeveloping large scale on Reports) Regulations site renewable 2008. energy Marshalls uses the classification, developed by sites within the Group (Sandy ~ Anglian The chartoverall dischargethe below illustrates volumes Group’s trade effluent by ofwater April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit imposed rating for its 2015 report which includes the a wider Agency and Natural Resource Wales, Environment performanceenabling re-use between 2008in its and products. 2015 target. In 2015 Marshalls installed a 250 kilo Watt solar is proving extremely GHG Protocol challenging. Corporate Accounting and Reporting Water and Sittingbourne ~ Southern water) by the legislation. The Group is certified to the Carbon The chart below illustrates the Group’s absolute CO2e carbon management performance two over are time sites and within located alsoGroup the in areas (Sandy of “serious ~ Anglian stress”. As Water and Trustarray at its and Standard operating site at Sandy, is re-certified up to December 2016This Bedfordshire. Standard emissions (revisedincluding in tonnes, edition) and the latest Defrabetween The chart below illustrates the Group’s water became operational in May and has provided the site The chart below published CO2eillustrates thetransport conversion Group’sto factors activities, absolute measure CO2e provides an insight for shareholders regarding Sittingbourne the is practiced across~ Southern water) the Group, are located of in areas recycling demonstrating ongoing commitment to carbon reductions. 2008 and 2015. Group’s energy, carbon and climate change impact performance between 2008 and 2015 emissions in tonnes, including transport activities, ofwater “seriousis employed stress”. Ason is both of these practiced sitesthe across andGroup, with just over 4 per cent of its electricity. The forecast its GHG emissions. between 2008 and 2015. management programme. The Group reported 53,846 recycling of water is employed on both of these sites is that it will generate 7 per cent of the site’s current The Group reports its scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions for tonnes of CO2e for the year 2014 (2013: 55,996 tonnes). its UK operation and only CO2 emissions for Marshalls This data includes scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined NV, its Belgium business. In previous years, the Group in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (“GHG Protocol”) has conducted audits of its UK fugitive emissions and however the emission factors for CDP differ from those found these to be less than half of one per cent of the of Mandatory Carbon Reporting. The Group’s UK GHG emissions for 2015 of 55,182 of itsEnergy GHGAudits emissions until 2025 and an estimate of the The above chart shows a decrease in water use, 0.046 Marshalls is continuing to roll out the installation of tonnes CO2e is an increase of 2247 tonnes CO2e required investment to achieve its targets. m3 per tonne of production in 2015 (0.48 m3 in 2014). automatic water meter reading (“AMR”) across the compared to its 2014 emissions of 52,935 tonnes CO2e, representing an increase of four per cent. The net TheCarbon continued mix of products overleaf will impact on the manufactured The target of 0.05 m3 of licensed water 6per tonne of Group. This allows Marshalls to improve the data Group’s absolute and intensity carbon footprint. The production has been met. accuracy and frequency of monitoring of its mains water increase in absolute emissions is a result of increases Group recognises that if production of low carbon use by site leading to identification of potential savings. in production and as a result of energy efficiency Marshalls continues to reduce water intensity and is savings which are within the control of the business. products increases its footprint will reduce accordingly. helped by Marshalls’ previous and continued investment Other factors such as business churn, product mix and in water management projects, particularly the recycling The Group has identified that warm winters have 67 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 68 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress nsport Transport et – to meet the challenge of reducing sions whilst striving to maintain and improve customer service. Environment: Targets halls operates its own fleet of Large Goods les (“LGV”) to service the majority of its deliveries stomers. As a consequence diesel fuel usage significant business impact on the Group’s GHG Target – to meet the challenge of reducing emissions whilst sions reporting. striving to maintain and improve upon customer service. ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 TARGETS 2017 roup is a voluntary member of the Freight port Association led Logistic Carbon Reduction me (“LCRS”) which has Marshalls a collective operates fleet of Largeto its owncommitment Goods Vehicles Marshalls undertakes one-on-one driver training for its LGV ce the carbon To reduce emissions of CO2 in line 95 per cent of Group production to (“LGV”) to service the majority of per dioxide emissions by eight cent its deliveries to customers. fleet drivers, which has the added advantage of gaining a 15 (compared to 2010 levels). As a consequence Thisfuel initiative diesel usage hasalsoa significant broader understanding of the problems being faced by the with Government targets; 80% by be manufactured at sites operating onstrates our commitment business impact on tothe recording, Group’s reporting GHG emissions reporting. drivers, allowing management to address the issues. It is 2050 and 34% by 2020. an integrated management system educing carbon emissions while sharing best planned to double the resource on this agenda in 2016. Theminded Group iscompanies. a voluntary member of the Freight Transport in accordance with Publicly Available ice with like Association led Logistic Carbon Reduction Scheme (“LCRS”) The Group uses rail for stock movement to reduce carbon Specification 99: 2006 (“PAS 99”) to be g the lastwhich three years the Groupcommitment has investedtoinreduce the carbon has a collective emissions Electrical car charging points and will continue to look at different modes of at Head Office Carbon foot-printing of 3288 maintained to 2020. dioxidefleet and increased of 173 by emissions mechanical eight per centoffload by 2015 (compared transport whenever practicable. This investment was partially to 2010 levels). justifiedalso This initiative by demonstrates the our products. fficiency that might beto commitment achieved recording, with the latest reporting The Group and reducing carbonuses rail Thefor stock includes energy Groupmovement efficient cars on its car choice to reduce Reduce our absolute CO2e fficient vehicles, emissions these whilebeing a mix sharing of Euro best V and practice with likecarbon mindedemissions and including hybrid to will continue electric andlook which together with personal at different consumption in line with UK VI compliant engines; initial results indicate an companies. modes of transport taxation whenever impacts has resulted in a average emission of practicable. ovement in fuel usage of nearly 13 per cent on like 116 carbon dioxide grams per kilometre from its car fleet, Government targets (34 per cent by The Group includesaenergy efficient carsinonthe itslast car 12 months. An in-house 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 from a e vehicles.During the last three years the Group has invested choice in a new including reduction hybrid and from 120 electric which together Uphold the BITC May Day and increased fleet of 173 mechanical offload LGVs. This automated report is available to all company car drivers to 1990 baseline). halls undertakes investmentone-on-one driver was partially training justified byfor with personal the fuel efficiency that taxation impacts review has resulted their achieved in an (miles per gallon). efficiency Network pledges. mightwhich V fleet drivers, has thewith be achieved added theadvantage vehicles,emission of 116 carbon dioxide grams per latest fuel efficientaverage ining a broader understanding these being of the a mix of Euro problems V and kilometre Euro VI compliant engines;from its car fleet, a reduction from 120 in Reduce use of water from mains and g faced byinitial the drivers, results allowing indicate an management improvement toin fuel the usagelastof12 months. An in-house automated report licensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per ess the issues. nearlyIt 13 is planned per cent toondouble the vehicles. like for like resource is available to all company car drivers to review their is agenda in 2016. achieved efficiency (miles per gallon). Marshalls Energy Savings Week. tonne of production by 2015. Implement biodiversity plans at selected sites. Reduce use of water from mains and Reduce by 3% the total waste-tolicensed boreholes to 0.05m3 per landfill per production output per tonne of production by 2015. annum on 3 year rolling average. Reduce by 2% per tonne of Implement biodiversity plans at production output per annum over a selected sites. 3 year cycle to a level where pack and product safety is not compromised. Reduce by 3% the total waste-toMeet the challenge of reducing landfill per production output per emissions whilst striving to maintain annum on 3 year rolling average. and improve upon customer service. Reduce by 2% per tonne of production output per annum over a 3 year cycle to a level where pack and product safety is not compromised. eet of LGVs 10 69 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 70 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Anti-Corruption Piloting New Achieving Good Collaborating & Initiatives Results Sharing Best Practice 72% Reviewing Feedback & Developing Our Delivering Best Legal Compliance Approach Practice The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force on 1st July 2011. It amends Throughout 2011 there was great and reforms UK criminal law and provides a modern legal framework focus by the UNGC UK Network on Anti-Corruption with a number to combat bribery in the UK and internationally. of events and speakers attending education events open to UK Network members. Marshalls took advantage of these opportunities with a range of individuals from The Bribery Act creates the following within the organisation attending and reporting back. offences: The UNGC tenth principle commits signatories not only to 1# 2# actively avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption but ACTIVE BRIBERY: ACTIVE BRIBERY: to develop policies and concrete programmes to address corruption promising or giving a Passive bribery: agreeing and related risks. financial or other advantage. to receive or accepting a Marshalls understands that bribery financial or other advantage. is not a victimless crime and that it discourages developmentally effective trade and siphons off funds away from projects designed to help the most disadvantaged. It tarnishes reputations, drains 3# 4# corporate motivation and distorts ACTIVE BRIBERY: ACTIVE BRIBERY: competition. Marshalls’ procurement Bribery of foreign public The failure of commercial policy can be viewed at: officials. organisations to prevent www.marshalls.co.uk/ bribery by an associated sustainability person (corporate offence). 71 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 72 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Anti Bribery Code Anti-Corruption: Targets 1. In this Code, “Marshalls” means Marshalls plc employee that is unlawful or prohibited by 6. Monitoring and Compliance and its subsidiary companies. this Code will constitute gross misconduct • The Board of Marshalls plc has approved this 2. Marshalls is committed to conducting its business with the utmost integrity and in and may result in dismissal. Employees may be suspended while investigations are carried out. Anti-Bribery Code and will set standards in relation to its principles and their application ACHIEVEMENTS 2016 TARGETS 2017 accordance with the principles set out in the UK • Employees who engage or do business with across the Marshalls Group. Bribery Act 2010. third parties who act on behalf of Marshalls • The Audit Committee of the Board will review Marshalls plc is a signatory of the UN Global or represent Marshalls should ensure that this procedures across the Group and will monitor Develop procurement for Communicate Marshalls sustainability Compact, which informs and governs the way Code is drawn to their attention. Marshalls their effectiveness. sustainability strategy which strategy which has anti-corruption expects such third parties to comply with this in which we do business. Marshalls expects its Code and with the applicable law relating to • Designated individuals within each business has anti-corruption measures measures woven throughout. employees and business partners to respect and bribery. area, together with the Company Secretary woven throughout. support our core values of trust, honesty and (who oversees day to day compliance) have integrity and to recognise and implement this • Marshalls reserves the right to terminate responsibility for the implementation and Code. immediately any contract or business development of such procedures. Develop and publish Publish and communicate our 3. Marshalls does not tolerate the offering, relationship with any agent, consultant, or sustainable procurement Supplier Code of Conduct giving other business intermediary where bribery has • All employees have an obligation to comply giving, requesting, receiving or acceptance of occurred. with this Code and support and promote its guidance. clear anti-corruption and anti-bribery bribes in any form. principles in their business function. information using the new IT-based A bribe is a financial payment or other form of 7. Any employee having a question or concern platform. reward that is intended to induce or influence 4. Our Policies and Procedures in relation to this Code, the administration of an individual, company or public body to Ensure that this guidance is Marshalls has adopted policies and procedures Marshalls policies and procedures designed to perform their functions improperly. This may circulated to all suppliers. include showing partiality, acting in bad faith intended to address the potential risk of bribery prevent bribery, or any issue where guidance is Ensure that this guidance is made and corruption. These include:sought on a particular set of circumstances may or acting in a way that is inconsistent with a publicly available for all stakeholders. • The Group Procurement Policy Statement; raise it with their line manager or the Company position of trust. Secretary (Cathy Baxandall, Birkby Grange, Birkby Bribes, for the purpose of this Policy, include • The Code of Ethics; Hall Road, Huddersfield HD2 2YA: Tel: 01484 facilitation payments, kickbacks and any other • Guidance on hospitality and gifts, and the 438930: email cathy.baxandall@marshalls.co.uk) Ensure that this guidance is reward, favour or payment designed to induce maintenance of a hospitality and gifts register; 8. Any employee who suspects that bribery made publicly available for all or influence the recipient to perform his or her Continue to undertake a series of • The Serious Concerns Policy. has occurred or that there has been any stakeholders. functions improperly. other breach of this Code should report it in face-to-face briefing and workshops In the case of a foreign public official, it is not These are regularly reviewed and updated, and accordance with the procedure in the Serious with key suppliers. should be read together with this Code. This permitted to offer a payment or other reward to Concerns Policy so that it can be formally a foreign public official that may influence that Code and these policies can be accessed via investigated. Undertake a series of face-tothe Marshalls intranet. The hospitality and gifts official to give an advantage to our business, Adopted by the Board on 5 October 2011. face briefing and workshops whether or not intended to induce improper register is maintained at Birkby Grange (contact Continue to communicate Marshalls Gillian Harley/Jill Bedford). Graham Holden with key suppliers. performance. Anti-Bribery policy internally. Among our procedures to mitigate risk are the Chief Executive Chairman Hospitality designed to improve business following:relations which is proportionate to the circumstances and which is not for an • Supplier and customer risk assessments; Communicate Marshalls Antiimproper purpose is not usually regarded as • Training for employees and those working for Bribery policy internally and a bribe. Further guidance can be found in Continue to communicate Marshalls Marshalls or representing Marshalls in a business externally. the Procurement Policy Statement and the capacity ; Anti-Bribery policy internally. Hospitality Guidelines. • Written commitments from those we work No employee, agent, consultant or business with to engage with the principles in this Code. intermediary acting for Marshalls may offer, give, Review and develop antiContinue to review and develop anti5. Marshalls will work with its business partners request, receive or accept any bribes, whether bribery processes and bribery processes and procedures. directly or indirectly. worldwide to develop and improve good practice and to seek to eliminate bribery and procedures. corruption. It will select business partners who What does this mean for me? have adopted similar policies and objectives and will avoid doing business with those who • Any alleged or suspected incident of bribery act unlawfully or in a way that is not consistent will result in a formal investigation, and may with ethical business principles. result in disciplinary action for any employee involved. Any activity or behaviour by an 73 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 74 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Proud to be Fair Tax Accredited Business in the Community and Pay Our Fair Share of Tax The Fair Tax Mark is the label for good taxpayers. Wherever Fair Tax Mark commented, “We welcome Marshalls Business in the Community is the Prince you see the Fair Tax Mark you can be sure that a company is engagement and eagerness to speak out about this issue. open and transparent about its tax affairs and seeks to pay the A fair and transparent tax system is at the heart of any of Wales’ Responsible Business Network. right amount of corporation tax at the right time in the right society. A fair tax system is essential to a vibrant mixed Marshalls remains a members and works in place. It sets a new standards in responsible tax practice. economy that works for the benefit of all who live in a country. It is also crucial to a healthy, functioning democracy. support of tackling a wide range of issues that Marshalls’ CEO, Martyn Coffey, said, “In recent years, we’ve ‘Fair’ is a subjective term that is open to a wide range of seen multinational corporations that have chosen to use tax are essential to building a fairer society and a havens and artificial structures to avoid paying millions in interpretations. In our opinion when it comes to corporation tax ‘fair tax’ means that a business seeks to pay the right more sustainable future. tax. The results of this are inflated profits, the destruction of amount of tax, but no more, in the right place at the right a level playing field which erodes fair competition as well as a depleted public purse. But not all businesses seek to avoid time and can be held to account on its tax behaviour by the paying the tax that they owe, and as a responsible business public based on the information it publishes.” Marshalls is proud to make it known that it pays its fair share Coffey, concluded by saying, “Marshalls has been a United of tax.” Nations Global Compact signatory since 2009 and as such has According to an estimation of the UK’s tax gap, around £12 made public commitments regarding human rights, labour billion is lost to the public purse each year via corporate tax environment and anti-corruption. The organisation is clear avoidance. This is more than the entire Home Office budget that adhering to the Fair Tax Mark criteria is all part-and-parcel of being a sustainable and responsible business.” Working together to take action and half of the UK’s housing and environment budget. (1) Chris Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director, responsible BITC offers a range of practical ways for businesses to work together and take action to help tackle for sustainability, added, “Recent research has shown that 1 in some of the key issues facing society. 4 consumers want to boycott tax dodgers. It’s time to make clear which businesses people can trust and to help them spend their money where it counts.” Environment Employees Education Using our natural resources more sustainably. Ensuring that age, gender, health and race Ensuring that age, gender, health and race do not limit an employee’s engagement and do not limit an employee’s engagement and success in the workplace. success in the workplace. Employment Enterprise Helping people overcome disadvantage by creating access to sustainable, Creating jobs and vibrant communities by supporting small, local good employment. businesses. 75 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 76 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress UK Best Companies Survey “ In late 2016, and for the third time, our employees Marshalls continues to focus closely on the established values of leadership, excellence, give full and fair consideration to applications from individuals with recognised disabilities trust and sustainability and to build these to ensure they have equal opportunity took part in the annual UK Best Companies Survey, into all of its activities involving employees. for employment and development in our We remain firmly focused on encouraging business. Wherever practicable we offer an initiative which helps organisations measure, all staff, no matter where they are based, to training and make adjustments to ensure collaborate in all aspects, whether on work disabled employees are not disadvantaged recognise and improve employee engagement issues or as part of the Group’s “Giving Back” in the workplace. We also remain committed programme, which continues to be a growing to employing a diverse workforce and, in levels. Through the widespread promotion of activity. The Group has raised a substantial particular, encouraging more women to enter amount for good causes during 2016. In 2016 what has traditionally been a highly malethe survey with our workforce, and initiatives to our focus was to support Prostate Cancer UK. dominated workplace. For the third year Marshalls is proud to be help our non-computer based employees to take a “Living Wage Employer”, underscoring its Susie Fehr commitment to employees. We welcome and part, we are very proud to have achieved an 85% Group HR Director. completion rate, far higher percentage than the At the end of 2015 our workforce comprised 2,250 employees with the following gender balance: national average which is currently 62%. Key areas which were highlighted show that the vast majority Male Female of the workforce is proud of the Marshalls brand, Total workforce 88% 12% Senior managers 86% 14% products, and what the business is working towards, Directors 83% 17% and arguably most importantly, most people believe they are able to make a positive contribution to the success of the organisation. ​Walk Your Way to Health “ It’s really important for us as a business to ask our Walk Your Way to health was April's wellbeing initiative, and we encouraged all employees to walk as much as possible. Walking is workforce for feedback, and most importantly, to an underrated form of exercise, but ideal for people of all ages and differing fitness levels who want to be more active. Regular walking act upon that feedback. The Best Companies Survey has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic illnesses, such as heart disease, type 2 diabetes, asthma, stroke, and some cancers. Throughout gives us a real idea of how engaged our workforce April all sites to arranged lunchtime walks as a team event. feels and highlights areas where we need to improve Focusing on Mental Health Awareness Week. giving us a clear strategic steer.” The focus of Mental Health Awareness Week in 2016 was relationships, and how healthy and supportive relationships reduce the risk of mental ill-health. Therefore, we wanted to celebrate the connections, Susie Fehr, Group HR Director. relationships, and people in our lives that add to our wellbeing and protect and sustain our mental health. 77 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 78 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Long Service Award Training & Development Marshalls has once again celebrated the commitment and Early Careers Marshalls Graduate Scheme hard work of employees who have been with the company for 25 years, at a presentation which took place at Oulton Hall, Last month saw the launch of the new Marshalls Graduate Scheme which is Leeds on 12th May. due to commence this summer. The 14 employees have accumulated 350 years of service between them and were presented The scheme will look to recruit 4 graduates at each intake, with us we have the right people in place to whom we with a gold watch and certificate by Chief Executive Martyn Coffey. each of whom will rotate around the four main areas of can pass on that expertise, as well as developing the new Ian Goodbold, Project Consultant at Marshalls, said: “I’m incredibly proud to have been at our business (Sales, Operations, Marketing and Corporate skills and competencies we will inevitably require in the Marshalls for 25 years and it was a real honour to receive my long service award today. “It’s Support). The scheme will last 2½ years, at the end of future if we are to retain our role as market leaders within incredible to think that I’ve been with the company for 25 years as they’ve flown by, I’ve seen which it is anticipated that the graduates will commence our sector. some huge changes over that period but what has always remained the same is that Marshalls a permanent role in each of the business areas mentioned Early Careers isn’t just about Graduates. We are now is a fantastic company to work for and they have really looked after me. I’ve made many lifelong above. We are now starting to work in partnership starting to think coherently about how we develop friends along the way both at Marshalls and with my customers.” with two main universities; the University of Leeds and Apprenticeships. We are currently identifying ways in Martyn Coffey said: “The Long Service Awards is always a fantastic event as it gives me the Manchester Metropolitan University, as well as developing which we can work in a closer, more targeted way with opportunity to personally thank those who have contributed so much to Marshalls’ success closer links with other local universities in Huddersfield, local schools, colleges and universities: In fact later this over the last 25 years. “We truly feel that our people are our biggest asset and it’s important Bradford and Sheffield. year Marshalls will be involved in the very successful to celebrate their loyalty, dedication and hard work. A massive thank you to everyone who This is an exciting initiative for Marshalls and an important Placement and Work Shadowing Scheme run by attended today’s event.” part of our Talent and People Development Strategy. Greenhead College. Our Brookfoot team recently took part Our focus on Early Careers is critical to ensuring we in the Careers Convention at Kings James Primary School have a sustainable talent pipeline for the future. We not only as a way of attracting Apprentices, but also to are very fortunate at Marshalls that we have a highly start to generate awareness of Marshalls as an Employer of knowledgeable, highly skilled, and well retained team; it’s Choice for those starting their Early Career. not uncommon to find colleagues who have been with us If you would like more information, or if you know of for over 25 years. someone who may be interested in the Graduate Scheme, As Marshalls continues to grow and evolve, it’s vitally please encourage them to register their interest by important that when colleagues decide to end their career sending an email to graduates@marshalls.co.uk. Emma Ross and Phil Daniels at the MMU graduate event 79 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 80 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Training & Development Health & Safety Marshalls Launch NEW Educational Partnership Concrete Graduates Our internal Safety, Health & Incident Prevention (SHIP) teams consist of employee representatives and managers and are the cornerstone of the safety management system at site level. The SHIP teams meet regularly to support and develop our safety Marshalls has launched an educational partnership initiative in order to attract A group of five Marshalls employees programme. Marshalls’ operating sites have been progressively students to the landscaping industry. have successfully completed their Level 4 implementing Integrated Management Registration systems accredited by the British Standard Institution incorporating the qualification in Concrete Technology. Occupational Health and Safety Accreditation Standard 18001The scheme will see Marshalls supporting landscaping “We want to encourage students to pursue a career in 2007; at the end of 2015 all but one site held this accreditation. colleges in the delivery of landscaping courses by this wonderful industry, and instil best practice from the The organisation’s Health & Safety Policy sets out the principles providing materials, delivering skills workshops, and linking outset.” Richard Connell, Adam Faben, Phil Litchfield and Chris Wilson regarding the health and safety of employees and performance is students with Marshalls Register members in order to gain attended their graduation ceremony on 8th April at the Enterprise He added: “We’re thrilled to be partnering with Askham monitored by the Board on a monthly basis. work experience in the industry. Centre at the University of Derby, with Ian St Hilaire also Bryan College, and look forward to working together in the graduating but not present at the ceremony. Askham Bryan College in York is the first college to sign up future to provide their landscaping students with the best to the scheme, with more colleges expected to join in the possible start to their careers.” The Level 4 course took place over a year, and included a lot of Health and Safety coming weeks. hard work, coursework and exams. It was a mixture of distance Marshalls can offer colleges workshops and master classes Marshalls wants to work with colleges to promote in specialties such as SuDS, ethical trading and supply learning and University tutorials, with examinations at the end and percentage reduction in working days lost continuous assessed coursework throughout. 20% landscaping as an attractive profession, as many installers’ chain, technical performance and selection of natural order books are full, but countless firms are lacking the products, how to price up a project and quote a customer, The course covered a range of topics within the field of Concrete man power to fulfil their requests. and practicalities to consider when setting up your own Technology across different disciplines (e.g mortar, ready mix, business. precast concrete, semi-dry etc) including: testing, aggregates, Dave Jessop, Operations Manager of the Marshalls Register concrete, performance, specification, construction, durability, mix said: “Working in partnership with colleges to promote Marshalls will also assist in linking qualified individuals with design etc. landscaping as an attractive career choice felt like a natural Marshalls Register members who are looking to recruit progression for Marshalls. There is a lack of skilled workers in the landscaping sector, but demand for their services is new employees upon completion of their studies. Congratulations to you all – quite an achievement! Link to Strategy higher than ever before. Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest health and safety standards for all its employees and continually strives to improve the quality and safety of the working environment. 2016 Performance In 2016 there was a 20 per cent reduction in days lost from workplace incidents. Strategic Targets The headline target for 2016 was to achieve an accident rate for the year no higher than the 2015 actual results. Remuneration Linkage Health and safety performance is a remuneration performance target. Risk Management The Group’s compliance procedures and policies seek to ensure that local, national and international health and safety controls are fully complied with. Regional Assessor Paul Dennis with Senior Landscape Lecturer Harry Turner David Jessop with Alistair Phillips Director of Horticulture 81 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Third Party Recognition & Awards Corporate Social Responsibility PLC Award 2016 The PLC Awards is now in its 31st year, having been held every year since its inception in 1987. The event, which has become firmly established as “the” City event of the year, is held annually, every March, at the Grosvenor House Hotel. The Voting Panel were looking for leadership, innovation, and commitment to take responsibility for the impact the company has on environmental and social wellbeing. This Award acknowledges that Marshalls has gone beyond what is required by regulators or environmental protection groups and has engaged in actions that further some social good, beyond the interests of the firm and that which is required by law. Marshalls has demonstrated increased shareholder trust through positive public relations and high ethical standards to reduce business and legal risk by taking responsibility for corporate actions which affect the environment and all stakeholders including consumers, employees, investors, communities, and others. Kevin Burrowes, Executive Board Member, Clients and Markets Leader, PwC; Alan McGill, Partner in the Sustainability & Climate Change practice, PwC; Jack Clark, Martin Coffey, CEO, Richard Hoyle, Cathy Baxendale, Marshalls plc (winner); and Naga Munchetty (awards presenter). 82 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 83 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Third Party Recognition & Awards Safety in Numbers: Marshalls scoops two Double Award Win Marshalls’ Mono Beany Wins Prestigious prestigious Health & Safety Awards for Marshalls Innovation Award Marshalls is proud to announce that it Marshalls second award of the night was Marshalls was proud to win a double award picked up two awards at the 2015 Mineral the ‘Engineering Innovation’ award for the win at the Construction Marketing Awards Marshalls picked up the Innovation Award at the 2016 Mineral Products Products Associations (MPA) Annual Health implementation of concertina guarding 2016. The prestigious awards, which took & Safety Awards ceremony. These prestigious around the saws at Marshall Stancliffe Stone place on Thursday 1st December at the Associations (MPA) British Precast Annual Best Practice awards ceremony. awards celebrate health and safety initiatives sites. Radisson Blu Portman in London, celebrate at any organisations associated with the Marshalls’ Tom Poole, MD of Operations, said: the construction industry’s creativity, production of mineral products. Overall, this innovation and effectiveness in marketing. These prestigious awards are split into five categories: Alice Couldwell, Linear Drainage Product Manager, “These awards are a major achievement Innovation, Health and Safety, Project, Sustainability said: “We’re thrilled to win the innovation award for year’s awards attracted 151 entries from 44 and recognise not only the effort across the Beating off stiff competition from the likes different organisations. Marshalls scooped of Tarmac Cement and Celotex, Marshalls and Outstanding Contribution to Health and Safety, Mono Beany. It has been such a success for Marshalls, Marshalls group of businesses but also the with the Innovation award acknowledging excellence and has already been installed in numerous successful the ‘Behavioural Safety & Culture’ award for results being delivered day in day out. took home awards for both its Future Spaces the work, and subsequent results, achieved research project, which identifies the key within the British Precast membership, and promoting high profile projects. through the industry leading Visible Felt “A big thank you must go out to everyone at megatrends which will shape our commercial, and encouraging innovation in the industry. Marshalls “Winning this award is great recognition for all the hard Leadership (VFL) programme and exemplified Marshalls who has been involved in making public and domestic spaces over the next ten beat off stiff competition from the likes of Charcon, work we have put into new product development through the Incident Prevention Talks. these initiatives a success. The Health and years, and its commercial branding campaign PCE Limited, and Tarmac Building Products to scoop lately. Thank you to everyone who has made Mono Safety of our workforce will continue to be our – ‘Get a New Perspective on Paving.’ Chris the award at the annual ceremony, which took place at Beany such a success, especially the production team This programme has helped to create a number one priority as a business.” the Marriott Hotel, Leicester. stepped change within Marshalls which has Harrop, Marshalls Group Marketing Director, at our West Lane works.” led to the significant improvements in safety said: “We are thrilled to have won not one, but The winning project from Marshalls was for their Some of the comments from the judges stated that performance which have been seen over two hotly contested categories at the CMA innovative drainage system Mono Beany, which is there was “very clear innovation, but also speaks of the last two and a half years, including a 58% awards. ‘It is always great to be recognised by a combined kerb and drainage system and utilises quality of service too” and utilised a “new production reduction in the lost time incident severity the wider industry for the work we are doing, Marshalls’ latest concrete mix technology M Tech, technique.” rate, a 61% reduction in the lost time incident and is testament to the hard work of all who which is formed around a 100% recycled Polyethlene have contributed to our campaigns.’ core. Marshalls was also shortlisted in the Innovation frequency rate, and a 63% reduction in the category for the new Pavement Design Guide by reportable incident frequency rate. Marshalls supplied 33,000 linear metres of Mono Beany Professor John Knapton, as well as the Sustainability over two phases of the new M1 smart motorway Award for its electronic energy action plan integration. scheme, which was highlighted in the awards, where the challenge was to install a new infrastructure, including drainage attenuation, with minimal disruption, and to select a suitable product engineered to help the contractor meet deadlines and budget. 84 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 85 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Third Party Recognition & Awards Marshalls awarded responsible business excellence Marshalls Plc Retains Independent third party scrutiny and verification is a key component to FTSE4Good Status Marshalls’ approach to business, as Marshalls has received two accolades at the Yorkshire and Humber is award recognition from external Responsible Business Awards for its global development and sustainability Marshalls plc is pleased to report that it has retained its long-standing bodies. It is of great importance to position as a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index following the activities and for making a difference in the local community. June 2016 review. The FTSE4Good Index measures the performance Marshalls that the awards entered of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. both showcase and challenge the The awards ceremony was hosted by Business in “The event offered an opportunity for us to see all the the Community (BITC) which is celebrating the 30th fantastic things Yorkshire businesses are doing in their CEO, Martyn Coffey, said: “I’m delighted that Marshalls continue to company’s pioneering approach. anniversary of Prince Charles’ presidency. communities which has motivated us to do more in the be recognised by FTSE4Good for our forging work driven by our At the packed event at Bradford’s Cedar Court Hotel, future.” sustainability model, and our approach to human rights, labour, Marshalls received the shortlisted award for Unilever Speaking via a video message at the dinner, HRH The environmental and anti-corruption. Global Development, supported by Business Fights Prince of Wales, President of BITC, said: “The Responsible “Empowered by our brand values of leadership, excellence, trust and Poverty for its work with the supply chain programme Business Awards are always such a personal highlight sustainability, our team works passionately and diligently to uphold our in India. The programme has made a positive impact on for me each year, because they provide an important public commitments. By doing so, and doing the right thing, together its suppliers and improved the lives of quarry workers opportunity to celebrate business at its best and to we are leveraging sustainability to drive competitive advantage for our and their families in Rajasthan, India. showcase practical examples of how it is helping business.” Marshalls was also recognised for making a difference to build a more harmonious society and a more Chris Harrop, Marshalls’ Group Marketing Director, responsible for in the local community, receiving a highly commended sustainable future. sustainability, added: “Maintaining our position in the FTSE4Good award for outstanding contribution to employee “These awards are therefore vital as a way of inspiring is excellent news and sits well alongside the Fair Tax Mark which volunteering. Employees raised a fantastic £17,000 other businesses to follow this lead.” recognised the transparency that we display in our tax affairs, and that for Overgate Hospice in Elland last year through a Liz Needleman, Area Director England East, BITC, said: we are proud to state that we are good tax payers.” sponsored walk to remember a dear colleague. This was “The annual Responsible Business Awards celebrate FTSE4Good’s transparent management and clearly-defined matched pound-for-pound by Marshalls. those companies making a difference in communities, CERTIFICATE OF ACHIEVEMENT environmental, social and governance criteria means that its indices David Morrell, Head of Sustainability at Marshalls said: schools and within their own organisations. Many have is widely consulted by those creating or assessing responsible Marshalls Plc Landscape House “Receiving the Global Development award was a created their own fantastic initiatives which have a investment products, as well as a framework for corporate engagement Premier Way Lowfields Business Park testament to many years of hard work by the whole positive impact on the employees who deliver them, and stewardship Elland has achieved Carbon Trust Standard certification for: ^ BES 6001 accreditation team at Marshalls and we picked up the employee and the people or project they are helping.” All UK and European operations for the Responsible volunteering award on behalf of all our Halifax for and on behalf of Carbon Trust Certification Ltd Sourcing of Construction employees who put their best foot forward for a local Products charity close to their hearts.” Morgan Jones, Associate Director Certification Awarded 01 January 2015 Valid until 31 December 2016 Licence No. CERT-12034 Certified since 2011 www.carbontrust.com Carbon Trust Certification Ltd is registered in England and Wales under Company number 06547658 with its Registered Office at 4th Floor, Dorset House, 27-45 Stamford Street, London SE1 9NT ^ Carbon Trust Standard This is to certify that Certificate of Achievement Marshalls Mono Limited has successfully achieved the Achilles BuildingConfidence standard, having completed an online pre-qualification questionnaire and been subject to an onsite audit. Achilles ID: 4900381 Audit undertaken date: 09/11/2016 Audit expiry date: 09/11/2017 Brian Moone Tom Grand Steering Group Chairman UKI Regional Director Achilles BuildingConfidence Achilles Achilles > BuildingConfidence standards 86 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress COP FEEDBACK Auditing Ongoing Stakeholder Consultation In the past, Marshalls has worked with generally Marshalls would like to thank all of its stakeholders recognised auditors for its work in India. Whilst working who had input into this eigth UNGC Communication in India however, Marshalls found it really needed to on Progress, namely Marshalls’ employees, customers, work with auditors with specialist knowledge of trade suppliers, partners and NGOs. unions and ILO (International Labour Organisation) standards. The auditing process for Marshalls is not just about hitting the baseline and doing the minimum, it’s about going the extra mile and ensuring the process is as thorough and rigorous as possible. Marshalls’ 2016 COP Feedback Survey supply chain strategy follows the ETI Base Code, which As a valued stakeholder Marshalls would very much is based on the International Labour Organisation’s appreciate your feedback and comments on its 2016 Conventions. In embedding the Base Code in the supply Communication on Progress (COP.) You may be aware chain Marshalls has implemented processes to ensure that Marshalls became a signatory of the UNGC in compliance and improvement. January 2009. Our commitment to the UNGC requires that we submit an annual COP to the UN office in New Marshalls employs full time social auditors in both India York. This and all other COPs can be found in at and China. Working on the ground alongside quarry & factory owners, managers, workers, unions and nonwww.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability/publications governmental organisations, the auditor ensures all areas of the ETI Base Code are upheld. Our 2009 COP received a ‘notable’ status from the UNGC, an acknowledgement made to only a small percentage Marshalls works with Just Solutions in order to gain a of signatories. We will make this 2016 COP’s available for consistent approach to auditing its supplier network and UNGC UK Network peer review again this year. We are ensure supply chains remain ethical and best practice particularly keen to gain frank feedback from a range is shared where possible. Led by expert supply chain of our stakeholders as we further engage in a drive for auditing specialist Stirling Smith, Just Solutions is an SAI corporate sustainability leadership throughout 2016 and listed consultant who works to develop and extend the beyond. SA8000 standard and the ETI Base Code. The company relies upon the hard core of convinced companies to engage stakeholders and professionals together in an If you wish to take part in our COP feedback agreed programme. survey please email: elaine.mitchel-hill@marshalls.co.uk Audits are carried out at least annually, by a two-person team over two days. A qualified Marshalls assessor goes to India and China five to six times a year to audit informally. If non-compliance is found, an action plan is agreed to ensure rectification takes place and this is followed up by an external audit. Accreditation Marshalls only works with reputable and reliable suppliers in terms of accreditation. 87 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 88 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress GRI Performance Indicators GRI Performance Indicators GRI Indicator Indicator Description UNGC COP Element GRI 3.1 Disclosure Addressed EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Governance, Profile Disclosure 4.1 – Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Actions Taken to Implement community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Commitments highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational Principles 1-10 and Engagement oversight EC3 Coverage of the organisations defined benefits plan obligations. Profile Disclosure 4.2 – Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Profile Disclosure 4.3 – For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Profile Disclosure 4.4 – Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Governance, Profile Disclosure 4.14 – List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Sharing the COP with the Company’s Commitments Profile Disclosure 4.15 – Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholders LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. and Engagement HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the Economic Disclosure on Management Approach – Economic Actions Taken to Implement Principles effective abolition of child labour. Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and 1, 4, 6 and 7 performance; policy; additional contextual information. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. EC1 – Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, No Specific COP Requirement employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subjected to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. payments to capital providers and governments. EC3 – Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations No Specific COP Requirement UNGC Commitment Indicators Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach – Environmental Actions Taken to Implement Principles Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and 7, 8 and 9 performance; policy; organisational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and followUNGC COP Element GRI 3.1 Disclosure up; additional contextual information. Addressed Strategy and Statement of Continuing EN8 – Total water withdrawal by source Outcomes from Implementing Profile Disclosure 1.1 – Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or Analysis Support Principle 8 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy EN18 – Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Actions Taken and Outcomes from Organisational Profile Disclosure 2.1 – Name of the organization No Specific COP Requirement Implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9 Profile Profile Disclosure 2.2 – Primary brands, products, and/or services EN22 – Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Outcomes from Implementing Profile Disclosure 2.3 – Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, Principle 8 subsidiaries, and joint ventures Profile Disclosure 2.4 – Location of organization’s headquarters Profile Disclosure 2.5 – Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with Labor Practices and Disclosure on Management Approach – Labour Practices and Decent Work Actions Taken to Implement Principles either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Decent Work Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and 1, 3 and 6 Profile Disclosure 2.6 – Nature of ownership and legal form performance; policy; organisational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and followProfile Disclosure 2.7 – Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of up; additional contextual information. customers/beneficiaries) Profile Disclosure 2.8 – Scale of the reporting organization LA1 – Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region No Specific COP Requirement Profile Disclosure 2.9 – Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Profile Disclosure 2.10 – Awards received in the reporting period LA4 – Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Outcomes from Implementing Principles 1 and 3 Profile Disclosure 3.1 – Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided No Specific COP Requirement Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach – Human Rights Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 3.2 – Date of most recent previous report (if any) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items: goals and Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 Profile Disclosure 3.3 – Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) performance; policy; organisational responsibility; training and awareness; monitoring and followProfile Disclosure 3.4 – Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents up; additional contextual information. Profile Disclosure 3.5 – Process for defining report content Profile Disclosure 3.6 – Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) HR6 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures to Actions Taken to Implement Profile Disclosure 3.7 – State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report contribute to eliminate child labour Principles 1, 2 and 5 Profile Disclosure 3.8 – Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between HR7 – Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Actions Taken to Implement organizations and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Principles 1, 2 and 4 Profile Disclosure 3.10 – Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subjected to human rights Actions Taken to Implement Principles Profile Disclosure 3.11 – Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or reviews and/or impact assessments. 1, 2, 4 and 5. measurement methods applied in the report Marshalls has endeavoured to ensure that all images contained within this publication adhere to its CRBP Universal Marketing & Advertising Policy and Code of Conduct. 89 / United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress For more information on Marshalls, visit www.marshalls.co.uk/sustainability Landscape House, Premier Way, Lowfields Business Park, DMD_38230 Elland HX5 9HT Tel: 01422 312000 www.marshalls.co.uk ©COPYRIGHT MARSHALLS APRIL 2017
