Corporate Responsibility Report Gazit-Globe 2015 2016 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option Opening 3 4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe A Message from Our Index President A Message from Our President 3 Dear Stakeholder, About this Report 5 We are proud to present Gazit-Globe’s Corporate Responsibility report for the years 2015-2016. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 11 For many years, Gazit-Globe has aimed to establish, maintain and expand its position as a responsible corporate citizen in all of the regions and communities in which our Section 2 Economic Performance 28 businesses operate. We are very proud that our commitment to corporate responsibility and sustainability has been integrated into our platform and culture. Section 3 Environmental Performance 36 Gazit-Globe feels a heightened sense of responsibility to improve the individual and collective experiences of all Section 4 Social Performance 70 our customers, tenants and team members by upholding the highest social and environmental standards. This policy manifests itself in our many efforts to embrace the most GRI content index 90 exacting models of environmental performance through initiatives such as building or renovating our shopping centers by applying Leadership in Energy and Designs (LEED) protocols, and aligning our group operations with up-to-date energy conservation and consumption standards and methods. In Canada, through First Capital Realty (TSX: FCR), a public entity in which we have a material interest, and in the Nordic countries, through Citycon (HEL: CTY1S), our publicly-traded subsidiary, we were pioneers in building properties according to LEED standards. Furthermore, Gazit-Globe strives to rigorously implement robust corporate governance standards successes thus far, and are also committed to transparent that advocate a relentless commitment to complete reporting in the future. This report further demonstrates our transparency, as well as a stringent code of conduct that acceptance of accountability for the social, environmental mandates the highest ethical standards in the conduct of and economic impact of our operations and our commitment our businesses. We continually monitor the conduct of our to the highest standards of corporate governance, businesses, managers and staff so as to ensure that our transparency and business ethics. goals are accomplished without compromising our ethical standards. I’m very proud of our Company’s achievements over the past few years and the path we have charted for our future. Gazit-Globe aims to continue applying its policies of social responsibility so as to foster higher standards of living Dori Segal and enhance the quality of life in the communities in which CEO we are active. We are motivated by a sincere desire to aspire to model corporate citizenship in the global community of which we form an inseparable part, while always mindful of the obligation to diligently and relentlessly pursue growth and profitability for our stakeholders. Taken as a whole, we view the Corporate Responsibility reporting process as an important element that keeps us focused on our goals and enables us to measure our steady progress in these vital areas. We are proud to detail our About this Report 5 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe About this Report This report mainly includes material information relating to Gazit-Globe, and whenever relevant, we also This report covers Gazit-Globe’s Corporate included information from our privately and publicly held Responsibility activities during 2015-2016 and follows our subsidiaries around the world. Our subsidiaries’ operations three previous reports for the years 2013-2014, 2011-2012 reflect our values and our commitment to promote and and 2009-2010. We publish our Corporate Responsibility implement Corporate Responsibility throughout our reports on a bi-annual basis. This report also includes Group. All data compiled by our subsidiaries regarding information related to activities following the reporting economic, environmental, human resources and other period, which is noted accordingly. metrics was formulated in accordance with Best Practices. The subsidiaries mentioned in this report includes: our In this report, we describe our business approach, our privately held subsidiaries Gazit Globe Israel (Development) operations and how they affect the communities, which Ltd. and Gazit Globe Brazil as well as our publicly traded we serve and operate in, the environment, our employees subsidiaries, Atrium European Real Estate, Citycon in and other stakeholders, as well the economy, in general. Northern Europe, Equity One in the U.S. and First Capital This report is an important tool in our continuing efforts Realty in Canada. During the reporting period these holdings to communicate with our stakeholders, and it reflects our were fully consolidated in our financial reports. policy of maintaining a high level of transparency. Selected data from the following reports of our publicity The report reflects our commitment to progress in traded subsidiaries were included in this report. The data achieving sustainable growth, as well as our long-term was taken from the reports and was not verified by Gazit approach to investment and operations. Gazit-Globe strives Globe. These publicly traded companies represent Gazitfor economic efficiency, social fairness and environmental Globe’s major holdings in which we conduct a material sustainability in all its endeavors. portion of our activities: We stand by our values to do what is right for the • Equity One Inc.: 2015 Corporate Responsibility and environment, our communities, and our people. Sustainability Report In describing our relationship with various stakeholder • First Capital Realty Inc.: 2015 Corporate and Sustainability groups, this report sheds light on who is impacted directly (CRS) Report or indirectly by our business activities, and with whom we have day-to-day interaction or a mutual dialogue, or wish to • Citycon Corporation: 2015 Annual and Sustainability Report engage in one. • Citycon Corporation: 2016 Annual and Sustainability Report We have established a Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee that comprises management and • Atrium: 2016 Sustainability Report external advisors. This committee helped us determine the appropriate content, scope and structure of this report, and in general assists us in engaging in Corporate Responsibility best practices. All information contained in this report was prepared by qualified professionals, and all calculations have been based on widely-accepted standards. We have noted when specific calculation models have been used. In producing this document, we have utilized the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (“GRI Standards”) reporting standard, a widely-accepted and inclusive reporting framework that has also been adopted by our subsidiaries, to promote transparency and adherence to internationally accepted standards. We also highlight our participation and leadership in other initiatives that promote Corporate Responsibility around the globe. No significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic boundaries took place. No restatement was made regarding information given in previous report. Our approach to sustainability focuses on integrating management responsibilities across our Group to address sustainability's environmental, social, and governance factors. Opening 7 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Contact point for questions regarding the report: In our view, Corporate Responsibility is about achieving economic success while acting for the good of society and Zion Regev, Corporate Responsibility Manager, the environment. To reach this ideal, we have formulated zregev@gazitgroup.com ethical standards and Corporate Responsibility policies according to which we evaluate our actions, and comply with both the letter and the spirit of relevant laws and international About Corporate Citizenship and Sustainability norms. Gazit-Globe strives to rigorously implement robust corporate governance standards that advocate a relentless Gazit-Globe has for some years endeavored to establish, commitment to complete transparency, as well as a stringent maintain and expand its position as a responsible corporate code of conduct that mandates the highest ethical standards citizen in all of the regions and communities in which our in the conduct of our businesses. We continually monitor the businesses operate. Gazit-Globe is dedicated to minimizing conduct of our businesses, managers and employees so as to the environmental impact of its activities, with particular ensure our goals are accomplished without compromising our emphasis on sustainability. ethical standards Gazit-Globe feels a heightened sense of responsibility to In the environmental field we have expanded our improve the individual and collective experiences of all our adoption of green building practices and increasingly customers, tenants and employees by upholding the highest conform our development and redevelopment activities social and environmental standards in these vital common to LEED® (Leadership in Energy and Design) certification spaces. standards. We also continue to align our group operations with up-to-date energy conservation and consumption We have therefore committed ourselves to becoming standards or methods and increasingly focus on the the best and most responsible corporate citizens that we utilization of alternative energy sources to operate our can be, whether measured in terms of corporate, social or properties. We are committed to protecting the environment, environmental standards. health, and safety of our employees, customers and the global communities where we operate and strives for In order to be in line with the GRI standards we identified continuous improvement in our environmental, health and material topics that will be included in the report content: safety management systems and in the environmental quality of our properties. Economic • Economic Performance In the social field, our Corporate Responsibility activities • Economic Impact are focused inward as well. Our employees are our most The Corporate Responsibility policies and ethical • Anti-corruption important asset, and one of the basic fundamentals of standards that we have put in place over the past several • Anti-competitive Behavior our Code of Business Conduct is to treat them fairly. years aid us in evaluating our day to day activities and Their satisfaction with their jobs, employment terms, work complying with the increasingly stringent laws and Environmental conditions and the balance between their work and personal regulations of our industry. • Energy lives is very important to us. That is why we are dedicated • Water to providing them with competitive pay and benefits, solid Increasingly, our strategies and management practices, • Emissions training, educational growth and opportunities for career as well as how we work in the field, are guided and shaped • Effluents and Waste advancement worldwide. We also regard the health and by the principles of the UN’s Global Compact initiative which • Environmental Compliance safety of our employees, tenants and customers with the we adopted several years ago. Global Compact is a strategic utmost importance and take measures to ensure conformity policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning Social with industry standards. their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted • Employment principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment • Training and Education Above and beyond our business activities, we believe and anti-corruption. We are committed to this initiative and • Diversity and Equal Opportunity that it is a fundamental duty to contribute to the community. are proud of our behavior as a result of our alignment with • Non-discrimination During the past several years, we have steadily expanded the Global Compact’s principles. • Child, Forced or Compulsory Labor our support for numerous educational and social initiatives. • Local Communities • Customer Health and Safety Gazit-Globe aims to continue applying its policies of social responsibility so as to foster higher standards of living and enhance the quality of life in the communities in which we are active. We are motivated by a sincere desire to aspire to model corporate citizenship in the global community of which we form an inseparable part, while forever mindful of the obligation to diligently and relentlessly pursue growth and profitability for our stakeholders. Extra Itaim, Itaim, Sau Paulo, Brasil 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Section 1 About Gazit-Globe Introduction growth potential, identifying properties redevelopment As of December 31, and opportunities with 2016, with 426 properties cash flow growth and value in over 20 countries, Gazitappreciation. Globe is one of the largest owners and operators of In addition, as part of supermarket-anchored its strategy, the Company shopping centers in examines alternatives to the world. We own and increase the private real operate assets valued estate component of its at approximately US$21 activity (operations that billion, representing a are not owned through gross leasable area of public companies), which, approximately 6.6 million in the opinion of Company Section 1 square meters and a management, is expected to Our Vision gross annualized income grow the cash flows received About Gazit-Globe of approximately US$1.8 directly by the Company billion. We engage in the through improving the acquisition, development Company’s costs structure The following principles define our vision for the Company: and management of and its revenues. quality income-producing Global presence and market dominance: supermarket-anchored Gazit-Globe shares are With the goal of continually strengthening our position as shopping centers in growing, listed on the New York Stock a leading multinational real estate company, we strive to high-density urban markets Exchange (NYSE: GZT), the increase our market presence, both in the regions in which we in North America, Europe, Toronto Stock Exchange are already active and in new regions. Israel and Brazil. There are (TSX: GZT) and the Tel Aviv no products or services we Stock Exchange (TASE: Creating value for shareholders: provide, that are banned in GZT). In addition, the shares We seek to maximize shareholder value over time by growing certain markets. The Group of our public subsidiaries and enhancing our global real estate platform, our cash flow had 1146 employees as of 31, are traded on a variety of and our dividends. December 2016. international exchanges, including the New York The small details in the big picture: The Group’s strategy, Stock Exchange, the Toronto As a key to maximizing our growth, we insist upon excellence as undertaken over the Stock Exchange, the Helsinki in all our operations and maintain high quality standards. years, is to focus on growing Stock Exchange, Euronext In practice, this takes the form of an intensive focus on the its cash flow through the Amsterdam and the Vienna countless small details that comprise our strategies and proactive management of Stock Exchange. ongoing work plans. its properties. Moreover, the Group focuses on top-tier Enhance corporate responsibility: necessity-driven properties We embrace corporate responsibility, in its broadest sense, in leading ,urban markets, as a guide and framework for our worldwide activities. For which the Group’s assesses us, Corporate Responsibility includes the mandate to be will provide long-term socially aware, to contribute to and aid the communities in growth opportunities. At which we operate, to adopt ethical and transparent codes of the same time the Group conduct and do the utmost to conserve the world’s natural is working on selling nonresources. Gazit-Globe is committed to leading processes core properties that in the that reflect its beliefs, and aims to set an example of good Group’s opinion, have limited corporate citizenship. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 13 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Global Presence Organization Chart (As of December 31, 2016): Gazit Globe • Canada * First Capital Reality (FCR) • USA * Equity One (EQY) • Brazil * Gazit Brazil A Global Real • Europe • India • Germany • Brazil * Citycon (CTY) • Romania • Poland • Hungary Estate Platform * Atrium European Real Estate (ATR) • USA • Norway • Bulgaria * Gazit Germany • Canada • Russia • Denemark • Israel • Finland • Israel • Macadonia * Gazit Globe Israel There were some changes to the • Sweden • Czech Repoblic • Turkey * Gazit Development organization’s, structure, please see below. • Estonia • Slovakia Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 15 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Subsidiaries Code of Business Conduct An Administrative Enforcement Officer responsible for the implementation of the Company’s enforcement program We believe that conducting our business ethically is a deals with routine compliance affairs and has overall fundamental value, and we work diligently to instill this value responsibility for the following: United States Europe Israel in all of our employees. The attitudes, values and behavior of our managers and employees impact not only our tenants, • Resolving concerns raised by employees or others in Equity One (“EQY”), is a Citycon ( CTY”) is a Gazit-Globe’s suppliers and the consumers who shop in our malls, but also matters described in the Code; publicly traded company that publicly-traded company headquarters are located in their fellow employees. owns, develops and operates that owns, develops and Israel. • Reviewing the Code in reference to developments in the law; shopping centers located operates shopping centers Our Code of Business Conduct (“Code”) outlines the in strategic metropolitan and commercial properties Gazit-Globe Israel Company’s duties and attitudes towards our stakeholders • Providing guidance on the meaning and implementation of areas across the US. These primarily anchored by Development is a privatelyand includes moral principles, such as avoiding conflict of the Code; properties are anchored G city, Rishon LeZion, Israel supermarkets. Citycon is held company that is active in interests, conducting business fairly and creating a decent by leading supermarkets, the market leader in Finland, the acquisition, development work environment. This document serves as a reference for • Reporting periodically to management on the pharmacies and retail store is also active in Sweden and management of shopping our employees regarding decisions made in the course of implementation and effectiveness of the Code and other chains. and Norway, and has a centers in Israel. everyday business behavior, especially in the case of ethical compliance matters. firm foothold in the Baltic dilemmas. In 2017, Gazit-Globe countries and Denmark. Under the Code, employees may submit a report announced the completion of As of December 31, 2016, anonymously regarding a violation and/or a concern the merger between Equity Gazit-Globe holds 43.9% of regarding a violation (including an expected violation) of a law. One and Regency Centers Citycon’s share capital. The Code states that the Company undertakes, subject to Corporation (“REG”) whereby the provisions of any law and to the extent possible, to treat Equity One merged with and Atrium European the information reported as confidential information and to into Regency, with Regency Real Estate (“ATR”) is a maintain the confidentiality of the “whistle-blower’s” identity. continuing as the surviving publicly-traded company public company. As of March that specializes in the The Code applies to all employees of Gazit-Globe Ltd. 31, 2017, Gazit-Globe holds acquisition, development G Kfar Saba, Kfar Saba, Israel as well as to the employees of its private subsidiaries. 11.5% of the share capital and management of and voting rights in Regency shopping centers in Central Centers Corporation. and Eastern Europe, with a focus on Poland. As of Also is 2017, Gazit-Globe December 31, 2016, Gazitannounced the formation Canada Globe holds 59.5% of Atrium Brazil of a new private subsidiary European Real Estate’s company, Gazit Horizons, First Capital Realty share capital. Gazit Brazil, a whollyInc., to invest in income (“FCR”), a publicly-traded owned subsidiary of Gazitproducing real estate company, is Canada’s Gazit Germany is Globe, is active in the throughout the United States. leading owner, developer a privately-held company acquisition, development and and operator of supermarket that is active in the shopping management of shopping and drugstore-anchored center sector in Germany. centers in Brazil, primarily in neighborhood and São Paulo. community shopping centers located predominantly in growing and metropolitan areas. In 2017, Gazit Globe announced a sale of First Capital Realty shares which reduced the company’s holding in FCR to approximately 32.7% of the outstanding shares and voting rights of FCR (vs. Yorkville Village, Toronto, Canada 36.4% as of December 31, Promenada, Warsaw, Poland Top Center, Av. Paulista, Sau Paulo, Brazil 2016). As a result, GazitGlobe will deconsolidate FCR from its financial statements. Arkady Pankrac, Prague, Czech Republic Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 17 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Corporate Governance We are committed to sound principles of corporate governance. Our Board of Directors (see below) is responsible Global Maala LEED® for outlining the policy of the Company overseeing and monitoring the performance of our senior management team, Compact Building the body, which is charged with the day-to-day conduct of Our values are also our business. The fundamental responsibility of the Board is Standard expressed and refined to exercise business judgment on matters of strategic and Our strategies and through our association critical significance to the Company in furtherance of the best management practices, as with Maala, an Israeli noninterests of the Company and its shareholders. well as, how we work in the profit organization that Several of our field, are guided and shaped assists Israeli companies subsidiaries conform their The Company also complies with rules NYSE and TSX on by the principles of the UN’s in developing and building activities to LEED® which markets the Company’s shares are traded. Global Compact initiative, implementing Corporate (Leadership in Energy and which we adopted in 2009. Responsibility strategies and Design), the internationally As of December 31, 2016, our Board is comprised of that helps them integrate recognized green building eight members, one of them was appointed in 2016. Three Global Compact is a social, environmental and certification system. of the board members are considered to be external strategic policy initiative for ethical values into their according to the Israeli Companies Law (two males and one Board of Directors businesses developed by business strategies. A LEED® certification female), and five are considered to be independent of the the UN that are committed to demonstrates that Company according to the Israeli Companies Law (three • Chaim Katzman, Chairman aligning their operations and As part of its program, a construction project is males and two females). Mr. Chaim Katzman is the founder, controlling shareholder strategies with 10 universally Maala ranks its member eco-friendly. and Chairman of Gazit-Globe and Norstar Holdings, the accepted principles in the corporations according to Board members and all directors are appointed annually parent company of Gazit-Globe, and the Chairman of Equity areas of human rights, their performance using at the Annual General Meeting; after which they are eligible for One (Until March 2017), Atrium European Real Estate and labor, environment and a variety of Corporate re-election with the exception of external directors appointed Citycon. anti-corruption. We are Responsibility criteria. Gazitonce every three years and whose terms of are determined committed to this initiative Globe was awarded Maala’s according to Israel’s Companies Law. The criteria, which • Dori Segal, Vice Chairman, CEO and have incorporated the Platinum ranking for the past qualify candidates for the Board include, among other things, Dori Segal is Vice Chairman and CEO of Gazit-Globe, Global Compact’s principles eight years (from 2009-2016), business knowledge; expertise; integrity; experience related assuming the role of CEO in January 2017. From 2000 to 2015, as part of our business and received a Platinum Plus to the Company’s core business activities; proven leadership Mr. Segal served as the president and CEO of First Capital practices. Our former ranking for 2016. qualities; and proven ability to exercise sound judgment. Realty and currently serves as its Chairman. Mr. Segal also Corporate Responsibility served as CEO of Gazit Globe from 1998 to 2008. reports, for the years Our Corporate Responsibility The Board currently has five standing committees: Audit, 2009-2010, 2011-2012 and activities have earned us Financial Statement Review and Compensation Committee, • Yair Orgler, External Director 2013-2014 included our additional recognition, as Corporate Responsibility Committee, Nominating and Mr. Orgler was Chairman of the Board of the Tel Aviv Stock adaptation of the principles follows: Corporate Governance Committee and Investment Exchange until 2006, and a Director of Bank Hapoalim until of the United Nation’s Global Committee. 2010. Compact initiative and • The European Public incorporated them as part of Real Estate Association The Corporate Responsibility Committee is responsible • Haim Ben Dor, Director our business practices. (EPRA) cited our Citycon for supervising Corporate Responsibility activities of the Mr. Ben Dor is a corporate consultant in the field of finance subsidiary’s Corporate Company, ethical matters, fair employment issues, our and investments Responsibility Report as relationship with our suppliers, social investment in the one of the best in the real communities in which we operate, environmental matters and • Ronnie Bar-On, External Director estate sector for 2013 and other important Corporate Responsibility issues that may Mr. Bar-On served in a variety of governmental positions in 2014. Citycon has been affect our performance, business activities and reputation. Israel from 2003 to 2013 including Minister of Finance. awarded EPRA’s gold award in the Financial Best In addition to approving strategic CR policies and • Zehavit Cohen Practices series for five activities of the CR Committee, the Board takes an active Zehavit Cohen is a managing partner and the Office Head of consecutive years, as well as interest in CR matters, including social investment, and is Apax Partners Israel Ltd. sustainability awards (goldregularly updated about executive management decisions level) by EPRA and a ‘Green related to CR. • Douglas Sesler, Director Star’ in the GRESB survey. Mr. Sesler is a private real estate investor. Shareholders, employees and other interested parties are invited to contact Board members directly. Written • Noga Knaz, External Director communications to Board members may be forwarded to Ms. Knaz is the Vice Chairperson of the Board of Directors of Gazit-Globe’s headquarters. Rosario Capital Ltd. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 19 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Executive Management Board of Directors Our executive management is responsible for the Our Board of Directors writes Company policy and ongoing management of the Company according to the supervises its performance, business functions and Company’s vision and goals, and for executing the strategic operations. During 2015, the Board held 28 meetings, the plans and policies established by our Board of Directors. Audit Committee conducted 10 meetings, the Remuneration Committee conducted 8 meetings, the Investment Committee Our executives cooperate with the management of held 3 meetings, the Nomination Committee and the Corporate our privately held subsidiaries and support them in their Governance Committee met once. In 2016, the Board met 29 activities. The management of Gazit-Globe’s publiclytimes, the Audit Committee met 9 times, the Remuneration held subsidiaries is carried out by their independent Shareholders, including Institutional Investors Committee conducted 10 meetings, the Nomination management teams. Gazit-Globe is involved in the activities Committee held 3 meetings, the Investment Committee and of these public companies through representation on their Shareholders in the Company participate in the the Corporate Governance Committee met once. respective boards. In general, our management team strives management of our organization through their votes at to maximize knowledge share, capabilities and synergies shareholder meetings. Our Board of Directors governs our Company by between all the members of the Gazit-Globe Group. establishing broad policies and objectives; selecting, A shareholder holding 1% or more of the Company’s appointing, supporting and reviewing the performance of our The members of our Executive Management include the voting rights is entitled to suggest a topic for inclusion on executive team; ensuring the availability of adequate financial following individuals: the agenda of our next General Meeting. Any shareholder resources; approving annual budgets; setting the salaries and holding 5% or more of the Company’s outstanding equity compensation of Company management; and accounting to • Dori Segal, CEO and 1% or more voting rights, or any shareholder holding our stakeholders for our Company’s performance. In addition • Adi Jemini, Deputy CEO & CFO 5% or more of the voting rights of the Company, can call for to ensuring the Company’s prosperity by collectively directing • Rami Vaisenberger, Vice President and Controller a Special Meeting of Shareholders. the Company’s affairs and meeting the appropriate interests • Revital Cahalon, Legal Counselor and Company Secretary of our shareholders and stakeholders, our Board deals with • Dina Yogev, Controller We communicate with our shareholders through challenges and issues relating to Corporate Responsibility. • Itzhak Naftalin, Internal Auditor our Annual Meetings of Shareholders where decisions are taken by our shareholders through a voting process • Zion Regev, Corporate Responsibility Manager that is mandated by the law. As a corporation registered under the laws of the State of Israel, we comply with the Israel Companies Law, as amended, which states that the following corporate issues must be discussed and approved at a general meeting of shareholders: Stakeholders • company regulations and jurisdiction of the Board appointment In identifying our stakeholders and parties who are • termination and work terms of the auditing accountant impacted directly or indirectly by our business activities, • appointment of external directors we used the following parameters: groups with whom the • approval of transactions with interested parties Company has day-to-day interaction, and groups with whom • increase of registered capital stock the Company holds a mutual dialogue, or wishes to engage • merger activities in one. We also communicate with our shareholders through our Our ‘internal’ stakeholders include our shareholders, website, as well as through our annual, quarterly and other Board of Directors, subsidiaries and employees. Our periodic financial reports and immediate reports. ‘external’ stakeholders are our customers, including tenants and consumers, as well as regulatory authorities, our We also hold quarterly conference calls in both Hebrew suppliers, the media, financial analysts, the community and and English during which our CEO and CFO review financial the environment. and other events of the preceding financial reporting period Compensation of Senior Employees and allow for questions from participants on the call. A press Our Corporate Responsibility Reports serve as an conference is also held following the publication of our annual In November 2016, the Company's general meeting important mechanism for informing our stakeholders of financial results every year in March. In addition, we conduct approved, after receiving the approval of the Company’s our Corporate Responsibility activities. Together with other investor days to provide information to institutional investors. Board of Directors and its Compensation Committee, the materials, they are meant to cultivate a transparent dialogue adoption of a compensation policy for the officers of the with our stakeholders. Our contact information (telephone numbers and email Company. For details regarding the policy, please see addresses) is published on our website, as well as on all of the Regulation 21 in Chapter D of Gazit-Globe’s Periodic Report The following section further defines our stakeholder written materials that we disseminate to our shareholders and for 2016. groups and the methods by which we interact with them. to the exchanges in which our securities are traded. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 21 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Subsidiaries Gazit-Globe is a major shareholder in four publiclyheld companies. Gazit-Globe also controls a number of privately-held companies throughout the world. For further information, see Financial Statements for the 2016 and visit our web-site: http://www.gazit-globe.com/. Through our intensive interaction with our privately held subsidiaries, we help guide their management teams with their strategic direction. We also sit on the Boards of Directors of our publicly held companies thereby contributing to their management. We organize an annual management conference attended by all of our subsidiaries which is hosted by a different subsidiary each year. These gatherings include brainstorming and interaction. In addition, we hold regular conference calls with the management of our subsidiaries to discuss ongoing business issues and activities. Employees As of December 31, 2016 we have 31 employees working at Gazit Globe. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender: Men 61% 19 Women 39% 12 31 All employees of Gazit Globe are employed in Israel and as full time employees (100%). Among the activities we engage in to interact with our hours and enabling them to work from home. We also host employees are the following: events for employees and their families, including family vacations and holiday gatherings. In addition, we encourage • We conduct employee satisfaction surveys to obtain employees to continue their academic studies by adjusting Age Women Men Total feedback on management performance, employees’ their employment conditions to allow for study periods and 20-30 3 3% 6% 10% overall satisfaction and the Company’s volunteer activities. unpaid leave. We maintain an “Open Door” policy thereby The results of the surveys are distributed to employees and encouraging our employees to communicate with our 30-40 15 32% 16% 48% serve as a basis for discussions at meetings attended by management. 40-50 9 13% 16% 29% employees and management. • Our employees attend a bi-annual training sessions 50+ 4 6% 6% 13% • We engage in annual performance reviews of employees, related to ethics and sexual harassment designed to allow which are attended by each employee’s manager and for dialogue between management and employees. 31 the CEO. We maintain a Work–Life Balance policy to help employees achieve a balance between their work and their There are no labor unions or collective barging agreements personal lives. When possible, we make an effort to meet at Gazit-Globe. the needs of our employees by providing flexible work Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 23 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Customers: Tenants and Consumers Stakeholder questionnaire about their Corporate Responsibility activities. During 2016 and 2015, we obtained confirmation from our Our customers include not only end-user consumers top ten suppliers that they reviewed our Code of Business who shop for products and services in our shopping centers Conduct and that they agree to follow the Code’s guidelines or visit our properties, but also our tenants who rent space in the conduct of their businesses. in the shopping centers. We are concerned that our subcontractors conduct their business activities according to accepted norms and 1. Tenants regulations, especially with respect to employment. At our headquarters in Tel-Aviv, we conduct annual checks of our We interact with our tenants in several ways: negotiating sub-contractors’ pay slips to confirm that they pay salaries agreements with them, conducting satisfaction surveys and benefits to their employees as required by law. to obtain feedback, and holding tenant focus groups to ascertain their needs. The managers of our centers maintain contact with tenants to ensure harmonious business Regulatory Authorities dealings with them, and to respond to their concerns. Many of our subsidiary companies employ a ‘tenant relations We rely upon the approval of a broad range of manager’, whose duties include: governmental and municipal regulatory authorities to conduct our business. These include development authorities and • developing relationships with tenants and acting as a oneothers that are responsible for urban planning and zoning, as point source of contact; well as local building and planning committees that approve • facilitating meetings between tenants and our executives architectural, engineering and environmental protection to coordinate leasing, property and asset management plans. Many of these governmental bodies and authorities issues; also pass laws, regulations and directives, which directly • maintaining retailer information; affect how we conduct our businesses in their jurisdictions. • proactively assisting agents by providing them with leasing information. We interact with governmental authorities through the applications that we submit to them for approval, periodic reports that we file with them on our activities, and payments 2. Consumers that we make to them in the form of taxes and fees. These authorities include the following: Our leasing representatives attend trade shows and conferences throughout the year, some of which are held • Securities Authorities: We report financial and other in conjunction with local chambers of commerce, where information related to our business activities to the New York brokers and tenant representatives are invited to obtain Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) information about space available for lease in our shopping and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TASE), on which Gazitcenters. Our subsidiaries’ websites also provide information Globe’s shares are listed, as required by these exchanges’ for potential tenants, including contact information. rules. In addition, we and our subsidiaries maintain an ongoing dialogue with the security authorities of several jurisdictions as required of publicly traded companies. Suppliers • Tax authorities: We submit regular filings to Israeli and other tax authorities, as required by those authorities’ laws Contractors, appraisers, architects, engineers, and regulations. supervisors and suppliers of raw materials act as suppliers • Local authorities: We cooperate fully with local authorities to our Company. They provide us with the products and to obtain building licenses and to conduct our businesses services we need to develop our properties and maintain according to municipal building codes and other legislation. them. Our goal is to ensure that they provide for the needs of • Environmental authorities: We cooperate fully with federal our tenants and end-user customers. and local environmental agencies, and maintain continuous contact with environmental personnel to ensure compliance Attorneys, accountants, economists, marketing and with environmental standards maintained by them. advertising professionals, public relations managers, human resources compensation consultants, and research companies assist us to ensure that we conform to regulatory and other requirements. Our goal is to incorporate Corporate Responsibility criteria into our background checks of major potential suppliers in which we plan to engage in long-term relationships. We do this by requesting that they complete a Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 25 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Financial Analysts Many analysts representing different financial institutions follow the Company’s activities and progress. A list of analysts covering our Company and their contact information is available on Gazit-Globe’s website. We communicate with analysts on a regular basis. We conduct an investor day to provide information to financial analysts and institutional investors. In addition, management makes itself generally available to analysts to answer their queries about the Company. Media The economic press and media organizations throughout the world review our business activities and financial results Environment in their newspapers, magazines, television shows, web sites, news blogs and other media, thereby providing the general We continue to progress in our efforts to incorporate public with objective information on our Company. green building practices into our development program. Green construction, or sustainable building, refers to an As part of our ongoing efforts to increase transparency environmentally responsible and resource-efficient progress and enable stakeholders to make informed decisions, throughout a building’s life-cycle: from ‘siting’ to design, we issue press releases for broad media distribution that construction, operation, maintenance, renovation and contain information regarding material developments or demolition. Green buildings are designed to reduce the overall financial results of the Company. An archive of these press impact of the built environment on human health and the releases can be found on the Company’s website. In addition, natural environment, they do so by efficiently using energy, our management is regularly requested by traditional and water, and other resources, protecting occupant health, online media, to comment on various issues relating to our improving employee productivity and reducing pollution. Company and the commercial real estate industry. We comply with rules and regulations mandated by Israel’s Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as Community the environmental ministries of other countries in which we conduct our business activities. We interact with nonOur shopping centers play a significant role in hundreds of governmental organizations (“NGO’s”) that are active in communities around the world. As a result, these communities protecting the environment, and hire consultants to assist us are also stakeholders in our business. In addition to serving in assessing the environmental impact of our activities. They as shopping destinations, our centers provide community advise us in the use of green construction methods and in services, entertainment and to places to socialize. reducing our environmental impact. This benefits not only us, but our tenants, who reduce their electricity and water costs. We also influence the communities in which we operate through our philanthropic activities directed to a variety of organizations and social projects that educate, aid the poor, distribute food, support underprivileged children and youth, and others. Our employees are also encouraged to volunteer their time to non-profit organizations and volunteer programs. We conduct surveys of the populations of the communities in which we operate in order to assess their shopping habits and to obtain feedback on their particular needs. This enables us to create a proper mix of goods and services for each shopping center that we operate. Our contributions to the community are determined by an internal charitable activities group that is comprised of members of our management. This group establishes our corporate giving goals and identifies target areas in which we will focus our charitable activities. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 27 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Membership in Associations Gazit-Globe and its subsidiaries maintain memberships in the following industry and other organizations: EPRA GRI Israel America European Public Real Global Reportin Initative Chamber Of Commerce Estate Assosiation Israel Canada REALpac BOMA Chamber Of Commerce Real Property Building Owners And Assosiation Of Canada Building Council Of Canada Canada Green Building EPRA NAREIT Council Corporate Real Estate The National Association of Real Women Estate Investment Trusts Risk Management Risk Management includes our ability to identify, assess We are working systematically and consistently to and treat deliberate, systematic and consistent risks that strengthen our corporate governance as well as our risk threaten our achievement of goals and objectives, as well management. as the ability to analyze events, draw conclusions and take actions to reduce damage and prevent future recurrences. We engage in risk mapping, and it specifies specific activities for managing the material risks inherent in our operations and in corporate control, including financial risk management. In addition, we implement internal audits and control activities, and comply with Israel’s ‘Goshen‘ ISOX Committee requirements, as well as Sarbanes Oxley laws in the US. 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Section 2 Economic Performance Introduction Direct Economic Value With hundreds of Our primary objective is to create value through longshopping centers visited term maximization of cash flow and capital appreciation, by millions of consumers, and to increase our dividends over time. We do this through our business affects not a differentiating focus on a recession-resilient, necessity only our stakeholders, but driven asset class, which has demonstrated an ability to communities worldwide. generate strong and sustainable cash flow through different economic cycles. As a global real estate company managing and The business model that we have developed and operating income-producing implemented over the years, whereby we own and operate properties around the our properties through our publicly traded and privately world, our operations have held subsidiaries, has driven this substantial and consistent both a strong direct and growth. We leverage our expertise to grow and improve the Section 2 indirect economic impact on the communities in which we operations of our subsidiaries, maximize our profitability, mitigate our risk and create value for shareholders. Economic Performance operate. We act as a spur to the creation and growth of 2015 2016 businesses, commercial activity and jobs. We promote substantial economic revenue 4809 4801 growth by leasing space to tenants who employ tens of thousands of people in their operating costs 1613 1607 supermarkets, drug stores, clothing chains, specialty employee wages shops, cafes and restaurants, 288 301 and benefits banks and service centers. Our development and payments to 328 295 redevelopment activities also providers of capital have an economic impact by creating work opportunities payments to 55 90 for the construction industry. government Our economic impact also community extends to our contributions 11 9.5 investments to various non-profit organizations to support their Economic value activities in the community. 620 787 retained *All data in NIS (million) Please refer to our website for all financial disclosures, including our 2016 Annual Report gazitglobe.com/financial-reports. Section 2 Economic Performance 31 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Atrium Atrium's strategy revolves around sustainable revenue growth and continuous operational improvement. KPIs set by the Company, such as the operating margin (over 96%) and dividend growth (23% in 2010-16), reflect this approach. The Company maintains its investment grade credit rating (BBB-/ stable) and low leverage (29% net LTV). Spotlight: Citycon 2015/2016 Financial Human Portfolio development EUR billion 318 employees EUR million 4.7 total assets 1520 acquisitions Ear million 0.9 employee EUR million development training and 148 divestments and sq./m 2,037 interests bearing work-life balance 76,000 under construction debt, fair value or (re) development Input Resources Shopping Centre Outcome EUR million EUR million 53 shopping centers 1,719 capex 74 purchased services and products: EUR billion 89 dividend and 4.7 portfolio value equity return • 35 in Finland • 16 in Norway million sq.. 1.3 GLA and 58 paid financial net • 15 in Sweden EUR million 258 gross expenses and exchange • 8 in Estonia and Denmark rental income rate gains/losses 22 wages and benefits 100% of shopping 8 paid property and centers linked to public income taxes 0.8% absentee rate transportation Our operations have We offer employment in We are an active owner a financial impact on several a work community that and long-term developer stakeholders supports work-life balance of urban multifunctional and career development shopping centers Section 2 Economic Performance 33 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Economic value generated and distributed Direct economic value generated 2015 2016 Payments to providers of capital 2015 2016 Revenues • Paid dividends and return from invested unrestricted equity -89.2 -131.4 • Finland 139 127.2 • Loan repayments and proceeds 3.9 133.5ֿ • Norway 60.5 115.1 • Paid and received financial expenses as well as raised -57.9 -54.3 • Sweden 60.4 57.3 exchange rate losses/gains • Baltics and Denmark 35.6 32.2 Gross rental income 223.9 251.4 Service charge income 71.7 80.3 Payments to government Revenues from sale of investment properties 126.8 109.9 Income taxes received/paidFinland -0.2 -0.8 • Finland -36 -3.7 Economic value distributed • Norway -0.7 -1.4 • Sweden -3.2 -2.5 Operating costs • Baltics and Denmark -0.4 -0.4 • Finland -35.2 -32.2 Property taxes -7.8 -8.1 • Norway -15.6 -26.6 • Sweden -14.8 -14.1ֿ • Baltics and Denmark -8.2 -6.8 • Headquarters 0 0.5 Purchase related to property operating costs -73.8 -79.2 • Finland -109 220.3 • Norway -1556.2 45.7 • Sweden -43.7 45.6 • Baltics and Denmark -8.4 1.8 • Headquarters -1.3 1.1 Investments -1718.6 314.5 Employee wages and salaries • Finland -2.7 -3.2 • Norway -9.5 -12 • Sweden -3.4 -3.7 • Baltics and Denmark -1 -1.2 • Headquarters -5.5 -6.1 Paid wages and salaries -22.1 -26.2 • Finland 0 0 • Norway -0.1 0 • Sweden 0 -0.1 • Baltics and Denmark 0 0 • Headquarters 0 -0.1 Funds used for employee training -0.2 -0.1 Section 2 Economic Performance 35 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Indirect Economic Influence Anti-Corruption Anti-Competitive Behavior Our hundreds of income producing properties throughout For a discussion of our Anti-Corruption policy, please The Group meets all statutory requirements and the world have a strong indirect economic influence. Our see our website: www.gazit-globe.com. The Anti-Corruption avoids any practices intended to subvert or eliminate tenants include supermarkets, drug stores, banks, appliance policy is included in our Code of Conducts. All Gazit-Globe competition and refrains from price-fixing contracts and price stores, apparel shops, and other shops and service providers. employees and management are aware of the Anti-Corruption discrimination. During the reporting period, the Company was They market and sell goods and services valued at hundreds policies and procedures. During the reporting period there not subject to any legal action for anti-competitive behavior, of millions of dollars a year, employ thousands of people and were no reported incidents of corruption. Gazit-Globe Antianti-trust, or monopoly practices. pay taxes to the local jurisdictions in which our centers are Corruption policy is in accordance with The Foreign Corrupt located. Practices Act (FCPA). To drive economic growth, we make our commercial centers easily accessible, convenient and a pleasant Spotlight: FCR environment in which to shop. In addition to leasing space to large department stores and supermarket anchors, we First Capital Realty has clearly defined its expectations also rent space to small and medium-sized businesses that of employees, officers and directors in its Code of Conduct Proportion of spending on benefit by being located adjacent to larger stores, which and Ethics, Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy, Ethics attract strong traffic. To best serve consumers, we also Reporting Policy, and Disclosure and Insider Trading local suppliers focus on creating a consumer friendly and safe environment, Policy. Employees, officers and directors are required to a diverse shopping experience, and easy accessibility for acknowledge having read these documents and agree to disadvantaged populations. We also strive to build and comply with these policies upon joining the organization. operate our commercial centers in an environmentally Employees, officers and directors are required to friendly way, by employing green construction methods As a good corporate citizen, we attempt to utilize the acknowledge these documents annually thereafter. Each and conservation methods in an effort to create additional resources and services provided by local suppliers. Local employee’s manager is responsible for ensuring that the economic and other benefits for the communities where we sourcing helps us to foster the relationship with the local employee completes this acknowledgement. The Vice operate. communities and by doing business with the local suppliers, President, Business Process and Risk Management tracks resources are re-circulated within the local operating and reports compliance with this directive, which was 99% Our indirect economic influence also extends to the taxes environment, which energizes the local economy and for 2015, to the EVP and CFO. During the reporting period we pay in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These taxes provides economic growth opportunities. Utilizing local there were no reported incidents of corruption, harassment help to finance government activity aimed at improving the suppliers is not only good for our business but also for our or discrimination. welfare of citizens in the countries in which we operate. communities, our stakeholders and even the planet. Spotlight: Citycon In line with its ethical business principles, Citycon is explicitly opposed to corruption and bribery. Apart from gifts of only token monetary value or reasonable hospitality, Spotlight: Citycon Citycon or persons acting on its behalf must not offer or accept any benefits, gifts or hospitality that could influence its ability to make objective and honest decisions. Similarly, it refrains from trying to affect objective and honest decision-making by a public authority, client, partner or any Purchases related to property maintenance totaled EUR 73.8 million (EUR 62.1 million). Of which 45% other party. There is a mandatory learning tool for the whole was spent in Finland, 21% in Norway, 20% in Sweden and 11% in Baltics and Denmark in 2015. personnel (can be found on Citycon website). No corruption, fraud or bribery cases were brought to Citycon’s attention in 2015 and in 2016. Services related to property maintenance always require the use of local employees. Energy was the largest cost included in maintenance costs. The Principal heating method is properties in district heating which is procured locally from each region's districts heating company. Spotlight: Equity One Equity One reviews its Code of Conduct each year. 100% of our employees receive and acknowledge receipt annually. Electricity is purchased on centralized basis in all countries. G-6, Yokneam Illit, Israel 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Section 3 Environmental Performance Section 3 Environmental Performance Kista Galleria, Stockholm, Sweden Introduction We believe that the reduction of emissions Delivering on our protecting the environment through the management environmental responsibilities and promoting sustainable and development of our builds a stronger foundation development is our shopping centers; improving on which to prosper and responsibility and it is the energy efficiency of defines our reputation as important from both an buildings, reducing energy a positive contributor to the environmental and a longconsumption and increasing communities in which we live term financial point of the use of renewable energy and work. view. We strive to carry sources in the properties’ out the activities that have energy production and an environmental impact, procurement. We recognize such as the construction that by integrating sound and maintenance of our environmental, health, commercial buildings in an and safety management environmentally responsible practices into all aspects of manner. our business, we can offer products and services while An integral part of our conserving and enhancing strategy for minimizing our resources for future environmental footprint is generations. Section 3 Environmental Performance 39 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Citycon Citycon are committed to sustainable development, and its ongoing target is to further increase the energy efficiency and environmental soundness of the shopping centers. In 2015 we Commit to sustainable development, with a continuous aim to further increase the energy efficiency and environmental performance of our shopping centers Invest in the energy efficiency of buildings and increase the use of renewable energy sources in the properties' energy production and procurement Ensure the environmental soundness of our buildings through internal property management practices as well as external benchmarks Spotlight: Atrium Ways to make an impact: In 2016 we In our places we provide safe and healthy spaces that • Cleaning We insist that our suppliers use high efficiency operate efficiently by stimulating innovation and optimum cleaning machines that use less water and unharmful Improve energy and carbon efficiency of our shopping centers design. products Our goals: • Security For security we stimulated the use of Segways Study, analyze and pilot on-site renewable energy production options such as gr thermal energy in larger shopping centers so teams are on location faster • Actively monitor and reduce energy and water consumption, and waste • Safety Guards must have medical training, and all Continue to promote green building and acquire high grade environmental certifications for • Certify every major new development and extension shopping centers are equipped with defibrillators major (re)developments • Provide safe and healthy spaces for customers and tenants • Reduce environmental footprint • Animals Protection If any animal is found within our centers, such as a bird, it needs to be removed by our Vast majority of existing buildings to have environmental certification In 2016 we: suppliers alive and unharmed Increase the share of recycled waste (recycling rate – 93%) • Performed data collection and target setting • Increased external transparency through our first sustainability report Reduced energy consumption by 6% and greenhouse gas emission by 27% (since 2014) • Obtained BREEAM certifications • Introduced Sustainable procurement policy in place Section 3 Environmental Performance 41 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Energy global energy supply. Although the use of non-renewable energy provides employment and generates economic value, • 2015-2016 Total Energy Consumption for Gazit-Globe's • 2015-2016 Total Gas Consumption for Gazit-Globe's it places burdens on the environment, such as the depletion Headquarters (kWh) Headquarters (kWh) of finite resources, loss of habitat and air pollution. Due to the nature of the provincial electric grids in Canada and the location of the Company’s shopping centers, 41% of the Company’s energy consumption was sourced from 2015 2016 2015 2016 renewable power, i.e., wind, solar or hydraulic generation. 417,666* all group 128,358* headquarters 105,163* all group 31,961* headquarters Spotlight: FCR Energy in the form of natural gas and electricity supplies heating, cooling and power to FCR’s properties. In 2015 Energy consumption from entire portfolio (eMWh) the Company established and distributed monthly energy property performance reports to Property Management team. Energy consumed in 2015: 153,290 MWh. 2014 2015 Energy is necessary to transform raw materials into Spotlight: Gazit Israel products and services to meet the needs of tenants and 165,000 150,000 consumers. Buildings consume approximately 30% of the The Company has completed construction of a new center in Yavne, which has been opened since September 2014. The Company has avoided of building a central air conditioning system, which is energy and water consuming. Instead, each store in a center has its own air condition system. Energy consumption by asset class (eMWh) Renewable Energy consumption Spotlight: Equity One 80,000 70,000 Our fixture-based lighting controls and LED conversions 60,000 60,000 continue to drive steady reductions in our overall energy usage. On like for like basis between 2014 and 2015, our San Pelegrino, San Pelegrino, Caxias do Sul, Brazil 59% 41% energy consumption was reduced by 4%. We will continue 25,000 these strategic initiatives to maximize our reductions going 20,000 forward and are excited to see the benefits we’ve achieved. Open air shopping Enclosed Office building centers shopping centers 2015 Electricity KWH 2014 2015 Weather corrected like-to-like portfolio energy 190,400 High Street-Tenant 1,249,661 Office parameter 2012 (base year) 2015 2015 versus 2012 change (%) 1,423,608 Retail Shopping Center Energy (ekWh) 128,731,559 114,675,189 -10.9% 20,370,786 Retail Warehouse Electricity (kWh) 91,313,235 81,856,964 -10.4% 1,254,400 High Street-Retail Natural gas m2 3,615,297 3,170,843 -12.3% 1,060,573 Health Care Water m3 1,192,623 1,174,694 -1.5% Section 3 Environmental Performance 43 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Total Energy Consumption MWH 2014 2015 2016 Electricity consumption in common areas 105,246 131,916 132,411 Tenants' Electricity purchased by landlord 72,922 85,546 80,609 Total electricity consumption 178,168 217,461 213,020 Electricity consumption in Citycon's offices 33 97 95 and business premises Non-renewable electricity 143,471 116,312 89,362 Renewable electricity 34,697 101,150 123,563 District heating 126,614 98,404 109,522 Weather corrected district heating 139,718 117,080 113,481 District cooling 6,694 5,888 7,773 Spotlight: Citycon Direct energy consumption In order to improve energy efficiency, Citycon has Energy consumption in common areas by 0.4% in 2016. • Total energy consumption from fuels 3,279 2,782 3,192 optimized the energy consumption of properties, invested In like-for-like shopping centers, electricity consumption • Total energy consumption in premises 314,754 324,536 333,506 in energy efficiency and improved the monitoring of decreased by 5% in 2015 and 3% in 2016. consumption. Energy consumption at Citycon’s properties is mostly indirect consumption, i.e., procured energy. Only 8 of Heating energy consumption decreased by 22% in 2015 Intensity indicators its shopping centers are equipped with a heating plant, and but increased by 11% in 2016 compared to the previous • Building energy intensity shopping centers 245 184 196 the fuel used by it is reported as direct energy consumption. year. Weather adjusted consumption, decreased by 16% in * kWh/sq.m 2015 and by 2% in 2016. In 2016 the total share of green electricity amounted to • Building energy intensity shopping centers 1.43 1.23 1.34 58% (47% in 2015). Only a few shopping centers are heated During 2016 carbon intensity was reduced by 18%. * kWh/visitor by fossil fuels and the fuel used is reported as direct energy consumption • Building energy intensity other retail properties 208 172 184 * kWh/sq.m • Baseline corrected building energy intensity 211 198 199 shopping centers * kWh/sq.m Energy intensity of shopping centers (baseline corrected, Heating and electricity charges (eur million) kWh/sq.m) 211 23.2 23.6 198 199 22.3 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Section 3 Environmental Performance 45 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Czech Absolute Poland Republic & Romania Russia Total Slovakia Energy 2015 90,899 30,317 31,121 2,026 34,552 80,103 consumption from electricity 2016 89,901 31,121 13,006 2,026 32,401 78,553 Electricity 2015 120,097 42,985 39,693 4,393 51,846 116,380 exclusively sub-metered to tenants 2016 118,576 39,693 16,925 5,510 51,711 113,839 2015 210,996 73,302 70,814 7,028 86,397 196,483 Total electricity consumption 2016 208,477 70,814 29,931 7,536 84,112 192,392 Spotlight: Atrium 139,919 141,770 2015 47,528 10,445 11,020 0 29,986 46,216 District heating and Our goal is to optimize energy intensity by 10% between -10% Target cooling 2016 and 2020, on a like-for-like basis. 2016 50,547 11,020 5,233 0 32,769 49,022 District 2015 15,181 2,500 3,313 0 2,754 14,751 Energy consumption heating and * m3 x 1000 cooling sub-metered 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2016 14,498 3,313 9,611 0 1,354 14,278 to tenants 2015 13,600 1,860 1,949 1,468 10,117 13,600 Energy consumption from fuels 2016 14,195 1,949 150 1,558 10,538 14,195 Czech Absolute Poland Republic & Romania Russia Total Slovakia Fuels 2015 6,918 434 439 255 5,659 6,918 exclusively Energy consumption 2015 369.2 323.1 422.6 154.6 483.0 387.0 sub-metered from electricity to tenants 2016 7,423 439 530 294 6,161 7,423 kWh/m2/year 2016 370.3 319.5 419.7 165.9 483.1 386.1 Total energy 2015 294,223 88,541 87,535 8,750 134,913 277,968 Energy consumption 2015 2.39 2.31 2.00 1.31 3.22 2.53 consumption from electricity from all kWh/visitor/year 2016 2.44 2.28 1.97 1.42 3.36 2.60 sources 2016 295,140 87,535 45,455 9,388 134,934 277,311 Section 3 Environmental Performance 47 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Energy Consumption In 2015, we executed cool roofing projects on 91% of Reduction the roof areas that were replaced across our portfolio. We continued our long-term strategy of seeking opportunities across the portfolios to use cool roofing materials in all We consume significant amounts of energy to light, roof replacement activities. We have also partnered with heat and cool our properties. As such, we are increasingly local utility companies to maximize our ability to recover all focused on the conservation of energy in all of our available rebates and incentives. The Gallery at Westbury Plaza operations, and on the utilization of alternative energy & Westbury Plaza Potrero sources where possible to operate our shopping centers and Shoping Center 91% other properties. This is an ongoing process which has not Serramonte yet been implemented fully throughout our operations. Center 55% Buckhead Station 44% Seridan Plaza & Shops Skylake South beach Baco Village Square 2013 2014 2015 Regional Future Site Existing Site Spotlight: Gazit-Globe Spotlight: FCR As part of our efforts to increase the energy efficiency As part of First Capital Realty’s 2013-2015 Sustainability and environmental soundness of the shopping centers, we Strategy, the Company made a commitment to reduce its have switched the lighting systems to LED based. At the 2015 energy consumption by 5% from a 2012 base year, Sinai Gate, the lighting system was changed to LED and weather-corrected, like-to-like portfolio. To increase the in our Yokneam Shopping Mall the parking lot’s lighting likelihood of success, the SVP, Operations linked this goal was also changed to LED. We aim to reduce energy to the property managers' bonus structure. The Company consumption by 5% every year. undertook recommissioning activities at 8 properties. By investing $1.4 million dollars in energy conservation measures with a simple pay back of 4.3 years, energy Spotlight: Equity One consumption at these properties was reduced by 8.3%; energy consumption decreased by 3.0 million ekWh resulting Efficient property operation is a key component of Equity in an annual cost avoidance of $312,000. One’s financial and environmental strategies. One goal that satisfies both strategic attributes at the asset level is the By implementing various energy conservation measures, reduction of energy consumption in the areas within our including recommissioning activities at these 8 properties, operational control. Our operational control is described as from 2013 to 2015, the Company not only achieved but the common areas of our shopping centers, which includes: The support of alternative transportation at our shopping surpassed its 2015 goal. Energy consumption in 2015 parking lot lighting, landscape lighting, property signage and centers is an important element of our environmental strategy. compared to the 2012 base year in the weather-corrected, exterior building lighting. like-to-like portfolio was reduced by 11% or by 14 million Electric car use in the US continues to rise at a steady ekWh resulting in an annual cost avoidance of $1.3 million Our main objective in our energy consumption strategy pace, and that growth will continue into the future. In order to dollars and enhancing the Company’s operational efficiency. is composed of controlling these light sources in off ensure that we meet the demand of our patrons, tenants, and hours and replacing inefficient light fixtures with the most employees who are using this new and efficient technology, efficient LED technology on the market. Since we began our we began installing electric car charging stations at our programs, we have replaced over 1,065 inefficient lighting shopping centers during the 2012 reporting period. fixtures with high-efficiency LED fixtures in our buildings. These replacements not only improve energy efficiency, We continue to follow a strategic approach with regard but also reduce repair and maintenance expenses, reduce to the installation of additional charging units throughout our liability exposure, and improve aesthetics for our tenants portfolio and look forward to furthering our commitment to and patrons. We will continue to systematically improve promote alternative transportation at our shopping centers. our lighting facilities across our portfolio and look for The map shown in this section highlights our existing sites opportunities for efficiency improvements. and sites that are in our pipeline for installation. Section 3 Environmental Performance 49 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Asset Class 2014 (eMWh) 2015 (eMWh) 2015 versus 2014 change % Open air shopping centers • Natural gas 18,170 14,130 -22% • Electricity 46,670 46,680 0 • Total asset class 64,840 60,810 -6% Enclosed shopping centers • Natural gas 30,910 25,000 -19% • Electricity 45,360 43,350 -4% • Total asset class 76,270 68,340 -10% Office buildings • Natural gas 11,450 10,010 -13% • Electricity 14,300 14,130 -1% • Total asset class 25,750 24,140 -6% Entire portfolio • Natural gas 60,530 49,140 -19% • Electricity 106,330 104,160 -2% • Total asset class 166,860 153,290 -8% Tzameret, Tel-Aviv, Israel Spotlight: Citycon Energy Efficient by 2020 Achievements 2015 Continuing Achievements 2015 Carrying out a Reduction of energy renewable energy consumption (kWh/ -0.06 Achieved feasibility study in (re) sq.m) by 10% development project Spotlight: Atrium Reduction of greenIn one of the shopping centers in Poland (Biala) we house gas emission -0.1 have changed the lighting in the underground car park. (kgCO2e/sq.m) by 20% Previously, the 1008 lights in the car park each used 58 Watt bulbs and were lit up 24 hours a day, which led to an energy usage of 512 MWh/year. During the recent renovations the team changed to 32 Watt lights. Now only 75% of the lights • In Jakobsberg Centrum in Sweden geothermal heating are used during operating hours and 5% at night. Energy was installed, and it is estimated that the solution will cover usage per year has been reduced by 27% to 145 MWh. approximately 97% of the heating and cooling needs • At Iso Omena in Finland solar panels are being installed. In 2016 12.4% of our shopping centers are certified Approximately 5% of property electricity will be solar with BREEAM. In the coming years, we expect BREEAM powered. certifications to be in place for all the extensions currently • 74% of the shopping centers are BREEAM IN-Use certified under development. (measured by fair value) Section 3 Environmental Performance 51 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Water Our properties use water to support cleaning activities, supply landscape irrigation and to provide sewage conveyance, as well as for consumption by our employees, tenants and their customers. In most cases, municipal water treatment plants provide our properties with potable water, and our wastewater is sent to municipal treatment plants. We recognize the vital importance of promoting the responsible use and conservation of water in all of our operations Shoping Cidade Jardim, Cidade Jardim, Sau Paulo, Brazil Spotlight: FCR The sustainability of provide sewage conveyance. Health and Shopping Centre fresh water supplies is an Municipal water treatment in Edmonton, Alberta. Water increasing concern globally. plants provide potable audits were completed Industrial expansion, water to the Company’s at Chartwell Shopping intensification of agricultural portfolio. Municipal waste Centre and 801 York Mills practices and rapid water treatment plants treat in Toronto, Ontario. In 2015, Tel Baruch, Tel-Aviv, Israel urbanization can place its waste water. Typically, First Capital Realty’s water pressure on water quality there is one water meter consumption decreased by and supplies. Environment installed by the utility at 4% from 2014 levels. Canada has categorized the each property. regions of Canada according to their level of water stress. First Capital Realty continued to implement The Company’s water conservation properties primarily use measures in its portfolio water to supply drinking in 2015. The Company water, support maintenance undertook a major project cleaning activities, supply to replace the entire cooling landscape irrigation, and system at Meadowlark Asset Class 2014 m3 2015 m3 2015 versus 2014 change % Open air shopping 942,020 892,380 -5% centers Enclosed shopping 372,370 359,610 -3% centers Office buildings 65,230 71,500 10% Entire portfolio 1,379,620 1,323,500 -4% Section 3 Environmental Performance 53 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Total Water Consumption by business units Asset Class Total Water Total Water Total Water Water intensity Consumption Consumption Consumption in shopping in like-forcenters like shopping centers *(m3) *(m3) *(m3) *liter/visitor Finland • 2014 280,803 245,193 ---3.1 • 2015 253,637 235,001 132,619 3 Iso Omena, Espoo, Finland Tzameret, Tel-Aviv, Israel • 2016 249,977 245,377 132,081 3.1 Change % 2015/2016 -1.4 -4.4 -0.4 4.8 Change % 2016/2012 -15.5 -4.3 15.5 2 Spotlight: Citycon Energy Efficient The total water Norway consumption in all shopping 4.6 • 2015 192,998 192,998 ---5.1 4.3 4.3 centers and retail properties • 2016 187,449 187,449 ---5 owned by Citycon was 835 thousand cubic meters in 2015 and 845 in 2016. Water Sweden consumption in 2016 per • 2014 378,896 376,786 161,022 6.6 visitor in shopping centers • 2015 328,039 326,995 138,922 5.8 was 4.6 liters and 3.3 liters in • 2016 356,026 254,829 132,536 6.4 like-for-like shopping centers. Change % 2015/2016 8.5 8.5 -4.6 10.7 2014 2015 2016 Change % 2016/2012 32 37 ---10.7 Water Consumption Baltics and Denmark • 2014 63,919 63,919 ---3.7 • 2015 60,381 60,381 27,245 3.5 Change % Change % • 2016 51,861 51,861 27,775 3.9 Asset Class 2014 2015 2016 2015/2016 2016/2012 Change % 2015/2016 -14.1 -14.1 1.9 11.6 Change % 2016/2012 -22.3 -22.3 ---11.6 Total water consumption 723,424 835,054 845,34 1.2 33.7 (m3) * by business units liter/visitor Like-for-like total water * by business units (m3) 303,220 293,260 -3.3 consumption (m3) Total water consumption in 685,898 815,374 839,477 3.0 44.2 shopping centers (m3) Total water consumption in like for like shopping 298,786 292,392 -2.1 centers (m3) Water intensity in shopping 4.3 4.3 4.6 5.9 13.5 centers liter/visitor Water intensity in like for like shopping centers liter/ 3.5 3.3 3.3 1.6 visitor Section 3 Environmental Performance 55 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Equity One 2015 Water Sewer (CU3) As part of our ongoing report is greatly reduced from utility data collection prior reporting periods. In 2015 Electricity KWH strategies, we are addition to our sub-metering aggressively sub-metering strategies for water services, Office 804 tenant spaces for water we also strategically convert services. This allows us to municipal water for landscape High Street-Retail 3,047 isolate tenant usage from the irrigation to direct well water overall common area usage sources. This allows us to Retail Warehouse 209,468 for these services. Because utilize a raw water source Retail Shopping Center 1,423,608 a number of properties were instead of a water source transitioned to this subthat goes through extensive meter program, the usage purification and processing. information contained in this Spotlight: Atrium Water consumption Our goal is to reduce water intensity by 10% 408 between 2015-2020 378 *m3X1000 2015 2016 Environmental Performance Indicators (m3) Czech Absolute Poland Republic & Romania Russia Total Slovakia Water consumption 2015 430,693 165,116 152,614 9,435 160,036 408,152 for common and restricted areas 2016 402,912 152,614 71,608 12,602 141,456 378,279 Water consumption 2015 334,180 96,527 114,500 32,620 108,770 294,555 exclusively sub-metered to tenants 2016 364, 792 114,500 52,352 37,033 110,556 314,441 2015 764,872 261,643 267,113 42,055 268,806 702,707 Total water consumption 2016 767,704 267,113 123,960 49,635 252,012 692,720 2015 959.7 954.9 1,202.2 743.0 962.4 978.4 Building water intensity liter/m2/year 2016 963.2 974.9 1,144.6 876.9 902.3 964.5 2015 6.2 6.8 5.7 6.3 6.4 6.4 Building water intensity liter/visitor/year 2016 6.4 7.2 5.4 7.5 6.3 6.5 Section 3 Environmental Performance 57 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Emissions Weather corrected like to like portfolio (GHG Emission) Spotlight: FCR GHG Emissions Parameter 2012 base year 2015 2015 versus 2012 change % GHG emissions at FCR properties result from burning fossil fuels to provide power, heating and cooling to its properties as well as the transportation of water to and Emissions (tCO2e) 32,856 26,348 -19.80% from properties. As part of First Capital Realty’s 2013-2015 Sustainability Strategy, the Company made a commitment Emissions Factor to reduce its 2015 GHG emissions by 5% from a 2012 base 755 832 9.00% (tCO2e/unit of energy) year, weather corrected, like-to-like portfolio. GHG emissions in 2015 compared to the 2012 base year in the weathercorrected, like-to-like portfolio decreased by 20% or 6,510 tones despite a 9% increase in emission factors. In 2015, First Capital Realty’s GHG emissions decreased by 10% from 2014 levels in spite of a 1% increase in GLA reporting GHG Spotlight: Citycon – GHG Emissions Greenhouse gas intensity from building energy emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous (baseline corrected, kgCO2e/sq.m) oxide gases (N2O) were used to calculate CO2e. GHG emissions at by 11% in relation to FCR properties result from property area, the baseline burning Citycon’s carbon corrected carbon footprint 63 56 footprint decreased by 7% decreased by 10%. 46 compared to the previous year, as a result of changes in its property portfolio and due to increased share of Asset Class 2014 (tCO2e) 2015 (tCO2e) 2015 versus CO2 free electricity bought. 2014 change % The carbon footprint of likeOpen air shopping centers for-like properties decreased 2014 2015 2016 • Natural gas 3,360 2,620 -22% • Electricity 5,910 5,610 5% • Water 120 120 -3% • Total asset class 9,390 8,340 -11% Enclosed shopping centers • Natural gas 5,750 4,650 -19% • Electricity 7,880 7,190 -9% • Water 50 50 -5% • Total asset class 13,680 11,890 -13% Office buildings • Natural gas 2,110 1,850 -13% • Electricity 1,490 1,960 32% • Water --10 45% • Total asset class 3,600 3,810 6% Entire portfolio • Natural gas 11,220 9,110 -19% • Electricity 15,270 14,760 -3% • Water 180 170 -2% • Total asset class 26,670 24,050 -10% Section 3 Environmental Performance 59 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Greenhouse gas emission by scopes 2015 2016 TnCO2e • Scope 1 direct 566 603 • Scope 2 Indirect 71,593 58,124 • Scope 3 indirect 1,500 1,567 Total 73,659 60,295 Greenhouse Gas emission by scopes in like-for-like properties TnCO2e • Scope 1 direct 0 0 • Scope 2 Indirect 35,049 31,794 • Scope 3 indirect 360 346 Total 35,408 32,140 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions TnCO2e • Electricity in common areas 19,619 15,928 • Tenants' electricity supplied by the landlord 34,919 23,460 • Electricity in Citycon offices 11 10 • District heating and cooling in properties 17,044 18,726 • Fuels 566 603 • Wastewater in properties 879 889 • Waste in properties 116 109 • Business travel 315 397 • Commuting 187 169 • Paper consumption and mail 4 4 Total 73,093 60,295 Like for like total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions TnCO2e • Electricity in common areas 8,073 8,864 • Tenants' electricity supplied by the landlord 16,829 12,540 • District heating and cooling in properties 9,356 10,181 • Wastewater in properties 319 309 • Waste logistic 41 38 Total 35,408 32,140 Greenhouse gas intensity from building energy Building greenhouse gas intensity kgCO2e/sq.m 56 46 Building greenhouse gas intensity kgCO2e/visitor 0.38 0.32 Baseline corrected Building greenhouse gas intensity kgCO2e/sq.m 56 46 Section 3 Environmental Performance 61 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Green Building Over the past few years, we have made major strides forward in our efforts to incorporate green building practices. According to the US Environmental Protection Agency, green building is defined as “the practice of creating structures and using processes that are environmentally responsible and resource-efficient throughout a building’s life-cycle from siting to design, construction, operation, maintenance, renovation and deconstruction. This practice expands and complements the classical building design concerns of economy, utility, durability, and comfort. Green building is also known as a ‘sustainable’ or ‘high performance building’.” Green building often includes taking measures to reduce Spotlight: Atrium energy consumption – both the energy required to extract, process, transport and install building materials, as well as Our goal is to reduce carbons by 10% between 2016-2020 operating energy required to provide services such as heating and power for equipment. To reduce operating energy use, Environmental Performance Indicators high-efficiency windows and insulation in walls, ceilings, and floors increase the efficiency of the building envelope and solar water heating further reduces energy costs. Czech Absolute Poland Republic & Romania Russia Total The energy used to heat and power buildings accounts Slovakia for a substantial amount of CO2 emissions and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Measures to reduce GHG emissions from buildings fall into one of three categories: reducing Total direct GHG 2015 2,787 381 399 301 2,073 2,787 energy consumption and embodied energy in buildings, emissions GHG Protocol Scope 1 switching to low-carbon fuels including a higher share of Tones 2016 2,909 399 31 319 2,160 2,909 renewable energy, or controlling the emissions of non-CO2 GHG gases. Total indirect GHG 2015 72, 734 26,013 26,769 1,315 28,784 64,009 emissions GHG Some of our achievements in green building include: BOMA BEST (Building Environmental Standards) Protocol Scope 2 CO2e 2016 73,131 26,769 8,115 1,011 28,032 63,927 Spotlight: Gazit Israel Spotlight: FCR Spotlight: FCR Total indirect GHG 2015 83,200 34,219 31,831 2,244 34,905 80,202 Gazit Israel constructs In 2006 FCR made a In 2011, FCR began emissions GHG its new shopping centers commitment to build all a process to seek BOMA Protocol Scope 3 according to Israeli new developments to LEED BEST certification for CO2e 2016 81,874 31,831 8,876 2,810 34,608 78,125 standards related to standards, the first shopping its existing properties. preventing air and water center developer in Canada BOMA BEST is the largest pollution, sewage, waste, to make this commitment. environmental assessment 2015 158,722 60,614 59,000 3,860 65,762 146,998 and noise. Among other LEED is an internationally and certification program for Total direct and indirect GHG things, the company places recognized green building existing buildings in Canada. emissions an emphasis on climate rating system which uses a Building owners complete a 2016 157,914 59,000 17,022 4,140 64,800 144,962 control in its structures whole-building approach to questionnaire that critically especially in places where sustainability by addressing evaluates six key areas of Greenhouse gas 2015 199.1 323.1 154.8 68.2 235.5 204.7 there are large internal five key areas: sustainable environmental performance intensity from building energy spaces, and is careful to site development, water and management: energy, use the appropriate glass and energy efficiency, water, waste, emissions and 2016 198.1 215.3 157.2 73.1 232.0 201.8 sheathing. material selection and indoor effluents, indoor environment kgCO2e/m2/year environmental quality. As and environmental Greenhouse gas of December 31, 2015, 103 management systems. In 2015 1,287 1,581 731 580 1,569 1,339 intensity from projects comprising 3.3 2015, 104 of FRC’s properties building energy million square feet of GLA, comprising 9.5 million square 2016 1,308 1,593 738 625 1,616 1,357 or 13% of FCR’s GLA, were feet were certified to BOMA gCO2e/visitor/year certified to LEED. BEST certification. Section 3 Environmental Performance 63 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: FCR Waste Disposal Data Due to various local recycling and waste markets across The Company has a comprehensive waste reporting the country, First Capital Realty currently does not have system in 51% of its portfolio or 12 million square feet of a national comprehensive, recycling/waste program for its GLA. For each property within this subset of the portfolio, properties. There are a number of factors contributing to a waste report is generated identifying the recycling/waste this situation. First, different methods of recycling/waste steam, quantity of recycling/waste generated and method disposal are available depending on local market conditions. of disposal or diversion. The report includes tenants’ waste Second, the viability of collecting different recycling/ where First Capital Realty is responsible for their waste waste streams is dependent on the urban markets in which management. Typically, paper/mixed fibre, cardboard and the Company operates and the market conditions of the mixed glass, metal, plastic waste streams were collected recycling/waste sector. Third, the Company uses a number from the properties in this subset of the portfolio and sent of regionally based recycling/waste management companies for recycling. Where organic waste was collected separately, to transport and recycle/dispose of its properties' recycling/ it was sent for composting. The Company’s general waste waste streams. Consequently, the Company does not have was sent to landfill. the ability yet to report on its waste diversion programs nationally. However, the Company can report on its waste expenditures nationally. In 2015, the Company spent $4.3 million on recycling/waste disposal across its entire portfolio. Effluents & Waste Spotlight: Equity One – Waste Stream 2015 waste diversion rate of non-hazardous waste 2015 disposal profile of non-hazardous waste During 2015, EQY continued to focus its efforts with were incinerated. The remainder of this material, or 12,034 3% its waste providers to develop new strategies to minimize tons, was sent to waste disposal facilities. Due to our ability the total amount of waste being sent to local landfills. 91 to identify the waste amounts sent to incinerator facilities, EQY's operating properties, in addition to our corporate we were able to achieve a total diversion rate of 64%. We and satellite offices, generated a total of 33,587 tons of continue to focus our efforts with our waste providers to nonhazardous waste. Of the total waste volume, 12,491 tons develop new strategies to minimize the total amount of waste 70% 30% 70% 27% (or 37%) was made up of recyclable materials, and 9,062 tons being sent to local landfills. 2014 2015 Sent to landfill Diverted from landfill landfill recycling Composting Total Diversion rate 66% 64% Property Waste totals (tons) • Total waste generated 35,526 33,588 Type of waste 2014 (tones) 2015 (tones) 2015 versus 2014 change % • Total waste sent to landfill 11,423 12,034 • Total waste incinerated 9,134 9,062 Paper/mixed fibre 840 1,210 46 • Total waste diverted 23,298 21,554 Cardboard 2,350 2,670 14 Resources Saved Organics 550 540 -2 • Paper recycled (tons) 16,392 11,069 • Oil consumption saved (tons) 1,250,963 1,023,985 Mixed grass/metal/plastics 240 450 88 • Landfill space saved (CU YDS) 39,651 13,874 General Waste 11,190 11,490 2 • Energy Saved (kW) 15,780,000 12,940,000 • Air Pollution Avoided (tons) 236,920 194,100 Total 15,150 16,360 8 Section 3 Environmental Performance 65 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Citycon Waste Management Recycling Rate of Shopping Centers % Systematic training was arranged in shopping centers to improve sorting and recycling. In order to make information easily accessible we launched a new e-quiz 95% 93% for tenants. We also organized site visits to recycling plants 89% to give fresh perspective and motivation. Instructions for sorting waste are made available to all operators in Citycon's shopping centers. Properties managed by Citycon generated 21,761 tons of waste in 2016. The recycling rate of waste materials for Citycon's shopping centers was 93% in 2016 2014 2015 2016 Waste Total weight of waste by disposal routes 2015 t 2016 t Landfill waste 1,137 (4.9%) 1,545 (7.1%) Incinerated waste 8,151 (35.3%) 6,873 (31.6%) Composed waste 4,148 (17.9%) 4,4143 (19%) Recycled waste 8,645 (37.4%) 8,180 (37.5%) Reused waste 1,029 (4.5%) 1,021 (4.7%) Total waste amount 22,110 21,761 Total Weight of waste in like-for-like shopping centres by disposal routes 2015 2016 t % t % Landfill waste 749 9.3 662 9 Incinerated waste 3,116 38.5 2,585 35.1 Composed waste 1,235 15.3 1,277 17.4 Recycled waste 2,590 32 2,430 33 Reused waste 404 5 407 5.5 Total waste amount 8,095 100 7,360 100 Section 3 Environmental Performance 67 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Total waste amount in shopping centers by type t 2015 2016 Non-hazardous waste t % t % Landfill 901 3.9 1,308 6 Energy 8,047 35.2 6,804 32 Paper 667 2.9 632 3 Plastic 335 1.5 296 1 Cardboard 6,785 29.7 6,347 29 Compost 4,125 18 4,134 19 Metal 327 1.4 330 2 Glass 445 1.9 455 2 Other recycled 795 3.5 923 4 Total waste amount by business units t Other unsorted waste 235 1 222 1 Hazardous 221 1 93 0 2014 2015 2016 Total 22,882 100 21,545 100 Finland 9,780 9,465 9,253 Norway --7,088 6,524 Sweden 6,338 5,621 5,109 Spotlight: Atrium Baltics and Denmark 986 937 877 We continuously stimulate on-site recycling. Waste Management Disposal Routes Total waste amount t 8,9% 5,4% 2014 2015 2016 Change % 2015/2016 Change % 2016/2012 3,9% 24,3% 17,105 23,110 21,761 -5.8 46.1 57,5% Total waste amount in shopping centers t 2014 2015 2016 Change % 2015/2016 Change % 2016/2012 16,599 22,882 21,545 -5.8 52.6 Landfill Recycling Other Incineration Composting / bio waste Section 3 Environmental Performance 69 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Total waste amount in shopping centers t Czech Absolute Poland Republic & Romania Russia Total Slovakia 2015 6,526 2,479 2,620 1,175 25,160 5,810 Total weight of waste Tonnes 2016 7,012 2,620 1,175 1,485 25,410 6,250 2015 25.0% 35.4% 36.1% 11.1% 2.0% 25.1% Disposal route % Recycled 2016 24.3% 36.1% 20.9% 7.5% 2.0% 24.1% 2015 56.1% 47.7% 46.3% 88.9% 97.0% 53.7% Disposal route % Landfill facility 2016 57.5% 46.3% 42.4% 92.5% 97.0% 56.0% 2015 5.4% 0 0 0 0 6.1% Disposal route % Incineration 2016 5.4% 0 17.7% 0 0 6.1% Composting/ 2015 4.2% 2.7% 0.9% 0 1% 4.6% anaerobic digestion facility 2016 3.9% 0.9% 10.5% 0 1% 4.0% 2015 9.4% 14.1% 16.7% 0 0 10.5% Other disposal route 2016 8.9% 16.7% 8.5% 0 0 9.9% Conservation and Compliance with Recycling environmental laws Our Company and its In our shopping centers, and regulations subsidiaries use a variety of we employ conservation resources and materials in measures wherever possible, our commercial offices and ranging from the installation The Company puts effort to comply with all environmental shopping centers, ranging of water-saving devices in laws and regulations and hasn't received any fines or sanctions. from energy and water to restrooms to the employment office equipment, paper, ink of ‘dry garden’ principles in toner, bottles and packaging. landscaping, the recycling An integral part of our of packaging materials and strategy for minimizing our the use of low energy lighting environmental footprint is to and alternative energy decrease our use of natural sources. resources, energy and non-perishable materials, while increasing our use of recycled materials. We also strive to collect used products and materials for recycling and/or re-use. 72 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Section 4 Social Performance Introduction Employment – benefits Gazit-Globe’s employees One of the core values The primary focus of our HR programs is to influence and management are our of our company is Human employee commitment, motivation and engagement through most important asset. That is Rights, our commitment to best practices, rewards, performance management and why we and our subsidiaries support and protect human communication. We strive to create a rewarding, stimulating are focused on finding the rights is central to our global and fun place to work where individuals are treated with right people to work in our business. Our company respect and dignity. While we have a broad base of best business and providing them supports the principles of practices, the graphic to the right illustrates several benefits with competitive pay and the United Nations Universal that we provide to our employees: benefits, strong training, Declaration of Human Rights, educational opportunities which calls for equality, and opportunities for career civil and political rights Spotlight: FCR advancement. Their health and economic, social and and safety, as well as that of cultural rights. We believe in The Company strives to deliver a rewarding, stimulating Section 4 our tenants and customers, is very important to us and we the freedom of association of our employees and their and fun place to work where individuals are treated with respect and dignity. First Capital Realty will conduct an Social Performance employ methods to conform right to join labor unions as employee engagement survey in May 2016 to get a new with industry standards in mandated by law. We also baseline from which to measure the Company’s progress to these areas. strongly oppose child labor continue to enhance employee engagement. and employment of underage Dealing fairly with our minors, as well as forced or • Benefits and perquisites employees is one of the basic compulsory labor. • Vacation (paid time off) fundamentals of our Code of • Personal responsibility days (paid time off) Business Conduct. We pride • Summer hours ourselves on conducting • Parental leave top up our business without • Life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment discrimination based on race, (AD&D), spousal life insurance coverage origin, religion, gender, sexual • Short term and long term disability coverage preference, age or disability. • Stock ownership and equity grands Our recruitment, employment, • Tuition reimbursement training, promotion, • Matching RRSP contribution transfer and termination of • Employee assistance program employees are based solely • Subsidized fitness membership on the employee and his/ • Professional development days her ability, achievements, • Comprehensive group benefits experience, conduct and • Referral bonuses other reasonable business • Performance based incentives considerations. The Company is dedicated to providing employees with competitive remuneration, generous benefits, training, educational opportunities, and career advancement. First Capital Realty provides a comprehensive benefits package to its full-time employees. The Company does not provide a benefits package to casual and part-time employees. Section 4 Labor Practices & Human Rights 73 74 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Job Training and Career Development Our job training strategy focuses on enhancing skills, First Capital Realty offers a number of training motivation and ethical behavior and we also work to and communication programs. Six programs from encourage and develop employee skill levels and positive HarvardManageMentor®: Career Management, Difficult attitudes to maximize our operations. We also strive to Interactions, Feedback Essentials, Goal Setting, New increase the skill base of our employees by supporting long Manager Transitions, and Delegating Skills are made term self-development, for instance, through further or available to employees. An internal management training advanced studies. program for new and mid-level managers is a standard offering to enhance the skills of the Company’s managers. To retain our valued employees and advance their careers, we offer career development opportunities, where The program is focused on the role of the manager, onpossible. Due to the size and geographic scope of our boarding, recruitment, and performance management. The operations, where appropriate we encourage our employees Company hosted a number of lunch and learn sessions on to move from one position to another within our organization employee well-being and posted monthly newsletters from in order to advance their careers. its Employee Assistance Program on its portal. Gazit Globe During the years 2015 and 2016, 98% of the employees spent approximately 8 hours each on training programs in ethics, sexual harassment prevention and administrative enforcement. About 42% of the employees underwent professional training that took over 20 hours. Among them 43% were males and 57% females. Average hours of training per employee – averaged about 12 hours per year (including general training). All Equity One employees are offered training through Grovo training platform, regardless of gender or employee category. Equity One does not track participation based on gender or employee category. In Citycon employees are offered equal possibilities to participate in trainings. During 2015 Citycon employees Performance Review spend cumulative 334 days on trainings (2.2 day per employee). Crisis training has been organized for relevant Gazit Globe Our managers are required to conduct Spotlight: First Capital Realty Managers are required groups in Finland and Sweden. annual performance appraisals of their employees to ensure to conduct annual formal performance reviews of their that expectations are understood, and performance is employees to ensure that expectations are understood Atrium offered more than 3000 training hours for the acknowledged and rewarded. They include providing the and performance is acknowledged and rewarded. 100% of employees in 2016 and invested 140.000 EUR in training and employee with feedback for the previous period, establishing eligible employees received performance reviews in 2015. development. targets for the coming period and tailoring a personal short and long term development plan. At Gazit-Globe, the CFO Spotlight: Equity One According to Human Resources First Capital Realty encourages employees to develop and EVP meets with all the employees and conduct their Strategy 100% of Equity One employees receive annual and advance in their careers. Employees are encouraged to annual performance review. The CEO also personally meets performance reviews take professional development courses and seminars. with all employees on an annual basis. Spotlight: Atrium In 2016 84,8% of the employees The Company also provides internal training related As of 2015, Gazit-Globe has a structured assessment received performance evaluation. We aim to reach to Company programs and process changes (e.g., new and feedback process in which all of the Company's 100% in 2017. computer software, employee benefit programs). employees and managers take part. In the feedback process, apart from assessing the performance, objectives The Company offers a generous employee tuition for the next period are set and the possibility of training and reimbursement plan for professional development and promotion channels is reviewed. The process is conducted training to full-time permanent employees. Employees can orally and in writing. receive up to $3,500 annually towards tuition reimbursement provided the subject of study is relevant to his or her Spotlight: Citycon At Citycon, employee performance current role or will develop new skills of mutual benefit review is an essential tool for managing target-oriented to the Company and individual. Costs that are eligible for activity and employee skills. Both in 2016 and 2015, 99% of reimbursement include tuition for in-class, on-line/distance employees were reviewed. learning courses, exams and books. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 75 76 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: FCR 2015 entire workface by employment category and gender % 100 93 62 56 52 48 44 38 64% 36% 7 0 Senior Middle Professional/ Administrative Building Support management management Technical females males Diversity and Equal Opportunity Gazit Globe 2015 turnover rates of permanent employees by age Our recruitment, employment, training, promotion, The following graph illustrates the composition transfer and termination of employees are based solely on of our management according to their gender (as of the employee and his/her ability, achievements, experience, December 31, 2016): conduct and other reasonable business considerations. We males females total conduct our business without discrimination based on race, 7 employees <30 years 25% 34% 31% origin, religion, gender, sexual preferences, age or disability. 5 5 employees 30-50 years 22% 26% 24% While we and our subsidiaries do everything possible 4 to prevent cases of discrimination in the workplace we employees > 50 years 33% 29% 31% understand that there is a need to establish suitable 2 mechanisms for handling them, if and when they occur. 1 Women Men Total Gazit-Globe Headquarters Gazit Israel Gazit Gazit Brazil ATR CTY Total Israel Globe 20-30 1 1 30-40 2 1 2 1 1 7 Age 40-50 2 3 2 1 8 50+ 2 1 3 2 8 Management all 3 5 6 6 4 24 Management 1 3 2 2 1 9 Women Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 77 78 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Citycon 2015 2016 Age profile • Under 30 9% 11% • 30-50 65% 62% • Over 5 26% 27% Service profile • Under 2 years 23% 22% • 2-4 years 22% 26% • More than 4 years 55% 52% Permanent contract 96% 95% Fixed term contract 4% 5% Full time employees 87% 99% Part time employees 3% 1% Gender profile 2015 males females total Total 52% 48% 100% Management Committee 48% 33% 2% Other directors 100% 35% 9% Managers 67% 42% 45% Other employees 33% 57% 44% Spotlight: Citycon 2015 Diversity males males % females females % total Total 57 38% 92 62% 149 Minority 13 19% 55 81% 68 Nonminority 44 54% 37 46% 81 Full-time 57 37% 97 63% 154 Part time 1 100% 1 Permanent 51 36% 92 64% 143 Fixed term 6 100% 6 Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 79 80 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Atrium Human Rights Upholding human rights is one of the core values at Gazit-Globe and our commitment to support and Gender diversity Number % Out of that senior management protect human rights is an inherent part of Gazit-Globe’s multinational business practices. Our respect for humanity Male employees 260 66% 27,5% is a top priority. Employees working for the Company are granted basic rights as mandated by law such as fair wages, Female employees 131 34% 15% rest times, annual leave, convalescence, etc., as well as additional benefits such as social activities, holiday gifts and families' gatherings. Type of contract Working at Atrium • Indefinite contract 269 • <1 year 17% • Definite contract 123 • 1-5 years 52% • 5-10 years 27% • 10> years 4% New hires 17% Employees left 13% Employees by region Age • Netherlands/Jersey 45 • Poland 150 Human Rights • <25 1% • Czech Republic 45 • 25-34 46% • Hungary 13 • 35-44 38% • Romania 7 • 45-54 12% • Slovakia 13 Global Compact • 55> 4% • Russia 118 In 2010, we adopted Total 391 the principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact initiative and incorporated them as part of our business Spotlight: Gazit-Globe practices. A summary of the Global Compact principles, Every year, as part of the employees training programs and how we align our in ethics and administrative enforcement, topics related to business practices with them, human and labor rights are also reviewed and discussed. can be found on page 5. We also respect and Spotlight: Citycon support the principles of the United Nations’ Universal Respect for Human Rights and Labor Rights Declaration of Human Rights, which, in addition Within its sphere of influence and legal requirements Non-discrimination Spotlight: Citycon to equality, include civil in the countries where our Citycon subsidiary operates, and political rights as well Citycon respects and supports internationally acknowledged We are proud that during 2016 no incidences of During the year 2015, there were no reports of harassment as economic, social and human rights as expressed in the United Nations Universal harassment or discrimination against employees were or discrimination against employees. Citycon conducts cultural rights. Declaration of Human Rights and the basic labor rights stated reported at Gazit-Globe headquarters. personnel surveys which are a key workplace well-being in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at indicator. In all of our years of Work. Citycon will not employ forced labor or child labor and In addition to our Code of Business Conduct, our operations, there has never respects the right of all personnel to decide on joining trade subsidiaries have formulated procedures for promoting been a single complaint, unions and other associations. Citycon’s Code of Conduct equality and protecting their employees from insult and Spotlight: EQY investigation or action lays the foundation for employee relations and human rightsharassment, including procedures for dealing with sexual pertaining to forced, related matters. Citycon’s supply chain includes low-wage harassment. No incidents of discrimination were reported during the compulsory or child labor at tasks, and the hiring people for these jobs may involve risk report period. Gazit-Globe. factors related to work conditions and human rights. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 81 82 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Citycon Social Performance It is priority for Citycon to maintain naturally cooperative venture titled WST. The top prize included a free threeIntroduction relationships with local actors, residents in and tenants month lease at Citycon shopping center and a EUR 10.000 around our shopping centers. We are committed to high seed fund to help get their business of the ground. ethical principles and strive to offer healthy and safe buildings We are committed to acting as a model corporate citizen. to our customers. 2015 was a year for many fresh ideas and Citycon started a project to better understand the social We express this through our daily business activities and actions, but also constant work to reach our existing goals. and economic effect in the community. The purpose of the by making substantial contributions to numerous charitable project is to enhance our ability to estimate Citycon's total organizations and initiatives in the areas of education, health, Citycon launched a business idea competition aimed value and allow to consider other non-financial relevant welfare, the arts and culture. at entrepreneurially minded students. The winner was a aspects and impacts on the community and stakeholders. We firmly believe that our business of developing, managing and operating shopping centers has a strong positive effect on the communities in which our businesses operate. We also appreciate that through our financial In 2015 support and the volunteer activities of our employees, we can make a difference in the lives of at risk populations, in educating future generations and in advancing culture. During We Focus on urban multifunctional shopping centers offering sustainable customer flows to tenants the reporting period, we were not subject to any legal action for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, or monopoly practices. We Commit to contributing to the community in everything we do Benefiting the Community We Enrich our communities through proactive networking dialogue and selected community partnerships Our shopping centers are predominantly anchored We Are a sustainable business partner with the aim of also ensuing that our business partners adhere to high ethical principles by supermarket or drug stores, and also include discount retailers, restaurants, banks, medical clinics as well as smaller local businesses. They provide a variety of basic necessities, products and services that are typically required on a regular basis and offer a diversity of shopping experiences for consumers in one easily accessible location. In 2016 We have carried out a number of events with Finnish local organization We have supported local non-profit organizations I Sweden, working with refugees Spotlight: Equity One Prevent parental illness $ 36 K raised We have been working with local organizations in Norway to rise safety in cities Equity One is an Clothing dotation drive 183 coats donated active member of the local communities in which we The security guards for youngsters have been trained by the NGO Youth Service Association and Feeding the homeless 200 meals served serve. We also consider serves as trusted and reliable adult that youths spending time in our shopping centers can contact this to be a fun venture. As Children's cancer charity $2500 raised with both small and big issues such, Equity One created the Equity One Fun Committee Earth Day sunflowers 190 sunflowers distributed that develops relationships with strategic charity Breakfast with Santa 150+ families hosted partners. Objectives for 2017 Make a Wish $1105 donated This allows us to Toy drivers 896 toys donated Engage more actively with local communities identify areas of financial need within the community Book Drive 800 books donated and also points employees Confirm the link between community activities and business goals via prompting greater to opportunities for Blood Drive 2 drivers hosted internalization of our community enrichment guidelines volunteerism. Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 83 84 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Spotlight: Atrium Stimulating Education Local Community Charity Promoting Local Talent In Atrium Flora (Prague, In Atrium’s Militari In Atrium Duben (Zilina, Czech Republic) – an event Shopping Centre (Bucharest, Slovakia) – in November so popular we do it each July Romania) – in December and December 2016, the and November. Chemistry 2016, we organized a local common area of the center students and professors community charitable was given to local musicians. present experiments and event. Creative Christmas Musicians from a music create magical color effects, workshops are set up for school in Zilina were able combining science and children to help Santa to showcase their talent, as entertainment for audiences Claus’s elves build toys we provide space for the of all ages. This career field and Christmas ornaments. local community to meet and is put in the spotlight and These are then sold and socialize. After the concert, support is raised for the proceeds donated to SOS there is a Happy Hour in the local university. Children’s Villages, a nonfood court and promotional profit organization focusing sales from tenants. on children in need in the countryside. Charitable Investment Above and beyond our business activities, Gazit-Globe encourage our employees to volunteer for appropriate believes that it is both a duty and a privilege to contribute to social activities and projects. We offer several options for the community. For more information, see “Supporting the volunteering in the areas of education and welfare such as Community” below. the “Larger than Life” and “Etgarim” projects so that every employee can select a manageable opportunity in which he/ In the health field, for over 10 years we have been she can contribute. In recent years, we have volunteered a major supporter of organization whose goal is to improve regularly in a program, where all the employees of the the quality of life and well-being of children with cancer company participate in meetings and distribution of food and their families. We also support hospitals and other packages to Holocaust survivors. organizations providing medical care. In the field of arts and culture, we support museums and theaters, and in the field During 2015-2016, 95% of Gazit-Globe employees have of welfare, we support underprivileged families with food participated in volunteering activities. The annual volunteering and by funding summer camps for children. time of employees is on average 14 hours per employee. Our Corporate Responsibility Manager is responsible for initiating Social Responsibility of Gazit-Globe employees: As and coordinating the volunteering activities. part of strengthening ties with the local community, we Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 85 86 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Supporting the Community Political Contribution Above and beyond our business activities, we believe In 2015 and 2016, Gazit-Globe did not provide any that it is both a duty and a privilege to contribute to the donations to political parties. community. Several years ago, we formulated a Social Investment Policy which outlines our Group’s commitment to contribute, invest and assist the community, as well as Spotlight: FCR our philanthropic activities and opportunities for employees who wish to volunteer their time to various organizations. In 2015, the Company did not provide any common area The policy is established by our Corporate Responsibility temporary or permanent rental space to a political party and Committee, which is comprised of Gazit-Globe board did not donate any money to political parties. members and management. The committee determines the guidelines of contributions, monitors their effectiveness and the influence of sponsored projects, as well as employee Spotlight: Citycon volunteerism. Citycon does not support the activities of any political Among Gazit-Globe’s community initiatives in Israel parties or groups. However, we want to engage in open during 2016 were the following: dialogue with regional officials and political decision-makers in our operating areas. In 2015 and 2016 in connection Donations by the Group for 2016 “Supporting the South” – the Company invested during with the zoning planning of our development projects, our 2015-16 around NIS 13 million to support educational representatives participated in the meetings of municipal A total of NIS 9,5 million was donated by the Group during programs in towns in Israel’s Negev region. political bodies. The purpose of this activity was to improve 2016. The breakdown of donations per sector was as follows: interactions. Citycon's shopping centers may be used by The company has developed and is leading a unique political parties to host election campaign events, subject to philanthropic model aimed to strength the infrastructures the company standard leasing terms. of the education systems in disadvantaged periphery 1% communities, together with the local authorities and the 5% 1% Ministry of Education. 2% In Kiryat Malachi, a collective impact model was 3% implemented in cooperation with school principals, residents, partners and investors. A comprehensive mapping of data in 88% the locality was conducted and its results were presented to the city's leaders and residents. The results of social investment are already bearing fruitful the number of students passing the matriculation exam in Kiryat Malachi’s High School has increased from 47% to 85% and the number of students studying mathematics at the highest level has increased from Education IDF Social & environment culture welfare health care 2% to 14% in four years. The Youth Center, established at the initiative of Gazit-Globe, provides counseling and guidance to more than 1000 young people each year and significantly increases the number of students in the community. Donations In Yeruham, an evaluation study was carried out in 2016 by the Research Institute (CET) on the work processes that 10,713 10,901 10,996 were introduced following the contribution of GazitGlobe 9,459 and its partners to extent effectiveness. Results will be submitted in a few months. 5,790 5,220 Gazit provides financial support for social welfare, health 3,830 2,981 and cultural organizations, as well as assistance to soldiers, Diaspora Jews and the environment. Gazit-Globe also offers elderly support, providing food and basic equipment for families in distress and support children with disabilities. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 87 88 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Customer Health and Safety Spotlight: Equity One As part of Equity One’s operating policies and procedures, our properties are inspected on an ongoing basis for health and safety impacts, i.e., roof inspections, building inspections, fire/life safety inspections and general liability inspections. In addition, Equity One also conducts environmental assessments on acquisitions and development projects and performs ongoing monitoring of sites previously identified for remediation activities. Spotlight: Citycon Compliance with laws and regulations in the social and The Company established co-operative occupational safety committee in Finland. Matters discussed include economic area issues related to health and safety as well work-life balance. Spotlight: Atrium Gazit-Globe and its subsidiaries did not receive any fines during the reporting period. In Atrium’s Park House Togliatti (Russia) – in NovemberDecember 2016, we held an event to promote safety in traffic. Together with local police we promoted traffic safety and awareness. Local community dance schools provided the entertainment and everyone walked away with a better understanding about public and traffic safety. Customer Satisfaction We regard client satisfaction as a top priority. Clients of Gazit-Globe’s subsidiaries can be divided into two groups: tenants, who rent stores in our shopping centers, and consumers who use the facilities and stores in the shopping centers. We check the satisfaction level of these two client groups through surveys at our shopping centers. these surveys enable management to understand the needs of our clients and consumers and result in improved service and greater satisfaction on their part. Morumbi Town, Itaim, Sau Paulo, Brasil GRI content index 91 92 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Sector GRI Disclosure Core Disclosure Included Page Comments Sector GRI Disclosure Core Disclosure Included Page Comments Standard Title Number Standard Title Number Title Title General General Name of the organization Core 102-1 V 1 General General List of stakeholder groups Core 102-40 V 18 Disclosures Activities, brands, products, and services Core 102-2 V 11 Disclosures Collective bargaining agreements Core 102-41 V 21 Location of headquarters Core 102-3 V 14 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Core 102-42 V 18 Location of operations Core 102-4 V 14 Approach to stakeholder engagement Core 102-43 V 18 Ownership and legal form Core 102-5 V 11 Key topics and concerns raised Core 102-44 V 6 Markets served Core 102-6 V 12, 13, 14, 22 Entities included in the consolidated financial Core 102-45 V 14 Scale of the organization Core 102-7 V 11 statements Information on employees and other workers Core 102-8 V 20 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Core 102-46 V 6 Supply chain Core 102-9 V 22 List of material topics Core 102-47 V 6 Significant changes to the organization and Core 102-10 V 13-14 Restatements of information Core 102-48 V 5 its supply chain Changes in reporting Core 102-49 V 5 Precautionary Principle or approach Core 102-11 V 28 Reporting period Core 102-50 V 5 External initiatives Core 102-12 V 16 Date of most recent report Core 102-51 V 5 Membership of associations Core 102-13 V 16 Reporting cycle Core 102-52 V 5 Statement from senior decision-maker Core 102-14 V 3 Contact point for questions regarding Core 102-53 V 6 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities --102-15 / --the report Values, principles, standards, and norms Core 102-16 V 11 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Core 102-54 V 1 of behavior GRI Standards Mechanisms for advice and concerns --102-17 / --GRI content index Core 102-55 V 90 about ethics External assurance Core 102-56 V 5 Governance structure Core 102-18 V 17 Management Explanation of the material topic and Core 103-1 V 6 Delegating authority --102-19 / --Approach its Boundary Executive-level responsibility for economic, --102-20 / --The management approach and its Core 103-2 V 6 environmental, and social topics components Consulting stakeholders on economic, --102-21 / --Evaluation of the management approach Core 103-3 V 6 environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance body --102-22 / --and its committees Chair of the highest governance body --102-23 / --Nominating and selecting the highest --102-24 / --governance body Conflicts of interest --102-25 / --Role of highest governance body in setting --102-26 / --purpose, values, and strategy Collective knowledge of highest --102-27 / --governance body Evaluating the highest governance body’s --102-28 / --performance Identifying and managing economic, --102-29 / --environmental, and social impacts Effectiveness of risk management processes --102-30 / --Review of economic, environmental, and --102-31 / --social topics Highest governance body’s role in --102-32 / --sustainability reporting Communicating critical concerns --102-33 / --Nature and total number of critical concerns --102-34 / --Remuneration policies --102-35 / --Process for determining remuneration --102-36 / --Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration --102-37 / --Annual total compensation ratio --102-38 / --Percentage increase in annual total --102-39 / --compensation ratio GRI content index 93 94 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Sector GRI Disclosure Core Disclosure Included Page Comments Sector GRI Disclosure Core Disclosure Included Page Comments Standard Title Number Standard Title Number Title Title Economic Economic Direct economic value generated and distributed --201-1 V 29 Environmental Materials Materials used by weight or volume --301-1 / --Performance Financial implications and other risks and --201-2 / --Recycled input materials used --301-2 / --opportunities due to climate change Reclaimed products and their packaging --301-3 / --Defined benefit plan obligations and other --201-3 / --materials retirement plans Energy Energy consumption within the organization --302-1 / --Financial assistance received from government --201-4 / --Energy consumption outside of the --302-2 / --Market Presence Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender --202-1 / --organization compared to local minimum wage Energy intensity --302-3 V 40 Partial reporting Proportion of senior management hired from the --202-2 / --Reduction of energy consumption --302-4 V 46 local community Reductions in energy requirements of --302-5 / --Indirect Economic Infrastructure investments and services --203-1 / --products and services Impacts supported Water Water withdrawal by source --303-1 V 51 Partial reporting Significant indirect economic impacts --203-2 V 34 subsidiaries Procurement Practices Proportion of spending on local suppliers --204-1 V 34 Partial reporting Water sources significantly affected by --303-2 / --subsidiaries withdrawal of water Anti-corruption Operations assessed for risks related to --205-1 / --Water recycled and reused --303-3 / --corruption Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, --304-1 / --Communication and training about anti--205-2 V 35 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of corruption policies and procedures high biodiversity value outside protected areas Confirmed incidents of corruption and --205-3 V 35 Significant impacts of activities, products, and --304-2 / --actions taken services on biodiversity Anti-competitive Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti--206-1 V 35 Habitats protected or restored --304-3 / --Behavior trust, and monopoly practices IUCN Red List species and national --304-4 / --conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations Emissions Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions --305-1 / --Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions --305-2 / --Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions --305-3 / --GHG emissions intensity --305-4 V 56 Partial reporting --subsidiaries Reduction of GHG emissions --305-5 / --Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) --305-6 / --Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), 305-7 / --and other significant air emissions --Effluents Water discharge by quality and destination --306-1 / --and Waste Waste by type and disposal method --306-2 V 62 Partial reporting --subsidiaries Significant spills --306-3 / --Transport of hazardous waste 306-4 / --Water bodies affected by water discharges --306-5 / --and/or runoff Environmental Non-compliance with environmental laws and --307-1 V 68 Compliance regulations Supplier New suppliers that were screened using --308-1 / --Environmental environmental criteria Assessment Negative environmental impacts in the supply 308-2 / --chain and actions taken Section 1 About Gazit-Globe 95 96 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015-2016 Gazit-Globe Sector GRI Disclosure Core Disclosure Included Page Comments Sector GRI Disclosure Core Disclosure Included Page Comments Standard Title Number Standard Title Number Title Title Social Employment New employee hires and employee turnover --401-1 / --Social Supplier Social New suppliers that were screened using social --414-1 / --Benefits provided to full-time employees that --401-2 V --Assessment criteria are not provided to temporary or part-time Negative social impacts in the supply chain --414-2 / --employees and actions taken Parental leave --401-3 / --Public Policy Political contributions --415-1 V 85 Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding --402-1 / 71 Partial reporting Customer Health Assessment of the health and safety impacts --416-1 V 87 Partial reporting Relations operational changes subsidiaries and Safety of product and service categories subsidiaries Occupational Health Workers representation in formal joint --403-1 / --Incidents of non-compliance concerning the --416-2 / --and Safety management–worker health and safety health and safety impacts of products and committees --services Types of injury and rates of injury, --403-2 / --Marketing and Requirements for product and service --417-1 / --occupational diseases, lost days, and Labeling information and labeling absenteeism, and number of work-related Incidents of non-compliance concerning --417-2 / --fatalities product and service information and labeling Workers with high incidence or high risk of --403-3 / --Incidents of non-compliance concerning --417-3 / --diseases related to their occupation marketing communications Health and safety topics covered in formal --403-4 / --Customer Privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches --418-1 / --agreements with trade unions of customer privacy and losses of customer data Training and Average hours of training per year per --404-1 V 72 Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in --419-1 V 87 Education employee Compliance the social and economic area Programs for upgrading employee skills and --404-2 V 72 transition assistance programs Percentage of employees receiving regular --404-3 V 73 performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance bodies and employees --405-1 V 74 Opportunity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women --405-2 / --to men Non-discrimination Incidents of discrimination and corrective --406-1 V 78 actions taken Freedom of Operations and suppliers in which the right to --407-1 / --Association and freedom of association and collective bargaining Collective Bargaining may be at risk Child Labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for --408-1 V 79 incidents of child labor Forced or Compulsory Operations and suppliers at significant risk for --409-1 V 79 Labor incidents of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices Security personnel trained in human rights --410-1 / --policies or procedures Rights of Indigenous Incidents of violations involving rights of --411-1 / --Peoples indigenous peoples Human Rights Operations that have been subject to human --412-1 / --Assessment rights reviews or impact assessments Employee training on human rights policies or --412-2 / --procedures Significant investment agreements and --412-3 / --contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, --413-1 V 80 impact assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual and potential --413-2 / --negative impacts on local communities
