Global Responsibility 2017 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Table of contents 1 Chairman’s letter 2 Introduction 12 Our food 32 Our planet 62 Our workplace 13 Overview 33 Overview 63 Overview 15 Health and wellness 34 Climate change 64 Workplace safety 24 Food safety 40 Sustainable sourcing 66 Ethics, compliance and labor practices 27 Consumer education 50 Water stewardship 67 Workplace culture and responsible marketing 52 Ecosystems 72 Employee development 30 Transparency 59 Human rights 61 Animal welfare 76 Our community 88 Appendix 77 Overview 88 Environmental Data Summary 79 Increasing food security 89 Global Reporting Initiative index 83 Advancing sustainable agriculture 101 United Nations Global Compact index 85 Strengthening hometown communities ©2017 General Mills. To our stakeholders: For 150 years, General Mills has been environmental issues. We have taken which we have been a member since making food people love while investing bold actions to advance sustainability. 2008 and continue to endorse. to make the world around us better. In order to feed a growing global In this, our 47th year of reporting back We believe that being successful population, we have to be good stewards to our communities and stakeholders, in the marketplace and being a of our earth – from farm to fork and we provide updates across four key force for good go hand in hand. beyond. We need a stable climate, clean focus areas: Our Food, Our Planet, Our This belief is more important than ever as water, healthy soil, strong ecosystems Workplace and Our Community. We our company navigates the enormous and thriving farming communities. We have focused on providing transparency changes in our industry and the global have set an ambitious goal to reduce and insights into the topics that are economy. Consumer expectations greenhouse gas emissions by 28 percent important to our stakeholders and to for food companies have never been across our value chain by 2025 and our business. We are encouraged by higher. Consumers are increasingly reach sustainable emissions levels by the progress we’re making and remain looking for food that reflects their 2050. We also are making progress on committed to doing even more. values, from a company they trust. our commitment to sustainably source Thank you for your interest. As always, we Ken Powell 100 percent of our top 10 ingredients We have responded by expanding our welcome your questions and comments. Chairman, Chief Executive Officer by 2020. We are ensuring farmers and offerings, introducing new benefits communities have long-term plans Sincerely, General Mills and increasing transparency. We to take care of key watersheds and are growing our natural and organic have expanded our partnerships to business, removing artificial colors and support pollinators and soil health. flavors from many of our products and introducing new tools that provide We need partners at every level to G4-1, 15 consumers easy access to information advance sustainable practices, and about the food we make. We are also for us, it begins with farmers. When bringing innovation to our portfolio by farmers can make a good living and building partnerships with emerging take care of the environment around food brands. Through our venture them, their lives are better, their capital arm 301 Inc, we are investing in communities are more stable and we’re start-up food businesses and leveraging better able to make the food people our scale to diversify our portfolio. love. That’s why we’re focusing efforts on helping farmers and their communities At the same time, our planet also is thrive. Collaboration with businesses, changing. More than perhaps any other governments and nongovernmental industry, ours relies on nature’s bounty organizations is also critical to making for the ingredients in our products. Our progress. We are signatories to a company’s size, scale and global scope number of key global efforts, including enable us to have a material impact on the United Nations Global Compact, of GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 INTRODUCTION Our purpose At General Mills, we serve the world by making food people love. We do this by embracing our five pursuits, which are at the heart of our company. GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS AREAS Put people first Our food Our planet Everything we do at General Mills starts and ends with people – our consumers, customers, Our workplace employees, workers in our supply chain, and those who live in the communities where we operate. Our community Build a culture of creating Our food Our planet We collaborate inside and outside our company to create shared value for our consumers Our workplace and the world. Our community Make food with passion Our food For 150 years, we’ve been driven by our passion for making delicious, healthy, high-quality food Our planet and sharing it with people worldwide. Introduction Earn people’s trust Our food Our planet We will never stop working to earn and maintain the trust of our stakeholders across the value Our workplace chain, from our suppliers to our consumers. Our community Treat the world with care Our planet Our business depends on a healthy planet, so we are committed to treating the world, Our community its resources and people with care. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Company overview Net sales, fiscal 2016* Net sales by platform, fiscal 2016* (dollars in billions) (percentage of total) n U.S. Retail $10.0 n Cereal 20% n Dough 10% n International $4.6 n Snacks 19% n Baking mixes and ingredients 10% n C onvenience and Food Service $1.9 n Yogurt 16% n Vegetables 3% n J oint Ventures $1.0 n Convenient meals 16% n Other 1% Total: $17.6 billion n Super-premium ice cream 5% Total: $17.6 billion * Non-GAAP measure. Includes $16.6 billion consolidated net sales plus $0.8 billion proportionate share of CPW (cereal) net sales plus $0.2 billion proportionate share of HDJ (ice cream) net sales. Carbon footprint Water footprint* Total giving, fiscal 2016 (percentage of total) (percentage of total) (dollars in millions) n Agriculture and transformation 48% n Packaging supply chain 9% n C orporate contributions/ n Agriculture and transformation 85% brand philanthropy US$63.9 n Producing 11% n Packaging supply chain 14% n F ood donations US$56.9 n Shipping 6% n Producing 1% n Foundation grants US$26.4 n Selling 7% n Consuming 19% Total: US$147.2 million Total: 14.8 million metric tons CO2e *Water consumption data is from 2012. Data in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was considered to be immaterial. G4-4 General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. NEW COLOUR LOGO GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 Global responsibility highlights During the year, General Mills made substantial commitments and progress in numerous areas of global responsibility, underlying our commitment to treat the world with care. 100 percent of our facilities Set a goal to reduce absolute Announced a pollinator project with worldwide were audited and/or GHG emissions across our full 28% the USDA and the Xerces Society to certified by third parties value chain by 28 percent by protect and establish more using globally recognized OOD SAFETY 2025 (compared to 2010) and than 100,000 acres of F food safety criteria to achieve sustainable emission levels in pollinator habitat through 2021 line with scientific consensus by 2050 Fourth-largest U.S. Received recognition as a Set a goal to develop water natural and organic global climate leader stewardship plans for the food producer and named to the CDP most material and at-risk Climate A-List watersheds in our global value chain by 2025 Second-largest U.S. Introduced a soil health Launched our Policy on producer of gluten-free roadmap in partnership Human Rights and Slavery products with The Nature Conservancy and Human Trafficking to improve soil health on more than Statement 50 percent of U.S. cropland by 2025 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 Inputs in fiscal 2016 Holistic value creation Outcomes in fiscal 2016 We serve the world by making food people love. Our food Our food n 2  63 new product launches n 1 00+ consumer brands n 2  8 new patents (U.S.) n 4 41 active patents (U.S.) Our value chain n 8  0 new products introduced n $ 222 million spending on R&D with strong nutrition profiles n $ 16 million food safety n 1 00% of facilities worldwide spending audited and/or certified by Upstream General Mills Downstream independent third parties Improving the lives Making food people Continually enhance Our planet Our planet of farmers who love in a workplace our products by n 2  % decrease in value chain n 2  .82 billion kWh energy GHG emissions usage in operations grow ingredients for that promotes safety, improving nutrition, n I dentified 8 priority watersheds n 1 7.3 million cubic meters our products while quality, diversity expanding variety, and to target for improvement water usage in operations 8  5% of manufacturing waste n N early $6 billion global protecting the natural and environmental increasing sustainability n recycled or processed for energy ingredient spend resources upon which responsibility n 6  9% of our top 10 ingredients sustainably sourced our business and communities depend Our workplace Our workplace n 1 34% increase in workplace safety leadership training n 3  9,000 employees n 4  7% of management n 3 2 countries positions held by women n 5 9 production facilities n 8  7% of employees proud to work for General Mills Our community n 5  7 million meals enabled Our community through food donations n $  147 million charitable giving n I mproved well-being for 8,190 people in cocoa n 3  28,000+ volunteer hours farming communities n 6 00+ nonprofit grantees n $ 60 million earned by schools through Box Tops for Education Our investors Our investors n T  otal company net sales: n N  et share repurchases: $16,563 million $435 million n C ash flow from operations: n C ash dividends per share*: $2,630 million $1.92 (+8%) n C ore working capital: n T otal shareholder return: 15% $729 million *F17 annualized rate GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 Materiality 1 TRANSFORMING PACKAGING AGRICULTURE PRODUCING CONSUMING SHIPPING The following table summarizes the issues that are most material to our global responsibility strategy, including several priority issues that were SUPPLY CHAIN SELLING ranked highest by our stakeholders. This is based on a materiality assessment conducted in 2013 and updated in 2015. These assessments evaluated the impact each issue has on General Mills as well as the importance to external stakeholders for our company to address each one. We plan to periodically update this assessment to reflect our business and our stakeholders’ expectations. We include information about our approach to and progress on these issues throughout the report and in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index. CIRCLES NOTE VALUE CHAIN PHASES FOR WHICH EACH ISSUE IS RELEVANT Climate change Advance strategies to reduce GHG emissions and help mitigate the effects of climate change in agricultural and food production systems Commodity availability Maintain reliable access to key commodities and inputs through sustainable sourcing PRIORITY ISSUES Corporate governance and ethics Operate with integrity and with the highest standards in oversight, ethics and compliance Diverse consumer needs Meet changing consumer needs and diversify our product offerings based on geography, culture, values and economic means Food safety Set and maintain high standards for food safety and quality Health and nutrition wellness Improve the health profile of products and engage in public discussions on healthy and nutritious lifestyles Transparency Communicate openly with key stakeholders on material issues, including through brands Water stewardship Manage water resources strategically throughout the value chain Animal welfare Ensure the ethical treatment of animals raised by suppliers Biodiversity Conserve biodiversity through sustainable sourcing practices Biotechnology Work to educate the public on use of genetically modified organisms and meet consumer demands for increased information Employee well-being Help employees lead healthier lives through education and support OTHER MATERIAL ISSUES Energy use Manage energy usage and costs throughout the value chain, including agriculture, production, transportation and distribution Food security Improve access to healthy, affordable food for the world’s growing population Food waste Address food waste and loss from field to table Human rights Respect the human rights of all workers Packaging footprint Reduce the environmental impact of packaging Responsible marketing Adhere to internal and industry guidelines regarding consumer communications Smallholder farmers Support smallholder farmers’ capability and capacity to maintain viable operations Supply chain relationships Build and strengthen supplier partnerships across the value chain Workforce management Provide competitive benefits, foster a diverse and inclusive culture, and invest in training and development opportunities Workplace safety Maintain a safe workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors, with a focus on zero accidents and injuries In this report, the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to topics that reflect General Mills’ significant environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence our global responsibility strategy. We are not 1 G4-12, 18, 20, 21 using these terms as they have been defined by securities laws in the United States or in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. Priority issues: goals and performance Progress Issue Commitment/Goal 2014 2015 2016 Food safety Ensure all facilities worldwide are audited and/or certified by independent third parties using globally recognized food safety criteria 88% 90% 100% (% of facilities) Achieve Global Food Safety Initiative certification of all General Mills-owned facilities by 2020 (% of facilities) 63% 72% 80% Health and nutrition Continue to improve health profile of U.S. retail products* (%) 76% 77% 79% wellness Our food Comply with global industry front-of-pack calorie labeling Ongoing (see page 27) Diverse consumer Continue to expand wellness offerings to meet consumer needs needs n Gluten-free retail products in the U.S. and Canada (number of products) 850 980 1,000+ n Protein-rich retail products in the U.S. (number of products) 190 225 230 n Lower-calorie retail products in the U.S. (number of products) 990 1,000 1,300 Reach US$1 billion in net sales from natural and organic products in the U.S. by 2019 (US$ million) $348 $700 $750 Climate change Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28 percent by 2025 and 41-72 percent by 2050 (compared to 2010)** NA 5% p 3% p (% reduction) Reduce energy use by 2 percent annually*** (% change) 0% -2% 0% Reduce production solid waste generation by 3 percent annually*** (% change) -3% 9% 17% Achieve zero waste to landfill at 30 percent of our owned production facilities by 2020 and 100 percent by 2025**** (%) 16% 17% 12% Water stewardship Champion the development of water stewardship plans for the company’s most material and at-risk watersheds in its global value Ongoing (see pages 50-51) chain by 2025 Reduce water use by 1 percent annually*** (% change) -2% 38% 12% Commodity Sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020***** (%) NA NA 69% Our planet availability Vanilla (%) 45% 45% 22% Cocoa (%) 10% 28% 46% Palm oil (%) 83% 100% 100% Sugarcane (%) 42% 59% 67% Oats (%) 35% 40% 50% U.S. wheat (%) 15% 24% 36% U.S. sugar beets (%) 34% 47% 68% U.S. corn (dry milled) (%) 6% 26% 33% U.S dairy (raw fluid milk) (%) 20% 20% 38% Fiber packaging (%) 99% 99% 99% * Represents percentage of U.S. retail products that have reduced calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by at least 10 percent per serving or increased beneficial nutrients (including vitamins, minerals and fiber) by at least 10 percent per serving, compared to fiscal 2005. ** This contributes to the company’s 2050 goal to reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 41-72% by 2050 (compared to 2010), to achieve sustainable levels in line with scientific consensus. *** Applies to all General Mills-owned production facilities. Normalized to production. **** These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of each fiscal year. ***** Represents 40 percent of our annual raw material purchases. Aggregate percentage is based on the percentages sustainably sourced for each ingredient, weighted by spend. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 Oversight The General Mills leadership team has Public Responsibility Committee SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ultimate accountability for the company’s provides oversight and receives regular GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD global responsibility programs and updates from the operating teams. CEO COMMITTEE CFO performance. The team includes Ken COO The Chief Executive Officer also Powell, Chairman and Chief Executive EVP, SUPPLY CHAIN convenes the Sustainability Governance SVP, EXTERNAL RELATIONS Officer; John Church, Executive Vice Committee three times per year. The EVP, U.S. RETAIL President of Supply Chain; Kim Nelson, EVP, INNOVATION, EVP, SUPPLY SVP, EXTERNAL EVP, INNOVATION, SVP, HUMAN role of the Committee is to approve TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY CHAIN RELATIONS TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES Senior Vice President of External SVP, SALES & QUALITY and monitor strategy, policy and key Relations and President of the General investments related to sustainability. Mills Foundation; and Jerry Lynch, Chief Sustainability Officer. The team See GeneralMills.com/Investors to GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL GENERAL MILLS HEALTH FOCUS AREAS WORKPLACE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION & NUTRITION meets regularly and receives input from learn more about the company’s internal and external experts. During broader corporate governance r This graphic outlines governance and management of global 2016, the main issues addressed included structures and processes. responsibility focus areas at General Mills. climate change, water stewardship, soil G4-36, 42, 46, 47, 48 health, human rights and responsible sourcing. The Board of Directors Cust rs plie om ers Sup Stakeholder engagement n S  upplier audits n C  ustomer surveys n C  ode of Conduct n I nnovation At General Mills, we engage with the consumer packaged goods industry S  upplier surveys collaboration Ind n ust F  ield to Market n I ndustry stakeholders to accelerate our on a range of issues. This helps to elevate ry n ers program partnerships as progress on social and environmental the performance of the sector overall. so um cia ns Co initiatives. Our approach includes open tio We determine areas for engagement n M ns  eeting participation n C  all center dialogue, collaboration and transparent n D  evelopment and n S  ocial media based on issues that are material to our sharing of best practices (website, Facebook) disclosure. This strengthens our ability on key issues n F  ocus groups global responsibility strategy and where to balance business interests with those we can have the greatest positive impact. of society; build robust relationships When engaging with stakeholders, we n C  ollaboration on n E  mployee Climate globally across sectors; and ultimately, consider their expertise and insights as the ground Survey identify innovative solutions that n S  urvey responses n D  iscussion forums well as their capacity, level of influence Emp n P  olicy initiatives n I nternal social media create shared, sustainable value. NGOs loyees C  o-presentations community (Yammer) and willingness to collaborate. n at conferences n E mployee networks The issues we are working to address G4-24, 25, 26, 27 are shared – such as food safety, health n F  ood donations n R  atings/rankings and nutrition wellness, diverse consumer n E  mployee volunteering and indices needs, climate change and water n C  orporate n I nput on the Global Responsibility Report contributions/ n P  ublic policy stewardship – so collaboration is essential philanthropy advocacy to achieving long-term, enduring progress. o m n C  onsultation on C regulatory matters s We work with other companies and This graphic m un or n P  articipation st i tie in coalitions ve organizations to shape standards across illustrates the range s In of our engagement activities. w Regulators and public policymakers GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 Stakeholder engagement examples in 2016 Issue Engagement To urge governments worldwide to take meaningful action at COP21, General Mills joined the We Mean Business coalition; Climate change Chairman and CEO Ken Powell and CEOs of nine other global food companies released a joint letter on the role of climate change in the food industry. In November 2016, we announced a pollinator project with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Xerces Society Ecosystems for Invertebrate Conservation to protect and establish healthy pollinator habitats. The five-year, $4 million commitment between General Mills and the USDA will help to plant more than 100,000 acres of pollinator habitat through 2021. To share food safety knowledge and communicate expectations, we conduct “supplier schools” training events in classroom FOO D SA FETY Food safety settings tailored to the needs of each market. In 2016, we expanded our program to China and Taiwan. Since 2011, more than 600 supplier employees have participated. The General Mills Foundation convened a Food Security Insights Summit in 2016 that brought together experts from nonprofit Food security organizations such as Partners in Food Solutions, Share Our Strength, Appetite for Change and The Food Trust, to explore solutions in advancing food security, locally and globally. We work to provide customers and consumers transparent information about the ingredients in our products. In 2016, we Transparency introduced AskGeneralMills.com, enrolled nearly 600 products in the Non-GMO Project and launched a SmartLabel pilot with our Chex and Fiber One cereals. To provide a safe and supportive workplace for our employees to discuss important issues, we expanded an initiative called Workforce management Courageous Conversations and hosted an open forum to discuss race relations, adversity and discrimination. Approximately 250 employees attended the event at our headquarters, which was later replicated in other locations. Public policy At General Mills, we engage in public Illinois, Michigan and Ohio. We also n P  ackaging: General Mills promotes top policy issues that are important participate in several cross-industry policies to effectively and efficiently to our company and stakeholders. initiatives to drive progress in this increase packaging recycling rates We conduct these activities in an area. Ultimately, we believe that a and reduce waste. In the United accountable and transparent manner. comprehensive, national climate policy States, we are a leader in the American Focus areas include the following: is needed to unleash the incredible Institute for Packaging and the In 2016, the Center for Political n C  limate change and renewable innovation of the marketplace. Federal Environment (AMERIPEN), which Accountability rated General Mills energy: During 2016, General Mills policies that provide proportionate conducts research and advocates in the top five of the CPA-Zicklin and clear guidance are essential to for policy changes to achieve these Index of Corporate Political continued to support the U.S. Clean support the large-scale investments goals, including in California, Maine Power Plan as well as state climate Disclosure and Accountability. required to address this challenge. and Minnesota during 2016. and energy policies in California, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09  ealth n H and nutrition wellness: As level for the House of Representatives The General Mills Political Action  tate n S or provincial agencies, local a member of the International Food and Senate and in the states of Minnesota Committee (G-PAC) is run by chambers of commerce and and Beverage Alliance (IFBA) and and California. We file regular reports employees and uses employee funds manufacturing organizations, such as other organizations, we support on our lobbying activity (see links). to make political contributions to the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce efforts to advance self-regulatory federal and, in limited cases, state and the California Manufacturers frameworks related to health and Political candidates. No corporate treasury & Technology Association. wellness. During 2016, General Mills funds are used for federal candidate engaged with the U.S. Food and Drug contributions and contributions, but as allowed by law the We report additional details about our largest U.S. trade association Administration as it implemented the memberships company pays G-PAC administration memberships annually. We do not belong newly revised nutrition facts panel. costs. Information regarding G-PAC Our civic policy describes our to, or make payments to, any tax-exempt transactions is available on the Federal n F  ood labeling and GMOs: In 2016, the approval process for corporate organizations in the United States that Election Commission website. U.S. Congress passed the National political contributions. The Public write and endorse model legislation. Bioengineered Food Disclosure Law. Responsibility Committee of our board General Mills also advances its mission Accountability: In 2016, the Center for When implemented, it will require food of directors oversees the company’s by partnering with trade associations Political Accountability rated General companies to include information political activities, including our policy, and other independent organizations Mills in the top five of the CPA-Zicklin about GMOs on product labels or disclosure of corporate political that share our goals, including: Index of Corporate Political Disclosure reference that information online. contributions, membership in major n International organizations such and Accountability. This ranking, which General Mills actively supported this trade associations, and independent as EuroGlaces and the Brazilian includes all companies in the Standard regulation, which will provide consistent political expenditures (although the Association of Food Industries & Poor’s 500 index, maintained our disclosure at a national level and avoid company has not made any). performance from 2015. Once again, we n U .S. public policy-focused a patchwork of U.S. state labeling rules. During 2016, we made US$80,500 in ranked first in the consumer staples sector. organizations such as the Grocery We comply with all lobbying regulations direct political contributions. For more Manufacturers Association and the G4-15, 16 where applicable. General Mills is registered details and historical information, see our American Bakers Association as a lobbying entity at the U.S. federal 2005-2016 Civic involvement reports. Transparency and disclosure in reporting Communicating openly about our social and environmental commitments, that list for heightened focus. See the tables on pages 6 and 7 for details. (and palm oil by 2015). See the Our Planet section for details. Climate A-list goals, programs, performance and n C  arbon and water footprints:  atings n R and rankings: We have In 2016, General Mills was challenges is essential to building We expanded disclosure on GHG participated in CDP (the Carbon recognized as a global and maintaining stakeholder trust. emissions and continue to report on Disclosure Project) every year since climate leader and named Analyzing and disclosing progress also motivates ongoing improvement. water consumption across the value its inception in 2000. In 2016, we to the CDP Climate A-List chain, as well as numerous initiatives were named to the Climate A-List, Examples include the following: to improve performance. See the Supplier Engagement Leader Board Green Rankings (#29 of 500 largest Our Planet section for details. and Supplier Climate A-List, and publicly-traded U.S. companies n M  aterial issues: This year, we again received a score of B for water. by market capitalization) and the published the full list of social n S  ustainable ingredients: In this See our past submissions. We also Global 100 Index of most sustainable and environmental issues that we report, we describe progress toward participate in other disclosures, such corporations (#92 of all publicly determined to be material for the our commitment for our priority as the Dow Jones Sustainability traded companies with a market purpose of this report. We also 10 ingredients to be 100 percent Indices, FTSE4Good, Newsweek’s capitalization of at least US$2 billion). identified several priority issues from sustainably sourced by 2020 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 We communicate about our programs media interviews, and conferences Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the and performance through other and other events. United Nations (UN) Global Compact and channels as well, such as responses the UN Sustainable Development Goals. To promote comparability, we align our to customer requests, blogs and See the external reporting standards disclosure with external frameworks such social media, speaking engagements, content below for more details. as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 About this report The General Mills Global Responsibility and other public interest groups working including the Food Processing Sector goals and 169 more specific targets to Report is an important part of a with companies to advance their Supplement. This document contains drive the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable broader set of disclosures that provide environmental and social performance standard disclosures from that framework. Development globally. General Mills stakeholders a multifaceted description and disclosure – to provide input on See the GRI index for details. supports this effort. We focus on the of the company’s performance. These our annual Global Responsibility Report. goals that most closely align with United Nations Global Compact documents also include the company’s This year, nine stakeholders, including the company’s priority issues and General Mills endorsed the principles of annual report, quarterly 10-Q filings investors, NGO representatives, corporate areas of long-standing commitment, the UN Global Compact in 2008 and and annual proxy statement. executives and industry experts, provided investment and progress (see below). reaffirms that commitment annually. feedback on a detailed report outline. We This report serves as the company’s See the GRI index for details and links to Report scope value this input and have incorporated annual Communication on Progress related content throughout this report. much of this feedback into the report. This report describes our commitments, in the areas of human rights, labor, goals, programs, performance and External reporting environment and anti-corruption. See the Feedback challenges across a broad range of UN Global Compact index for details. We welcome your comments about this global responsibility issues. The scope standards United Nations Sustainable report. Please send any feedback to covers the company’s global operations Global Reporting Initiative Development Goals Corporate.Response@genmills.com. in fiscal 2016 (52 weeks ended May 29, General Mills considered the GRI G4 At the beginning of 2016, the United G4-28, 31, 32, 33 2016), except where noted otherwise. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Nations launched the Sustainable Environmental data are not included in the development of this report, Development Goals, a set of 17 broad for production associated with the Green Giant brand, which General Mills sold to B&G Foods during fiscal 2016. UN Sustainable Development Goals: General Mills focus areas Report ownership The General Mills leadership team (see page 8) has responsibility for the development of this report. Stakeholder input on report End hunger, achieve food security and improved Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Ensure availability and sustainable Take urgent action to combat climate change Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt For the last several years, General Mills nutrition, and promote for all at all ages management of water and its impacts and reverse land degradation, has engaged Ceres – a coalition of sustainable agriculture Learn more. and sanitation for all Learn more. and halt biodiversity loss investors, environmental organizations Learn more. Learn more. Learn more. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Our Food At General Mills, our purpose is to serve the world by making food people love. IN 1 Health and wellness 2 Food safety 3 4 THIS Consumer education SECTION and responsible Transparency marketing GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Overview Our goal is to provide people with nutritious, convenient food that can help them live healthier lives. We are committed to making food with passion and improving the variety and health profile of our products while adhering to high standards of food safety. Performance dashboard (fiscal 2016) Nutrition Food preferences Food safety Labeling & marketing Transparency U.S. Health Metric: In fiscal No. 4 natural and organic 100 percent of our facilities Compliance with global Introduced AskGeneralMills.com; 2016, 79 percent of U.S. U.S. food producer; worldwide are audited industry front-of-pack launched SmartLabel™ pilot; retail sales volume was No. 2 gluten-free U.S. food and/or certified by third calorie labeling; commitment 600 products Non-GMO composed of products provider. Learn more. parties using globally to responsible marketing. Verified. Learn more. nutritionally improved since recognized food safety Learn more. fiscal 2005. Learn more. criteria. Learn more. “For 150 years, General Mills has focused on making nutritious food. We continue that tradition today by providing products that contribute to the overall health and wellness of millions of people around the world.” — Maha  Tahiri, Ph.D., Vice President, General Mills Chief Health and Wellness Officer and leader of the Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Our approach: lead & innovate Our focus on health and nutrition drives business growth Investment in research: We invest portfolio to meet diverse consumer product development and marketing Public Responsibility Committee of the in research and development (R&D) needs and make healthy food more lies within the R&D and marketing Board of Directors on the company’s to continuously improve the health accessible. We’ve been reshaping organizations. The Executive Vice health and wellness strategy. profiles of our products. Since 2004, our business through acquisitions, President of Supply Chain and the Since 1989, we have benefited from we have increased R&D spending on divestitures and expansion of our Executive Vice President of Innovation, the guidance of our global Health and health and wellness by 80 percent. existing brands into new geographies. Technology and Quality are responsible Wellness Advisory Council, a group of Our nutrition science research helps for consumer health and safety, and Safety and quality: We are committed leading external health and nutrition us better understand the impact of product labeling. Responsibility for to the highest standards in food safety experts who provide perspective from food on health and wellness as we marketing communications is held and quality. We integrate food safety into academia and research institutes. The enhance our product portfolio. by the Chief Marketing Officer. The all our processes, beginning with R&D council meets twice a year and challenges Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition Investment in new businesses: and extending across our supply chain. us to continually advance health and reports directly to the Executive Vice Consumers are at the center of everything wellness strategies and practices. Leadership and governance: President of Innovation, Technology we do. We focus on expanding our Operationally, responsibility for and Quality and regularly updates the Health and wellness impacts across our North American portfolio in fiscal 2016 Whole grain Cal Calories Dairy Fiber 100 percent of our Big G cereals deliver Two-thirds of our North American retail 3 billion 6-ounce (170-gram) low-fat and 25 percent of our U.S. retail products double-digit whole grains per serving; one products contain 150 calories or less nonfat dairy servings shipped by U.S. and provide at least 10 percent daily value of in five of our products across North America per serving. Canadian retail operations; 19,800+ servings of fiber; 13 percent of Canadian products delivers at least 8 grams of whole grain Yoplait® eaten every minute around the world. are a good source of fiber (4+ grams). per serving. Gluten-free No artificial Organic Protein ingredients Fourth-largest U.S. natural and organic food One in four of our North American products Approximately half of our U.S. retail products 12 percent of our U.S. retail products provide producer**; one out of every 10 products is labeled as gluten-free; second-largest U.S. are labeled as containing no artificial flavors, at least 10 percent daily value of protein in our North American portfolio is certified producer of gluten-free products.* colors from artificial sources or artificial per serving. organic or made with organic ingredients. preservatives. *Nielsen, total of U.S. – all channels, 52 weeks ending Dec. 3, 2016. **Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through June 12, 2016, SPINS Brand Positions: Natural Standards, Natural Perceived, Specialty Natural, Conventional Natural GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 1 Health and wellness 1A Nutrition Global Bell scientists and registered dietitians from varied backgrounds, including Institute of Health nutrition science, public health, and Nutrition food science and microbiology. Impact: The Bell Institute influences Approach: As General Mills’ source for General Mills’ product development Global scientific Global scientific Global health & wellness health, wellness and nutrition expertise, by advancing nutrition science research & regulatory affairs communications the global Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition focuses on health innovation research, providing insights about  n Contributes to the  n Leads efforts to  n Translates nutrition regional and global regulatory issues advancement of encourage multiscience and regulatory and nutrition leadership. In partnership affecting the food industry, and scientific understanding stakeholder dialogue topics into compelling with our business teams, we continuously on a variety of on important nutrition communications delivering health communications improve the nutrition of our products. health topics and labeling topics for health leaders for the benefit of our customers, Expertise: The Bell Institute consumers and nutrition communities.  n Inspires product  n Advances interaction and influencers includes doctorate and master-level renovation and on key health topics  n Builds relationships innovation based on with health influencers nutrition science as part of General Mills nutrition leadership 50+ years of nutrition innovation Cheerios® becomes In 2015, due to BIHN work, Dietary the first brand to Guidelines highlight whole grain use the oat/heart breakfast cereals and fat-free yogurt In 1963, nutrition disease health claim as part of a healthy eating pattern department Developed nutrition Petitioned for 1st Launched the Global was created education materials whole grain/heart Conversion of Bell Institute bellinstitute.com website Contemporary disease & certain all Big G cereals launched its first and expanded social Nutrition Newsletter cancers health claim to whole grain social media channels media presence 1960s 1980s 2000s 2015s 1970s 1990s 2010s Global expansion Expansion of Expanded In 2005, Dietary of dietary intake Sweetcorn cereal fortification capabilities Guidelines highlight research recognized as a across portfolio for US dietary In 1998, BIHN whole grains due to At the end of 2015, sodium vegetable in France intake research was created work of the BIHN reductions in 350+ products since 2008 baseline (more than one-third Comments to FDA’s Weight management of current U.S. retail sales volume) 79% of U.S. retail sweeping regulation research for Yoplait sales volume Provided voluntary changes (NLEA) with improved nutrition labeling Sodium nutritional profile on all products REDUCTION BY THE NUMBERS OUR COMMITMENT: 20% SODIUM REDUCTION IN 10 KEY PRODUCT CATEGORIES BY 2015. OUR RESULTS: SODIUM REDUCED IN OVER 1⁄₃ OF OUR US RETAIL SALES VOLUME. 7 OF 10 CATEGORIES HAVE MET OR EXCEEDED THE 20% from 2005-2016 REDUCTION GOAL. FINAL WEIGHTED SODIUM REDUCTION PERCENTAGES* SAVORY SNACKS FROZEN PIZZA CANNED VEGETABLES VARIETY BAKING MIXES GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY DRY DINNERS 15 35% 29% 28% 24% 21% Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Global health improvements In 2005, General Mills began the journey toward improving the health and nutrition of our products with the implementation of our U.S. Health Metric. Within the past several years, we have expanded our efforts globally. Here are some highlights. Global health improvements since 2005 U.S. Health Metric (FY05-FY16) We have made the following nutritional improvements worldwide since 2005*: In fiscal 2016, 79 percent of our U.S. retail sales volume was composed of products that have been nutritionally improved since 2005, according to our Health Metric** criteria. U.S. retail Health Metric cumulative achievement Increased beneficial nutrients Reduced nutrients of concern FY05-FY16 More than 1,100 products included in FY05-FY16 77% 79% 76% Whole grain Sodium 64% 68% 73% Introduced more than 250 products that Reduced sodium by 5 to 25 percent 60% provide at least 8 grams of whole grain in more than 420 products and per serving and reformulated more than introduced a number of lower-sodium 45% 50 products to increase whole grain by products, such as Heart Healthy 40% at least 10 percent. Progresso soups. 33% 21% 16% Fiber Sugar FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 Introduced more than 250 products Reduced sugar by 5 to 30 percent in that provide a significant source of dietary more than 260 products and introduced Drivers of nutritional improvements lower-sugar products, such as Nature U.S. retail products FY05-FY16 fiber per serving and increased dietary fiber in another 25 products Valley Protein Bars with 6 to 7 grams 5% Fiber by at least 10 percent. of sugar per serving. 20% Trans fat 19% Health/nutrition claim*** 1% Total fat/saturated fat 5% Protein 17% Sugar Vitamins & minerals Trans fat 7% Vitamins/minerals Provided key vitamins and minerals Reduced trans fat to 0 grams labeled 15% Sodium 6% Whole grain through the introduction of more than per serving in 275 products and 430 products that are sources introduced another 50 new products 5% Calories/portion control of key vitamins and minerals, such with 0 grams labeled trans fat as yogurt and cereal. per serving. Decreasing nutrients of concern: 77% Increasing positive nutrients: 23% G4-PR1, FP6, FP7 *Fiscal 2005-2016 results **U.S. Health Metric Criteria: Reducing calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by 5 percent or more; increasing beneficial nutrients – including vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10 percent or more; formulating products to include at least a half-serving of whole grain, fruit, vegetables, or low or nonfat dairy; formulating/reformulating products to meet specific internal requirements, including limiting calories, and meeting health or nutrition claim criteria as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). ***Health/nutrition claim primarily refers to products introduced or reformulated to make gluten-free claim GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Improvements in health profiles of existing products and introduction of nutritious new products A sampling of the products we introduced or reformulated in fiscal 2016 Europe n Introduced gluten-free Nature Valley Protein Salted Caramel Nut Snack Bar with 10 grams of protein n Reformulated Old El Paso Enchilada Dinner Kits to decrease saturated fat by more than 35 percent China Canada n Introduced Häagen-Dazs n Introduced Minigo portable, Sorbet as a lower-fat, kid-friendly yogurts, a source lower-sugar, lower-calorie of calcium and vitamin D, alternative to ice cream made with real fruit and probiotics n Reformulated six cereals, including Rice Chex, to reduce sodium by 10 percent or more Asia, Middle East, Africa n Reformulated all Betty Crocker U.S. Dry Baking Mixes to remove trans fat n Introduced Nature Valley Soft Baked Granola Bites with 9 grams whole grain and 12 percent daily value of protein per serving n Reformulated Fiber One Oats & Chocolate Snack Bar to reduce sugar by 30 percent (from 10 to 7 Australia grams per serving) n Introduced Nature Valley Popcorn Peanut & Sunflower Seed Bar Latin America with 20 percent daily n Reformulated La Salteña value of protein Frozen Croissant to reduce n Reformulated Old El sodium by more than 50 Paso Fajita Seasoning percent and saturated fat to decrease total fat more than 70 percent and saturated fat by more than 50 percent Cereal Partners Worldwide nutritional globally outside North America. CPW improving about 5.3 billion portions and sodium in its recipes. CPW has improvements: Our Cereal Partners is the second-largest cereal provider in of breakfast cereals popular with kids made significant progress against this Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with the world. As part of its Global Nutrition and teens in more than 130 markets by commitment, with 93 percent of net Nestlé makes and markets cereals such as Commitment, CPW announced specific boosting the amount of whole grain, sales of kids and teens brands worldwide Fitness, Cheerios, Chocapic and Nesquik targets in October 2012 for nutritionally increasing calcium, and reducing sugar achieving the commitment criteria in 2016. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Evolution of snacking three square meals a day. Today, people snacks be replaced with nutrient-dense both adults and children meet dietary Benefits of are snacking more than ever. In 1978, choices like vegetables, fruits, whole grain recommendations for shortfall nutrients approximately 40 percent of Americans did and yogurt as snacks.**** Choosing these including calcium, vitamin D and fiber. wholesome snacking* ** , not snack. Today, about 90 percent of adults types of wholesome snacks can help n W holesome snacks can be part of and children snack at least once per day, and a nutritious eating pattern. more than 60 percent of people consume two n S nacks can help people meet or more snacks per day.* This is true outside General Mills wholesome snacking examples nutrient shortfalls. of the U.S. as well. For example, in the U.K., 95 percent of adults snack, and in France, General Mills is filling the need for wholesome snacks to help consumers make good n S nacks offer an opportunity to eat snacking choices a part of their busy lifestyles. Here are some examples. more vegetables, fruit, whole grain where snacking is less common, people and low-fat/fat-free dairy. still consume nearly 1.5 snacks per day.** Additional Product Geography Nutrition details n S nacks provide energy for growth Satisfying demand product details and development for children General Mills provides a variety of wholesome U.S. n 1 6 grams of n N  o artificial and teens. snacking options that help satisfy growing whole grain colors, flavors or *American Dietetic Association Complete consumer demand for lower-calorie, n 150 calories sweeteners Food & Nutrition Guide 2012. **NHANES 2011-2012. nutrient-dense snacks as part of a healthful n D  eveloped with Nature Valley n L  ess than 10 grams diet. Our yogurt offerings and whole grain input from kids Backpacker Oatmeal of sugar snacks are two examples. Planful snacking Bites For Kids Increasing around can help promote better intake of key the world nutrients and food groups.*** The Dietary EU n 2  0 percent of daily protein (10 grams)  luten-free n G Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020 n N  o artificial colors Over the last few decades, eating patterns specifically recommend that high-calorie n 5  0 percent less n M  ade from have shifted away from the traditional sugar***** carefully-selected Nature Valley ingredients, Protein Bars including peanuts EU n 2  0 percent daily n C  onvenient recommended fiber source amount of fiber Extra – Fiber One Soft Baked Bars WATCH VIDEO r Jeanine Bassett, vice president of Global Consumer Insights at General Mills, explains major shifts in consumer eating habits. Rather than counting calories, consumers seek foods *NHANES 2011-2012; USDA Snacking Patterns of US Adolescents, NHANES 2005with calories that count – delivering satiety through increased protein, for example. General 2006; USDA Snacking Patterns of US Adults, NHANES 2007-2008. Mills continues to introduce snacks that meet increasing consumer demand for harder **Mintel Report, Consumer Snacking, UK March 2016, New Nutrition Business, 10 Key Trends in Food, Nutrition & Health 2016. working calories. ***NHANES 2009-2010; NHANES 2011-2012. ****Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020. *****Contains 50 percent less sugar than the average adult cereal bars sold in the U.K. in 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Whole grains: Laying a foundation for healthy eating Guidelines: Since 2005, the Dietary Research: Choosing foods made with n H igher whole grain intake was associated n W  hole grain intakes in the U.S. Guidelines for Americans have recognized whole grains every day can help families with a lower risk of premature death and many countries globally fall whole grains as part of a healthy eating live healthier lives. Just as our portfolio of from all causes, including heart disease. below recommended intakes. pattern. The 2015 – 2020 Dietary Guidelines whole grain products has grown, so has n O ne full serving (16 grams) increase in whole These findings reinforce the need for Americans continue to encourage the nutrition science on whole grains. In grain intake resulted in a reduced risk of for higher whole grain intake as consumers to make half their grains 2016, four major studies were published premature death by 7 percent. Higher whole part of healthy eating habits. whole grain, which for most people is at demonstrating that higher whole grain grain intakes showed greater benefit. Fifty least 48 grams of whole grain per day. intake is an important part of a healthy grams of whole grain compared to no whole eating pattern.* Research findings include: grain intake was associated with a reduced risk of premature death by 20 percent. Bringing whole grain to the table – part of General Mills’ heritage 1921 1941 2005 2016 General Mills We launched Over the past two decades, we have been on a Today our portfolio of whole grain products has expanded introduced its first Cheerioats whole mission to increase whole grain in our products. to include whole wheat flour, granola bars made with ready-to-eat cereal, grain oats cereal in We accelerated this journey in 2005 when we whole grain, and meal kits with whole grain pasta and rice. Whole Wheat Flakes, 1941. It was renamed converted our entire line of cereals to include Keeping with tradition, all of our Big G, Nature Valley and in 1921. It was renamed Cheerios in 1945. at least 8 grams of whole grain per serving. It Annie’s cereals deliver double-digit grams of whole grain Wheaties in 1924. was the single biggest health-driven product per serving. improvement in our history. Whole grain impact 16+ billion whole 150 products 98 percent of our grain servings* with at least 16 cereals list whole grams of whole grain as the first grain per serving** ingredient requirements *More than 16 billion 16-gram whole grain servings shipped by U.S. and Canadian retail operations in fiscal 2016. **U.S. and Canadian retail products. *References: 1. Zong G, Gao A, Hu FB, Sun Q. Whole grain intake and mortality from all causes, cardiovascular disease, and cancer: A meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. Circulation 2016; 133: 2370-2380. 2. Aune D, Keum N, Giovannucci E, Fadnes LT, Boffetta P, Greenwood DC, Tonstad S, Vatten LJ, Riboli E, Norat T. Whole grain consumption and risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, and all cause and cause specific mortality: systematic review and dose-response meta-analysis of prospective studies. BMJ 2016 Jun 14; 353:i2716. 3. Chen GC, Tong X, Xu JY, Han SF, Wan ZX, Qin JB, Qin LQ. Whole-grain intake and total, cardiovascular, and cancer mortality: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective studies. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition 2016; 104: 164-172. 4. Li B, Zhang G, Tan M, Zhao L, Jin L, Tang X, Jiang G, Zhong K. Consumption of whole grains in relation to mortality from all causes, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes: Dose-response meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies. Medicine Aug 2016; 95(33). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 1B Diverse consumer food values Consumers around the world are No artificial increasingly focused on the role No artificial ingredients impact of food in their overall health and ingredients wellness. Definitions of wellness vary Many of our brands have made Approximately half of our U.S. retail products are labeled as containing no artificial by consumer. For example, some seek flavors, colors from artificial sources or artificial preservatives. Below are a few examples: commitments to remove artificial foods that are gluten-free or rich in flavors and colors from artificial sources, protein, while others want products No colors including the products shown in the No No from that contain fewer ingredients or table at right that have met this goal. Brand Products* artificial artificial artificial foods that are certified organic. flavors preservatives sources In addition, 90 percent of General Mills As a consumer-first company, General cereals do not contain artificial flavors Annie’s – all products Mills offers a variety of products to or colors from artificial sources. We also meet diverse needs and preferences. are working to remove these ingredients The graphic below outlines the wide from Progresso soups. To date, 89 Yoplait Original, range of benefits across our portfolio. percent of Progresso soups do not Custard, Greek100, See page 14 for key health and wellness contain artificial flavors and 55 percent Greek100 Whips, Greek impact metrics across our business. 2% Whips yogurt do not use colors from artificial sources. Mountain High yogurt Go BIG, Go-Gurt Organic and Kid yogurts Plant-based Natural protein Fruit Snacks Betty Crocker No artificial Gluten Free Mixes Antibioticfree Meeting diverse ingredients consumer needs Immaculate through product Baking Mixes variety Pillsbury Crescents Limited Glutenfree ingredients Cal Nature Valley LowerProteinGranola Bars calorie rich *U.S. retail product SKUs GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Natural and organic Consumer interest in natural and organic We have committed to growing our foods has increased significantly and is natural and organic food business to Organic impact expected to drive double-digit growth over US$1 billion in net sales by 2019, and the next five years. Since 2000, we have been reached US$750 million in net sales from top steadily expanding our natural and organic this category in fiscal 2016. business, including through brand acquisitions, 4 500 10% We are also taking steps across our to meet this demand. General Mills is now General Mills is Commitment to 500+ organic One out of every 10 supply chain to ensure a long-term the fourth-largest U.S. natural and organic the fourth-largest reach $1 billion product SKUs products in our North supply of organic ingredients. Learn U.S. natural and in sales by 2019. available throughout American portfolio is food producer. We offer a mix of certified organic food the U.S. and Canada. certified organic or made more about how we are building our organic cereals, yogurt, vegetables, fruit producer.* with organic ingredients. organic capacity in the Our Planet products, snacks, meals and baking products. section of this report. *Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through June 12, 2016, SPINS Brand Positions: Natural Standards, Natural Perceived, Specialty Natural, Conventional Natural. Our natural and organic journey 1936 1976 1991 2000 2008 2012 2014 2016 Liberté Mountain High Muir Glen Cascadian Farm and Muir LÄRABAR joined Food Should Annie’s joined Good Natured founded founded founded Glen joined General Mills, General Mills Taste Good joined General Mills Soup introduced becoming the “Small Planet General Mills Foods” division 1972 1989 1993 2000 2006 2011 2013 2015 Cascadian Annie’s Immaculate LÄRABAR Food Should Liberté and Immaculate Baking EPIC joined Farm founded founded Baking founded founded Taste Good Mountain High joined General Mills General Mills founded joined General Mills Our natural and Spotlight: Annie’s organic brands General Mills acquired Annie’s in 2014 and the planet is inspired by Annie’s founder, to significantly expand our portfolio Annie Withey, and President, John Foraker. of organic products. “Annie’s has been my labor of love since Annie’s and organic n 8 8 percent of Annie’s sales are from Annie’s believes creating foods that 1998 – intent on leaving the world a organic products (Certified Organic are produced in a way that’s better for better place than when I came into or Made with Organic). consumers, farmers, animals, communities it, for my four kids and the planet we and the environment is better for all, all share,” said Foraker. Learn more. n In fiscal 2016, Annie’s purchased 60 individually and collectively. Annie’s joined million pounds of organic ingredients – From the farm where food is grown, to ® General Mills with the goal of bringing more 36 percent more than fiscal 2015 and the building where employees work, of Annie’s great tasting, organic products double the amount since fiscal 2012. to the packaging in which food is to more stores and more people across the n A nnie’s works with trusted suppliers ® shipped, the Annie’s team is committed country, with zero compromise to Annie’s to source only non-GMO ingredients. to sustainability in every aspect of the company mission. Annie’s dedication to business. Find out more at annies.com. having a positive impact on both people GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Gluten-free Protein Reduced calories Fewer ingredients Many consumers are trying to cut back More than 50 percent of U.S customers We continually look for ways to Consumers increasingly seek products on the amount of gluten in their diets. For want more protein in their diets.* We offer reduce calories in our products, and with simpler ingredient lists. Our consumers with a sensitivity to gluten – foods that are a good source of protein we offer a variety of foods that help natural and organic portfolio includes including nearly 3 million Americans with across a variety of product segments, consumers manage their caloric a variety of foods containing a celiac disease who must avoid gluten – including cereals, snacks and yogurt. intake. Maintaining a healthy weight limited number of ingredients. finding affordable, gluten-free foods that can help manage certain risk factors taste good can be a challenge. General associated with chronic conditions. Mills offers gluten-free products across our portfolio, including baking, brownie, cake and cookie mixes, frostings, refrigerated r Many of our LÄRABAR products contain baked goods, cereal, flour, granola, oatmeal, 10 ingredients or less. pasta, soups, snacks, vegetables and yogurt. r We offer many products that are a good source of protein. r We offer many products with reduced Employee passion calories. drives innovation Our employees’ passion for making food people love drives everything r A few of the more than 1,000 gluten-free we do. The introduction of gluten-free products from General Mills. Cheerios followed several years of hard work by hundreds of employees who Cal dedicated thousands of hours to make it happen. Phil Zietlow, an engineer Gluten-free impact Protein impact Reduced-calorie impact in our Research and Development group for 50 years, helped lead the n 2  nd largest: General Mills is the n 2  30 products (U.S.): 230 U.S. n T  wo-thirds: Two-thirds of our charge. A family member with celiac second-largest U.S. producer disease inspired his crusade to bring retail products have at least North American retail products are gluten-free Cheerios to the market. of gluten-free products.** 10 percent daily value of protein 150 calories or less per serving. per serving “The gluten-free project is the top thing n 1  ,000+ products: In 2016, we n 1  50 calories: 1,300+ U.S. retail I’ve ever done in my life,” says Zietlow. offered more than 1,000 gluten-free n 5  0 products (Canada): 50+ products have 150 calories “With gluten-free Cheerios, we’re helping product SKUs in North America. Canadian products qualify as a or less per serving a lot of people who really are suffering.” good source of protein n 1  00 calories: 600+ U.S. retail Learn more on our Taste Blog. products have 100 calories or less per serving r Phil Zietlow championed glutenG4-PR1, FP6, FP7 free Cheerios. *International Food Information Council (IFIC) Foundation’s 2014 Food & Health survey **Nielsen, total of U.S. – all channels, 52 weeks ending Dec. 3, 2016. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Fueling growth through innovation Plant-based protein: Progresso 100 percent Investing through 301 Inc Good Natured Soup antibiotic-free chicken soup Today’s fast-changing food industry requires rapid In August 2016, we introduced vegan, noninnovation and a steady stream of new ideas. All 36 varieties of Progresso chicken soups contain GMO Good Natured Soup. The soups (three In October 2015, General Mills began to invest 100 percent antibioticand hormone-free chicken varieties) contain fewer, simpler ingredients, no in small food start-up companies through 301 breasts as of September 2016. We know consumers preservatives from artificial sources and no colors from Inc, an emerging brand incubator. This team of are concerned about animal welfare and negative artificial sources. Each Good Natured Soup uses bean entrepreneurs works with passionate food company impacts of antibiotic use. Learn more in the Our powder and vegetables for texture and flavor, giving founders who have demonstrated some success Planet section of this report. the soup a creamy consistency without using cream. with a compelling product that is a strategic fit for In October 2016, People for the Ethical Treatment of General Mills. Animals (PETA) honored General Mills with a Great 1st 301 Inc collaborates with selected emerging food Taste Award for Good Natured Soup. brands to create breakthrough innovations and Progresso is the first large build successful businesses by harnessing General Mills’ expertise in product development (ingredients, U.S. retail soup brand to use products and packaging), supply chain, marketing 100 percent antibioticand and channel development. 301 Inc provides technical hormone-free chicken. support in areas ranging from recipe development to commercialization, labeling, food safety, regulatory compliance, sourcing, operations, brand development, promotion and merchandising. We “When we talked to people aspire to be an indispensable partner by integrating r Good Natured Soup comes in a carton instead of a can, so the packaging is BPA-free. about what they love about direct equity investment with the skills and capabilities of General Mills. soup, we heard one thing over and over – the chicken makes the soup. So, we knew it was important to raise the bar on the chicken we put into every Companies currently working with and can of Progresso soup. We set receiving investment from 301 Inc include: a very ambitious goal to bring antibiotic and hormone-free chicken to market. It’s exciting to see it on store shelves.” – Ray  Joncas, Director of Marketing, Progresso GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2 Food safety 2A Global leadership have been developing for more than metal detection and allergens. half a century. Our standards are the Legacy of food safety leadership Impact same in developed and developing n In June 2015, members of General Mills’ microbiology team helped organize n U S$16 million food safety spending countries, though the food safety 1950s in 2016, a US$3 million increase a global workshop hosted by GMA over 2015; 8 percent of essential challenges vary widely across locations. and the Joint Institute for Food Safety Established raw capital investment in 2016 for We tailor training accordingly, building material vendor and Applied Nutrition (JIFSAN) that projects related to food safety. the capacity to ensure globally management 1960s focused on risk assessment and program n 6 00+ trained quality professionals harmonized food safety standards. prevention of foodborne listeriosis. Established food and 55+ certified quality engineers safety, quality and Collaboration: Our investment in food The outcome of the meeting monitoring food safety worldwide. safety education around the world included recommendations for 1970s regulatory policies n 1 00 percent of our facilities and standards includes our suppliers, partners, industry prioritizing resources and additional Developed food worldwide are audited and/or peers and regulators. Food safety research in support of controlling safety program for Hazard Analysis certified by third parties using quality engineers at and Critical globally recognized food safety leadership is a differentiator for General listeria monocytogenes. A report production facilities Control (HACCP) criteria. Mills, but not an area of competition. detailing the presentations and process developed n 8 0 percent of our company-owned We freely share our best practices, recommendations was drafted 1980 production facilities are Global Food emerging areas of concern and regulatory and submitted for publication. Safety Initiative (GFSI) certified. activities to help raise standards Established food Sanitation: Proper sanitation is a safety regulatory industrywide. We work with industry foundation of food safety and an area affairs role 1996 consortiums, partners and government where General Mills has developed Priority: Safety is a priority focus area agencies to advance food safety: Pioneered food significant expertise. Our Global allergen labeling for our company leadership and part n In 2014, we partnered with the Grocery Sanitation Center of Excellence trains 2006 on all products of our culture. Leading with safety – Manufacturer’s Association (GMA) to General Mills teams as well as our Established internal both the safety of our employees in the workplace and the food they launch and chair a Food Safety Training suppliers and co-producers. Sanitation food safety training 2008 share group focused on best practices is a key focus area for all stakeholders, academy make – is one of the key operating Initiated global among all food manufacturers. In so we also share our expertise with principles that guides our work. 2013 food safety 2016, we participated in the transition customers, regulators and others supplier schools of that group into the Food Safety in the food industry. Our sanitation Surveyed employees Building global Learning Alliance (FSLA), a consortium efforts extend from the proper design about global food 2015 safety culture capacity of 10 member companies focused and construction of facilities and Began using risk grid Expectations: As General Mills’ on improving food safety training for equipment for promoting thorough 2016 metric to measure practitioners across the food industry. cleaning to the rigorous sanitation improvement operations expand around the world, Sponsored by the GMA Science processes and validation procedures Implemented we carry with us our commitment to preventive controls & Education Foundation, FSLA is necessary for ensuring safe food. In fiscal food safety and strict adherence to training (Food Safety currently working on comprehensive 2016, we initiated a global sanitation Modernization Act the processes and expectations we training materials for sanitation, community, which hosted monthly compliance) GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community global sanitation webinars. Each session operating procedures. This risk safety of the raw materials we use to responsible for assuring compliance. attracted more than 100 participants. assessment is reported to the company’s make our products. (See story 2B.) These global policies cover a broad range Global Governance Council and Board of food safety areas, including regulatory Action: As a prevention step, we regularly Global systems of Directors. General Mills’ rigorous conduct mock recalls at our warehouses, compliance, trace and recall, labeling, internal review of food safety procedures claims, physical, chemical and biological Expertise: Our food safety systems production facilities and co-production exceeds standard industry practices. hazards, transportation, and good focus on prevention, intervention and sites worldwide. Results are shared manufacturing practices and sanitation. response. We apply this approach External verification and certification: annually as part of a global report. systematically on a global scale. All General Mills facilities are audited These policies form the framework We conducted 10 voluntary recalls in fiscal under globally recognized food for internal audits conducted by our Planning and governance: We integrate 2016, including some of our Gluten-Free safety schemes. All of our facilities Global Internal Audit team. We set high food safety into all our processes, Cheerios, flour and cake mix products. worldwide – including our companystandards and have one set of policies beginning with R&D and extending across Consumer response: All General Mills owned plants and co-production and standards across the globe. Our our supply chain. Our R&D employees products around the world contain sites – are audited and/or certified target is ensuring our food is defect-free incorporate food safety considerations labeling with basic nutrition facts, and by an independent third party. and achieving 100 percent compliance. when planning for new products to almost all branded products provide Verification is a key component as we evaluate and eliminate potential food The Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) General Mills contact information, audit against a single set of standards safety risks. Our Food Safety Board certification of General Mills’ facilities is including phone numbers, websites and and strive to be fair and firm on ratings. includes senior leaders from across our an additional assurance that our existing addresses. When consumers contact Our metrics drive common standards supply chain, R&D, legal, and quality food safety systems continue to improve. us with questions or concerns, that and speak to the desired outcome. and regulatory organizations, as well as GFSI, managed by the Consumer Goods data is systematically collected and subject matter experts in areas ranging Forum, promotes a harmonized approach Leadership: The Vice President of tracked, offering a powerful early warning from microbiology to consumer product to food safety throughout the industry. Quality and Regulatory Operations has system for any food safety risks. We usage. This board provides guidance and Across General Mills, we have achieved direct accountability for food safety. The work with regulatory agencies and local risk management review to ensure that GFSI certification at 80 percent of our Global Internal Audit team periodically governments to take appropriate action we design food safety into our products. company-owned production facilities, validates that our food safety processes when needed. We also use this consumer indicating they meet global standards for and controls are in place and operating Surveillance and risk mitigation: We are response system to help us deliver the food safety management recognized in effectively. The company’s Global committed to mitigating and eliminating products consumers want. We first more than 150 countries. We will continue Governance Council conducts a quarterly potential food safety risks. We conduct identified interest in gluten-free products, to pursue GFSI certification with a goal review of risk, which includes food safety. internal risk-based surveillance and food for example, based on consumer inquiries. of certifying 100 percent of General safety testing at all General Mills facilities. Each facility is assessed using a ranking Mills-owned facilities by 2020. Globally, Governance People and nearly 80 percent of our co-production tool to identify and prioritize specific sites and 55 percent of our ingredient and auditing processes areas of risk. Risk reduction goals are supplier sites also are GFSI certified. Expertise: Our food safety formula set based on the 2015 baseline. Food Detailed policies: Governance of General begins with people – our team of safety is part of our Zero-Loss Culture Traceability: Our inventory control and Mills’ food safety and regulatory matters experienced food safety professionals – strategy (see Our Workplace section) supplier management systems include begins with a corporate policy signed supported with adequate resources and and food safety metrics are tracked the ability to trace the sources of our by our Chief Executive Officer. This guided by clearly defined processes. along with workplace safety data as we ingredients, which is key to isolating risks corporate policy is further supported by From board certified toxicologists focus on improving our performance. in the event of food safety concerns. We an additional set of 16 detailed policies, to quality engineers, our people evaluate our suppliers’ systems to ensure developed by subject matter experts, with Our Global Internal Audit team have the expertise to make informed they meet our traceability requirements. accompanying standards and guidance periodically audits the effectiveness and food safety decisions, from product Our approach to selecting, auditing documents. Policies are signed by the efficiency of Quality and Regulatory design through consumer use. and training suppliers helps ensure the senior leader(s) in the functions primarily Operations’ internal controls and GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Training: In fiscal 2016, we increased We continually refine our training 2016, we conducted Auditor Academy training to support compliance with approach through our global centers training sessions attended by 194 the U.S. Food Safety Modernization of excellence focused on key food participants from 14 countries. These Act (FSMA)’s Preventive Controls Rule, safety requirements, such as sanitation, sessions help improve our ability to which became effective September 2015. quality engineering and auditing. We identify and fix issues, as well as prevent General Mills played a key role in providing provide comprehensive, consistent food safety problems from occurring. industry perspective during development instruction through our global online G4-FP5, PR1, PR2 of the FSMA – the most sweeping training academy with materials in w Auditor Academy participants received change to U.S. food safety regulations English, French, Mandarin Chinese, hands-on instruction in best-in-class in 100 years. To prepare for the FSMA Portuguese and Spanish. In fiscal auditing skills. requirement that each food safety plan be reviewed by a Preventive Controls Auditor Academy impact in 2016: Qualified Individual (PCQI), 125 of our employees participated in PCQI training, four employees were trained as lead instructors and one person was certified 194 FROM 14 ATTENDED 9 REACHING 2,000+ participants countries sessions people to train the trainers, helping us to scale this knowledge across the organization. 2B Audits and suppliers The General Mills Quality and Regulatory Operations team performs direct Impact audits and also encourages thirdn 8  00+ supplier audits conducted party audits and/or certification, such in 2016. as through GFSI, as an additional n 4  0+ co-producer audits preventive control measure. conducted in 2016. n 5  0+ suppliers trained through Supplier training: Our products are supplier schools and webinars in only as safe as the ingredients in them, 2016. so we bring together our suppliers around the world to share food safety knowledge and communicate food Audits: To help ensure the safety safety expectations. We conduct of the raw materials (ingredients supplier schools in classroom settings r Ingredient suppliers attended a training session in China in November 2015. and packaging) we use in our tailored to the needs of each market. In products, we continue to expand the India, Spain, Thailand and the U.S. in and production facility sanitization. 2016, we held supplier schools in China number of supplier and co-producer prior years. Those seminars addressed Since 2011, we have had more than 600 and Taiwan, building on our success of audits we conduct globally. topics such as biological and physical participants in our supplier schools. schools held in Australia, Brazil, China, hazard controls, allergen management G4-PR1, FP2, FP5 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 3 Consumer education and responsible marketing 3A Consumer education General Mills provides useful, objective, with IFBA requirements. In 2016, 98 Canada: All General Mills package U.S.: The majority of our U.S. products fact-based information on packages to percent of our products in Australia information complies with Health now feature front-of-package labeling. help consumers make easier comparisons displayed nutrition intake reference Canada and Canadian Food Inspection and informed dietary choices. Our information on the front of the package. Agency labeling requirements. In 2016, product packages display accurate Health Canada introduced the Healthy In July 2016, the Australian government nutrition labeling as prescribed by Eating Strategy to help make it easier introduced a new information standard regulations in the country of sale. for Canadians to make healthier food for labeling the country of origin on choices. The strategy includes initiatives As a member of the International Food food packaging. During the two-year to improve healthy eating, protect and Beverage Alliance (IFBA), General transition period, food businesses will vulnerable populations, strengthen Mills has made a commitment to adopt begin applying easylabeling and claims, improve nutrition a common global approach to nutrition to-understand labels to quality standards, and support increased information on packaging that includes, at inform consumers at a access to and availability of nutritious minimum, the labeling of calories on frontglance where food is foods. General Mills is working to of-pack. This initiative was implemented grown, produced, made comply with the new requirements r Nutrition Keys are printed on the front globally during 2015 to inform consumers or packed. The labels related to front-of-pack labeling, sodium, of most of our U.S. retail product packages about specific product nutrition attributes. will also provide the marketing to kids, Nutrition Facts to make it easier for consumers to make percentage of ingredients informed choices. Around the world, our product labeling labeling and trans fat regulations. that come from Australia. meets local regulatory requirements G4-EC1, FP4, FP8, PR3 r New labels will inform consumers about Europe: All General Mills package while remaining consistent with our the percentage of ingredients sourced from information complies with European Food global approach. For example, we Australia. Information to Consumers Regulation. provide additional nutrient information All General Mills consumer products on our packaging in markets such Brazil and Argentina: All General in Europe include dietary reference as Australia, Europe and the U.S. Mills package information complies intake information on the packaging. with local regulations. We include the Australia: To provide consumers with General Mills aims to provide the highest energy icon on clear, fact-based nutrition information, level of consistency and transparency the front-of-pack we are implementing possible working within packaging for all our product the Australian Daily constraints. Where space on packages packaging in Brazil Intake Guide frontpermits, the five-icon ‘Reference Intake’ and Argentina. of-pack labeling format – including energy (calories), scheme consistent v In Brazil, our fat, saturated fat, sugar and salt – is products have the v The products we energy (calories) icon displayed. We include the energy icon sell in Australia include printed on the front as a minimum on smaller packages. front-of-pack labeling. of packages. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 3B Responsible marketing Business Bureau’s Child Advertising joined other leading food and nonReview Unit in the United States. We alcoholic beverage companies in a Commitment update our marketing policies annually to public letter to the Director General of Global: Commitment to International reflect current standards and practices. the U.N. World Health Organization in r General Mills is a charter member of IFBA Food and Beverage Alliance pledge and supports its responsible marketing and September 2014 communicating a set U.S.: Compliance with Children’s Review: General Mills’ marketing policies advertising initiatives. of enhanced global commitments that Food and Beverage Advertising are reviewed and updated annually by Initiative guidelines included responsible marketing and our company’s Responsible Marketing Europe: Compliance with EU advertising initiatives. These standards Council. These policies are reviewed Pledge guidelines encompassed commitments around annually with the company’s Chief Brazil: Compliance with enhanced product reformulation and innovation Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Commitment to Responsible as well as a common global approach Officers of our U.S. and International Advertising for Children pledge to providing nutrition information on r The Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising operating units. We adhere to strict Canada: Compliance with Canadian packaging, at the point of sale and Initiative (CFBAI) is a voluntary program of the internal and industry guidelines – that Council of Better Business Bureaus. Children’s Food and Beverage through other channels by the end in many cases are more demanding Advertising Initiative guidelines of 2016. The enhanced commitments than local regulations – in producing Singapore: Compliance with included an expansion of IFBA’s global Singapore Food and Beverage and reviewing ads to ensure they are marketing policy, in place since 2009, Industry Responsible Advertising appropriate for the intended audience. which specified that members would only to Children Initiative Global commitment: As charter advertise products that meet better-forr General Mills is a founding member of the EU Australia: Compliance with members of the International Food you criteria or refrain from all product Pledge covering advertising to kids under age 12. Responsible Child Marketing and Beverage Alliance (IFBA), we marketing to children under 12 years old. Initiative of the Australian Food and Grocery Council r As a founding member of CFBAI, General Mills Philosophy: We believe children upholds its child advertising nutrition standards. should be encouraged to consume lower-calorie, nutrient-dense foods that support their growth and activity. Our marketing guidelines and commitments support this philosophy. r The Singapore Food and Beverage Industry Guidelines: General Mills’ marketing Responsible Advertising to Children Initiative is a pledge promoted by Food Industry Asia. guidelines underscore our commitment to responsible marketing and advertising by stating that all marketing to children should respect three key steps to healthier living: balance, moderation and physical activity. We take particular care r The Responsible Child Marketing Initiative is a program of the Australian Food and around advertising directed to children – r We have made commitments around the world supporting responsible marketing and Grocery Council. including prior review by the Better advertising to children. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community The 2014 commitments strengthened leading food and beverage companies, that policy in three core areas: media, General Mills agrees to advertise only marketing and harmonized criteria. The products that meet specific nutrition policy covers virtually all media and criteria to kids under age 12. This pledge certain marketing techniques directed applies to all brands of our General at children under the age of 12. Members Mills portfolio in Europe, including CPW have committed to working toward and Yoplait. On January 1st 2017, the harmonizing global nutrition criteria to EU pledge members committed to ensure that better-for-you foods are extend the scope of the commitment based on robust common standards. to cover a number of additional media and to address the content of their Compliance with IFBA commitments is marketing communications. The EU monitored independently and publicly Pledge is officially recognized by EU reported by Accenture annually. General institutions and is a commitment to the r We believe children should be encouraged to consume low-calorie, nutrient-dense foods. Mills follows the Children’s Food and EU Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) Activity and Health, owned by the World lifestyles to children under 12 years of (via the Committee on Guidelines for nutrition standards in markets where other Federation of Advertisers (WFA). age. General Mills played a leadership Food Advertising to Children). The new regulatory or self-regulatory standards role in developing the new CAI nutrition guidelines went into effect January 1, 2015, do not exist. We apply the CFBAI Brazil: In December 2016, the IFBA criteria announced in October 2014 that and build upon the industry pledge that nutrition standards to products that we launched an enhanced Commitment to established a single set of guidelines for requires all food and beverage products advertise to children under the age of 12. Responsible Advertising for Children advertising only better-for-you products promoted in marketing communications in Brazil, building on the 2009 pledge. U.S.: General Mills supports the CFBAI in eight food and beverage categories. targeted at children age 12 and younger Effective January 2017, General Mills and child advertising nutrition standards. The criteria include maximum calories, to meet common nutrient criteria. The other pledge participants commit to Our company is a founding member of nutrients to limit and other nutrients guidelines apply to all media platforms. advertise to children under 12 years of CFBAI and has been in full compliance to encourage. The criteria went into age only products that meet common Australia: General Mills is a signatory of with the CFBAI standards since their full effect in December 2015; we have nutrition criteria based on reputable the Responsible Child Marketing Initiative inception in 2006, including the Uniform applied these guidelines to all of our new scientific evidence and/or national of the Australian Food and Grocery Nutrition Standards that took effect in products since their announcement. and international dietary guidelines. Council. While our Australian brands December 2013. These category-level Singapore: As a signatory to the 2012 do not specifically market to children, guidelines apply rigorous nutrition Canada: In Canada, we participate in the Singapore Food and Beverage Industry we nevertheless adhere to the terms standards for specific food groups, such Canadian Children’s Food and Beverage Responsible Advertising to Children of the code around non-advertising in as yogurt and cereal, consistently across Advertising Initiative (CAI), a voluntary Initiative, General Mills supported and was media primarily directed to children. the U.S. food and beverage industry. initiative by 18 of Canada’s leading food involved in the development of industryand beverage companies to promote G4-PR6, FP8 Europe: As a founding member of the led Food and Advertising Guidelines and support healthy dietary choices and EU Pledge, a voluntary initiative by through a public-private consortium “General Mills is committed to the highest standards of responsible marketing. Through our leadership and participation in industry self-regulatory initiatives globally, we work to deliver that commitment.” — Mary  Catherine Toker, Vice President, Government Relations GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 4 Transparency Consumers, regulators, investors and other stakeholders all seek more AskGeneralMills.com Understanding consumers and building trust information about the food we make. In March 2016, we launched askgeneralmills. Consumers want to know what’s in com to provide consumers with answers In 2016, General Mills Here’s what we heard: n R  elationship is two-way, their food, where it comes from and to questions about our food. The site conducted extensive n B  rands reflect people’s enabled by technology. features the most frequently asked consumer research to how it is prepared. They look for familiar values and people This research has been consumer questions through generalmills. better understand what want brands that used by our consumer ingredients on food labels and want they seek, how we can most share their values. brand teams and corporate to understand what purpose those com and our toll-free number, along with effectively communicate functions to build trust ingredients serve. They also want answers and links to other material, such n P  eople want to know with them to increase with consumers, employees as videos, photos, blogs and website that information is assurance that the food has been transparency and what it and key stakeholders. content. As of December 2016, more available if they want it. grown and harvested in a responsible takes to earn their trust. and sustainable manner that respects than 116,000 users had visited the site people, animals and the environment. to access information and submitted At General Mills, we are committed 5,400 questions on a variety of topics, including use of GMOs by product/ SmartLabel In December 2015, General Mills launched a SmartLabel pilot, which included 17 to increasing transparency about our When the SmartLabel™ pilot launched in brand, the motivation behind gluten-free U.S. retail cereal SKUs (a combination food and our processes, and recently December 2015, General Mills was one of the Cheerios, our animal welfare policy, food of Chex and Fiber One products). We launched several new tools to further first companies to implement this tool in the ingredients and much more. We continue plan to expand use of this tool to other this effort. Learn more about our market. Led by the Grocery Manufacturers to build the database of questions and brands and products in our U.S. portfolio, environmental and social sustainability Association (GMA), SmartLabel is a answers and recently added definitions focusing on delivering information through initiatives in the Our Planet section of voluntary initiative that provides an of nearly 100 ingredients for which brand websites and smartlabel.org. this report. organized, consistent way for consumers consumers frequently request information. to access product information digitally. What is SmartLabel? SmartLabel™ is a tool that helps consumers learn more about products by accessing detailed information in a digital format on smartphones, computers and other devices. Consumers can access SmartLabel data on smartlabel.org, through participating brand websites or by scanning a SmartLabel quick response (QR) code if printed on packages. SmartLabel enables brands to provide more information to consumers than is available on product packaging. This digital labeling is now being used for food, beverage, personal care, household and pet care products. As of December 2016, 21 companies had begun using the SmartLabel tool. w This SmartLabel mobile page view provides nutrition information in addition to listing ingredients, allergens and other details about Rice Chex cereal. r Consumers can find out more about their food on askgeneralmills.com. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Product recalls Safety: Safety is our highest priority, and we find broad global consensus among we will need at least 50 percent more food, 45 percent more energy and 30 use is the need for supply chain actors to regularly review, identify and address When we learn about illnesses that may food and safety regulatory bodies that percent more water. Biotechnology issues associated with the technology, be linked to our products, we take quick approved GMOs are safe. The following shows promise to strengthen crops including pest and weed resistance. action. We collaborate with health officials organizations have determined biotech against drought and extreme Alternatives: We understand that to investigate the situation, communicate crops to be as safe and acceptable as temperature and deliver more nutritious consumers have different views on these with consumers and issue voluntary their conventional counterparts: WHO, food, even in poor soil conditions. topics, and we respect these consumer product recalls to remove affected Food and Agriculture Organization of Benefits: Numerous studies have values. That’s why we offer products that products from store shelves, when the United Nations, European Food identified benefits related to global do not contain ingredients produced appropriate, such as Gluten-Free Cheerios Safety Authority, U.S. Food and Drug food security and the environment: using biotechnology. We offer organic in October 2015. Learn more about our Administration, U.S. Department of and non-GMO alternatives in most commitment to food safety in stories 2A n F  armers planting GM crops tend to Agriculture, U.S. Environmental Protection of our major categories in the U.S. and 2B in this section of the report and Agency and Health Canada. The National generate more stable, and sometimes in this Taste of General Mills blog post. Academy of Sciences, American Medical higher, yields. Transparency: In the spring of 2016, we Association and the British Royal Society launched AskGeneralMills.com to further n G  M crops generally need less Biotechnology also found no health risks associated with insecticide and may enable the use enhance transparency around which of our products contained GMOs. and food genetically modified (GM) ingredients. of less harmful herbicides. Read more about GMOs at Productivity: One in eight people n G  M crops often require less energy use We agree with the UN World Health www.generalmills.com/News/ in the world today – more than 900 by farmers and are associated with Organization (WHO) that the Issues/on-biotechnology. million people worldwide – do not reduced GHG emissions, improved development of genetically modified have enough to eat. And by 2040, water quality, improved nitrogen G4-EC1, EN12, EN13, EN27, PR6 organisms (GMOs) offers the potential the world’s population is projected retention, improved water filtration for increased agricultural productivity to increase to 9 billion people. Global and erosion reduction in soil. and improved nutritional value that can experts project that to meet the growing enhance human health and development. Responsible technology, marketing and needs of an increasingly hungry world, usage: Incumbent with any technology Non-GMO Project We’ve enrolled nearly 600 General Mills about non-GMO products. The Non-GMO General Mills Non-GMO Project Verified products products – predominantly our natural Project Product Verification Program is Number of Non-GMO Project and organic products – in the U.S. NonNorth America’s only third-party verification General Mills brands Verified product SKUs GMO Project, a nonprofit organization for non-GMO food and products. that provides consumers with information Annie’s 143 Cascadian Farm 138 Food Should Taste Good 103 Immaculate Baking 23 LÄRABAR 114 Muir Glen 74 Total 595 r Some of the many General Mills products that carry the Non-GMO Project Verified seal. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Our Planet Our sustainability mission is to treat the world with care. IN 1 Climate change 2 Sustainable sourcing 3 Water stewardship 4 5 6 THIS SECTION Ecosystems Human Animal rights welfare GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Overview Our goal is to protect the resources upon which our business depends by promoting environmentally and socially responsible practices across our value chain. The areas of greatest environmental impact in our supply chain – including more than two-thirds of GHG emissions and 99 percent of water use – occur outside General Mills’ operations, primarily in agriculture. We are working to reduce those impacts through our climate ambition goals, water stewardship program, ecosystems commitments and sustainable sourcing initiatives. We advance responsible sourcing practices that respect human rights and protect animal welfare. Sustainability goals We are committed to combating climate change by working toward sustainable emissions Climate change levels by 2050 and reducing GHG emissions by 28 percent by 2025. Learn more. We are committed to sustainably sourcing 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, Sustainable sourcing representing more than 40 percent of our annual raw material purchases, and supporting the livelihoods of smallholder farmers who grow our ingredients. Learn more. We are advancing the sustainability of water use across our supply chain by ensuring farmers Water stewardship and communities have long-term plans to improve the health of key watersheds by 2025. Learn more. We are committed to improving the health of ecosystems in our supply chain through our work Ecosystems on soil health, pollinators, organic farmland and integrated pest management. Learn more. Respect for human rights is fundamental to our company’s purpose and values. We are Human rights committed to conducting business with high ethical standards and expect our suppliers to do the same. Learn more. We support the humane treatment of animals in agriculture. Our animal welfare policy ANIMAL Animal welfare includes a commitment to use 100 percent cage-free eggs in our operations by 2025. Learn more. WELFARE GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Leadership and work, reporting to the Executive Vice SUSTAINABILITY governance: President of External Relations and CEO, CHAIRMAN BOARD OF DIRECTORS, GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD Executive Vice President of Supply CEO COMMITTEE At General Mills, our Chairman and Chain, and working closely with the CFO Chief Executive Officer has ultimate COO Vice President of Sourcing and other EVP, SUPPLY CHAIN accountability for sustainability, key business leaders to develop, SVP, EXTERNAL which is included in his annual RELATIONS coordinate and execute programs EVP, U.S. RETAIL EVP, EXTERNAL EVP, SUPPLY performance objectives and impacts EVP, INNOVATION, RELATIONS CHAIN to achieve companywide targets. TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY his compensation. The Chairman SVP, SALES and CEO convenes the Sustainability G4-15, 42 Governance Committee three times per CHIEF VP, GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY VPs, SUPPLY CHAIN year to review and approve strategies, OFFICER SOURCING programs and key investments. Oversight of the company’s sustainability work is provided by the General Mills “As a global food company, we depend on nature’s systems to make the food Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility people love, so it’s vital that we continue to make steady progress toward our Committee, which regularly reviews the company’s sustainability objectives, ambitious climate, GHG and water commitments. We know that one company strategies and performance. alone can’t negate climate change, but working in cooperation toward aggressive The company’s Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) goals is how we will start to see more meaningful results.” stewards the company’s sustainability — Jerry Lynch, Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer 1 Climate change Climate change presents risks to humanity, our environment and our livelihoods. Changes in climate not only affect global food security but also impact General Mills’ raw material supply. This influences our ability to deliver quality products to our consumers and value to our shareholders. Approach Collaboration: We directly control only a small portion of our value chain, The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture and our work with The Energy Policy) coalition, we work with other businesses and policymakers to Our General Mills Policy on Climate, so driving transformation across the Nature Conservancy to develop a soil advocate for innovative and impactful which focuses on mitigation, entire system requires new levels of health roadmap. See Agriculture and climate and clean energy policies. We adaptation, disclosure and advocacy, leadership and collaboration with farmers, transformation for more details. are also signatories to the New York establishes a framework to track packaging producers, product transport Declaration on Forests and the UN Combating climate change also requires and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) providers, retailers and customers. Caring for Climate Declaration. collective action across industries and emissions across our value chain. We drive progress through involvement our broader society. Through the BICEP in initiatives such as Field to Market: (Business for Innovative Climate & GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Goal: In 2015, we set a science-based goal ongoing challenge is to decrease our to reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28 percent by 2025 footprint while growing our business. 28% 41(compared to 2010). Our longer-term goal For details on the risks and opportunities General Mills faces due to climate 72% is to achieve sustainable emission levels change, see our CDP submission in line with scientific consensus by 2050. online. Recognizing the company as a Performance: In 2016, our GHG global climate leader, we were named emissions footprint increased 3 percent to the CDP Climate A-List in 2016. 2025 goal*: Reduce 2050 goal*: Reduce compared to 2010, but fell 2 percent The sections on the following pages absolute GHG emissions absolute GHG emissions versus 2015. Net sales, which rose 12 break down our footprint by value across our full value across our full value chain percent since 2010 but decreased 6 chain phase and describe our chain by 28 percent to sustainable levels in line percent year over year, played a key role. efforts to improve performance. with scientific consensus We need to accelerate recent progress G4-16, EC2, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19 to reach our goals. As our target is to reduce absolute emissions, our The path to 2050** 15.1 15 14.8 14.4 Consuming Selling Shipping Producing Million metric tons CO2e 10.3 Packaging supply chain 10 Agriculture and transformation 5 0 2010 2015 2016 2025 2050 * Compared to 2010. ** General Mills worked with Quantis, a sustainability and life-cycle assessment (LCA) consulting firm, to calculate our company’s GHG emissions footprint. The calculation methodologies align with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, developed by World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Relative size of value chain segments for 2025 and 2050 are based on 2010 data. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Agriculture and transformation (48% of total value chain GHG emissions) 7.2 7.2 6.7 KEY DRIVERS (% OF EMISSIONS) 4.8 Growing and transporting crops, and turning them into food ingredients ROW CROPS* DAIRY PRODUCTS MEAT OTHER 29% 23% 7% 41% 2010 2015 2016 2025 * Includes sugar beets. GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: MEDIUM EMISSIONS (MILLION TONS CO2E) Agriculture and transformation corresponding commodity purchases a full discussion of our work in this n D  airy products: Dairy management represents the largest source of GHG between 2010 and 2016, partially offset area, see the Ecosystems section. contributes to GHG emissions due to emissions across our value chain, so by a decrease in the GHG-emissions feed production, methane emissions from n R  ow crops: In the U.S., we partner it is central to our reduction efforts. intensity of some of our ingredients. digestive processes, manure, processing, with Field to Market and our suppliers transport of raw milk and other factors. Performance: Greenhouse gas Approach: Our efforts focus on: to help growers of wheat, sugar emissions increased 7 percent in 2016 beets and corn gather data on the See the Sustainable sourcing section n S  oil health: Healthy soil has significant compared to our 2010 baseline. This was impact of their farming practices, for more details on our row crop and potential to sequester carbon. For primarily due to a rise in net sales and including GHG emissions. dairy initiatives. Packaging supply chain (9% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF EMISSIONS) Producing packaging materials (making 1.4 and transporting) 1.2 1.3 0.85 FIBER METAL PLASTIC OTHER 39% 37% 23% 1% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: 2010 2015 2016 2025 HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION TONS CO2E) We continually innovate to reduce the materials use, switching to lower impact Performance: Greenhouse gas was due to an overall increase in environmental impact of packaging materials (including renewable) and emissions increased 15 percent in 2016 packaging volume between 2010 through better design – by decreasing improving truckload packing efficiencies. compared to our 2010 baseline. This and 2016 as well as expanded GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community use of higher impact materials, about 42 percent of General Mills’ Design innovation: In 2014, General External collaboration: We partner with such as aluminum yogurt lids. product packaging weight in the Mills began an industry-leading industry and community U.S. Approximately 88 percent of our program to replace the petroleumorganizations to improve Sourcing: General Mills has a target packaging in the U.S. was recyclable.1 based polyethylene (PE) plastic liner recycling effectiveness to source 100 percent of our fiber of Cascadian Farm cereal boxes with a and availability. packaging by 2020 from recycled bio-based PE. As of October 2016, the material or from virgin wood fiber renewable material represents about regions that do not contribute to 68 percent of liner material for the deforestation. In 2016, 99 percent of product. We’re using about 270 metric the fiber packaging we purchased was tons of this material on an annual sustainably sourced. See the Sustainable basis, which will reduce yearly GHG sourcing section for more details. emissions by approximately 750 metric Recycled and recyclable materials: tons CO2e. Through ongoing technical We continue to increase our use of r Two-thirds of our products with large enough packages now include How2Recycle innovation, we’re working to increase recycled and recyclable materials. In labels, developed by the Sustainable renewable content to 100 percent. 2016, recycled content represented Packaging Coalition. G4-EN2, EC1 1 According to analysis conducted by General Mills in 2016. Packaging is considered recyclable if 60 percent or more of the U.S. population has access to recycling for the material. Producing (11% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF EMISSIONS) Making our products (mixing and cooking) 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.2 ELECTRICITY FUEL OTHER 42% 18% 40% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: 2010 2015 2016 2025 HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION TONS CO2E) The amount and type of energy Five-Step Energy Reduction Process: In fiscal 2016, we implemented more delivered US$6 million in Holistic we use are the key drivers of GHG The 19 plants participating in this than 300 projects at these sites Margin Management (HMM) reduction emissions from our operations. program represent 80 percent of our through the Five-Step process. and avoided nearly 45,000 metric global energy use from manufacturing. These saved over 50 million kWh, tons CO2e of GHG emissions. We Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions expect this program to save General decreased 7 percent in 2016 compared to our 2010 baseline, primarily due to our Five-Step Energy Reduction Process Mills about US$10 million in energy use over the next several years. ongoing progress in energy efficiency and STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 reductions in the average GHG-emissions Establish Conduct Develop Execute Validate Renewable energy: We have implemented intensity of the electricity we purchase. Energy Energy Improvement Improvement Results numerous renewable energy initiatives Program Analysis Plan Plan at facilities worldwide that meet 2 This data is greater than the sum of Scope 1 and Scope 2 data included in the Environmental Data Summary, because it also includes GHG emissions related to upstream fuel and energy generation as well as waste from manufacturing. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community financial guidelines and support our To view additional data about GHG environmental objectives. Overall, we emissions, energy usage in our 3/2/1 targets generated more than 117 million kWh of directly controlled operations, and renewable energy onsite in 2016, almost water and solid waste, see the All General Mills-owned production 2016 results** 4 percent of our total energy usage. Environmental Data Summary. facilities have ongoing annual targets to: (% change compared to 2015) Waste reduction: We also work to decrease waste, which saves Solid waste by disposition* WAS TE Reduce production solid waste generation by 3 percent* 17% increase (% of 2016 global total) RO ZE money and materials and decreases our overall GHG emissions. n R ecycling 83% Reduce energy use by 2 percent* 0% Worldwide, at the end of fiscal 2016, n D isposal 15% seven General Mills production facilities n E nergy recovery 3% (about 12 percent of the global total) *Graph refers to production Reduce water use by 1 percent* 12% increase waste. Disposal includes met our zero-waste-to-landfill criteria.3 landfill and incineration We continue working to meet our target without energy recovery. For additional data, see the Environmental Data Summary. Segments do not add up to achieve zero waste to landfill at 30 to 100% due to rounding. *Normalized to production percent of our owned production facilities **Increases in the solid waste generation and water use rates are due to a decrease in overall production by 2020 and 100 percent by 2025. G4-EN2, EN3, EN5, EN6, EN19, EN23 during the year, combined with the addition of several new product line start-ups. Increased sanitation cycles also impacted the water use rate. 3 These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Shipping (6% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF EMISSIONS) Transporting ingredients to our facilities and our products on to stores 0.95 0.91 0.88 0.68 FUEL OTHER 80% 20% GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: 2010 2015 2016 2025 HIGH EMISSIONS (MILLION TONS CO2E) We work with our suppliers, co-packers, Strategies: n C  ollaborating with suppliers and transportation providers and customers customers to increase capacity utilization n O  ptimizing transportation to reduce the environmental impact of and providing customers incentives modes, including moving loads shipping our products around the world. through our Direct Plant Ship program. to modes with less impact, such Performance: Greenhouse gas emissions as from truck to rail or ship. n P  rioritizing shippers with strong n I mproving logistics planning by decreased 8 percent in 2016 compared environmental credentials. In North regionally sourcing products, filling n U  sing innovative technologies such as to our 2010 baseline, due to shifts to America, 80 percent of our spending trucks more completely and using lightweight truck cabs and semitrailers more efficient transport modes and on product transport providers is load optimization software. powered by compressed natural gas. improvements in truck fuel efficiency. with SmartWay certified carriers. G4-EN19, EN30 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Selling (7% of total value chain GHG emissions) Making food available KEY DRIVERS (% OF EMISSIONS) for purchase and daily operations of our business 1.1 1.0 (promoting and storing) 0.92 0.66 STORAGE AT RETAIL OTHER 86% 14% 2010 2015 2016 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION TONS CO2E) We support the efforts of our customers 2016 compared to our 2010 baseline, impacts in this area through increased per mile driven. By the end of 2016, all who are working to reduce energy use largely due to changes in net sales. use of virtual meeting technologies and of our U.S. sales fleet vehicles will be and associated GHG emissions related to upgrades to more efficient fleet vehicles. more efficient 2016 and 2017 models. Sales and marketing: This category storing and refrigerating our products. From fiscal 2010 through fiscal 2016, we also includes General Mills activities that reduced the GHG emissions intensity Performance: Greenhouse gas support sales and marketing, such as of our U.S. sales fleet by 29 percent emissions increased 10 percent in business travel. We continue to reduce Consuming (19% of total value chain GHG emissions) KEY DRIVERS (% OF EMISSIONS) Enjoying food (shopping, 2.9 2.9 2.8 preparing and eating) 2.1 and disposing CONSUMERS DRIVE HOME COOKING HOME STORAGE END OF LIFE TO RETAIL 34% 32% 21% 13% 2010 2015 2016 2025 GENERAL MILLS’ LEVEL OF INFLUENCE: LOW EMISSIONS (MILLION TONS CO2E) Product characteristics such as Performance: Greenhouse gas cooking or refrigeration as well as less In 2016, our grantees rescued more preparation and storage requirements emissions decreased 4 percent in GHG-intensive consumer transport. than 2.2 billion pounds of excess food determine the majority of emissions 2016 compared to our 2010 baseline, to feed the hungry, rather than go to Food waste: General Mills supports in this phase, followed by customer reflecting a shift in our portfolio to landfills. Learn more in story 1B in the several initiatives to combat food waste. transportation to and from stores. more products that do not require Our Community section of this report. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2 Sustainable sourcing Our approach: engage & transform We focus on improving the environmental, social and economic impacts of raw material sourcing. We implement Sustainable sourcing engagement strategies sustainable sourcing practices for a variety of reasons. First, we want to Origin-direct Continuous Verification ensure supply chain resiliency and our investment improvement ability to continue making food people We invest directly at the origin We advance the sustainability of We increase the sustainability of palm love well into the future. And second, it for crops like vanilla and cocoa dairy and row crops by engaging with oil, fiber packaging and sugarcane is the right thing to do, which is one of to improve smallholder farmer farmers to reduce the environmental by working across the industry to our company’s core values. We know livelihoods and ingredient quality. impact of agriculture. We ensure improve practices. We verify progress consumers care about where our food sustainable sourcing of these by purchasing certified sustainable raw comes from and how it is made.  commodities by documenting materials or completing independent continuous improvement over time. verification in high-risk regions. We move our supply chain toward more sustainable solutions using three strategies: origin-direct investment, The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, (NGOs) like The Nature Conservancy continuous improvement and verification. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (TNC) and the international Partners: We partner with a range of (RSPO), Proforest, Sustainable Vanilla humanitarian organization CARE. industry groups to advance sourcing Initiative (SVI) and Bonsucro, as well sustainability, including Field to Market: as nongovernmental organizations Our sustainable sourcing journey 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 Began work with World Completed comprehensive Began water risk assessment Completed water risk Achieved target of Wildlife Fund (WWF) to supply risk analysis* of of all plants and growing assessment with TNC. 100% palm oil integrate sustainability into all agricultural raw regions working with The sustainably sourced. Announced commitment to General Mills’ supply chain. materials purchased Nature Conservancy (TNC). sustainably source 100% of 10 worldwide with WWF. Announced commitment priority raw materials by 2020. to sustainably source 100% of palm oil by 2015. *Each raw material was assessed against dozens of potential risk categories, including animal welfare, child and forced labor, worker health and safety, indigenous peoples’ rights, deforestation, economic sustainability, fertilizer (nitrogen) use, GHG emissions, soil loss, water quality and water use. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Performance dashboard: Sourcing Commitment: Sustainably source 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients Progress: 69% of these raw materials 69% by 2020, representing 40 percent of our annual raw material purchases.* sustainably sourced in 2016. Primary focus*** FY2016 progress** (% of volume Raw material/ingredient Strategy Sustainability definition sustainably sourced as of May 2016) Environmental Social Cocoa 46% Direct investment at origin to improve smallholder farmer livelihoods and ingredient quality Vanilla 22% Origin-direct investment 50% Documented continuous improvement Oats using industry-based environmental metrics U.S. wheat 36% U.S sugar beets 68% Documented continuous improvement using Field to Market framework or comparable metrics Continuous improvement U.S. corn  (dry milled) 33% Documented continuous improvement U.S. dairy  (raw fluid milk) 38% measured by Stewardship & Sustainability Framework (U.S.) or comparable metrics 99% Recycled material or virgin wood fiber from Fiber packaging regions not contributing to deforestation Sourced from independently verified lowSugarcane 67% risk regions, or compliance with Bonsucro or comparable standards in high-risk regions Verification 100% RSPO mass balanced, segregated Palm oil**** sustainable palm, or green palm certificates *Percentage adjusted from prior report due to changes in overall spend and commodity prices. **Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. All numbers calculated based on volume except fiber packaging, which is based on percent of spend sustainably sourced. ***Our efforts are focused on areas of significant challenge at the point of origin where we can have the greatest impact. ****Palm oil target 100% by FY2015; baseline year FY2010 for palm oil (baseline FY2014 for all other ingredients). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2A Origin-direct investment We rely on farmers and farming communities for our ingredients. We know that when farmers can earn a good living and take care of the environment around them, their lives are better, their communities are more stable, and we’re better able to make the food people love. Our origin-direct strategy is to invest in smallholder farmers and their communities to improve livelihoods and the sustainability and quality of our ingredients. More than 70 percent of the cocoa we purchase is grown in West Africa. Cocoa Commitment: General Mills will In Côte d’Ivoire, we partner with cocoa In Ghana, we are working with cocoa source 100 percent of our cocoa by suppliers Barry Callebaut and Cargill to help supplier Cargill and humanitarian NGO smallholder farmers. Our support of the CARE in 20 communities to form village 2020 through programs that improve Cargill Cocoa Promise program with CARE cooperatives and provide technical the livelihoods of smallholder farmers in Côte d’Ivoire benefits 10 communities. assistance and educational support for and the quality of the ingredients. Our support of Barry Callebaut’s Cocoa more than 2,200 smallholder farmers. Horizons program helps farmers in 65 cocoa Status: 46 percent of the cocoa cooperatives improve productivity through General Mills purchased was training, support and financing.* In Nigeria, we launched a sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. new partnership with cocoa supplier Olam. Challenges include: *Impact from General Mills funding and donations from other companies combined for maximum impact in the Cocoa Horizons program. n E  conomic viability – ensuring Beginning in January 2017, all of our smallholder farmers earn enough from powdered cocoa is now sustainably growing cocoa to feed their families sourced. We have plans in place to n L  ow productivity – low yields, transition an additional 25 percent of crop loss due to pests or disease, chocolate onto sustainable sourcing and degraded soil fertility programs by the end of fiscal 2017. n C  hild labor – helping families Collaboration: We work directly with keep children in school our suppliers to address systemic n D  eforestation due to the expansion challenges and enforce our Supplier Code of cocoa plantations in some areas of Conduct, which prohibits forced and Progress: In 2016, we expanded our child labor. In addition, we are members work with key suppliers to provide direct of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), support to cocoa-growing communities which works with the food industry in West Africa. Learn more in the Our to address social and environmental r In Ghana, nearly 37 percent of the participants who received training in 20 cocoa Community section of this report. issues in the cocoa supply chain. communities were female farmers. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Cocoa origin investment impact Cocoa sustainablility scorecard* Location Focus area Impact Côte d’Ivoire, Farmer training 39,700 farmers trained Ghana Côte d’Ivoire Farmer training 29 demonstration plots established 83% adopted sustainable Ghana Farming practices agronomic practices** Côte d’Ivoire, Fertilizer and pest 2,025 farmers using more efficient Ghana control fertilizer application and pest control r Cocoa farmers receive agronomic training in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana. 193% increase in average farmer Ghana Farmer incomes incomes (2015-2016) “Today, following the good agricultural practices taught, the yield Ghana Cocoa production 82% increase (2015-2016) from my harvest is greater. Now I earn more money and am Côte d’Ivoire Cocoa trees 467,750 seedlings distributed financially independent. I can also afford the school fees for the * Côte d’Ivoire data based on overall program results for Barry Callebaut Cocoa Horizons program; Ghana results specific to communities in Ghana benefiting from General Mills funding through program with Cargill and CARE. education of my children.” ** Agronomic practices include fertilizer application, nursery management, shade management, pruning and – Akekoua Ane Yvette, Cocoa Farmer, Côte d’Ivoire removal of mistletoe, and business management. At General Mills, we know that The majority of the vanilla we purchase sustainability is a journey and that Vanilla is grown and cured in Madagascar’s Sava region. success isn’t always linear. We are Commitment: General Mills will committed to finding the right solutions, source 100 percent of our vanilla by not just the easy ones. We continue 2020 through programs that improve to search for opportunities to expand the livelihoods of smallholder farmers our reach and impact in Madagascar to and the quality of the ingredients. produce enough sustainable vanilla to Status: 22 percent of the vanilla 1 achieve our ambitious commitment. General Mills purchased was r Cured vanilla beans sourced from smallholder farmers in Madagascar. Collaboration: Our key partners sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. include our supplier, Virgnia 1 Madagascar Our percentage of sustainably sourced Dare, and industry group SVI. vanilla decreased versus last year. Primary challenge: G4-EC7, EC8, EC9, LA15, HR5, Progress: In 2016, we added a new Factors contributing to this decline n E  conomic – the ability of smallholder HR6, HR11, SO1, FP4 NGO partner, Positive Planet, to include static supply, increasing farmers to earn enough from help us scale our programs. demand and decreasing quality in a the crop to feed their families market with record-high vanilla prices. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2B Continuous improvement Our most significant environmental impact – Increasing sustainability across North America including nearly two-thirds of GHG emissions – occurs in our General Mills’ priority agricultural supply chains. Row crops SASKATCHEWAN ingredients sourced from and dairy are among the most resource MANITOBA these regions: intensive of our 10 priority ingredients. NORTHERN PLAINS RED To ensure we are sourcing these raw RIVER VALLEY Oats materials sustainably, we focus on achieving continuous improvement SNAKE REED CITY, U.S. wheat MICHIGAN RIVER EASTERN by measuring year-on-year advances WISCONSIN U.S. sugar beets in resource efficiency with farmers in EASTERN CORN BELT our supply chain. We are committed EASTERN EASTERN NEBRASKA SOUTHERN ILLINOIS Dry-milled corn to minimizing the environmental PLAINS EASTERN KANSAS impact of agriculture and promoting Dairy sustainable growing practices. Annual grower engagement cycle Strategy: We partner with farmers in Land our key sourcing regions using the Use We achieve improvement through continuous feedback loops working directly with farmers. Field to Market and Innovation Center Water Soil for U.S. Dairy frameworks in the U.S. Quality Conservation and the Canadian Fieldprint initiative Growing season and harvest in Canada. These approaches enable Growers gather onfarm data throughout data collection to establish a baseline Energy Soil growing season level of resource use and environmental Use Carbon impact for each grower. Then, we hold workshops and work with local trusted Spring agronomists to advance practical Greenhouse Irrigation Gas Emissions Water Use Growers begin growing season Year round conservation practices, ideally while equipped with Grower Index State Average detailed guidance Recruit growers Post-harvest increasing yields for the farmer. to improve for sustainability Data analyzed and engagements sustainability performance results communicated Progress: Since 2010, we have through tailored reports r This spidergram shows a sample Fieldprint® with relevant and worked with more than 100 growers actionable feedback; Score with seven environmental indicators. growers benchmarked to collect data on over 280,000 against regional and state averages acres through participation in Field Early spring to Market and Canadian Fieldprint Growers gather in spring workshops to share results, initiatives led by General Mills. discuss best practices and hear agronomist recommendations GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Engagements: n S uppliers North American Food Oats Ingredients and Patterson Grain Grower spotlight Commitment: General Mills will n W estern Canadian growers source 100 percent of our oats Michael Ferguson by 2020 from growing regions Progress: 25 growers on Willmar Farms Ltd., Saskatchewan that demonstrate continuous 15,000 acres in Manitoba and Michael and his wife, Regan, farm 2,500 acres with improvement using industry-based Saskatchewan, Canada, engaged in Michael’s parents, Bill and Mary. They grow canola, environmental metrics. the Canadian Fieldprint Initiative. oats, wheat, peas and barley on land their family has been farming since 1932. Status: 50 percent of the oats Research: In June 2016, General Mills General Mills purchased was and South Dakota State University “We chose to participate in the Canadian Fieldprint Initiative sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. announced the opening of a state-of-theart oats research laboratory to advance because of questions from the general public about how the sustainability and quality of oats. food is produced. By showing that we are treating our crops Challenges include: n O  at supply – declining supply as a and land in a sustainable manner, we are able to educate result of decreasing oat production consumers who have questions and ensure that future n F  armer profitability – farmers generations can trust where their food comes from.” earn greater profits growing other, —M  ichael Ferguson more resource-intensive crops Engagements: n S upplier Thresher Artisan Wheat and Wheat Snake River region (Idaho) growers Grower spotlight Commitment: General Mills will n S upplier ADM and Northern Plains Jerry and Jeff Oberholtzer source 100 percent of our U.S. region (North Dakota) growers North Dakota wheat by 2020 from growing regions that demonstrate continuous Progress: 41 growers on 45,000 Jeff and his dad, Jerry, grow sunflowers, corn, wheat, improvement using the Field acres using the Field to Market barley and soybeans on land their family has been to Market framework or other farming since the 1920s. This is their third year Fieldprint Calculator. comparable environmental metrics. participating in the Field to Market engagement. 2016 highlight: Source: Dakota Farmer Status: 36 percent of the wheat General Mills purchased was n In the Northern Plains region, growers “It was my dad’s idea to get involved with the sustainability used no-till practices on 92 percent sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. project. We know consumers are looking at labels and of wheat fields in the engagement, helping protect fields from soil erosion wanting to know more about where their food comes Challenges include: and reducing fuel consumption, from and how it is grown. We want to explain how we are n G  HG emissions – reduce emissions which lowers cultivation costs. doing things sustainably on our farm, and show that we across the supply chain are taking care of our land.” n W  ater – reduce water usage —J  eff Oberholtzer in irrigated wheat regions n S  oil – improve soil health GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Engagements: n S  upplier American Crystal Sugar Sugar beets Grower spotlight n R  ed River Valley region growers Commitment: General Mills will (Minnesota, North Dakota) – largest Daniel Olson source 100 percent of our U.S. sugar beet growing region in the U.S. Red River Valley, North Dakota beet sugar by 2020 from growing regions that demonstrate continuous Progress: 25 growers on 80,000 Daniel started farming in 1999. He is a fifth-generation improvement using the Field to acres using the Field to Market farmer whose family has been farming in the Red Market framework or comparable Fieldprint Calculator. River Valley since 1877. He grows sugar beets, dry environmental metrics. beans and wheat. 2016 highlights: Status: 68 percent of the beet n O  ne-third of fields in the Red River sugar General Mills purchased was “Farming is always changing. We are constantly trying to sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. Valley engagement are using cover crops, which help improve soil health improve our soils with new ideas. I am participating with and water quality. Most cover crops were the sustainability program to learn about the impact on Challenges include: planted on soils vulnerable to erosion. the environment and find out how I can improve.” n G  HG emissions – reduce emissions n R  esults indicate that 18 percent of —D aniel Olson across the supply chain the sugar beet fields entered into n S  oil – improve soil health the project utilized reduced tillage. Engagements: n S upplier Didion Milling and Eastern Corn Wisconsin region growers Grower spotlight Commitment: General Mills will n S upplier Bunge (Centerfield Initiative) Kevin and David Beske source 100 percent of our U.S. drymilled corn by 2020 from growing Progress: Wisconsin regions that demonstrate continuous n 1 0 growers on 2,800 acres through Kevin and David are third-generation farmers who grow improvement using the Field to corn, soybeans, wheat, peas and lima beans on 1,000 acres. Wisconsin Field to Market engagement Market framework or comparable They joined the Field to Market engagement in 2014. n 1 50 growers on 250,000 acres engaging environmental metrics. Learn more. with Bunge, a key corn supplier, in Status: 33 percent of the U.S. drysupport of its Centerfield initiative milled corn General Mills purchased 2016 highlights: “The Fieldprint Calculator has been very valuable for us. It was sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. n H alf of corn fields in the Wisconsin is like having another helpful tool in your tool box. It helps engagement utilized no-till us get a look at the bigger picture of our sustainability Challenges include: practices, which significantly reduce efficiency and make better decisions on inputs like n G  HG emissions – reduce emissions the risk of soil erosion and help fertilizer and seed.” — Kevin Beske across the supply chain keep healthy soil on the field. n N  utrient use – reduce nutrient n F orty percent of the fields under utilization across the supply chain measurement implemented n S  oil – improve soil health field borders, grass waterways and other conservation covers to address water quality. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community The majority of our directly sourced Dairy raw milk comes from the U.S. and France. Commitment: General Mills will purchase 100 percent of our U.S. directly sourced raw fluid milk 1 2 by 2020 from producing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement as measured by the 2 Dairy Sustainability Framework in the U.S. and other comparable environmental metrics. 1 United States Status: 38 percent of the U.S. directly 2 France r We collaborate with milk producers and industry groups to improve the sustainability of the sourced raw fluid milk General Mills directly sourced raw fluid milk used in our products. purchased was sustainably sourced in region, including our Reed City, fiscal 2016. fluid milk to General Mills, supporting Michigan yogurt facility the U.S. Dairy Innovation Center’s n D airy Research Institute – life-cycle voluntary, industrywide goal to analysis of yogurt production Challenges include: reduce the dairy carbon footprint by n G HG emissions – reduce emissions Progress: As part of the U.S. dairy lowering GHG emissions for fluid milk across the supply chain sustainability pilot program: production 25 percent by 2020. n W ater – control water usage n M ilk producers are using Farm Smart n In 2016, we added a second r Farm Smart 2.0 and Plant Smart software and improve water quality 2.0 online software and General measure the carbon footprint, energy usage, engagement to the pilot program at n A nimal welfare – address animal Mills is using the companion Plant water consumption from milk production our Reed City facility to help us move Smart software to collect data and and processing, and animal care. well-being issues, such as dehorning closer to achieving our sustainability calculate the sustainability impact commitments. Now we are Engagements: from farm to production facility. documenting and analyzing agricultural n Innovation Center for U.S. Dairy’s n In 2016, use of the Farm Smart 2.0 inputs for all directly sourced raw Sustainability Framework – pilot tool became a requirement for all new fluid milk for our Reed City plant. program in upper U.S. Midwest and existing farms that supply raw G4-EC2, EN19, EN27, FP1, FP12 “Sustainability is a collective responsibility. It begins on the farms of our member-owners and extends to our employees, plant towns, customers, trade associations and business partners. We share expertise and focus on creating innovative solutions that solve our sustainability challenges and grow our business and industry the right way. We are happy to support General Mills’ sustainability commitments by supplying milk from farms pursuing continuous environmental improvement.” — Michael Doyle, President and CEO, Foremost Farms USA, Baraboo, Wisconsin GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2C Verification We increase the sustainability of fiber packaging, sugarcane and palm oil by working across the industry to improve practices and verify progress by using independent verification or certification in high-risk regions. This analysis revealed that 99 percent Progress: To increase transparency Ninety percent of the fiber we use in of our supply is considered at low risk around the fiber we source from Fiber packaging our packaging comes from the United States and Canada – areas at low risk for contributing to global deforestation China, we evaluated all of our Chinese Commitment: General Mills will source for deforestation. because the packaging uses either packaging suppliers and mills in 100 percent of our fiber packaging recycled materials or virgin fiber 2016 to identify those that were out by 2020 from recycled material or 2 that is sourced from regions where of compliance. We are working with from virgin wood fiber regions that are known to not be contributing to 1 deforestation is not occurring. those mills to develop remediation deforestation (any high-risk regions strategies leading to certification. We The remaining 1 percent of our fiber will be independently verified). will transition fiber purchases away 2 packaging is sourced from countries from uncertified mills to sources that Status: 99 percent of the fiber considered at high risk for potentially meet our sustainable sourcing criteria. packaging General Mills purchased contributing to deforestation, was sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. 1 United States including China. 2 Canada We follow pulp, paper and packaging Primary challenge: Strategy: Using sustainable sourcing sourcing guidelines developed by the n D  eforestation in some parts guidelines for fiber, pulp and paper Consumer Goods Forum. of the supply chain caused by production, we conducted an analysis sourcing fiber for packaging of our fiber packaging supply chain. n V  isibility – lack of origin visibility Progress: In September 2016, we The majority of the sugarcane we for supply chain into the U.S. began working with Proforest to map Sugarcane purchase comes from refineries in North America. our supply chain to achieve greater Strategy: More than half of the Commitment: General Mills will source transparency around sugarcane 100 percent of our sugarcane by 2020 sugarcane we purchase globally is origin. We have communicated to all from responsible and sustainable grown in low-risk origin countries, suppliers that sustainability is a priority regions that are in compliance with 2 3 such as the U.S. and Australia. and we need their participation to Bonsucro or comparable standards We continue to gain knowledge reach farmers at the point of origin. (any high-risk countries will be 1 about the origins of the sugarcane we Together with Bonsucro, we encourage independently verified). purchase through our membership in suppliers to conduct gap analyses as Status: 70 percent of the sugarcane Bonsucro, an international organization the first step toward certification. General Mills purchased was 1 Brazil focused on improving the environmental, 2 Mexico sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016. Our major sugarcane suppliers include 3 United States social and economic sustainability of Cargill, American Sugar Refining, United sugarcane production and processing, forced labor, and working conditions and Imperial. Challenges include: including certification using the related to worker health, safety and hours Bonsucro Production Standard. n L  abor rights – including child and GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Most of the palm oil we purchase Palm oil comes from Malaysia and Brazil. Purchasing of Roundtable on Commitment: General Mills will Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) certified source 100 percent of our palm oil volumes in 2016 (calendar year) from responsible and sustainable sources by 2015. Total General Amount of mass Amount of Purchasing region Mills palm balanced palm segregated palm 1 and certificate use Status: 100 percent* of the palm 3 purchased (MT) purchased (MT) purchased (MT) 2 2 oil General Mills purchased was North America 56,139 52,170 0 sustainably sourced in fiscal 2016; at the end of 2016, 96 percent of our 1 Malaysia Brazil 11,860 574 9,366 palm oil volume was categorized as 2 Brazil traceable to the extraction mill and 3 Indonesia Europe 4,857 3,438 1,419 responsibly sourced. Australia 1,067 303 764 through sustainable purchases that meet RSPO standards. We also shifted more Other 1,198 485 0 Challenges include: of our volume toward mass balance and Subtotals 56,970 11,549 n D eforestation – palm plantation segregated palm oil – accounting for 91 Green palm expansion damages rainforests, percent in 2016 – away from green palm certificates 6,602 biodiversity, endangered species certificates. We continue to limit use of and the environment certificates in favor of physical purchases. Totals 75,121 75,121 n I ndigenous rights – irresponsible *At the end of this reporting year (March 9/9 our palm oil volume was categorized practices can threaten the rights 2016), one of our suppliers, IOI Loders as traceable to the extraction mill. of indigenous peoples Croklaan, had its RSPO certification Strategy: Although General Mills is a suspended. You can see our statements Hurdles remain in the palm supply chain. If an audit or other highly General Mills scored 9/9 relatively minor user of palm oil, we believe about this supplier here. The specific our purchasing practices can help move sourcing area implicated in the RSPO credible source reveals or confirms on the World Wildlife the industry forward on this issue. We are suspension was not in production that a supplier is seriously violating the Fund Palm Oil Scorecard committed to sourcing palm oil in a socially for General Mills; nonetheless we stated principles of our policy, and if 2016, which measures and environmentally responsible manner. expect our suppliers to comply with that supplier does not acknowledge the sustainability of our policy. As a result, we suspended and immediately move to acceptably palm oil buyers. Our initial commitment in 2010 included purchase from IOI Group and shifted remediate the concern, General Mills will compliance with our Supplier Code to other RSPO certified sources. move to suspend or eliminate palm oil of Conduct, as well as prevention purchases from the supplier in question. and resolution of social and/or Traceability: General Mills is helping land conflicts consistent with the lead the industry toward greater Our top three palm oil suppliers principle of free, prior and informed sustainability by moving with our in fiscal 2016 were Agropalma, consent. As part of our concern about supplier base toward a more traceable Bunge and IOI Loders Croklaan. deforestation in palm growing regions, supply. In 2016, we continued working EN27, FP1, LA15, HR5, HR6, we updated our initial commitment with Proforest to trace our palm oil HR8, HR11, SO1, FP4 with our 2014 palm oil statement. supply chain, identify sustainability risks and ensure responsible sourcing.** At Progress: In fiscal 2015, we met our the end of 2016, nearly 96 percent of commitment to source all palm oil ** Responsible sourcing means the volumes purchased are covered by a responsible sourcing program that includes comprehensive policy commitments, a suitable risk assessment process and independent verification assessments. We will continue working with Proforest to ensure third-party verification of our palm oil supply. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 3 Water stewardship Agriculture uses 70 percent of global freshwater withdrawals. This underscores the leadership role that food companies – including General Mills – must take to address water stewardship issues. We work to understand water usage from watershed to production, to identify opportunities to increase efficiency and conservation, and to continually improve performance. Approach These watersheds also support other companies, industries, municipalities and We take a broad approach to water ecosystems. Improving watershed health General Mills named AgWater Steward stewardship, looking beyond our requires extensive collaboration to protect In 2016, General Mills was named an Challenge – including water risk company’s walls to the phases of our water quality and supply that benefit our AgWater Steward by Ceres and World assessments and setting reduction goals, value chain that drive overall use. This Wildlife Fund (WWF) for having farreducing water risk in agricultural supply growers, communities and the environment. reaching, ongoing water commitments chains and supporting producers in is essential, since 85 percent of our Assessment: Water issues are local, and for showing action across all five addressing these issues. water footprint is from growing and so we take a risk-based approach categories of the group’s AgWater transporting crops, and turning those that considers the specific challenges crops into food ingredients (see page 36). facing material geographies. In 2016, The General Mills Water Policy provides a (including 17 supplier partners), covering stewardship plans for the company’s we updated a risk assessment of the framework for engaging with stakeholders 41 watersheds globally. This process, which most material and at-risk watersheds watersheds that support our business and improving the health of watersheds updated the analysis we conducted in its global value chain by 2025. globally. We assessed 15 key ingredients that are critical to our business. with The Nature Conservancy in 2013, in 36 sourcing regions and 66 facilities Water use in operations: Although this included factors such as water quantity, category only represents about 1 percent water quality and baseline water stress. of our water footprint, every General Mills General Mills’ water footprint* We used the WWF Water Risk Filter and the World Business Council for production facility has a target to decrease water use by 1 percent annually, normalized Packaging supply chain (14%) Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to production. Water usage in 2016 related Reducing materials use and using Global Water Tool as well as facility water to our manufacturing processes equaled lower impact materials (such as consumption data and irrigation intensity 17.4 million cubic meters, 10 percent more recycled content) are the main data from the University of Minnesota. strategies that positively impact than in 2015 and a 12 percent increase per Agriculture and water use related to packaging. Through this analysis, we identified eight metric ton of product. This was primarily transformation See the Packaging supply chain priority watersheds to target across due to new production lines, existing (85%) section for more information. our worldwide operations (see map production line changes and additional We focus on on next page), adding three locations sanitation cycles. Decreased overall the highest-risk Producing (1%) Although this represents a small compared to the prior assessment production also impacted the rate. watersheds that we impact globally. See part of our footprint, we control this and removing two. We follow our fourTo view additional data about water usage the map for details. phase directly and are committed phase approach (see next page) to in our directly controlled operations, to continual improvement. See the develop and implement watershed Producing section for details. including withdrawal by source, see health strategies in these locations. the Environmental Data Summary. *Water consumption data is from 2012. Data in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was considered Goal: In 2016, we set a goal to to be immaterial. G4-EN8, EN9, EN27, SO1 champion the development of water GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Four-phase approach to sustainable supply chain water use PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Analysis and Collaboration Transformation A study of key operation and growing action planning Establish multi-stakeholder water Implement water stewardship program region watersheds, using external stewardship plan to implement identified Deep-dive analysis of at-risk growing areas, with public education and advocacy, standards and building on work completed improvements in conjunction with external experts funding, and monitoring and reporting with The Nature Conservancy General Mills’ priority watersheds Yongding He HEBEI/SANHE (BEIJING), CHINA Growing region (dairy), facility Snake RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH IDAHO, U.S. PHASE 2 Growing region (wheat, potatoes) This watershed is in the RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH analysis phase. PHASE 3 We support TNC to help farmers implement water management and soil Huang He (Yellow) SHANGDONG, CHINA health practices that reduce groundwater withdrawals and address Growing region (dairy) declining water levels and watershed RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH health in this area. In 2015, the Natural PHASE 2 Resources Conservation Service Added in October 2016. This allocated $1.1 million over two years to watershed is in the analysis phase. promote and implement variable rate irrigation systems, nozzle upgrades, end gun removal and associated best Yangtze (Chang Jiang) SHANGHAI, CHINA management practices. Learn more. Also see: Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, TNC soil Rio Grande/ Facilities RISK LEVEL: HIGH health roadmap Rio Bravo PHASE 2 NEW MEXICO, U.S. In January 2015, General Mills and TNC completed an analysis of this San Joaquin Facility watershed and identified water CALIFORNIA, U.S. RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH quality and potential flooding as PHASE 4 the main issues. Action planning Growing region (dairy/nuts/ We contribute to the Rio Grande is underway. fruits/vegetables), facility Water Fund’s work to help advance RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH water conservation and education PHASE 3 efforts in the Albuquerque Ganges General Mills is supporting TNC to community, including restoring MADHYA PRADESH, INDIA develop risk-mapping frameworks, forests to reduce catastrophic leading management practices and tools wildfires that threaten the area’s Growing region (wheat) to help ensure that groundwater water supply. RISK LEVEL: EXTREMELY HIGH dependent ecosystems and streams in PHASE 2 California are included in sustainable Added in October 2016. This groundwater management. Through the watershed is in the analysis phase. California Water Action Collaborative, we South Florida Basins share resources and information with FLORIDA, U.S. other food and beverage companies, suppliers and conservation organizations Growing region (sugar cane) to improve water security in the San RISK LEVEL: HIGH Joaquin watershed. General Mills also is PHASE 2 funding research conducted by Added in October 2016. This Sustainable Conservation, an NGO watershed is in the analysis phase. supporting farmers in California’s Central Valley, to enable groundwater recharge on active farm fields. Risk levels are based on the WWF Water Risk Filter, customized to General Mills. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 4 Ecosystems We are committed to improving the health of ecosystems in our supply chain, which benefits farmers, wildlife, the planet and the food we make. Strengthening ecosystems Pollinators and Integrated pest Organic Soil health biodiversity management farmland Soil is a valuable natural resource that Pollinators are responsible for pollinating Weeds, pests and disease reduce crop We are increasing the long-term supply supports healthy crop productivity, carbon one third of the food we eat. We yields. We support efforts to help farmers of organic ingredients by helping growers sequestration, water quality, drought plant pollinator habitats, encourage control them in the most ecologically transition to organic farming. Our resilience and landscape biodiversity. others to do the same and support sensitive manner with approaches tailored goal is to double the organic acreage research to improve bee health. for each crop and local growing conditions. from which we source ingredients. 4A Soil health The world’s rising global population places matter and oxygen. Over time, common Soil conservation practices, including increasing demands on land to produce agricultural practices, such as tillage planting cover crops, rotating crops and Benefits of improved soil more food, fuel and fiber, making soil and monocropping, have broken soil reducing tillage, can help improve soil health through implementation health a high priority. Healthy soil contains down both mechanically and biologically, health and reduce erosion. Enhancing of the roadmap include: beneficial microorganisms, organic diminishing it of oxygen and nutrients. soil health on a large scale requires Increasing economic systemic change – and delivers many gains for farmers benefits, including increasing productivity for farmers, improving water quality and Mitigating greenhouse biodiversity, and addressing climate gas emissions change. We work with farmers, NGOs Reducing nutrient loss and industry partners across our supply to the environment chain to make progress toward healthier soil and more sustainable agriculture. Eliminating soil erosion Soil health roadmap Creating water capacity in cropland soils General Mills and The Nature Conservancy unveiled ReThink Soil: A Roadmap r General Mills supports research to improve soil health and encourages practices that reduce to Soil Health in November 2016. The GHG emissions, nutrient loss and erosion while protecting water quality. roadmap makes the case for soil health GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community “Improving soil provides an unexpected level of contribution to our most pressing environmental challenges. Our collaboration with General Mills has allowed The Nature Conservancy to better understand the opportunity with soil health. Together, we are working to make this change happen and unlock a large environmental dividend for future generations.” —M  ichael Doane, Director of Working Lands, The Nature Conservancy $50 billion Adopting soil health practices on all U.S. corn, soy and wheat croplands could deliver nearly $50 billion in social and environmental benefits annually, according to The Nature Conservancy. r General Mills supports The Nature Conservancy’s approach to achieving soil health. management practices as the primary theory of change to achieve conservation Row crop 2020. To date, farmers managing more than 2.3 million acres of crop production America. Facilitated by the Keystone Policy Center, the effort includes outcomes on U.S. working lands in the sustainability are participating in Field to Market’s businesses and NGOs focused on agricultural supply chain. The roadmap Field to Market: General Mills has been program. Learn how growers in the accelerating use of environmentally emphasizes productivity, nutrient loss working with Field to Market, our suppliers General Mills supply chain are using the preferable agricultural practices across reduction and a range of co-benefits, and growers since 2010 to expand use Fieldprint Calculator and the resulting the Upper Midwest, including cover including CO₂ sequestration, water use of the Fieldprint Calculator in order to insights from this data to implement cropping, low or no tillage and extended efficiency and reduced erosion. The capture data about soil conservation, soil sustainability improvements in story 2B. rotation to improve soil health. roadmap outlines 10 key steps spanning carbon and other sustainability impact Midwest Row Crop Collaborative: scientific, economic and policy priorities metrics within agriculture. Field to Market We participate in the Midwest Row to achieve widespread adoption of seeks to engage 20 percent of U.S. Crop Collaborative, a multi-stakeholder adaptive soil health systems on more commodity crop production acres in its engagement to enhance soil health and than 50 percent of U.S. cropland by 2025. Supply Chain Sustainability Program by protect air and water quality in North GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 4B Pollinators and biodiversity $6 million Challenge: Agriculture depends on colonies have been dying every winter healthy and abundant bee populations honeybees and native pollinators. Thirtysince 2006 and a number of critically are a priority for General Mills. We five percent of crop production around important wild bee species are now at risk collaborate with leading researchers the world relies on pollinators to produce of extinction. Declines in bee populations and conservationists to improve the General Mills has invested fruits and seeds. Each year, bees pollinate are caused by multiple factors, including health and quantity of pollinators. We more than US$6 million since more than 100 types of U.S. agricultural habitat loss, diseases and pesticides. fund research to better understand the 2011 to support pollinator crops, valued at nearly US$15 billion. Strategy: Many of our products contain decline of honeybees, invest to conserve and biodiversity efforts. Unfortunately, honeybees, wild bees and expand bee habitats, and work with honey, fruits, nuts, vegetables and other and other native pollinators are at risk. our suppliers to improve the health and ingredients that require pollination, so An average of 30 percent of honeybee effectiveness of bees as pollinators. General Mills pollinator projects 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Launched 4-year Established Muir Invested in conservation Launched Cascadian Planted Cascadian Launched Annie’s Le Sueur pollinator Glen pollinator easements for pollinators Farm Bee-Friendlier Farm home farm pollinator-themed “Mac research project with habitat with tomato through Minnesota wildflower planting pollinator habitat & Bees” macaroni & University of Minnesota processing partner Conservation Marketplace campaign cheese to raise awareness and Xerces Society Increased funding among consumers Donated funds for Launched pollinator Funded Nourishing Bees for Xerces Society University of Minnesota hedgerow project and Mite Not research pollinator projects Announced Cascadian Bee Lab research facility with almond supplier projects (University Farm, Muir Glen and and Xerces Society of Minnesota) Cheerios business Honey Nut Cheerios launched pollinator 5-year pollinator Supported Whole Funded Xerces Society habitat program habitat commitments Foods Market’s Share Bee Better farming and with oat growers the Buzz campaign to pollinator habitat projects Announced Pollinator raise awareness about Annie’s funded pollinator Project with USDA NRCS issues facing pollinators Planted 5 miles of habitat demonstration and Xerces Society, – and how to help pollinator habitat site at organic dairy including funding from at ranch supplying supplier, planted by Annie’s and General Introduced Cascadian almonds to LÄRABAR Xerces Society Mills Foundation Farm Buzz Crunch Honey Almond cereal pollinator Conducted blueberry Honey Nut Cheerios habitat campaign assessment project Canada launched marketing campaign to Extended Conservation educate consumers about Marketplace habitat pollinator decline issues project GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Partnership for is donating US$400,000 for each of the next five years, which will be matched Pollinator habitat Neonicotinoid impact: In May 2015, the U.S. Interagency Presidential Pollinator pollinators by the Natural Resources Conservation commitments Health Task Force issued a national strategy In November 2016, we announced Service (NRCS) division of the USDA In addition to our commitment with the to provide a comprehensive approach a pollinator project with the U.S. for a total of US$4 million to benefit USDA, we are scaling up our efforts to for tackling and reducing the impact of Department of Agriculture (USDA) pollinators. General Mills funding includes expand pollinator habitats throughout multiple stressors on pollinator health. and the Xerces Society for Invertebrate US$750,000 from Annie’s and $US1.25 our supply chains. In April 2016, we made It outlined the current understanding Conservation to protect and establish million in corporate contributions. Learn significant commitments to implement and complexity of pollinator decline: healthy pollinator habitats. General Mills more in the Our Community section. large-scale habitat projects on farms “Researchers studying Colony Collapse supplying ingredients to Cascadian Disorder (CCD) and other losses Farm, Muir Glen and Honey Nut Cheerios, attributed to poor colony health have Public-private partnership in addition to existing projects with been unable to identify a single cause, suppliers for LÄRABAR and Annie’s. and have concluded that losses of honey External General Mills Funding bee colonies are the result of a complex partners Bee cell research set of interacting stressors. In May US$2 million over 5 2013, the USDA and the EPA released In December 2016, General Mills years (US$750,000 from a comprehensive scientific report on approved $100,000 in funding to support Annie’s and US$1.25 honey bee health (USDA 2013). The million in General Mills groundbreaking research by the University report synthesized the current state corporate contributions) of Minnesota Bee Lab, which we have of knowledge regarding the primary matched by USDA supported for four years. The Bee Lab factors that scientists believe have the has developed a highly reproducible greatest impact on honey bee health, method for growing honey bee cells in including exposure to pesticides and culture, which for the first time allows Increasing pollinator habitats in 2016* researchers around the world to address other environmental toxins, poor nutrition due in part to decreased availability of bee health issues at the cell level. Brands Commitment Funding high-quality/diverse forage, exposure to pests (e.g., Varroa mites) and disease v Cascadian Farm efforts, such as a “bee-friendlier” (viral, bacterial, and fungal), as well as package donation code on bee biology, genetics, and breeding. The 8,000 acres of pollinator habitat Buzz Crunch cereal have report’s findings are similar to those of the on 100,000 acres of organic led to contributions by supplier farmland by 2020 US$2.8 million the business of more than report on the Status of Pollinators in North over 5 years $200,000 over the past America (NRC 2007), which examined two years to the Xerces wild (both native and introduced species) Society and University of Minnesota Bee Lab. pollinators as well as honey bees.”** 3,300 acres of pollinator habitat on 60,000 acres of supplier farms by 2020 “General Mills’ supply chain projects in pollinator 5 miles of hedgerow and wildflower strips US$400,000 on supplier’s 2,500-acre almond ranch over 3 years conservation represent the largest private sector 20 acres of habitat in year one US$15,000 for habitat investment of its kind in the world.” on 500 acres of land owned by (in addition to the –E  ric Lee-Mӓder, Pollinator Program Co-Director, the Xerces Society two organic dairy suppliers USDA commitment) for Invertebrate Conservation *Based on calendar year 2016 commitments. **Page 5, National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honey Bees and Other Pollinators, Pollinator Health Task Force, May 19, 2015, The White House GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community General Mills fully supports the Pollinator General Mills recognizes the concern about in our supply chain and expedited U.S. the impact of neonicotinoids and other Health Task Force’s strategy, which calls the unique role of neonicotinoid pesticides Environmental Protection Agency review. pesticides on pollinators. Learn more about for additional research as outlined in the in pollinator health decline and supports this effort in the following content about General Mills is extending our partnership Pollinator Research Action Plan, public further study of this important issue as integrated pest management research. with the Xerces Society and working with education and outreach, public-private outlined in our action plan. Consistent with them to consolidate and disseminate partnerships, improved and expanded our historic commitment to Integrated guidance to growers of key commodities, pollinator habitat, and pollinator Pest Management, we advocate for such as corn and soy, on how to minimize protection from pesticide exposure. the responsible use of neonicotinoids 4C Integrated pest management At General Mills, our approach to Results: The study revealed that current sustainable agriculture includes reducing levels of IPM adoption in our supply environmental impacts and improving chain are low in corn, slightly higher in supply chains for the ingredients and soybeans and much higher in sugar commodity crops we use most in our beets. Oats and wheat benefit from products. Integrated pest management low pest pressure and broad adoption (IPM) is one component of our work. of key IPM tactics, including use of General Mills has been a leader in resistant varieties and crop rotation. supporting IPM practices for decades. Reliance on pesticides ranges from We fund IPM research, share results very high in corn, which has multiple and work with our suppliers and pests, to very low in oats. The study conservation organizations to promote also examined the number and severity IPM strategies – such as cover cropping, of pesticide risks to people (including no-till farming, and field monitoring – to farm workers and consumers), beneficial minimize the threat of pests and the insects and water quality when various need to use pesticides on crops. pesticides are used on specific crops. r Many oats in our supply chain are grown using IPM practices and very low usage of pesticides. Next steps: We are using this report to Research additional field biologist positions to adoption and pesticide use throughout help inform our approach for increasing We worked with the Xerces Society, assist farmers in accelerating IPM on their our North American supply chain by IPM adoption across our supply chain Iowa State University and the USDA fields. Conservationists from the Xerces evaluating five major crops: corn, oats, and connecting these insights with NRCS on a project launched in June Society work with growers to ensure they soybeans, sugar beets and wheat. existing initiatives, including Field to 2015 to improve integrated pest have good IPM practices in place before Institute staff reviewed academic Market. Through our Field to Market management practices for corn and soy. planting pollinator habitats in order to and industry resources, interviewed engagements, we help growers capture protect pollinators from pesticides. experts, collected pesticide use data, information about pesticide use, including Field support estimated risks and compiled best energy used in the application of In addition to protecting pollinators, our Supply chain practice details. In September 2016, the pesticides and GHGs (embedded in the Institute presented key findings and manufacturing of pesticides), and apply partnership with the USDA NRCS will evaluation recommendations for increasing IPM those findings to improve sustainability. expand use of IPM practices. Together, General Mills contracted with the IPM adoption for these five major crops. Learn more in story 2B about continuous our contributions will support six Institute to assess the scope of IPM improvement in sustainable sourcing. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 4D Organic farmland Commitment General Mills natural and organic brands General Mills is committed to increasing the capability of our natural and organic business and ® the long-term supply of ingredients. We have committed to more than doubling our organic acreage from 120,000 acres to 250,000 acres between 2015 and 2019. ® Since 2000, General Mills has steadily grown our natural and organic business with brand acquisitions, including in North America. This rapid growth supply chain to increase capacity and supply chain focus includes working Cascadian Farm, Muir Glen, LÄRABAR, has made sourcing certified organic promoting organic farming practices. with growers to optimize production and Food Should Taste Good, Immaculate ingredients increasingly difficult. quality, adopt standard practices and Organic Center of Excellence: We are Baking, Liberté, Mountain High, Annie’s, accelerate supply. These processes will Strategy: To support double-digit growth working to expand the pipeline of organic EPIC Provisions and Good Natured Soup. help us meet our 2019 goal to more than in our natural and organic products and growers. To help generate double-digit double the organic acreage from which Challenge: Increasing demand for natural ensure the long-term supply of organic growth for organic and natural brands, we buy ingredients for organic brands. and organic products is outpacing the ingredients, we are developing capabilities our Organic Center of Excellence is supply of organic ingredients, especially and processes that connect us to our building sourcing relationships directly ingredients’ point of origin, building the with farmers for our products. Our Scaling up our natural and organic business top 4 General Mills is now the General Mills is now among We are doubling the size of our We have increased the General Mills’ natural and fourth-largest U.S. natural and the top five organic ingredient natural and organic business: number of acres from which organic ingredients represented organic food producer.* purchasers – and the second2 x sales – Double our natural and we source organic ingredients 11 percent of our U.S. retail largest buyer of organic fruits organic sales to $1 billion by 2019. by 160 percent since 2009. business ingredients as and vegetables – in the North of November 2016. 2 x acreage – Double the American packaged foods sector. organic acreage from which we source by 2019. *Based on SPINS NOMC Dashboard data through June 12, 2016, SPINS Brand Positions: Natural Standards, Natural Perceived, Specialty Natural, Conventional Natural. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Expanding organic farming Transitioning conventional dairy farms to Leadership: We are helping to increase <1% certified organic organic acreage in the U.S. through We announced in promotion of organic farming. In December June 2016 a strategic sourcing partnership 2016, we announced plans to launch the Organic & Regenerative Agriculture Organic acreage is less than with Organic Valley, the largest organic Transition Council, which will bring together 1 percent of U.S. cropland. cooperative in the U.S., to help 20 dairy sustainable agricultural leaders, farmers farms add 3,000 acres to organic dairy crop sector with the goal of increasing and industry stakeholders with the mission production over the next three years. The the quantity and quality of organic field of advancing organic and regenerative alignment with Organic Valley supports crops in Canada. POGI is addressing agriculture practices. The council will hold our commitment to drive more acres in the the shortage of organic grain growers U.S. into the organic certification process its first meeting in the spring of 2017. by helping conventional growers make and helps build General Mills’ relationships Collaboration: General Mills is working the transition to organic farming. In the with the organic farmers who support with other organic companies in a U.S., where acreage devoted to organic our yogurt business in the U.S., including precompetitive effort to increase the agriculture is less than 1 percent of total Yoplait, Annie’s, Liberté and Mountain High. Learn more about the partnership with supply of organic grain. We participate in cropland, we are partnering with advisors Organic Valley and read about our efforts the US Organic Grain Collaboration, an who work directly with farmers to help r The partnership with Organic Valley to improve sustainability of our dairy will help dairy farmers like Becky and industry effort led by the Organic Trade them transition from conventional supply chain in story 2B of the sustainable Tucker Gretebeck of Cashton, Wisconsin, Association (OTA) and the Sustainable farming methods to organic practices. sourcing section. transition to organic farming. Food Lab. This industry forum began Research: We support the Organic in 2014 and was formally established Farming Research Foundation’s (OFRF) v In January 2016, we v We transitioned our within the OTA in 2015 to address issues introduced the Annie’s U.S. Liberté yogurt efforts to encourage widespread adoption surrounding the supply of organic grain, brand to our U.S. yogurt brand to USDA certified of organic farming practices through oilseeds and pulses. The group promotes category with a new organic in June 2016. research, advocacy and education. line of certified organic increased organic grain production, whole milk yogurt. Cascadian Farm is the leading funder including supply chain analysis to of OFRF’s National Organic Research identify challenges and opportunities, Agenda (NORA) project, which will inform policy advocacy to promote organic where research can accelerate use of farming and direct farmer engagement “We’re happy to partner with General Mills to grow the organic practices across the wide variety in pilot regions throughout the U.S. of crops we source. Through Annie’s, we organic marketplace and bring more organic farmers into our This effort evolved from work Annie’s also have a long-standing relationship cooperative. We’re committed to helping family farms thrive initiated in 2011 to start establishing with the Midwest Organic and Sustainable closer relationships with farmers. Learn Education Service (MOSES) to support and this partnership is part of getting more organic products to more about Annie’s sustainability work. the waiting consumer. We’ve been impressed with General Mills’ resources and education for farmers to As part of our focus on increasing organic help them adopt and improve their organic approach to keeping organic’s full integrity and look forward to a farming acreage in North America, we practices. Annie’s also supports projects long-term partnership. It’s a strong partnership,” contributed an additional US$50,000 undertaken by The Organic Center to in 2016 to support the Canada-based provide evidence-based research on – George Siemon, Chief Executive Officer, Organic Valley Prairie Organic Grain Initiative (POGI), a the environmental and human health multi-year program aimed at building impacts of organic food and farming. resiliency and stability in the organic field GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 5 Human rights 5A Responsible sourcing Code of Conduct. We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the same level Commitment of compliance expectations focused General Mills is committed to around four pillars: human rights, health conducting business with high and safety, environment and business ethical standards and we expect our integrity. Our Workplace Standards suppliers to do the same. Color by risk and Ethical Sourcing Policy, along with our Supplier Code of Conduct, set Severe standards for our company, suppliers High Approach: We know that the protection Medium and other business partners regarding of human rights through responsible Low the protection of human rights. These sourcing is critical to our business. Our standards are based in part on the r This heat map shows country risk based on environment, social and governance Policy on Human Rights and Slavery and ILO 1998 Declaration on Fundamental indicators. It was developed using a third-party segmentation exercise in 2013 and is Human Trafficking Statement describe being updated in 2017 so that our global sourcing team can make informed buying Principles and Rights at Work. our beliefs and approach. As part of decisions and develop risk mitigation plans. our commitment to respecting human Clarifications by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission state that food discuss key priorities and progress. To 400 suppliers in the Supplier Ethical rights throughout our supply chain, we packaging is not included in the scope supplement prior communications to Data Exchange (SEDEX) and analyzed are members of AIM-PROGRESS, a of the Dodd-Frank Act (Section 1502) as suppliers, we began to integrate the their profiles and self-assessment forum of consumer goods manufacturers it relates to reporting on the geographic Supplier Code into existing sourcing questionnaires to inform next steps. with the shared goal of positively source of certain “conflict minerals.” processes, supplier management tools In the first quarter, we partnered with impacting people’s lives through robust and eSourcing activities. In addition buyers and benchmarked with peers responsible sourcing practices. We are Progress: In fiscal 2016, all sourcing to hosting AIM-PROGRESS in June, to analyze potential risks in indirectalso signatories to the United Nations employees around the world were we participated in a project team spend categories, such as warehousing, Global Compact (UNGC) and are guided required to complete an eLearning that evaluated supply chain mapping transportation and professional services. by the International Labour Organization’s module about our updated Supplier Code approaches, services and technologies. (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental of Conduct and Workplace Standards Audits: Third-party auditing firms Principles and Rights at Work. and Ethical Sourcing Policy. This module Assessment: Building on a third-party conduct independent audits using our is also mandatory for all new hires risk assessment of global raw material proprietary protocol or SMETA (Sedex Guided by that declaration, General in sourcing. Additionally, responsible suppliers, we created a country risk heat Members Ethical Trade Audit) protocol. In Mills respects the principles of collective sourcing program training sessions were map within our buyer visibility dashboard. 2012, we completed our first audit cycle bargaining and freedom of association, held for global sourcing employees Global sourcing employees use this of finished goods producers, including and prohibition of discrimination, abuse, and those with key roles in our legal, heat map to understand our highest our own facilities and co-packers. The child labor and forced labor – including marketing partnerships and innovation, risk categories and supplier locations second audit cycle began in fiscal 2013. that associated with human trafficking. technology and quality functions. while they develop strategies, make In fiscal 2016, we completed 73 audits Expectations: General Mills defines buying decisions and form risk mitigation globally and our scope was expanded Our cross-functional Responsible responsible sourcing in our Supplier plans. We connected with more than to include joint ventures. In fiscal 2017, Sourcing Forum meets quarterly to GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community we plan to conduct almost 70 audits. Finally, our Responsible Sourcing Forum to review the progress the facility has engagement model, including desktop Based on the country risk heat map and developed a process to document, made until the issue is resolved. assessments, audits and remediation of SEDEX review, we identified 20 high-risk escalate and remediate a facility’s findings. Furthermore, all General Mills Next steps: Early in fiscal 2017, we signed raw materials suppliers in categories critical findings. A Critical Finding buyers will include a responsible sourcing an agreement with an international such as fruits, nuts and dairy. Whether Alert email is issued to key General review in their category strategies monitoring firm to accelerate our we conducted new audits or reviewed Mills stakeholders, including regional using a standard template of required responsible sourcing program and prior audits for mutual recognition – an leadership, division counsel and subject information and follow an enhanced reinforce our commitment to protecting objective of AIM-PROGRESS – we matter experts. This group gathers to supplier due-diligence process to human rights. Together, we will run worked with all suppliers on remediation review the relationship with the facility, evaluate the risk of prospective suppliers. a global risk assessment of all spend of noncompliance and completion of discuss the findings and determine categories and execute our supplier G4-HR4, HR5, HR6, HR10, FP1 agreed-upon corrective action plans. next steps. A check-in meeting occurs 5B Supplier diversity Commitment: General Mills is committed to establishing and Prystup Packaging Products: Commitment to social responsibility growing relationships with qualified, Since 1995, General Mills has been purchasing unemployment and poverty. The company Developing tomorrow’s leaders: The diverse suppliers.* paperboard from Prystup Packaging provides competitive pay and seeks to set company’s commitment to workforce Impact: US$535 million spending with Products, a certified Native American an example through community involvement. development includes an internship diverse suppliers in fiscal 2016; US$5+ Minority and Women Business Enterprise program that provides hands-on Sustainability initiatives: In keeping with billion during the past 10 years. with more than 150 employees. manufacturing management experience. Native American philosophy, Prystup *Organizations owned by minorities, women, “General Mills has directly contributed to focuses on environmental stewardship and veterans and lesbian, gay, bisexual and our company’s growth by consistently sustainability. More than 90 percent of the transgender business owners. supporting our continuous improvement paper used in Prystup’s manufacturing initiatives. For years, we have collaborated processes is recycled and all production with the GMI Procurement and Engineering waste is collected, separated, bundled and Long-standing commitment: Since teams to build the infrastructure and sent to local converters/recyclers. In 2013, the 1960s, General Mills has been technology platform to compete in a global the company earned the Chain of Custody committed to working with diverse market. As a partner, General Mills has always Certification with the Forest Stewardship challenged us to improve; and thanks to their Council® (FSC). Prystup also offers the use suppliers. Pursuing a diverse supplier open communication and honest feedback, of the Green-e® Energy logo through the base is imperative for sustainable we continue to achieve business growth,” purchase of Renewable Energy Certificates business growth and the success of said Mike Closson, Prystup Vice President, (RECs) for a variety of energy generation our company. In addition to delivering Marketing and Business Development. resources, such as wind and solar power. innovation, agility, market insights and Green-e® is a voluntary certification Community prosperity: Located in r Prystup provides extensive coaching cost savings, diverse suppliers are an program that sets buyer protection and and mentoring for employees and promotes Livingston, Alabama, Prystup strives to extension of our values, creating jobs environmental standards for renewable almost exclusively from an in-house provide a challenging and rewarding electricity products. training program. and fostering economic development in work environment in an area of high the communities in which we operate. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Approach: We pursue internal and advocacy organizations, such as National groups, we are able to benchmark, the fabric of the company through external engagement strategies Minority Supplier Development Council share best practices and network purchasing standards, policies and tools. to ensure suppliers represent our (NMSDC), North Central Minority Supplier with prospective diverse suppliers. Integration with sourcing also enables increasingly diverse consumer base. Development Council (NCMSDC), us to introduce prospective diverse Progress: In fiscal 2016, we moved The Supplier Diversity team builds Women’s Business Enterprise National suppliers to decision-makers earlier in the management of our Supplier partnerships across the company to Council (WBENC), Women’s Business the buying process. Learn more about Diversity program into our global match diverse suppliers with business Development Center (WBDC), and diversity and inclusion at General Mills sourcing team. This alignment allows needs and opportunities. We are active National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of in the Workplace section of this report. us to optimize program efficiency and participants in the community through Commerce (NGLCC). Through these further embed supplier diversity into G4-EC1, EC9 membership in national and regional organizations and other industry 6 Animal welfare ANIMAL WELFARE Dairy production: We’re working to understand the issues of pain relief for Commitment Five freedoms dairy cows, including dehorning, tail General Mills receives Animals in the food supply chain General Mills supports the humane should be free from: docking and castration. General Mills Great Taste Award treatment of animals in agriculture and will enforce our animal welfare n H unger, thirst and malnutrition supports the use of polled genetics from PETA breeding programs to promote naturally policy throughout our supply chain. n D iscomfort In October 2016, People for the hornless cattle, thereby eliminating the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) n P ain, injury and disease need for dehorning. This approach has honored General Mills with a Great n F ear and distress demonstrated success in the beef industry Taste Award for our new line of vegan Our Animal Welfare Policy includes our n A nd they should have the freedom and we support a similar approach in the Good Natured Soups from Progresso. support for the widely recognized “five to engage in normal patterns of As consumer tastes change, we dairy industry. General Mills encourages freedoms” for all animals globally across animal behavior continue to look for opportunities to all suppliers in our dairy supply chain our supply chain, and a commitment to add more plant-based foods to our to support industrywide efforts that source cage-free eggs by 2025. We product portfolio. Learn more in the and we strive to ensure that the hens promote the humane treatment of cattle, continue to work with suppliers to make Our Food section of this report. laying these eggs are treated humanely. including responsible polled breeding progress toward our cage-free egg In February 2017, we updated our practices. Until dehorning is eliminated, commitment. We also are progressing in commitment to work toward purchasing General Mills supports the adoption of Pork production: General Mills supports our understanding of the welfare issues only cage-free or free-range eggs for our best management practices, including the development of pregnant sow housing and options for each species of animal in operations globally by 2025. In 2015, we procedure timing and use of analgesics alternatives. Though we recognize that our supply chain. We strive to create committed to work toward this goal for our and/or anesthetics. Currently, 98 percent the development and implementation of sustainable practices using the most U.S. and Canadian operations. And we are of the U.S. milk supply comes from farms alternative systems may be a long-term humane animal treatment practices, proud that Häagen-Dazs – General Mills’ that participate in the National Milk process that could take up to 10 years, we which we believe will deliver greater largest international business – already Producers Federation FARM (Farmers will favor suppliers who provide actionable business success by aligning closer to sources only 100 percent free-range eggs Assuring Responsible Management) plans by 2017 to create traceability and consumer expectations. for all its ice cream produced in Europe. program covering animal care, to end their use of gestation crates Egg production: Eggs are an important Together, these regions represent the vast environmental and antibiotic stewardship. within the U.S. pork supply chain. ingredient in many of our products, majority of our global egg purchases. G4-EC1, EC9 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 Our Workplace General Mills is committed to putting people first, every day. IN 1 Workplace safety 2 Ethics, compliance and labor practices 3 4 THIS SECTION Workplace Employee culture development GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 62 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Overview Our goal is to foster a safe, inclusive and rewarding workplace where all employees can thrive. We put our people first by focusing on best-in-class workplace safety, creating a diverse and inclusive culture, and investing in our talent. By creating an agile and advantaged organization, we enable our company to succeed. Performance dashboard (fiscal 2016) Workplace safety Workplace culture Diversity and inclusion We reduced our global total injury rate to 75 percent of employees said Our Board of Directors includes 36 percent female 1.20 injuries per 100 employees in fiscal General Mills is a great place to work.* directors and 36 percent who are ethnically diverse. 2016, down from 1.22 in 2015. Our ultimate *Data from General Mills Employee Engagement Survey Our U.S.-based workforce includes 39 percent women goal is zero injuries and illnesses. of global salaried employees conducted January-February 2016. and 20 percent people who are ethnically diverse.* *Board and employee stats based on year-end calendar 2016. Workforce data includes all US-based employees. “At General Mills, diversity is both a value and a business strategy. Embracing diversity and inclusion helps us attract and retain top talent while driving innovation and employee engagement around the world.” — K en Charles, Vice President of Global Inclusion and Staffing GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 63 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Governance: Governance for our labor practices lies primarily within our Human Resources, Law and Supply Chain 2016 awards, honors and accolades organizations. At an operational level, the General Mills received numerous awards in 2016. Listed below is some of the recognition, illustrating our commitment to being an Human Resources organization leads key employer of choice for all employees. employee initiatives in partnership with n C orporate Responsibility Magazine’s n G reen Rankings, Newsweek – n G  lobal 100 Most Sustainable Corporations, company business leaders at multiple “Best Corporate Citizens” list – 29th of 500 Corporate Knights levels. Reflecting the importance of people No. 25 out of 100 n 1 00 Best Companies, Working n B  est Companies for Multicultural Women, to our business, General Mills employs a n F ortune’s “World’s Most Admired” list – Mother Magazine Working Mother Magazine Vice President of Global Inclusion and No. 6 out of 12 in consumer food n T op Company for Diversity, n T  op Companies for Executive Women, Staffing; a Vice President of Global Health products industry Black Enterprise National Association of Female Executives Services and Chief Wellness Officer; n B est Places to Work for LGBT Equality, n M ilitary Friendly Employer, Military n H  arris Poll corporate reputation list – No. 13 and a Vice President of Engineering, Human Rights Campaign Foundation Friendly organization out of 100 “Most Visible Companies” in 2017 Global Safety and Environment. At the board level, the Public Responsibility Committee maintains responsibility for issues related to labor practices. 1 Workplace safety Zero-loss culture Performance: In 2016, we continued on our path toward our goal of zero In 2016, we built upon that foundation with detailed global safety standards Continuous Our focus on achieving a zero-loss injuries and illnesses. We gathered safety that provide guidance on specific safety improvement culture – driving out all losses from our data from 231 locations, 67 of which requirements, such as personal protective Goal: Provide injury-free workplaces business, including safety incidents – are production facilities and Innovation, equipment and risk assessment at our for our employees, contractors and has resulted in fewer injuries. Technology and Quality centers. Those 67 production facilities. We continue to visitors. locations are the main focus of our safety expand and optimize these standards to Reduction: Global total injury rate improvement work. Safety highlights from ensure uniform compliance across the of 1.20 injuries per 100 employees in those locations in fiscal 2016 include: company. Our Global Safety Governance 2016, down from 1.22 in 2015. Global Board (GSGB), composed of regional n Eight locations operated injury-free. lost-time injury frequency rate of .51 operating vice presidents, is responsible per 100 employees in 2016, down n 19 locations had a total injury for the pace of global standards from .67 in 2015. rate (TIR) below 1.0. development. In fiscal 2016, our GSGB Expansion: Starting in 2016, global n 23 locations had zero lost-time conducted regional impact assessments incident data includes Yoki and of detailed safety standards, aligned accidents due to injuries. Yoplait International, Häagen-Dazs with enterprise-wide leading indicators shops and global offices. Baseline: Future safety performance Global standards of safety performance, and initiated the r Our global standards include detailed sharing of lessons learned from safety will be measured against the new We established companywide guidance about safe practices at our incidents across the global supply chain. baseline established in 2016. production facilities. foundational safety standards in 2015. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community (CSCs) at our locations assumed primary accountability for leading Safety principles and monitoring safety improvements. Our Lead with Safety initiative Communication within these committees raises awareness about preventing focuses on leading metrics, process employee and food safety incidents rigor and measuring implementation by reinforcing General Mills safety of foundational safety standards. The principles: POLICY STANDARD PROCEDURE GUIDELINE What we What to do, How to meet Recognized best CSCs inform the GSGB using newly n W e lead with safety. established safety metrics, providing expect required actions, standards at practices, no n E  very incident is preventable. risk control each location matter where visibility of process improvements globally. n W  e are all accountable. minimums we operate Learn more about our commitment r General Mills safety management process Responsibility to food safety in the Our Food section of this report. and auditing document necessary actions to reduce General Mills. Data has shown that Responsibility: Workplace health future risks and communicate progress. contact rates above 1.0 typically yield and safety is the responsibility of line Now we are configuring GSTEMS to lower injury incident rates over time. Safety management record metrics that track compliance management and each individual systems with local regulations and our own safety Safety leadership employee. All employees are expected to work safely by following policies, standards. We expect to be able to report Leadership training: In fiscal 2016, Historically, General Mills has a strong procedures and training. Senior-level compliance assurance on foundational we continued our commitment to safety record when compared with responsibility for workplace safety safety standards by fiscal 2018. demonstrating and teaching leaders how peer food group companies. We lies with the Director of Global Safety Leading indicators: We have established to lead in a zero-loss culture. Completion continue to improve by using clear and Environment, who reports to the a clear strategy to measure our of Lead with Safety training with senior safety management systems. In fiscal Vice President of Engineering, Global progress. In fiscal 2016, we expanded leadership marked the next step in our 2016, our global supply chain locations Safety and Environment. Our Corporate our safety metrics to include leading journey to zero loss. We increased Lead began the process of phasing in a Safety Council is led by our Chairman indicators (leadership training, standards with Safety training by 134 percent – from single, standardized Environmental and Chief Executive Officer, who is implementation and safety observation 500 global leaders in 2015 to 1,172 in 2016. and Safety Management System responsible for General Mills’ policy (ESMS) as part of our global zerorates) to complement our historical, Global structure: In 2016 the newly and safety culture. The council, which loss strategy. One global system year-over-year injury reduction targets. established Central Safety Committees includes key members of the company’s will provide process uniformity and These specific metrics will ensure leadership team, meets quarterly to expand our safety and environmental sustainable improvements over time. review safety progress and key initiatives. management capabilities globally. Safety observation standard: In Auditing: In fiscal 2016, General Mills Tracking progress: Our Global Safety addition to our near-miss reporting and enhanced our global audit strategy by Tracking and Environmental Management response process, our safety observation integrating new region-specific, regulatory System, called GSTEMS, is the tool we standard provides real-time coaching audit protocols globally. Assessment use to track safety data at all worldwide and support to help employees work against these protocols is now required production facilities, including Yoki and safely. Our safety observation contact annually. In addition, verification of Yoplait International sites as of fiscal rate, or the percentage of employees compliance with General Mills’ internal 2016. GSTEMS allows us to track all whose safety behaviors are observed Safety and Environmental Standards workplace incidents – even near-misses in a given time period, is now a leading is a key component of our zero-loss r We reinforce our culture of safety at our that did not result in an injury – and indicator of safety performance at facilities around the world. strategy across our global supply chain. G4-LA5, LA6, PR1 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 65 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2 Ethics, compliance and labor practices Ethics risks in this evolving area, review program enhancements and apply best practices, actions (including termination of thirdparty relationships), remediation steps Commitment Resources: Our Ethics & Compliance including addressing third-party risks. For and internal/external reporting. General Mills is committed to program motto is “Every Decision, Every example, our Supplier Code of Conduct conducting business in an ethical manner that upholds best practices, Action, Every Day.” With over 150 years of doing business with integrity, we know (found on our General Mills website) Equal opportunity complies with regulations, outlines our ethical expectations and is that knowing what’s right is easy, but We believe every General Mills employee demonstrates integrity, provides included in our contracts with business doing the right thing – all the time – can has the right to be treated fairly and equal opportunity and supports partners. Internally, we ask detailed be hard. To help employees understand, deserves the opportunity to stretch fair labor practices. questions related to corruption risk during our program includes extensive online and grow throughout their career. each routine, in-depth business unit audit resources and self-directed courses. conducted by our Global Internal Audit Policy: To provide a comfortable and safe Our comprehensive Code of Conduct These include real examples of employee team. Along with our anti-corruption working environment for all employees, and Ethics & Compliance program decisions that illustrate integrity, as well assessments, we continually assess General Mills prohibits discrimination promote ethical behavior in all as ethical lapses that highlight the impact regulatory requirements, enforcement based on age, race, color, religion, sex, aspects of our employees’ work. of misconduct on our company and trends and industry best practices to national origin, marital status, disability, employees. Our Ethics & Compliance update our Ethics & Compliance program. citizenship, sexual orientation, gender Conduct website provides access to program Training: Using both in-person and online identity or expression, military service, resources – available in 10 languages – and or other characteristics protected by Our Code of Conduct describes the program modules, we train employees all policies from our Global Policy Center. law. This equal employment opportunity principles that govern our business extensively on corruption risks and other policy applies to all employment practices conduct, and points employees business concerns, including conflicts of and procedures, including compensation. to policies and other resources to interest, competition law and confidential answer their questions. Topics include information protection. More than 13,000 Practices: Everyone has the right Progress to work without fear or intimidation. maintaining corporate integrity; employees worldwide are enrolled in our n 7 ,000 company leaders must attest communicating appropriately; competing online training courses. In addition, we General Mills does not accept abusive to compliance with our Code of fairly and legally; preventing bribery; supplement online training with face-toconduct or harassment – a policy made Conduct each year. ensuring personal safety; using face anti-corruption training in markets clear from an employee’s first day of n 1 3,000 employees worldwide are company resources appropriately; enrolled in our online Ethics & where there is a higher risk of corruption. orientation. Employees are expected and protecting consumer privacy. Compliance training courses. to report situations that compromise Action: All allegations of employee their ability to do their jobs. Formal Annually, our company leaders – from misconduct, including bribery and channels are available for employees managers upward, nearly 7,000 corruption, are promptly and thoroughly Our Ethics Line allows employees to who seek advice or a solution, and employees – must attest to compliance investigated in accordance with our raise questions or concerns confidentially our policies strictly prohibit retaliation with our Code of Conduct and business ethics and compliance procedures and and anonymously, where allowed against employees who express conduct policies. This certification corporate policies. The Audit Committee by law. It is accessible globally by a concerns. We manage our business is evidence of our high expectations of our Board of Directors reviews the toll-free phone call or on the Web at operations so that employees feel they for ethical conduct in every aspect of investigation and resolution of these generalmillsethics@ethicspoint.com. are being treated fairly and respectfully. our business. In 2016, we were ranked allegations. Upon completion of the No. 25 on Corporate Responsibility Program: We continue to strengthen investigation, our Ethics & Compliance Magazine’s “Best Corporate Citizens” list. our anti-corruption program. We assess group oversees appropriate disciplinary GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Labor-management engagement as the foundation of our mutual success; strive to create a culture accident investigations; and personal protective equipment use, training and understand our performance as it relates to labor relations and a decent relations that champions respect and inclusion; periodic inspections. We maintain good work environment. Examples include Globally, General Mills is committed to and offer competitive rewards. Our clear relationships with our unions, and our a refined performance management providing workplaces that are among health and safety practices include joint labor contracts are typically settled on process, annual employee surveys and the safest production facilities in the management-employee health and safety time and without work disruption. a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. world for all our union and nonunion teams and committees; worker and/or Measurement: General Mills G4-56, 57, 58, SO3, SO4, LA2, LA5, LA8 production employees. In addition, worker representative participation in has established key metrics and we work to achieve full employee health and safety inspections, audits and measurement approaches to 3 Workplace culture 3A Diversity and inclusion Impact Support for veterans n 2  0 percent of our U.S.-based employees are people of color. General Mills recognizes the value in fiscal 2014. We support veterans through of employing men and women who our Veterans Network; specific recruiting, n 3  9 percent of our U.S.-based have served as enlisted members or mentoring and supplier diversity initiatives; employees are women. commissioned officers of the U.S. Armed and our human resources (HR) guide that Forces. Their training, experience and helps veterans transition from military organizational skills are assets in the service to their roles at General Mills. workplace. In the U.S., veterans represent Goal: Our goal is to build a culture of In 2016, General Mills was recognized as a 4 percent of our workforce; more than 620 inclusion and engagement that allows Military Friendly Employer by the Military U.S. veterans are employed at General Mills. Friendly organization. all our employees to thrive. Ensuring In fiscal 2016, 8 percent of the new hires diversity of input and perspectives at General Mills were veterans – more than w Karly White spent a decade serving in the is core to our business strategy. double the 3.5 percent of veteran new hires U.S. Army before joining General Mills in 2012. Culture “The skills that the military instilled in me (strong leadership, We actively cultivate a culture that acknowledges, respects and values drive and determination, navigating ambiguity, problem solving, all dimensions of diversity – including persistence), combined with the amazingly collaborative culture gender, race, sexual orientation, cultural values, perspectives and beliefs. here, positioned me to succeed.” — Karly White, Marketing Manager GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 67 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Leadership: Our Executive Diversity officers increased from 10 percent reinforce our culture of diversity, inclusion professional connections within our Council includes nine senior leaders to 19 percent. Similar results are seen and engagement. General Mills also global work environment. The ability to who oversee policies and regularly at all levels in the organization. Women has more than 30 employee clubs and find others who are focused on similar review programs and results related now hold 47 percent of management more than 600 Yammer groups – online topics allows for more transparent to diversity and inclusion. Our Chief positions and comprise 53 percent social networks that enable employees communication between all employees, Executive Officer personally reviews our of all salaried positions in the U.S. to foster relationships, discuss shared including participating leaders. diversity and inclusion progress quarterly interests and collaborate. Together, G4-LA12 and sets the tone for accountability Employee networks these networks, clubs and groups help throughout the company. Our senior Members of our seven employee employees create more personal and leaders reinforce diversity and inclusion networks support each other and throughout the company by advising employee networks, recruiting and mentoring women and employees who are ethnically diverse, and ensuring that Employee network development events women and ethnically diverse employees Each year, our employee networks bring members together for development and leadership events to strengthen connections: are carefully considered in all succession Asian Leadership Conference: More of speakers, development sessions, team planning and leadership development. than 240 members of the Asian Heritage building and socializing. The event theme Network and South Asian Network was “La Diferencia: The Remarkable You” met in October 2016 for networking, and focused on embracing differences, Among the 14 members speaker presentations, professional including aspects of culture, values and development and socializing. experiences, to lead and inspire others. of our Board of Directors, The Black Champions Network Martin Women in Leadership Forum: More than five are women and five Luther King Leadership Summit and 240 Women in Leadership members from Development Day in January 2017 across the company met in December are ethnically diverse. brought together Black Champions 2016 to concentrate on how they can r Women in Leadership members at the Network members from across the “Be the Change.” The day focused and December 2016 forum. company for networking opportunities prepared these leaders to be champions and development sessions. and drivers of change across the using their experiences in the U.S. military – Results: Over the past 10 years, the organization and their communities. including a bias for action and purposeful number of minority and female officers Hispanic Leadership Development Summit leadership – to inspire their teams and at General Mills in the U.S. has increased (HLDS): More than 200 General Mills Veterans Network: The Veteran’s Network help guide the company’s future success. employees attended the HLDS in October gathered in November 2016 to celebrate dramatically. Between December 2006 2016. This three-day event features a mix Veteran’s Day and share opportunities for and 2016, female officers increased from 33 percent to 37 percent and minority Between December 2006 and 2016, female officers increased from 33 percent to 37 percent and minority officers increased from r Hispanic Network members met in October 2016. r Black Champions Network members connected at the Martin Luther King r Members of the Veteran’s Network gathered in November 2016. 10 percent to 19 percent. Leadership Summit. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 68 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 3B Employee engagement with representation from supply chain, human resources, sales and other Impact 75 percent of employees said General areas – helps to ensure General Mills Courageous Conversations – connecting, is viewed as an employer of choice. Mills is a great place to work. listening, sharing and learning Culture Council strategies include: 87 percent of employees feel pride in In 2016, we expanded our working for General Mills. n E ncouraging candid dialogue – (see Courageous Conversations Courageous Conversations story) u initiative to give employees a 84 percent of employees feel pride in safe and supportive place to our products. n D eveloping inspirational have candid discussions about Data from General Mills Employee leaders and managers important issues affecting Engagement Survey conducted Januaryn C reating a more inclusive and our work and our lives. In February 2016. July 2016 – following painful engaging environment events in Falcon Heights Engagement Council: Our Engagement and Minneapolis, Minnesota, Focus: We are working to build a more Council is a cross-functional team that Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and agile organization of engaged employees builds on the efforts of the Culture Dallas, Texas – we hosted who are inspired, connected, supported, an open forum to discuss Council by creating an engaging energized and proud to work for race relations, adversity and workplace; cultivating pride in our General Mills. discrimination. The meeting products, purpose and values; inspiring featured speakers in a Town Culture Council: Our Culture Council – trust in leadership; and capturing Hall format with open mic formed in 2015 and led by senior leaders time so employees could ask candid questions, share experiences, learn and grow. Approximately 250 employees attended the event at our headquarters facility, which was later replicated by employees in other locations. Additional Courageous Conversations have addressed topics ranging from Islamophobia to bringing your authentic self to work. “Courageous Conversations was one of the most authentic moments I’ve experienced at General Mills. It was a forum where people could be vulnerable, compassionate, and empathetic for each other. It was a reminder that the greatest asset that General Mills will ever have are its people.” — Courtney Schroeder, Senior Associate Marketing Manager, New Products, General Mills r Drivers of General Mills employee engagement GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 69 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community employee input. The Engagement take meaningful action to address survey Council is identifying ways to create findings. Managers responded positively: a fun and engaging workplace for n 9 0 percent shared results employees around the world. with employees. Assessment: General Mills regularly n 85 percent created action plans surveys our employees to gather based on survey results. feedback. Our annual Employee Engagement Survey is an in-depth n 8 5 percent felt those plans drove review of a wide range of topics. We change within their teams. use employee feedback to improve our We also encouraged our employees to processes and strengthen our culture. post feedback about General Mills on In 2016, 75 percent of employees said Glassdoor.com to promote transparency General Mills is a great place to work – up about careers at General Mills and help us 13 points from the previous year’s survey. understand more about their perspectives We helped boost engagement by so we can continue to improve. providing managers with individualized G4-56, 57, 58, SO3, SO4 reports about their teams so they could r In June 2016, we launched weekly Exchange social hours onsite at our headquarters location. These gatherings provide employees with a convenient opportunity to strengthen team connections at the end of the workday in a casual setting. The employees pictured here participated in an Exchange event in November 2016. “Our culture is what makes us special. It has Involving employees in sustainability been an essential element to our success for General Mills was featured along with other leading global food companies in 150 years. As the world around us and the a Just Food case study in September 2016 about engaging employees in needs of our consumers change, we have sustainability. The story highlighted two General Mills initiatives: the to be intentional about keeping the best habitat for butterflies, bees and other pollinators that employees created at parts of our culture while evolving the parts our headquarters facility with the Xerces Society; and the interactive training that could limit our ability to reach our full developed by our sustainability team to involve employees in helping to meet our examples demonstrate our employees’ potential.” – James Momon, Director, Culture and Inclusion commitment to improving sustainability goal of reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) and protecting the environment. emissions by 28 percent by 2025. Both GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 150 years of General Mills In 2016, we celebrated the company’s 150th anniversary. From picnics to speakers, employees around the world found ways to honor this milestone. More than 350 employees entered our anniversary recipe contest, for example, demonstrating our ongoing passion for sharing good food. To learn more about our 150th anniversary, go to the Taste of General Mills blog for stories, videos and pictures. r Gold Medal Flour was recognized at the International Millers’ Exhibition In 1880. r Betty Crocker began answering The award-winning flour is still the industry homemakers’ questions in 1921, sharing leader today. insights from a team of experts. r Employees celebrating the company’s r Employees in the U.K. commemorate the 150th birthday in Brazil. 150th milestone. r Major General Cadwallader Washburn built his first flour mill in 1866 and began the Washburn Crosby Company that would become General Mills. r In June 2016, thousands of General Mills employees gathered to celebrate near the r Lucky the leprechaun joined the r General Mills retirees celebrated at the banks of the Mississippi River in Minneapolis, r Employees in China gather to celebrate celebration in Chanhassen, Minnesota. company’s Minneapolis headquarters. site of the first Washburn flour mill. the company’s 150th anniversary. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 71 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 4 Employee development 4A Well-being We focus on putting people first. We believe that providing wellness opportunities for our employees and their families is crucial to upholding our company values. Our network of Wellness Champions – employees who are passionate about wellness – plans and implements local programs for employees around the world with support from our Global Health team. The map on the next page highlights some of the many employee well-being initiatives in 2016. Our holistic approach supports many aspects of employee well-being: Physical Emotional Financial Career Social/community We encourage good Our LifeWorks Employee We support the financial We support our We help connect nutrition, offer employees Assistance program helps well-being of our employee’s career employees with healthy dining choices at build resiliency through employees by providing development with community-based our facilities and provide counseling, emotional them with competitive numerous opportunities programs where they opportunities to increase support and referrals for programs, resources, for personal and can volunteer, receive physical activity. U.S. employees and their salaries and benefits. professional growth, support and strengthen families. Many locations Read more in story 4B. as well as resources connections. Learn also offer stress and to promote work/life more in the Our resilience programs. balance. Learn more Community section. in story 4B. “In successful 21st century companies, fostering a culture of health is essential. It starts with the health of employees, then businesses, brands, consumers and, ultimately, the earth itself.” – Dr. Julia Halberg, Chief Wellness Officer, Vice President, Global Health Services GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 72 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Enhancing employee well-being around the world It’s important that we make Enhancing for our employees it easy employee health and towell-being stay active, eat healthy around the world and be well. Highlighted here are some of thebelow Highlighted many areemployee some of the many well-being ways our employees areinbeing initiatives 2016. active, eating healthy and staying well around the world. U.K. n Confidential health checks – Canada 60 percent of employees participated n Health and fitness clinic in Winnipeg; n Fitness/nutrition advice, massage and 42 percent of employees met with nutrition relaxation sessions received by 66 and fitness coaches percent of employees n Fitbit step challenge, health screenings and India urban pole walking in British Columbia n Health and wellness U.S. competition, healthy recipe cook-a-thon, n Employees across the U.S. logged more fitness classes than 100 million steps – more than 8,512 per day – during the On Your Mark six-week walking challenge n Expanded wellness center offerings at headquarters in Minnesota to focus on Global total well-being, including acupuncture n Global Skype Stretch and massage therapy; 6,800 visits in 2016 Breaks at more than 30 n Nutrition and weight-loss programs in locations to encourage Arkansas, Florida, Iowa, Ohio, Michigan, physical activity during Minnesota, Missouri, Montana and New Jersey Mexico the workday n Health assessments and screening in n Biggest loser fitness Georgia, Illinois, Iowa and Tennessee challenge to improve China health, nutrition and n Healthy nutrition n Heart health program in Arkansas – exercise habits; 21 and lifestyle 80 percent of employees enrolled employees collectively lectures, jogging n Flu shots in Georgia, Illinois, Minnesota, lost 122 pounds event, stretching Montana, Wisconsin n Onsite wellness coaching, health Argentina exercises education and stress-reduction programs Brazil n Flu awareness and in Georgia, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio n Flu vaccination prevention, and Tennessee campaign, healthy relaxation courses, n Fitness centers, fitness classes, gym habits program, healthy meals with memberships and exercise activities in breast cancer fresh fruit Illinois, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, awareness month Missouri, Montana, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin n Financial education classes and advice in Arkansas, Michigan and Tennessee n Hydration challenges in Arkansas and Minnesota n Smoking cessation program in Ohio GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 73 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 4B Training and benefits more than 20 years ago to provide Training: We offer numerous live learning opportunities. We know that courses, virtual offerings and resources Impact engaged employees create value and through the General Mills Institute to Manager and n 8 6 percent of General Mills officers have been promoted from drive business performance. In order support employees new to General employee feedback to attract and retain competitively Mills and our employees’ ongoing Managers: Managers responded within the company. superior talent, we develop all professional development. We leverage positively to the live, centralized n 8 6 percent of our directors have been promoted from within the employees and work to have a depth our robust offering of eLearning courses training using virtual technology to company. of leadership prepared to take on new and other technology solutions to prepare them for communicating responsibilities when necessary. meet the demands of an increasingly about performance and rewards n 8 0 percent of our managers program changes. globally have been promoted from mobile and global workforce. Development plans: General Mills within the company. “Loved the Check-Progress Training! employees have the opportunity to 20+ years of the Thought it was educational and create Individual Development Plans engaging.” (IDPs) professional development plans Development with the assistance of their supervisors. “That was exceptionally valuable time spent – I feel prepared for and training Managers and employees discuss career goals, strengths and development Manager training: Great managers my discussions and picked up Focus: We respect, develop and invest some great tips on how to deliver needs, and then use this information to are key to retaining and motivating messages. Great use of technology in our people. We have a long history identify action items. IDP completion employees. We support managers with as well. Very engaging.” of making employee development rates are tracked to monitor employee the training they need to deliver results a key priority for the company and “The training was very beneficial and advancement in career planning. for their teams. In 2015, we updated our established the General Mills Institute really communicated the change manager training to include centralized in mindset we should all have global classroom offerings, timely when helping our teams set their communications, interactive live virtual priorities.” sessions and on-demand support through Employees: Nearly 3,700 employees our global learning website. In 2016, we provided feedback in July 2016: put these tools to use as we relied on n 9 9 percent said their managers managers to communicate our updated explained compensation changes. performance and rewards program in the U.S. and Canada. Focus areas included: n 9 0 percent said they met with managers to discuss individual priorities for fiscal 2017. n C larity: Employees gave managers a rating of 4.3 out of 5.0 when asked if they had a n F  requent feedback: Managers clear understanding of their 3-5 now provide feedback regularly most important priorities for during the year, rather than waiting fiscal 2017. r We provide learning opportunities to meet the demands of our increasingly mobile and for the mid-year and year-end global workforce. performance discussions. This allows GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 74 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community employees more time to make adjustments and refocus priorities as needed. We prepared managers with training and resources. Benefits* Here are a few highlights of the benefits General Mills offers: n S  etting priorities: In the past, employees worked with their managers Pay Employees earn a competitive salary and annual bonus when they meet our ambitious goals. to establish a list of objectives for Salaries are reviewed each year, with increases based on performance and the market value their development. In 2014, we began of the position. Annual cash bonuses are based on performance (individual, company and in some cases, business unit). implementing a shift to setting a smaller number of focused priorities – and going through the process Medical, dental and vision General Mills offers employees and eligible dependents medical, dental and vision plans starting on the first day of employment. Coverage is available to employees in all locations. earlier in the year so employees have more time to achieve them. Retirement and savings plans General Mills offers tools and resources to manage current and future savings goals. Eligibility n C  ommunicating impact: We provided for General Mills’ 401(k) Plan starts on the first day of employment. extensive training to help managers Employees can access free, confidential education on managing money, college and tax communicate with employees about savings, and more. changes designed to more accurately reward employees for desired Stock options and ownership Company stock is available in the 401(k) Plan. Our voluntary stock purchase program performance. Changes included allows another ownership opportunity. Annual stock option grants are available to some adjustments to performance evaluation, management-level employees. pay and job classifications. We trained 1,340 people – 88 percent of managers – Insurance Life, long-term care, legal, and auto and homeowners insurance is available, plus companyin the U.S. and Canada in 2016. paid shortand long-term disability insurance. Educational assistance Loans and scholarship opportunities are available for employees and family members, plus reimbursement for job-related courses. Employees may be eligible for an unpaid leave of absence to further their education. Compensation Flexible work arrangements We offer telecommuting, flextime and part-time arrangements where business conditions and benefits allow. Through our FUSE (Flexible Use Shared Environment) program, employees create workspaces that improve collaboration and efficiency. We make food people love. We also provide a choice of benefits that our Parenting benefits General Mills offers maternity leave benefits to birth mothers and also offers benefits to new employees love. Our benefits program, fathers and adoptive parents. Total Rewards, includes comprehensive and competitive offerings that work Credit Union Employees and their families are eligible for complete banking and financial services from the together to enhance employees’ overall General Mills Federal Credit Union, established in 1935. well-being – at work and in life. G4-LA10, LA11 *Benefits may vary for employees by location and other factors. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 75 Our Community Our aim is to build strong, resilient and sustainable communities. IN 1 Food security 3 Hometown communities 2 THIS SECTION Sustainable agriculture GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 76 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Overview Strong people, flourishing communities, a thriving planet: Our philanthropic work is an extension of the company’s purpose and ties closely to our core business and food systems knowledge. We work in innovative ways with partners locally and around the world to harness our collective impact in key areas, while engaging employees through volunteerism. Performance dashboard 2020 Goal 2016 Progress & highlights Enable 200 million meals globally to foodn 5  7 million meals enabled through General Mills food donations globally during 2016; more than insecure individuals through General Mills 201 million meals enabled through General Mills food donations globally since 2010 food donations and rescue n M  ore than 2.2 billion pounds of excess food rescued in 2016 by our grantees to feed the hungry, rather than go to landfills Increasing food security Strengthen 1,500+ food companies in the n T  raining and technical support provided through Partners in Food Solutions to more than 900 most vulnerable and food-insecure regions small and growing food businesses in eight African countries since 2008 Improve the well-being of 20,000 people n C  ARE programs in West Africa funded by General Mills focused on youth education, farmer in smallholder farming communities from business training and community food security have reached more than 8,190 people in cocoa which General Mills sources key ingredients farming communities since 2010 Increase charitable investments in natural n P  artnered with USDA’s Natural Resources Conservation Service to leverage US$2 million in federal Advancing resource conservation and sustainability to investment into Xerces Society for pollinator habitat & health, matching General Mills’ US$2 million sustainable 30 percent of corporate contributions* charitable commitment agriculture n C  haritable investments in conservation and sustainability were 23 percent of total corporate contributions* in 2016, an increase of 75 percent from 2015 Achieve employee volunteerism rate n 8  3 percent of employees worldwide reported volunteering in their communities during 2016; of 80 percent worldwide more than 328,440 hours of community volunteerism performed by employees Exceed US$2.5 billion in cumulative n C  ontributed more than $147 million in corporate giving worldwide in 2016 corporate charitable giving n M  ore than US$2.1 billion in cumulative corporate giving contributed by General Mills and its Strengthening Foundation since 1954** hometown Provide more than US$1 billion to schools n D  uring the 2015-2016 school year, U.S. schools earned more than US$60 million through Box Tops communities through Box Tops for Education™ cause for Education™ marketing program n S  chools have earned more than US$800 million through Box Tops for Education™ since the program began in 1996 *Of total corporate charitable contributions that are managed by the General Mills Foundation. **Since 1954, General Mills, Inc. and the General Mills Foundation have contributed US$2,116,823,102. This figure includes Foundation grants, Box Tops for Education giving, corporate contributions and the company’s global food donations. G4-EC1, FP4 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 77 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Our approach Global focus areas INCREASING FOOD ADVANCING SUSTAINABLE STRENGTHENING SECURITY AGRICULTURE HOMETOWN COMMUNITIES Expanding food access for families Empowering growers, protecting habitat Making a meaningful impact on the communities INCREASING FOOD A DVA N C I N G S U S TA I N A B L E STRENGTHENING HOMETOWN andScommunities ECURITY and conserving natural resources AGRICULTURE where our Cemployees OMMUNITIES live and work Leadership and identify and recommend local nonprofit organizations eligible to receive funds. Fiscal 2016 corporate giving governance General Mills’ community engagement The Foundation is governed by a Board of Trustees that includes the Senior Vice President of External Relations, $ 147.2 million and Foundation programs are led by the who is responsible for overseeing the The amount we gave to charitable causes in fiscal 2016 Executive Director of the Foundation with support from program officers company’s philanthropic initiatives, and Foundation grants $26.4 at our headquarters. In addition, leaders from the company’s finance, employee councils located across our supply chain, marketing, legal, human resources and sales functions. million key global operating communities assist with grant-making by helping to Corporate contributions $63.9 million Food donations $56.9 million “Now, more than ever, our company’s philanthropy is aligned with our business goals. This means we can leverage the global reach and know-how of General Mills to make a positive impact in communities worldwide.” –M ary Jane Melendez, Executive Director, General Mills Foundation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 78 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 1 Increasing food security General Mills’ work with leading partners at the global, national and local levels is enabling us to increase food availability, variety and quality. In a world where one in every nine people does not have enough food to lead a healthy and active life, we are committed to removing barriers to community food security around the globe. Through strategic initiatives, grant-making, food donations and knowledge sharing, we are working to ensure all members of our communities have access to safe, nutritious and sufficient food. 1A Global food donations The Global Global FoodBanking Network impact Impact FoodBanking n U  S$56.9 million in food donations provided globally during 2016, Network enabling 57 million meals. In 2016, General Mills provided food donations, in addition to Foundation grants, to help The Global FoodBanking We engage with partners and invest to Network (GFN) create and strengthen strengthen food systems around the food banks around the world. GFN world. In fiscal 2016, General Mills provided served 6.8 million people in 2016. In 10 food donations to food banks around the years, GFN has dramatically expanded world, enabling 57 million meals. Our lead its reach and impact to help food banks partners include the Global FoodBanking serve more hungry people by rescuing Network and Feeding America. food that would otherwise go to waste. r General Mills donations help feed hungry people around the world. Source: Global FoodBanking Network GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 79 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Feeding America For more than 35 years, our contributions of expertise, food and philanthropic funds have helped Feeding America fill 41 MILLION empty plates and kitchen cupboards meals donated by General Mills for people through Feeding America’s to Feeding America in 2016 200 foodbanks across the U.S. “Partners like General Mills help fill empty plates and kitchen cupboards for people nationwide. For more than 35 years, General Mills’ generous contributions of expertise, food and funds have helped the Feeding America network serve millions of people.” — Diana Aviv, Chief Executive Officer, Feeding America 1B Food rescue and recovery FareShare Impact In 2016, the General Mills Foundation n 2  .2+ billion pounds of food rescued continued its support for FareShare, by our grantees to feed the hungry, the U.K.’s largest food bank, to expand rather than go to landfills, in 2016. its food rescue program in partnership with grocery retailers like Tesco. We support the innovative work of Through FareShare, nourishing foods our partners to rescue and recover throughout the U.K. food industry are food worldwide. In the U.S. alone, saved from destruction and donated 40 percent of food is wasted each year to hunger relief agencies serving more while one in six Americans don’t know than 25.8 million meals every year. where their next meal will come from. r FareShare volunteers transport boxes of Nature Valley snacks for hunger-relief agencies. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 80 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Campus innovative models for combating hunger, CKP is strengthening food systems and Second Harvest round supply and increase the variety of produce for clients, food shelves and Kitchens Project helping communities help themselves. Heartland community feeding agencies in need. Campus Kitchens Project (CKP) In 2016, General Mills continued its longpartners with high schools, colleges standing support of Minnesota-based and universities throughout the United Second Harvest Heartland with fresh States to share on-campus kitchen produce capacity expansion grants, space, recover food from cafeterias and in addition to operating support. This engage students as volunteers who investment helped Second Harvest prepare and deliver finished meals to the community. Since 2001, General Heartland achieve 53 percent fresh food distribution, with produce comprising 80 million Mills has supported CKP with more than US$1 million, including a grant of US$75,000 in fiscal 2016. In 2016, CKP 1.2 million nearly 32 percent of food distributions. Through support from General Mills, Second Harvest Heartland is playing Second Harvest Heartland’s impact in 2016 includes In 2016, the Campus providing enough food for reached a milestone: serving more than a lead role to strategically coordinate 3 million healthy, balanced meals to Kitchens Project network the sharing of excess fresh produce 80 million meals distributed families in need. By empowering the recovered 1,282,904 between states. The goal is to capture the to nearly 1,000 food shelves, next generation of leaders to implement pounds of food. greatest amount of available, unharvested pantries and other partner produce, provide a consistent, yearprograms. r Campus Kitchens Project student volunteers serve meals. r Second Harvest Heartland helps expand the amount of fresh produce available at food distribution sites. “The Campus Kitchens Project is honored to partner with General Mills to support the expansion of our innovative program to more campuses nationwide. Over the past few years, we have nearly doubled the size of our network, and thanks to partnerships like this we are empowering students across the country to create sustainable solutions to hunger and food waste.” –L aura Toscano, Director, The Campus Kitchens Project GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 81 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 1C School meal programs We work to improve and expand access to school meal programs No Kid Hungry around the world. In the U.S., Canada Campaign and U.K., our school meals work is Together with No Kid Hungry, General focused on reducing childhood food Mills is supporting a three-year effort insecurity by helping schools launch or that began in 2016 to provide thousands expand school breakfast programs – of low-income children with nourishing thereby increasing food access and school breakfasts by helping schools eliminating missing meal gaps. In expand breakfast availability in targeted India, China and Brazil, our work is communities in Florida, Michigan, Nevada, focused on strengthening the existing Texas, Washington and Wisconsin. This feeding programs that are offered support builds on our previous work by NGOs and governments through between 2011-2015 with No Kid Hungry projects that improve capabilities to expand access to school breakfast of central school kitchens and the throughout the state of Minnesota, nutritional quality of school meals. home to General Mills’ headquarters. r Kids learn more and perform better in school when they’ve had a nutritious breakfast. Source: ©Share Our Strength. Photography by Channing Johnson. BREAKFAST CHANGES LIVES HOW? KIDS WHO EAT SCHOOL BREAKFAST… General Mills is supporting a multi-year expansion of the No Kid Hungry campaign led by the nonprofit, Share MISS LESS SCHOOL DO BETTER IN MATH Our Strength. Leveraging private-sector contributions and a U.S. government Social Innovation Fund (SIF) grant, the impact of our work with No Kid Hungry in 2016 included: 290 schools Top 10 districts 35,000 kids They attend an average of 1.5 more days per year 17.5% higher math test scores Helped 290 schools implement Worked with four of the 10 largest Helped nearly 35,000 additional changes to their breakfast school districts in the country to kids have breakfast during the MORE ATTENDANCE + HIGHER MATH SCORES = programs to reach and nourish reduce childhood hunger. 2015-2016 school year alone. more kids each and every day. 20% more likely to graduate high school AND KIDS WHO EAT BREAKFAST Source: No Kid Hungry Campaign G4-EC1, FP4 REAP THE BENEFITS AS ADULTS, TOO: MIL K GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 82 High school graduates on average earn Less likely to experience Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2 Advancing sustainable agriculture We are committed to advancing the sustainability of agriculture and conserving natural resources around the globe. We invest in NGO-led programs that strengthen the livelihoods of food growers from whom we source ingredients, such as cocoa or vanilla. We also protect and expand the habitats of food pollinators and contribute to initiatives that restore the earth’s watersheds and soil. We believe these actions have a sustaining benefit to society and the environment, while helping to ensure food producers will be able to feed a growing world. 2A Soil health and water stewardship We collaborate to advance soil collective funding and governance health and invest in initiatives to restore high-risk watersheds. mechanisms to manage water use can effectively improve water quality 12,000 acres General Mills has multi-year partnerships and availability for people, businesses treated in total by leveraging and nature. By working across sectors, Water Fund investments with The Nature Conservancy in the vital we can positively change how all areas of soil health and water stewardship. stakeholders in a given region plan, During 2016, important advancements manage and protect water as a vital were made in both of these areas. shared resource. Our 2016 charitable contributions included investments to Restore soil health r General Mills supports research and advance watershed restoration in some encourages practices that improve soil health. Healthy soil is crucial for growing food of our sourcing regions, including the and is a powerful and natural lever to the key findings and recommendations San Joaquin Valley of California, the reduce the impact of climate change. to guide the company’s actions and Snake River Basin in Idaho and the Rio Recognizing the critical importance of further investments to advance soil Grande in New Mexico. General Mills r Rio Grande Water Fund investments healthy soil to feed mankind, maintain funding also supports the Conservancy’s from General Mills in 2016 contributed to health. Learn more in story 4A in the the treatment of 12,000 acres. Treatment and restore healthy ecosystems and Our Planet section of this report. North America Water Program. Learn efforts include thinning overgrown forests, provide inputs for food companies, more about how we are advancing water managing fire, restoring streams, and General Mills is playing a leading corporate role to support and advance Improve water stewardship in our supply chain in story 3 in the Our Planet section of this report. rehabilitating areas that flood after wildfires. G4-EC1, EN9, EN27 the Soil Health Roadmap developed stewardship by the Conservancy. In addition to General Mills shares the Conservancy’s contributing US$250,000 in charitable belief that integrating source water funding in 2016 to support the planning protection, implementing agricultural and development phase of the Soil Health management best practices, and creating Roadmap, General Mills is also using GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 83 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 2B Pollinator habitats Pollinators are not only essential to the the U.S. Department of Agriculture are and protecting pollinator habitats, such environment, they also provide a vital partnering to restore and protect pollinator as native wildflower field edges and service to two-thirds of all food crops used habitats across hundreds of thousands flowering hedgerows. This partnership will to feed the world. General Mills, the Xerces of acres of farmland in North America. result in an increasingly secure supply of Society for Invertebrate Conservation and Announced in November 2016, the fivekey ingredients through a conservation year, US$4 million financial commitment investment that aligns with General Mills’ between General Mills and USDA’s Natural core values. Learn more about our support Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) for pollinators and biodiversity in story 4B will support farmers across the U.S. by in the Our Planet section of this report. r Agriculture depends on bees and other providing technical assistance for planting pollinators. Flowering habitats help improve pollinator health. 2C Smallholder farmer livelihoods We help improve the well-being and Mills products. livelihoods of smallholder farmers in CARE’s programs our supply chain. foster prosperous, Why sustainably sourcing cocoa improves lives sustainable and resilient cocoa farming communities by engaging with them in Elizabeth Yao and her family live in a Yao is head of her community’s VSLA. Impact planning and resource investments aimed cocoa-growing community in Côte d’Ivoire Thanks to her leadership there are now four – one of many remote communities different VSLA groups in the community n 3  ,300 smallholder cocoa farmers at increasing cocoa farmer livelihoods, with little access to basic services. Yao with 104 women as members. Yao uses and their family members benefited eradicating child labor, increasing and other cocoa farmers participating savings from her VSLA from expanded access to education, household food and nutrition security, in CARE programs, funded by General to manage a cassava training and food security programs. and promoting education for all children. Mills, are benefiting from improved plantation and a n 3  0 cocoa communities supported in Learn more about our support for cocoa living conditions thanks to new incomesmall business. Learn the formation of cooperatives. growers and their communities in story generating activities, the creation of Village more in this Taste of n 2  93 percent increase in average Savings and Loan Associations (VSLA), General Mills story. 2A of the Our Planet section of this report. gross income of participating cocoa and nutrition programs that help improve r Elizabeth Yao learned to read and farmers in Ghana. food and nutrition security. Increasing write through a women’s literacy program incomes also make it possible for more supported by General Mills and CARE. families to send their children to school. She now runs her own business. Cocoa-growing communities in Africa: We invest in philanthropic programs led “Before this program I couldn’t read, neither could I write. by the global humanitarian organization, But now I can write my name and also calculate math. CARE, in cocoa-growing communities I also now earn my own income.” of West Africa – including communities – Elizabeth Yao, cocoa farmer, Côte d’Ivoire in Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire – from which r Women in Côte d’Ivoire access funding our suppliers source cocoa for General through their VSLA, helping improve livelihoods. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 84 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 3 Strengthening hometown communities Just as we care about the communities where our ingredients are grown, we care about the communities our employees call home. Around the world, we make a meaningful impact through employee volunteerism and community giving. Our employees are General Mills’ greatest asset, and they are often leaders in their communities. Supporting local issues or causes they are passionate about fosters a sense of unity and pride and invigorates their neighborhoods. 3A Local surprise grants Impact n U  S$1.4 million in surprise grants distributed during 2016. n S  upported 70 nonprofit organizations serving communities around the world. In celebration of General Mills’ 150th r Employees in Hannibal, Missouri, WATCH VIDEO anniversary, we awarded 70 surprise presented a check to Kids in Motion, a grants in 2016, each worth US$20,000, program that teaches youth about work to nonprofit organizations around ethic and responsibility. the world. Our employees nominated r Watch as employees delivered surprise grants and learn more about the program in this story. deserving local groups that make a big impact. In all, we donated $1.4 million, reaching nearly 50 communities across “Our employees are the heartbeat of our company. They six continents, involving thousands of connect us to our communities, help uncover key challenges employees and touching countless lives. and drive innovative solutions inviting us to share in the remarkable work that so many organizations are doing around the world. For this reason, strengthening our hometown communities continues to be a critical part of our work.” r In Shanghai, China, employees awarded — Mary Jane Melendez, Executive Director, General Mills Foundation several surprise grants, including this one to the Shanghai Rende Foundation. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 85 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community 3B Box Tops for Education provided schools in the U.S. with more Impact than US$800 million in funding over Child’s wish yields the last two decades, including $60 n U  S$800 million provided since 1996. million in the 2015-2016 school year. $10,000 donation n U  S$60 million earned during the “The program has grown tremendously 2015-2016 school year. since it was founded in 1996,” said n 3  3 million households participating. Audra Carson, who leads the Box Tops n 8  0,000+ U.S. schools benefiting program at General Mills. “With school from the program. funding on the decline across the nation, Box Tops have become increasingly r General Mills employees delivered important. There is no easier way to r Building on the 20th anniversary 100,000 Box Tops worth US$10,000 to In 2016, General Mills celebrated the help schools get what they need.” momentum, General Mills launched the Box St. John’s Lutheran school in Hannibal, 20th anniversary of its iconic Box Tops Tops Bonus App in 2016 as a way to enlist Missouri (fulfilling a Christmas wish for Education™ program, which has the next generation of Box Tops participants of a first grade boy) to complete a with exclusive bonus offers available only to playground renovation. Learn more. app users. 3C Global volunteerism Employee capacity of central school kitchens, benefiting students in the local Skills-based Employee volunteerism community. Tata Trusts are among India’s volunteerism engagement impact n 5  0+ communities worldwide in India oldest, non-sectarian philanthropic organizations working in several areas General Mills employees engage in skills-based volunteerism through benefited from employee General Mills employees in India partner of community development. our GoodWorks program. Marketing engagement in fiscal 2016. with TATA Trusts to strengthen the employees in Minnesota, for example, n 3  28,446 hours volunteered give back to the local community by by employees. leveraging their skills to help non-profit n 8  3 percent of employees globally organizations with marketing challenges. volunteered last year in our Since the program’s inception in 2009, communities. more than 200 volunteers have completed 45 projects with rave reviews from the organizations benefiting from their work. Our employees apply the skills they develop in their jobs to help community G4-FP4 organizations. Featured here are some of the organizations benefiting from the r General Mills employees in India volunteered to improve nutrition awareness among students involvement of General Mills employees. at local schools. Many students benefit from programming and services provided through the TATA Trusts. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 86 Our Food Our Planet Our Workplace Our Community Partners in Food Solutions: Improving the food value chain across Africa Partners: The work of PFS is supported by the African food landscape. Through a new six corporate partners: General Mills, Cargill, initiative with the Gates Foundation and DSM, Bühler, The Hershey Company and TechnoServe, PFS will expand the availability Impact Ardent Mills. Collectively, these companies of nutritious foods in Nigeria, Kenya and PFS results since 2008: have nearly 700 years of food know-how Tanzania by helping nearly 300 additional n 7 8,000 hours contributed by 900+ Partners in Food Solutions (PFS) and and tens of thousands of employees whose food processors and mills produce and its partner companies are committed to corporate volunteers expertise and wisdom can help advance sell fortified foods for local markets. improving food security, nutrition and n 9 00 early-stage food companies economic development in Africa. Founded in eight countries received support by General Mills in 2008 and now an to improve food safety, packaging, independent NGO, PFS links the technical and processing and marketing business expertise of volunteer employees Learn more from General Mills and other food companies with dynamic and prospering food processors and millers across eight African countries. Goal: By 2019, PFS hopes to recruit and Volunteer spotlight engage 1,500 volunteers, help more than 1,000 African businesses through training More than 420 General Mills and custom projects, generate 1,000 employees and retirees have new jobs, and create and sustain viable volunteered with PFS. One of those markets for more than 1 million farmers r Pauline Kamau, owner and managing r Sany Industries, a wheat miller in Ethiopia, employees is Scott Myers, General and their 6 million family members. director of Sopa Supplies, a maize milling received help from PFS volunteers to Mills Senior Principal Engineer, who company in Kenya, has achieved significant create a business plan, which is essential for used his skills to help a food producer business growth since working with PFS. accessing bank financing. in Zambia. How PFS connects expertise with opportunity “Volunteering with PFS challenges us,” said Myers. “As an engineer, it’s easy to just throw money at a problem. But + = these are problems we couldn’t throw + = money at, yet we still had to come up with good solutions – and that is a great skill to hone. We are making a pretty significant mark on the viability of this business and ultimately its impact on farmers, workers and people consuming its products.” Local staff and partners Corporate Improved v Scott Myers Local staff and partners Corporate Improved worked with a Localidentify staff andfood identify partners food volunteers Corporate volunteers food security, Improved food security, businesses food company in identifythat businesses foodneed that need advise volunteers advise food & nutrition nutrition & economic security, economic Zambia, helping it technical/business businesses thatassistance need clients remotely advise development nutrition & economic technical/business assistance clients remotely development take production to technical/business assistance clients remotely development the next level and develop the local economy. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 87 APPENDIX Environmental Data Summary* In thousands, except rate data 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy usage rate (kWh/metric ton of product) EN5 534 533 528 524 523 519 517 Energy usage (kWh) EN3 2,656,939 2,601,972 2,465,263 2,926,949 2,923,925 2,877,289 2,812,218 Direct energy usage by primary source (kWh) 1,509,856 1,462,563 1,358,819 1,641,653 1,660,881 1,635,893 1,575,645 Fuel oil (kWh) 23,556 22,055 22,413 23,326 14,323 9,023 9,596 Natural gas (kWh) 1,382,944 1,350,699 1,266,571 1,385,563 1,411,983 1,408,853 1,374,294 LP gas (kWh) 17,085 4,171 2,747 29,042 27,091 14,687 23,728 Solar panels (kWh) NA 82 121 119 121 118 131 Cogeneration electric (kWh) 27,221 25,234 17,763 17,871 20,314 16,345 18,043 Cogeneration steam (kWh) 56,698 52,330 30,646 39,348 44,675 44,875 32,412 Biomass (kWh) 2,352 7,993 18,559 146,383 142,375 141,990 117,438 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) (kWh) 1,147,082 1,139,408 1,106,444 1,285,296 1,263,044 1,241,396 1,236,572 International (kWh) 138,470 140,497 149,890 326,841 305,661 293,722 292,321 North America (kWh) 1,008,612 998,911 956,554 958,455 957,382 947,673 944,251 Energy usage, by region International (kWh) 262,493 268,289 284,020 718,621 693,911 668,495 661,715 North America (kWh) 2,394,446 2,333,683 2,181,243 2,206,894 2,226,512 2,208,794 2,150,502 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/metric tons of product) EN18 0.204 0.206 0.206 0.181 0.173 0.171 0.162 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2)** (metric tons CO2e) 1,017 1,006 961 1,013 965 945 882 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) EN15 285 273 251 281 284 277 265 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 5 5 5 5 4 2 2 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 277 267 246 270 274 271 258 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 4 1 1 6 6 3 5 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 732 733 710 732 681 668 616 GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) 0 1 3 44 48 48 40 GHG emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 87 91 95 143 132 127 124 North America (metric tons CO2e) 930 915 866 870 833 818 757 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.186 2.112 2.135 2.902 2.794 2.858 3.209 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) EN8 10,800 10,300 10,000 16,200 15,800 15,800 17,400 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA 2,000 1,800 7,800 7,100 7,200 6,400 Municipal (cubic meters) NA 8,300 8,200 8,400 8,700 8,600 11,000 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/metric ton of product) 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.034 0.033 0.035 0.041 Solid waste (metric tons) EN23 183 178 159 190 186 193 221 Percentage of owned production facilities that achieved zero waste NA NA NA 12% 16% 17% 12% to landfill*** (%) * Data in this table is reported on a May-April basis (through April of the year noted). Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and reflect our footprint in that fiscal year. Past fiscal years have not been adjusted for acquisitions or divestitures. Solid waste data in this table is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities such as new product trials. Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodologies. Beginning in 2013, data reflects the acquisition of Yoplait and Yoki. Yoplait solid waste data for 2013 and 2014 and all Yoki data for 2013 and 2014 were estimated. Data does not reflect the acquisition of our Carolina site, located in Brazil, in December 2015. ** Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions data were calculated using the location-based method. These data were externally verified for 2010, 2015 and 2016. *** These facilities sent no waste to landfill or incineration without energy recovery. Data includes facilities that were operating at the end of the relevant fiscal year. For years prior to 2013, General Mills did not report this data. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 88 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions across the value chain by scope, 2016* (metric tons CO2e) GHG emissions across the value chain (metric tons CO2e) Value chain phase Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Value chain phase 2010 2015 2016 Agriculture and transformation 0 0 7,200,000 7,200,000 Agriculture and transformation 6,700,000 7,200,000 7,200,000 Packaging supply chain 0 0 1,400,000 1,400,000 Packaging supply chain 1,200,000 1,300,000 1,400,000 Producing 265,000 616,000** 720,000 1,600,000 Producing 1,700,000 1,700,000 1,600,000 Shipping 0 0 880,000 880,000 Shipping 950,000 910,000 880,000 Selling 30,000 60,000 910,000 1,000,000 Selling 920,000 1,100,000 1,000,000 Consuming 0 0 2,800,000 2,800,000 Consuming 2,900,000 2,900,000 2,800,000 Total 295,000 676,000 13,900,000 14,800,000 Total 14,400,000 15,100,000 14,800,000* *Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. *Segments do not add up to total due to rounding. **This data is calculated using the location-based method. To view details about our programs and performance, see Climate change. For a breakdown of General Mills’ GHG emissions by Scope and other data, see our CDP submission online. Global workforce data summary G4-10 Composition of governance body G4-LA12 Total workforce by region and gender Board of Directors diversity (% of total) Grand total Female Male Male 64.3% Africa 22 15 7 Female 35.7% Asia Pacific 2,131 716 1,415 Black 38.6% Australia/New Zealand 465 224 241 Asian 0% Canada 677 378 299 Hispanic 7.1% Europe 2,877 1,240 1,637 Native American/American Indian 0% Greater China 3,672 2,061 1,611 Age 50+ 92.1% Latin America 1,786 778 1,008 Middle East 44 19 25 USA 15,185 6,062 9,123 Total 26,859 11,493 15,366 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender Employment Type Headcount Female Headcount % Female Full Time 25,734 10,708 41.6% Part Time 509 419 82.3% NonScheduled 132 114 86.4% Short Time 20 11 55.0% Temporary/Casual 430 253 58.8% Seasonal 140 56 40.0% Total 26,965 11,561 42.9% GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 89 General Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs* Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO letter, 2016 Annual Report G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2016 10-K Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 2016 10-K G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Introduction, 2016 10-K G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 2016 10-K Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization GeneralMills.com/ G4-6 has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. Company/Countries G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2016 10-K G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). GeneralMills.com/ Company/Countries G4-9 Scale of the organization. 2016 Annual Report G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Appendix 8 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 41% of U.S. 8 production employees are covered by CBAs. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Introduction, Our Planet G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 2016 Annual Report organization’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other CEO letter, Introduction, Our Planet initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations. Introduction, Our Food, Our Planet, Our Community Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2016 Annual Report operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; how the organization Materiality section of Introduction has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. GRI Index G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. Materiality section of Introduction G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Materiality section of Introduction Appendix Environmental G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Data Summary *References to UN Sustainable Development Goals numbers included in this column are based on analysis by SDG Compass. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 90 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries (con’t) General Mills continues to refer to G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Stakeholder Engagement Introduction, Our Food, Our Planet, G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Our Community Introduction, Our Food, G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Our Planet, Our Community Introduction, Our Food, G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. Our Planet, Our Community Introduction, Our Food, G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. Our Planet, Our Community Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Introduction G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). April 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen; report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Introduction, Appendix GRI Index G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Introduction Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from Introduction the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions Introduction with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics. G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and GeneralMills.com/Investors 5, 16 the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, Introduction, Our Planet and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 91 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs Governance (con’t) Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly G4-44 GeneralMills.com/Investors with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of GeneralMills.com/ G4-45 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 16 Investors, Introduction compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s GeneralMills.com/ G4-46 risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Investors, Introduction Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, GeneralMills.com/ G4-47 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Investors, Introduction G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s Introduction, Our Planet sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 2016 Proxy Statement governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 2016 Proxy Statement managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 2016 Proxy Statement G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, GeneralMills.com/Investors 16 including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. GeneralMills.com/Company, 16 GeneralMills.com/Responsibility, Our Workplace G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful Our Workplace 16 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or Our Workplace 16 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 92 Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs ECONOMIC Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Our Food, Our Community, G4-EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, Our Planet, 2016 Annual Report, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 2016 Proxy Statement Introduction, Our Planet, G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 13 Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2016 10-K Indirect Economic Impacts Material issue: Smallholder farmers G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported. Our Planet, Our Community 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Our Planet, Our Community 1, 2, 3, 8, 10, 17 Procurement Practices Material issue: Smallholder farmers G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operations. Our Planet 12 ENVIRONMENTAL Materials Materials issue: Packaging footprint G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary products and services. Our Planet 8, 12 Energy Material issue: Energy use Our Planet, Appendix G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. 7, 8, 12, 13 Environmental Data Summary G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Carbon Disclosure Project 7, 8, 12, 13 G4-EN5 Energy intensity. Our Planet, Appendix 7, 8, 12, 13 Environmental Data Summary G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Our Planet 7, 8, 12, 13 Water Material issue: Water stewardship G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Our Planet, Appendix 6 Environmental Data Summary G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Our Planet 6 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Our Planet 6, 8, 12 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 93 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Biodiversity Material issue: Biodiversity G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Our Planet 6, 14, 15 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Our Planet 6, 14, 15 Emissions Material issue: Climate change G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Our Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 Environmental Data Summary G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). Our Planet, Appendix 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 Environmental Data Summary G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). Our Planet, Carbon 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 Disclosure Project G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. Our Planet, Environmental 13, 14, 15 Data Summary G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Our Planet 13, 14, 15 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Ozone-depleting substances 3, 20 (ODS) are most commonly used in small quantities for closedloop refrigeration systems and occasional fumigation activities. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air emissions primarily include 3, 12, 14, 15 particulate matter and organic compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as well as emissions associated with fuel combustion. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 94 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Effluents and Waste Material issue: Food waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. We do not discharge untreated 3, 6, 12, 14 sanitary wastewater to land or surface waters at any of our locations. Wastewater discharges primarily consist of organic matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Our Planet 3, 6, 12 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills 3, 6, 12, 14, 15 at our manufacturing locations during the reporting period. G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the The quantity of hazardous waste 3, 12 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. produced and shipped is insignificant relative to the amount of solid waste generated at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted by government regulations. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats No water bodies are significantly 6, 14, 15 significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. affected by company discharges. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. Products and Services Material issue: Packaging footprint G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Our Planet 6, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Our Planet 8, 12 Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions General Mills received no significant 16 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. fines or regulatory sanctions during the reporting period. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 95 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Transport Material issue: Climate change G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Our Planet 11, 12, 13 used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Supplier Environmental Assessment Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment Material issue: Workforce management G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Throughout fiscal 2016 and fiscal 5, 8 2016, General Mills conducted several multi-year restructuring projects designed to accelerate long-term growth through increased organizational effectiveness, reduced overhead expense and streamlined operations. Details can be found in our 8-K filings. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Our Workplace 8 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labor/Management Relations Material issue: Workplace safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Our Workplace 8 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Our Workplace 3, 8 number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Our Workplace 8 Training and Education Material issue: Workforce management G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Our Workplace 8 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Our Workplace 5, 8 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 96 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (CON’T) Diversity and Equal Opportunity Material issue: Workforce management G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according Our Workplace, Appendix, 5, 8 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. GeneralMills.com/Investors Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. Compliance with our Supplier 5, 8, 16 Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. Our Planet 5, 8, 16 HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that Compliance with our Supplier 16 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Material issue: Human rights G4-HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Our Planet 8 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Material issue: Human rights G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Our Planet 8, 16 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Material issue: Human rights G4-HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Our Planet 8 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Assessment G4-HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to Our Planet human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 97 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs HUMAN RIGHTS (CON’T) Supplier Human Rights Assessment Material issues: Human rights, supply chain relationships G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Material issues: Human rights, supply chain relationships G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. Our Planet SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Our Planet, Our Community programs. Anticorruption G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Our Workplace 16 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. Our Workplace 16 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. GeneralMills.com/CivicInvolvement 16 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. Our Planet PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety Material issue: Food safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health Our Food, Our Workplace and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Our Food 16 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 98 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs SOCIETY (CON’T) Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Our Food 12 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. In fiscal 2016, our U.S. consumer satisfaction rate was 97%. Globally, we invest in measurement and monitor satisfaction on an ongoing basis. Marketing Communications Material issue: Responsible marketing G4-PR6 Sale of products that are the subject of stakeholder questions or public debate. Introduction, Our Planet FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Across All Aspects of Sourcing Material issue: Supply chain relationships FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Our Planet General Mills adheres to a strict supplier code of conduct and utilizes independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with this code. FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, Our Planet 2, 12, 14, 15 internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard. Healthy and Affordable Food Material issues: Food security, health and nutrition wellness FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, Our Food, Our Planet, 2, 3 volunteer initiatives, knowledge transfer, partnerships and product development) that Our Workplace, Our Community promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. Customer Health and Safety Material issues: Food safety, health and nutrition wellness FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party Our Food 2 according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards. FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that Our Food 2 are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars. FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased Our Food 2 nutritious ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 99 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure text Location/comments UN SDGs FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (CON’T) Product and Service Labeling FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients Our Food 2 and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Generalmills.com/Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition AskGeneralMills.com SmartLabel.org Breeding and Genetics Material Issue: Animal welfare FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type. General Mills does not raise or process 2, 15 animals in its production operations. Meat that is used in our products is processed by our suppliers. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. Animal Husbandry Material Issue: Animal welfare FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic. General Mills does not physically alter animals or use anaesthetics. For informationon our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, per housing type. Our Planet General Mills does not raise or process animals. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP12 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, Our Planet 2 per housing type. Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, hormone, Animal welfare policy and/or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type. Transportation, Handling, and Slaughter Material Issue: Animal welfare FP13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary General Mills does not standards related to transportation, handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals. transport, handle or slaughter live or aquatic animals. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 100 UN Global Compact Principles Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Ethics, compliance and labor practices Human rights Code of Conduct Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics, compliance and labor practices Human rights Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Human rights collective bargaining; Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Ethics, compliance and labor practices Diversity and inclusion Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Climate change approach Sourcing approach Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Climate change performance Sourcing performance Producing Water stewardship Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Climate change performance Sourcing performance Producing Water stewardship Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 101
